 Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report  
What we do
Contents 
 
Strategic Report
A transformational year for BBA Aviation 01
Financial Highlights 02
Chairman’s Statement 03
Q&A with Group Chief Executive 04
Our Enlarged Operations 08
Our Markets 10
Business Model 12
Strategy 14
Measuring Success 15
Flight Support   
• Signature Flight Support 16
Aftermarket Services   
• Ontic 18
• Engine Repair & Overhaul (ER0) 20
Managing Our Risks 22
Corporate Responsibility 26
Our Markets in 2016 30
Group Finance Director’s Review 31
Financial Matters 34
Flight Support 2016 Performance 37  
• Signature Flight Support 2016 Performance 38
Aftermarket Services 2016 Performance 39
• Ontic 2016 Performance 40
• Engine Repair & Overhaul 2016 Performance 41
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement 42
Board of Directors and Executive Management 44
Directors’ Remuneration Report 56
Going Concern and Viability Statement 79
Additional Disclosures 80
Directors’ Responsibilities 82
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 83
Consolidated Income Statement 89
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 90
Consolidated Balance Sheet 91
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 92
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 93
Accounting Policies of the Group 94
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 101
Company Balance Sheet 150
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 151
Accounting Policies of the Company 152
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 154
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings 161
Five Year Summary 168
Alternative Performance Measures 169 
Shareholder Information  174
BBA Aviation plc is a market-leading, global 
aviation support and aftermarket services 
provider , primarily focused on servicing the 
Business and General Aviation (B&GA) market. 
We support our customers through three principal businesses:
Flight Support 
Signature Flight Support
is the world’s largest fixed base operation (FBO) network for B&GA 
users with more than 200 locations covering key destinations in North 
America, Europe, Caribbean, Africa and Asia.
Aftermarket Services 
Ontic 
is a leading provider of high-quality equipment and cost-effective 
solutions for the continuing support of maturing and legacy aerospace 
platforms with locations in the USA, Europe and Asia. 
Engine Repair & Overhaul (ERO)
is a leading independent engine service provider to global B&GA 
operators, the rotorcraft market and regional airline fleets with 
locations in the USA, Europe, South America, Asia and the Middle East.
Our Vision, Mission & Values
BBA Aviation is a values-focused organisation, dedicated to being the 
world’s leading provider of aviation support and aftermarket services 
with the overarching objective to deliver exceptional, long-term, 
sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
Our businesses are individually and collectively focused on:
• Consistently exceeding customer expectations;
• Valuing and empowering our people in a zero incident,  
safe environment;
• Encouraging innovation;
• Working together for greater gain;
• Always behaving with integrity and respect.
Our Values – Performance, Safety, People, Service, Responsibility, 
Integrity – align us in what we focus on and how we act and behave 
every day.
BBA Aviation – enabling flight;  
expanding horizons  Flight Support 67% 
 Aftermarket Services 33% 
 Signature 67%
 Engine Repair & Overhaul 25%
 Ontic 8%
 B&GA 88% 
 Commercial 7%
 Military 5% 
 North America 86%
 Rest of World 14%
1
Strategic Report  
A transformational year for BBA Aviation
A transformational  
year for BBA Aviation
During the year we have:  
Materially expanded the size of Signature and created a unique  
global network of FBO locations 
The acquisition of Landmark Aviation, additional expansion in  
the USA and Europe, and the continuing growth of the Signature 
Select
TM
 affiliate programme has significantly increased our already 
market-leading footprint at key destinations for B&GA travel.  
We have created a unique and high-quality global network of FBO 
locations, with an unrivalled ability to satisfy the needs of our  
customers at many more of the locations that they want to fly to. 
Focused the Group on higher value-added, better IP-protected,  
strong ROIC and cash generative businesses
In September, we announced the sale of ASIG, which completed 
on 31 January 2017. Coupled with the growth of Signature, this has 
significantly increased our focus on providing value-added services  
to the attractive and growing B&GA market where we are a market 
leader. We have also continued to invest to grow Ontic’s IP-protected 
portfolio of products, most recently through the GE Avionics 
acquisition. As a result, we have enhanced our focus on areas  
which are highly cash generative and where we see the potential  
to generate enhanced returns on capital on a through-cycle basis.
Successfully integrated Landmark Aviation and delivered faster  
than anticipated cost synergies
The Landmark Aviation acquisition brought 62 FBOs and nearly  
3,000 new employees to BBA Aviation. Business performance has  
met  all of our expectations and the detailed and complex integration 
plan was executed effectively. Synergies have been delivered ahead  
of schedule and we anticipate annualised cost savings of $39 million  
from 2017. 
2016 Revenue Splits
Figures are reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated. 
$2, 149. 1m
Revenue,  
up 25%
$302.6m
Underlying 
operating profit, 
up 67%
10. 1%
ROIC, 
down 90bps
>220
Locations
5
Continents
>6,500
Employees 2
2016 Financial 
Highlights
Strategic Report 
Financial Highlights
$m 2016
 2
2016 
continuing 2015
2015 
continuing Change
Change  
continuing
Revenue
1
2,565.9 2,149.1 2,129.8 1,714.0 20.5% 25.4%
Organic revenue growth
1
(2%) (2%) 2% 2% – –
Underlying EBITDA
1
414.7 384.5 273.1 241.2 51.9% 59.4%
Underlying operating profit
1
330.1 302.6 202.0 181.5 63.4% 66.7%
Operating profit 192.9 166.1 130.8 112.7 47.5% 47.4%
Underlying operating margin
1
12.9% 14.1% 9.4% 10.6% – –
Underlying profit before tax
1
266.1 238.7 170.0 149.7 56.5% 59.5%
(Loss)/Profit before tax (164.6) (82.2) 95.3 77.4 (273%) (206)%
(Loss)/Profit for the period (98.9) (19.3) 83.1 69.7 (219%) (128)%
Exceptional and other items including tax
1
(316.0) (218.5) (61.2) (59.2) (416%) (269%)
Earnings per ordinary share – basic
Adjusted
1
21.1¢ 19.4¢ 20.1¢ 18.0¢
Unadjusted (9.6¢) (1.9¢) 11.6¢ 9.8¢
Earnings per ordinary share – diluted
Adjusted
1
20.9¢ 19.2¢ 20.0¢ 17.9¢
Unadjusted (9.6¢) (1.9¢) 11.5¢ 9.7¢
Dividends per ordinary share 12.75¢ – 13.53¢
4
– –
Return on invested capital
1
10.1% – 11.0% – – –
Operating cash flow
1
299.4 – 119.4 – 151% –
Cash conversion 
1
155% – 92% – –
Free cash flow
1
224.1 – 88.4 – 154% –
Net debt
1
(1,335.3) – 456.5 – – –
Net debt to underlying EBITDA
1
3.2x – 2.3x
3
– – –
1 Defined and reconciled to reported financials under alternative performance measures (APMs). See pages 169 to 173.
2 From continuing and discontinued operations.
3 Historical net debt is no longer used as an alternative performance measure. The reason it was used in 2015 was because there was a timing difference between the raising of capital in 2015 and the issue of debt in 
2016 for the Landmark acquisition.
4 Dividend per share is disclosed as historically reported. Adjusted for the new capital base, the restated dividend per share is 12.15¢. 3
Strategic Report 
Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’ s 
Statement
BBA Aviation delivered a strong overall 
performance in 2016 and has made 
excellent strategic progress. With the 
completion of the acquisition of Landmark 
Aviation, the sale at the beginning of 2017  
of ASIG and continued investment in Ontic’s 
portfolio, the Group has transformed and is 
positioned strongly for the future.
Results
In Flight Support we saw excellent organic underlying operating profit 
progression of 7% despite modest market growth. The integration  
of the new Landmark FBOs has been successfully completed. During 
the year we also further extended the Signature network around the 
world through acquisition and our Signature Select
TM
 licensing model 
and completed the transaction to form Gama Aviation Signature 
Aircraft Management.
In Aftermarket Services, Ontic delivered another solid operating 
performance with incremental contributions from new licences and 
we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of legacy avionics products 
from GE Aviation. We saw a weak overall performance in Engine  
Repair & Overhaul as trading conditions remained challenging,  
but continued progress on our footprint reduction programme,  
which supported an improved second half performance.
Net cash flow from operating activities was strong at $374.9 million  
with ROIC at 10.1%.
Dividend
At the time of the interim results the Board declared an increased 
interim dividend of 3.63c per share (2015: 3.47c per share when 
adjusted for the new capital base). The Board is now proposing a final 
dividend of 9.12c per share (2015 adjusted: 8.68c per share),  up 5% on 
an underlying basis, reflecting the Board’s progressive dividend policy 
and its continued confidence in the Group’s future growth prospects.
 
Corporate Governance and the Board 
In this Annual Report we have created a new Corporate Governance 
section (pages 42- 78) which sets out our approach to governance, how 
we comply with our governance obligations and how governance works 
in practice at BBA Aviation.
Sir Nigel Rudd, 
Chairman
We announced at the end of 2015 that Nick Land would be leaving  
the Board at the 2016 AGM and that, from January 2016, Peter Edwards 
and Peter Ventress would join the Board as non-executive directors.  
I would like to again thank Nick for his contribution to BBA Aviation  
and thank each of our non-executive directors for their counsel  
during the year.
On 1 March 2017 we announced that Mike Powell was standing  
down from the Board on 31 May 2017. I would like to thank Mike  
for his significant contribution to BBA Aviation and I am very pleased  
with the appointment of David Crook as his successor as Group  
Finance Director.
Safety 
The Board values the skills, commitment and enthusiasm of all of 
our employees in what has been an exceptionally busy year for BBA 
Aviation. Our dedicated teams around the world are at the heart of  
our success. This year we have been especially pleased with progress  
in the vital area of safety where we have delivered a significantly 
improved performance versus last year. 
Outlook 
The integration of Landmark Aviation has delivered more cost 
synergies than anticipated, with annualised cost savings now expected 
to be $39 million. Signature now comprises the majority of the Group 
and has a global network of over 200 FBOs that can meet more of the 
needs of our customers at most of the locations they want to fly to, 
enhancing our opportunity for continued market outperformance. 
Ontic continues to see significant growth opportunities and has a 
strong pipeline and a good order book. Although ERO will continue to  
be impacted by reduced legacy mid-cabin fixed wing flying, our 
footprint reduction programme remains on track and should lead to 
further improved financial performance at lower levels of activity.  
The Group is now focused on higher value-added, better IP-protected, 
high ROIC and strongly cash generative businesses and the Board is 
confident of good growth in 2017. 4 5
Strategic Report  
Q&A with Group Chief Executive
“We have been effective over  
a number of years in executing  
our strategy of building 
leadership positions in aviation 
service and aftermarket 
businesses that show good 
underlying growth, where we 
can create or enhance barriers  
to entry, that generate  
cash and deliver sustainable  
returns well in excess of our  
cost of capital”
Simon Pryce 
Group Chief Executive
Q.  Has BBA Aviation’s business model/strategy changed post  
Landmark and the ASIG disposal?
A.  Not really. We have been effective over a number of years in 
executing our strategy of building leadership positions in aviation 
service and aftermarket businesses that show good underlying 
growth, where we can create or enhance barriers to entry, that 
generate cash and deliver sustainable returns well in excess  
of our cost of capital. This was particularly true in 2016. 
  The acquisition of Landmark Aviation materially extended and 
enhanced our network of high-quality and global FBO locations, 
through which we can deliver Signature’s industry-leading  
service offering and operational excellence to a broader range  
of customers at significantly more of the places in the world that 
they want to fly to. We also have a greater focus on B&GA and  
on higher value-added, better IP-protected, strong ROIC and 
cash-generative businesses. From here, the impact of having 
an FBO network that is so much larger and in customer-relevant 
locations, gives us ample opportunity for further expansion, not 
just by continuing to add new locations, but also through the 
provision of a broader range of B&GA services to our extensive 
customer base. And, by using our unique knowledge of, and 
relationship with, our customers we can optimise the nature of  
the services they receive and the way we deliver them to reduce 
their total cost of flying.
  The decision to sell ASIG was triggered by interest we received 
towards the end of 2015 and highlights our focus on value creation; 
others saw more long-term value in ASIG than we felt we could 
generate in the foreseeable future. The combination of ASIG 
and Menzies creates an enhanced global leader in the provision 
of commercial aviation services offering greater benefits to 
customers and to the ASIG team that has left BBA Aviation.
  Going forward, our strategy and business model remain the  
same – focusing on the customer, driving innovation in quality  
and type of service, leveraging knowledge and skills across the 
Group, increasing our value-added activities and continued  
financial discipline.
Q&A with Group 
Chief Executive  6 6
Strategic Report  
Q&A with Group Chief Executive
Q.  Tell us about the Landmark integration – any surprises,  
good or bad? 
A.  Acquiring and integrating 62 FBOs at once was no small feat and 
took the focused efforts of a significant number of our dedicated 
and highly capable team; but there really were no surprises. We 
knew most of the FBOs well and had been monitoring them for  
a number of years. We also had the opportunity to do extensive  
due diligence prior to completion. The Carlyle Group were also  
good stewards of Landmark and had enhanced the underlying 
quality of the FBO estate through investing in lease extensions  
and development projects. 
  Nevertheless, combining the two businesses has allowed us 
to reduce the combined cost base by $39 million of annualised 
synergies from 2017 and we are very excited about the 
opportunity to enhance our relationship with all our customers 
and bring them the full range of our much broader service offering 
across a significantly larger global network of high-quality FBOs.
Q.  Can you see opportunities for further transformational deals?
A.  The cash-generative nature of BBA Aviation, as our track record 
demonstrates, means we have plenty of capacity to continue 
investing where we see opportunities for business expansion, 
improvement and value creation. 
  Specifically, while it is unlikely that we will find something of a 
similar scale to Landmark, at least in the near future, we’ll  
continue to review and pursue opportunities to expand the 
Signature network as and when they arise, whether in the  
USA or elsewhere. We’ll also continue to look for incremental 
investments and acquisitions to enhance Ontic’s licence  
portfolio and, more broadly, will continue to deploy capital  
across the Group where we see the opportunity to generate  
good risk-adjusted returns.  
Q. Why are BBA Aviation’s Values so important?
A.  We are a values-led organisation. Our Vision, Mission and Values 
provide focus and direction for the organisation, and guide each of 
us every day in our personal and business interactions. They were 
introduced in 2007 and they haven’t materially changed in that 
time. They have been effective in driving strategy and the very 
strong performance we have delivered, despite the challenging 
environments we have sometimes faced, and they remain very 
relevant going forward.
Q.  As CEO you have a lot of responsibilities. What keeps you  
awake at night?
A.   I worry about safety. Airports, particularly ramp-side, can be 
dangerous places used by people and vehicles that may have  
a different attitude to safety than we do. This is why we place  
such emphasis on good safety practices and everyone taking  
responsibility for themselves and for others around them. But  
we have the right processes in place and a great team working  
at all levels of the organisation, so I am confident that we are  
doing the right things to mitigate that risk and that we can 
 meet the high standards we have set.
  I worry about our people, who continue to work hard and achieve 
extraordinary things despite the sometimes challenging and 
uncertain environment. In recent years, we have placed even 
greater focus on development programmes and training for 
everyone in the organisation to expand individual capabilities  
and give people the tools needed to reach their potential.
  I also worry about a lot of other little things. However, the nature 
of our business model is such that it can cope with any shocks, 
economic or otherwise. We are in a strong financial position, 
 we are very cash generative with low operational gearing; we  
are not reliant on any one customer, supplier or technology and 
the business is in great shape and has an exciting future.
Q. Of what are you most proud this year?
A.  I am exceptionally proud of the performance of our people.  
It is amazing looking back and seeing what our organisation  
and individuals within it have achieved since we announced  
the Landmark transaction in September 2015. 
  The Landmark deal has significantly expanded the size of 
Signature and we completed the integration within 12 months, 
realising synergies in excess of those identified at the outset of 
the transaction. We successfully sold the six Landmark FBOs  
required by the U.S. Department of Justice and have added 
further Signature locations across the world. ASIG was our largest 
business in terms of employees and we worked extremely hard 
to ensure for them a smooth transition to John Menzies plc. 
Ontic has significantly grown its portfolio, most recently with 
the GE Avionics acquisition, and ERO is in the final stages of this 
phase of its footprint optimisation programme, as it moves repair 
activities out of Forest Park and into its new state-of-the-art 
facility at Dallas Fort Worth. We also reached a further milestone 
at the beginning of 2017 with the formation of Gama Aviation 
Signature Aircraft Management which is one of the largest aircraft 
management and charter businesses in the world.
  I’d like to thank everyone at BBA Aviation for their hard work in 
2016, a year that has been truly transformational for the Group 
and of which our whole organisation can be proud. 7
Strategic Report  
Q&A with Group Chief Executive
 “The cash-generative nature  
of BBA Aviation, as our track 
record demonstrates, means 
we have plenty of capacity to 
continue investing where we 
see opportunities for business 
expansion, improvement and 
value creation”
Signature’s new  
7,500sq ft hangar at  
London  Luton Airport 8
Strategic Report  
Our Enlarged Operations
65%
of world’s business jets 
and turboprops 
153
Locations
139
Signature
13
ERO
1
Ontic
Our Enlarged  
Operations
BBA Aviation now operates at more than  
220 locations on five continents worldwide.  
We have over 6,500 employees.
North America, Central America and Caribbean 
Signature 
Cleveland Burke 
Lakefront. 9
Strategic Report  
Our Enlarged Operations
11%
of world’s business jets 
and turboprops
38
Locations
35
Signature
2
ERO 
1
Ontic
Europe
Signature London Luton.
South America
11%
of world’s business jets 
and turboprops
25
Locations
24*
Signature
1
ERO
 *Signature’s South American network operates under a joint  
venture agreement with Lider Aviãçao
Asia & Middle East
7%
of world’s business jets 
and turboprops 
6
Locations
3
Signature
2
ERO
1
Ontic
Africa
4%
of world’s business jets 
and turboprops
2
Locations
2
Signature 2016 Revenue Split by Market 2016 Revenue Split by Geography
Our 
Markets
BBA Aviation is primarily focused on providing services to  
global Business & General Aviation (B&GA) customers;  
88% of revenue comes from this market. Ontic has a wider 
customer base, supporting maturing and legacy aerospace 
platforms in the global commercial, B&GA and military markets. 
While principally focused on B&GA, Engine Repair & Overhaul 
(ERO) also provides services to regional commercial operators 
flying with engines in the sub-25,000 lb thrust category.
 B&GA 88% 
 Commercial 7%
 Military 5% 
 North America 86%
 Rest of World 14%
10
Business & General Aviation (88% of Group revenue) 
B&GA covers thousands of aircraft large and small, outside the 
commercial and military aircraft fleets, serving a wide variety of private, 
business, utility and public service roles. Worldwide there are more than 
21,000 jets, 15,000 turboprops and 24,000 turbine civil helicopters in 
operation classified as B&GA aircraft. Signature primarily provides flight 
support and line maintenance services to business and private aircraft 
in this segment and ERO and Ontic provide aftermarket technical 
services and licensed products for a broad range of jet, turboprop  
and helicopter platforms.
Strategic Report  
Our Markets
Private and business travel using B&GA aircraft is a productivity and 
efficiency tool, particularly in North America where there are significant 
distances between large populations and a lack of efficient intermodal 
alternatives in other travel sectors. 65% of the world’s business jets 
and turboprops are based in North America and it is BBA Aviation’s key 
focus. In all regions, customers value a consistent, high-quality flight 
support offer to aid their journey.
B&GA flight hours and aircraft movements are key drivers for  
Signature and for ERO. Increased activity, measured in the US by the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and in Europe by Eurocontrol, 
means more arrivals and departures and a higher uptake of fuel and 
other services across Signature’s global network, and a greater number 
of engine and other technical service events driven by increased  
aircraft usage. 11
Business Jet and Turboprop deliveries – historical and forecast
Number  
of deliveries
Year
06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
600
1,800
1,600
1,000
400
800
2,000
1,400
1,200
200
0
Strategic Report  
Our Markets
Private and business travel using 
B&GA aircraft is a productivity and 
efficiency tool, particularly in North 
America where there are significant 
distances between large populations 
and a lack of efficient intermodal 
alternatives in other travel sectors
 US GDP (Billions in 2009 Dollars)
 Turboprop
 FAA Business Jet and Turboprop Flight Hours (Thousands)
 Jet
Sources: FAA 2016 Forecast and U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
Source: 2006-2016 historic deliveries: GAMA 2016 General Aviation Statistical Databook  
(excludes Airbus ACJ, Boeing BBJ, head of state/shuttles, ag turboprops)
Source: 2017-2025 forecast deliveries: Teal Group  Business Aircraft Forecast  
(excludes Airbus ACJ, Boeing BBJ and head of state/shuttles)
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
US GDP
$bn 
 FAA Business Jet
Flight Hours (000s)
18,000
16,000
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
06 | 02 | 07 | 03 | 08 | 04 | 09 | 1 1 | 05 | 10 | 15 | 16 | 14 | 13 | 12 | 
0 0
FAA Flight Hours and GDP
Year
Business Jet and Turboprop deliveries – historical and forecast
The US B&GA market has attractive growth characteristics  
that are both cyclical and structural in nature. B&GA travel is  
driven  by corporate confidence and wealth creation with a  
long-term through-cycle correlation to US GDP . More broadly,  
new business aircraft deliveries, in addition to pricing and  
demand in the second-hand market, indicate the longer-term  
health of the market. 
The US market remains approximately 15% off its peak activity levels, 
giving scope for B&GA market recovery as well as long-term structural 
growth in flying hours.
Commercial  and Military Aviation (7% and 5%  
of Group revenue) 
Much like the B&GA market, demand for BBA Aviation’s services 
in both the commercial and military aviation markets is principally 
driven by flight activity. For Ontic, factors supporting the life 
extension of existing platforms, such as the age of the fleet and 
military spend come into play.
   Business  
Model
BBA Aviation is focused on delivering  
exceptional, long-term sustainable 
value through optimising the network 
effect of Signature’s unique global 
FBO portfolio and leveraging our 
technical and customer expertise 
at Signature and our ERO and Ontic 
aftermarket services businesses.
Drivers Signature Flight Support
The world’s largest fixed base  
operation (FBO) network for  
B&GA users.
Engine Repair & Overhaul
Leading independent engine  
service provider to global B&GA  
operators, the rotorcraft market  
and regional airline fleets.
Ontic
Leading provider of high-quality  
equipment and cost-effective solutions  
for the continuing support of maturing  
and legacy aerospace platforms.
 Long-term structural growth  
in flying hours. particularly in B&GA
 Fragmented and large  
addressable markets
Diversified customer base
Low asset intensity
12
Strategic Report  
Business Model What sets us apart
Market leadership •   World’s largest FBO network
• Market-leading positions in broad  
range of small thrust capacity engine 
overhaul programmes
• Ontic’s unique portfolio of IP-protected 
components and systems
Track record of market  
outperformance
Barriers to entry • Scale
• Locations and capabilities
•  Licence, adoption process and  
authorisation IP
• Highly recognised brands
Customer-relevant network • 39 Signature locations at  
top 50 US airports
• Cover key European and ROW  
B&GA destinations
• Service global customer base  
through Ontic and ERO locations
Strong and extensive  
customer relationships and 
deep customer knowledge
• Customer contact, data  
management analytics and use
Extensive IP-protected  
technical skills and  
service offering
• Signature’s industry- leading service  
and offer
• Ontic’s proven adoption and supply chain 
management capability
• Knowledge of multiple aircraft systems
• Flexible workshop capabilities
Aligned, values-led  
organisation
Management and employee 
experience, expertise and  
track record
How we create value
• Satisfying a significantly greater proportion  
of our customers’ demand at more places they  
want to fly to 
• Providing a broader range of value-added B&GA 
services through our unique network
• Utilising customer knowledge to drive innovation 
in quality and type of service
• Leveraging customer and technical knowledge 
across the Group
• Further growing our FBO, licence  
and authorisation portfolio
• Extending the operational life of  
legacy platforms
• Continued improvement in underlying efficiency; 
reduced costs of delivery
• Deploying capital in a disciplined way
13
Strategic Report  
Business Model The Group and each of our businesses have 
aligned strategies that enable us to compete 
effectively, deliver through-cycle growth and 
drive value creation.
Strategy
14
Strategic Report 
Strategy
Growth 
BBA Aviation operates in 
markets with attractive 
growth characteristics and 
barriers to entry. We aim  
to outperform those  
markets through:
• A unique network of  
high-quality locations
• Leveraging customer 
knowledge to optimise 
their cost of flying and  
grow share
• Expanding our FBO  
range of services
• Cross-business 
co-operation
Performance Optimisation 
We target continuous  
operational improvement 
through: 
• Investing in our people
• Focusing on innovation
• Improving processes
• Reducing duplication
• Enabling a world-class 
safety culture
Cash Generation 
We focus on effective and 
disciplined management of 
capital with absolute cash 
generation and cash  
conversion through:
• Improving processes
• Reducing duplication
• Maintaining financial 
discipline
Value Creative Investment 
We deploy capital to expansion 
and investment projects 
that will optimise customer 
opportunities and deliver 
strong returns focusing on:
• Growing the Signature 
network in relevant  
markets
• Expanding our FBO  
service offer
• Maintaining the quality  
and lease length of our  
FBO locations
• Growing our IP-protected 
licence and authorisation 
portfolio Each year we set a series of short-term specific and 
measurable goals aligned with our Vision, Mission and  
Values and embed them in our businesses. Execution  
of actions associated with these goals is actively  
monitored by our management processes. Group financial  
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are detailed below.  
Our non-financial safety KPIs are described on  
pages 26-29 in Corporate Responsibility.
Measuring 
Success
1  Historic adjusted earnings per share figures restated for the impact of the October 2015 rights issue.
2
  
Key performance indicators are on an as reported basis for the total Group.
15
Strategic Report 
Measuring Success
Growth 
Organic Revenue Growth 
Organic revenue growth is a 
measure of the underlying 
growth of the business. 
It excludes the impact of 
foreign currency and fuel 
price fluctuations and any 
contribution from acquisitions 
and disposals.
Signature continued to 
perform well, delivering  
good organic growth.  
This growth was offset by  
a weak performance from  
ERO, driving a small decrease 
in organic underlying 
continuing revenue.
Performance Optimisation 
Adjusted Earnings per Share 
Adjusted earnings per 
share measures the profit 
attributable to shareholders 
after interest and tax.  
It excludes the impact  
of exceptional items.
Underlying PBT increased by 
59% and the average number 
of shares increased by  
308 million via the October 
2015 capital raise, resulting in 
continuing underlying adjusted 
EPS increasing by 8%.
Cash Generation 
Cash Conversion 
Cash conversion measures 
how effectively we convert 
operating profit into cash. 
Focusing on this measure 
encourages strong discipline 
in the management of working 
capital and decisions on capital 
deployment, enabling us to 
continue to invest in growth 
opportunities.
The Group delivered another 
year of excellent cash 
generation, reflecting its 
attractive underlying financial 
characteristics which have 
been further enhanced  
by the acquisition of  
Landmark Aviation.
Value Creative Investment 
Return on Invested Capital 
Measuring ROIC ensures we 
are focused on the efficient 
use of assets and capital, with 
the target of operating returns 
generated across the cycle 
exceeding the cost of holding 
the assets. ROIC is defined 
as underlying operating profit 
expressed as a percentage 
of average invested capital at 
constant currency, including 
goodwill and intangible assets 
amortised or written off  
to reserves. 
ROIC increased to 10.1% 
despite the Group’s increased 
capital base.
(2)% 21. 1¢ 15 5% 10.1%
2015 2%
20142 3%
20132 2%
20122 (1)%
2015 20.1¢
1
2014
2
 18.0¢
1
2013
2
 21.8¢
1
2012
2
 19.9¢
1
2015 92% 
2014
2
 65% 
2013
2
 101%
2012
2
 92%
2015 11.0% 
2014
2
 9.4% 
2013
2
 10.0% 
2012
2
 9.8%
2016 2016 2016 2016 Signature  
Flight Support
IMAGE TBC
16 16
Strategic Report  
Flight Support
World’s largest fixed base operation (FBO)  
network for B&GA users with more than  
200 locations covering key destinations in 
North America, Europe, South America,  
Caribbean, Africa and Asia. There are  
139 locations in North America.
Key facts
63%
Signature USA touches 63% of the 
world’s business jet and turboprop 
fleet annually
>1.4m 
Aircraft movements handled in 2016
9.2m sq ft
9.2 million square foot of hangar,  
terminal and office space under 
management in the USA
67%
2016 Group  
revenue
Signature Flight Support provides premium, full service flight and 
home base support to the owners and operators of private and 
business aircraft worldwide, including comprehensive MRO services 
through Signature TECHNICAir
TM
, and management and charter 
services through the Gama Aviation Signature Aircraft Management 
partnership, which is one of the largest aircraft management and 
charter businesses in the world.
Signature services the needs of customers – passengers, operators 
and pilots of the B&GA fleet – offering what they value through a 
customer-relevant network of high-quality locations, with tailored 
services that meet their specific and sometimes specialist needs. 
All underpinned by consistent, exceptional standards of professional 
service and execution through Signature’s highly trained employees.
Customer jet parked in  
Signature’s hangar  
at Mineta San Jose  
International Airport. Key services
High-quality, full service support for B&GA travel 
including fuelling, ground handling, passenger and pilot 
services and amenities
Hangarage for resting and at home aircraft
Technical support, line maintenance and “aircraft on 
ground” services through Signature TECHNICAir
TM
 
at 18 locations
Aircraft management and charter services through  
Gama Aviation Signature Aircraft Management 
17
Strategic Report  
Flight Support
A G550 is refuelled by one of  
Signature’s highly trained team.
What sets us apart
• Largest international network of FBOs with 63 sole  
source locations
• Average remaining lease life of 18 years across US FBO portfolio
• Customer relevant network
 – 39 locations at top 50 US airports
 –  Presence at 14 of the 20 top home bases for business  
aircraft in the USA
 –  Presence at both ends of 34 of the 50 most trafficked  
city pairs in the USA
• Industry-leading service and safety
• Highly recognised and valued customer brand
• Diversified customer base
• Strong relationships with key customers
• Exceptional customer knowledge through customer  
contact and Signature loyalty programmes
• Highly engaged, well-trained team
 
 Signature services the 
needs of customers, offering 
what they value through a 
customer-relevant network  
of high-quality locations Ontic
A Boeing 737 rudder trim 
switch is inspected.
18 18
Strategic Report  
Aftermarket Services
A leading provider of high-quality equipment 
and cost -effective solutions for the  
continuing support of maturing and  
legacy aerospace platforms.
Key services
Provision of equipment, components and spare  
parts for maturing and legacy platforms
Transition of non-core products from OEMs
Maintenance, repair and overhaul
Ontic offers comprehensive solutions to Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs) and their customers through the provision  
of a broad and fast-growing portfolio of licensed parts and MRO 
services for commercial, B&GA and military fixed wing and rotorcraft 
platforms. It has a proven capability in the seamless transition of 
products from more than 25 OEM partners, with knowledge of multiple 
systems and flexible support capabilities, enabling it to quickly respond 
to customer needs.
Ontic has locations in the USA, UK and Singapore from which it services 
a global customer base, including airlines, aircraft operators, repair and 
overhaul providers, distributors, airframe manufacturers and military 
forces around the world. 
8%
2016 Group 
revenue The internal electronics of a 
Boeing 737 DC current sensor 
undergoing testing.
19
Strategic Report  
Aftermarket Services
Ontic has a global customer 
base, including airlines, aircraft 
operators, repair and overhaul 
providers, distributors, airframe 
manufacturers and military 
forces around the world
Key facts
>6,000
Over 150 licences for  
more than 6,000 parts
~69,000 
Large addressable 
market of around 
69,000 aircraft more 
than 15 years’ old
>900
More than 900  
customers worldwide
What sets us apart
• Intellectual property rights for a wide portfolio of owned and 
licensed products
• Partner relationships with more than 25 OEMs
• Diverse global customer base 
• Balanced portfolio of licences between commercial and  
military aviation
• Proven product transition process  
• Knowledge of multiple aircraft systems
• Flexible manufacturing and product support capabilities  
with cross-trained workforce
  Engine Repair
& Overhaul
A PW305 engine is inspected  
by a cross-trained engineer  
at Dallas Airmotive.
20 20
Strategic Report  
Aftermarket Services
A leading independent engine service provider 
to global B&GA operators, the rotorcraft 
market and regional airline fleets. 
Together, the Engine Repair & Overhaul (ERO) businesses have 
strong and established relationships with all the major engine OEMs, 
authorising them to undertake work on 80% of engines powering  
the B&GA fleet and over 65% of engines powering the rotorcraft fleet. 
The companies also provide engine accessory parts and component 
repair services.
ERO’s main repair facilities are located in the USA, UK and Abu Dhabi 
and are supplemented by nine regional turbine centres across the USA, 
UK, Singapore and Brazil. A roster of field service technicians is available 
to respond quickly to in-field engine issues around the globe. 
25%
2016 Group 
revenue A PT6A engine is  
reassembled, inspected  
and tested before it is  
returned to service.
21
Strategic Report  
Aftermarket Services
Key services
Full engine overhauls
Scheduled engine repairs 
On-wing in-field repairs
Aircraft-on-Ground (AOG) support 
Engine accessory parts
Component repair
Key facts
18
Locations
>50 
More than 50 remote 
field service personnel
>2,200
More than 2,200 turbine 
engines processed 
annually
What sets us apart
• Intellectual property in the form of authorisations for 80%  
of the B&GA fleet and over 65% of the rotorcraft fleet
• Service and support in customer-relevant locations
• In-field capability in the USA and across the world
• Long-standing customer relationships with a global network  
of more than 8,000 customers
• Technical capability and efficient processes in new  
state-of-the-art facilities 
 
ERO is authorised to undertake 
work on 80% of engines 
powering the B&GA fleet and 
over 65% of engines powering  
the rotorcraft fleet Strategic Report  
Managing Our Risks
We are committed to effective risk  
management in support of delivery  
of our strategic objectives. 
Our risk management process is designed to improve the likelihood  
of delivering our business objectives, protect the interests of our 
shareholders and key stakeholders and enhance the quality of our 
decision-making through the awareness of risk-assessed outcomes.  
It also assists in the safeguarding of our assets, including people, 
finances, property and reputation. We are committed to conducting 
business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and  
in a manner that is consistent with our values. 
The Board
Responsible for our system of Corporate  
Governance and overseeing execution  
of our strategy; risk management and  
policy; and financial performance.
Executive Management Committee
Responsible for setting strategic direction,  
executing strategic decisions and  
implementing an effective corporate 
 risk management system.
Business Divisions
Responsible for identifying, assessing and  
managing risks within their business subject  
to Group risk appetite
Company Risk Map (Risk Register) 
& Divisional Risk Maps
Management teams in business units review 
risks through self-assessment methodology 
and develop risk registers which, together 
with risk maps that are developed from the 
risk registers, are submitted to the Executive 
Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee 
on a bi-annual basis.
Audit and Risk Committee
Responsible for reviewing and approving  
the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk  
management and internal controls.
Audit function  
Reviews and reports  
on the system of  
internal control.
Chief Risk Officer 
Reports on key risks  
and risk mitigation.
Accountability  
for monitoring  
Responsibility  
for implementing 
Managing  
Our Risks
Risk Governance  
Structure
22 22 Strategic Report  
Managing Our Risks
BBA Aviation’s risk mitigation strategy and risk appetite are matters  
that are overseen by the Board, with the support of the Audit and 
Risk Committee, which manages the processes that underpin risk 
assessment and our systems of internal control.
How we manage risk across BBA Aviation  
The Board has established a framework for assessing risk in the  
context of likelihood and impact in financial and reputational terms.  
Each risk within the Group is assessed against this framework and the  
Board reassesses its risk appetite on a bi-annual basis when risk  
maps are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Business Objectives 
Our business objectives are 
established on a five year basis 
and drive our annual objectives
Strategic Plan  
Development & Update 
Our strategy informs the  
setting of shorter-term  
objectives across the Group and 
is widely communicated.
Portfolio &  
Investment Decisions 
Portfolio and investment 
decisions are made based  
on resource constraints and  
risk/reward profiles against  
our strategic objectives.
Board, Executive  
Committee Review 
Progress is monitored at  
global, divisional and business 
levels and risks assessed on 
an ongoing basis as part of 
the business review and risk 
management process.
Group policies, standards and internal controls, together with  
our Values and our focus on safety, underpin our approach to risk  
management. We are committed to being a responsible values-led  
business and our leaders are responsible for embedding this into  
BBA Aviation’s culture, our decision-making and how we work. 
Our employees are accountable for working to established standards 
and for identifying and escalating encountered risks so that they can  
be appropriately managed. The Group has comprehensive training  
programmes to ensure that employees are appropriately trained in  
BBA Aviation’s ethics policies.
Bi-Annual Risk  
Assessment Process
Annual Key & Emerging  
Risks Identification
Ongoing Key Risk  
Monitoring
Strategic Risk  
Mitigation
Risk Management Process  
The key features of our risk management 
process are set out below:
23 24 24
Strategic Report  
Managing Our Risks
The bi-annual risk assessment process looks forward three years  
to create BBA Aviation’s risk profile. These key Group-level risks are 
input into the scenario modelling for the Viability Statement, which  
is explained further on page 79.
Progress in 2016 
During 2016 we have updated our Risk Management Framework  
and continued to develop the alignment between our Risk  
Management and Internal Audit functions. The risk assessment 
process drives the internal audit scope, and the Chief Risk Officer  
and Head of Internal Audit attend Audit and Risk Committee  
meetings to provide regular updates. 
We have improved the risk management process by:
• Improving the Risk Register so that risk cause is clearly identified  
and the mitigating control addresses the risk cause. We also 
determine whether activity associated with every risk should be 
‘Treated, Tolerated, Transferred or Terminated’ – which drives 
deeper understanding of risk management within the business.
• A ‘Deep Dive’ process has been introduced whereby we probe 
more deeply into risk areas to provide additional and more specific 
information.  We addressed Anti-Bribery and Corruption and 
Security risk areas during 2016.
We continue to adopt a risk and controls-based approach and  
have improved our reporting to provide practical insight in executive 
summaries to enable senior management to understand issues 
quickly.  All audit findings are reported in terms of risk and impact, which 
is aligned with BBA Aviation’s Risk Model, and a structured follow-up 
process operates driven by action dates agreed collaboratively between 
Internal Audit and BBA Aviation’s management and overseen by 
executive management.
Our project management capability on major projects continues to 
improve. For the carve-out and sale of the ASIG business we employed a 
specialist separation management consultancy to guide us through the 
planning process to ensure that we delivered an effective carve-out of 
the ASIG business to John Menzies plc.
Principal Risks  
We have identified 11 principal risks and uncertainties facing BBA 
Aviation which are considered by the Board to be material to the 
development, performance, position or future prospects of the Group. 
These risks, mitigations and changes during the year are summarised  
in the table below. They are not set out in priority order. 
Objective Risks Mitigation action/Control Change during year
Growth
Structural changes in the global 
economic environment, or cycle 
fluctuations:
–  drive down B&GA and commercial 
flying and military expenditure.
–  cause market wea kness in the  
ERO sector.
– Active monitoring of lead economic indicators.
–  Strong financial controls to monitor financial performance and 
provide a basis for corrective action when required.
–   Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to meet demand.
Brexit and the US 
election have caused 
some uncertainty in the 
economic environment.
Global terrorist events either in-flight, 
at or near major airports materially 
impacting global air travel.
–   Airport and internal access security processes, vetting 
of potential staff members in recruitment process. 
–   Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to enable 
corrective action to be taken.
Ongoing events continue 
to cause concern.
Legislative changes causing material 
increase to cost of B&GA flight relative 
to alternatives such as commercial 
flying, road or rail travel.
–   Active participation in all relevant industry bodies.
–  Ongoing monitoring of all US and EMEA political activity which 
may impact B&GA activity.
–  Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to meet demand.
Ongoing discussions 
regarding privatisation  
of Air Traffic Control 
in the USA.
Ongoing competitor activity to 
replicate market position of  
Signature network.
– Active monitoring of competitor activity.
– Strong financial controls to monitor financial performance. 
NEW
Purchase of Landmark 
Aviation created  
market-leading position. 25
Strategic Report  
Managing Our Risks
Objective Risks Mitigation action/Control Change during year
Performance 
Optimisation
Ability to attract and retain  
high-quality and capable  
people at senior and  
mid-management levels.
–  Succession planning process embedded with review 
at Executive Management Committee and Board 
level annually.
–  Remuneration structure designed to reward superior 
performance and promote retention.
–  Proactive employee development and key talent retention 
processes.
Potential liabilities from defects  
in services and products.
–  Standard operating procedures with routine root 
cause analysis of all incidents.
– Liability insurance.
Impact of a successful cyber attack. –  Operation of a specialist Information Security team. 
–  Continual refreshment of firewalls and endpoint protection, 
laptop encryption, mobile device management, intrusion 
protection, password policy, vulnerability and penetration 
testing, identity and security event management. 
Increasing threat of  
cyber attacks draw  
focus as a major risk
Intentional or inadvertent 
 non-compliance with company  
values and legislation, both  
within BBA Aviation and with  
trading partners.
–    Clear values statement and ethical policies.
–  Semi-annual compliance certification by all senior 
management.
– Rigorous third party vetting processes.
–  Robust internal control environment and regular review by 
internal and external audit.
Environmental exposures. –  Strong procedural controls and physical containment when 
working with fuel or other hazardous chemicals.
–  Active management of known environmental matters 
to minimise costs to resolve.
– Environmental insurance where appropriate.
Non-compliance with banking 
covenants caused by a tighter 
regulatory environment around 
sanctions compliance, which is a key 
condition of our banking covenants.
–  Strong treasury management controls concerning liquidity 
management.
–  Rigorous third party vetting processes, which includes the 
compliance with sanctions regulations.
Good progress made 
paying down debt funding.
Value Creative 
Investment
Changes in tax regulation in both  
the USA and EMEA could impact 
our effective tax rate and our  
cash tax liabilities.
– Timely compliance with all international tax requirements.
–  Continuous monitoring of changes to tax legislation,  
taking advice where appropriate from reputable  
professional advisers. 26 26
Strategic Report 
Corporate Responsibility
Our Values describe our aspirations as individuals and as a company  
and we all take care to behave in ways that are consistent with our 
Vision, Mission and Values, whatever we are doing. 
Corporate Responsibility (CR) and sustainability are embedded into  
our Vision, Mission and Values and are fundamental to everything we  
do at BBA Aviation. Our Vision, Mission and Values are also relevant to 
our customers, our suppliers and to everyone that has a relationship  
with us. Taking a sustainable approach is crucial if we are to achieve 
our long-term goals and, for us, this means integrating social and 
environmental concerns into our business operations; embracing 
the opportunities and managing the risks of social and environmental 
developments; and living our Values to support our objectives.
Overall responsibility for CR sits with the Board. Day-to-day 
management is delegated, via the Executive Management 
Committee, to the CR Committee, which sets direction on CR and 
sustainability issues. The Committee is made up of senior members 
of the BBA Aviation team with relevant business roles and the ability to 
share knowledge and best practice across the Group. The Committee 
meets 10–11 times each year and the Committee Chairman regularly 
reports progress to the Executive Management Committee and to 
the Board.
The CR Committee is currently focused on the following  
Special Issues:
•  continuous improvement in environmental performance,  
including  “alternative fuels“;
•  community involvement: local participation and charitable giving;
• employee recognition; and
• diversity initiatives.
The Committee also continues to measure the Group’s 
environmental impact, focuses on social issues and monitors 
developments in the CR field.
On the BBA Aviation website you can read more about our Approach 
to CR and download copies of our 2016 Values Report and past years’ 
reports, showing some of the varied projects that BBA Aviation’s 
businesses have been undertaking, together with copies of our  
relevant policies.
FTSE4Good and Carbon Disclosure Project 
Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the 
FTSE4Good index and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Safety Council and Charitable Giving Committee 
BBA Aviation also operates a Safety Council and Charitable Giving 
Committee to oversee our activities in those areas. Our Safety Council 
includes Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) professionals from 
across BBA Aviation. Its role is to enhance our safety policies and 
procedures and to promote safety best practices and behaviours.  
Our Charitable Giving Committee reviews and approves applications 
for additional funds to BBA Aviation’s charitable giving programme, 
which is now in its seventh year.
Integrity
We earn the trust and respect 
of our stakeholders with 
honesty, fairness, openness 
and by honouring our 
commitments.
Responsibility  
We are committed to 
managing our impact on, and 
contributing positively to 
society and the environment. 
Service  
We strive continually to 
anticipate customer needs, 
exceeding their expectations.
Performance 
We focus on delivery of  
long-term and sustainable 
value, continuous 
improvement and reliability.
Safety  
We are dedicated to safety 
and security, the elimination 
of hazards and protecting 
people, property and our 
environment.
People  
We are committed to investing 
in and empowering our 
people through training and 
education and to providing 
them with opportunities for 
rewarding careers. 
Corporate  
Responsibility
BBA Aviation is a values-led organisation and 
our Vision, Mission and Values guide each of 
our employees every day, wherever we are.  27
Strategic Report 
Corporate Responsibility
 Performance
We focus on the delivery of long-term and sustainable value, 
continuous improvement and reliability.
Performance is relevant to everything we do at BBA Aviation.  
It applies to our operational and financial results and to our  
non-financial goals such as safety, reliability, customer service 
and environmental progress. Our Group Committees share best 
practices, with the Innovation and Continuous Improvement 
Committee (iCI) being responsible for supporting continuous 
improvement initiatives and the development of knowledge, 
and the Business Alliance Team looking at how we can leverage 
customer relationships across the Group. 
We report on a range of sustainability and CR KPIs, together with 
internal expectations that motivate all of our teams to do their  
very best. All members of the BBA Aviation team are encouraged  
to contribute what they can to the success of the whole Group. 
Safety
We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards  
and protecting people, property and our environment.
Protecting the health, safety and security of our teams, our sites,  
our customers and all those who come into contact with us is a 
priority for BBA Aviation. Our goal is zero preventable incidents 
(ZIPP) and our Health and Safety strategy seeks to deliver an 
environment and proactive safety culture at all sites to make this 
achievable. Each employee takes responsibility for their own safety, 
and that of co-workers, and with the support of their local Health 
and Safety teams, can identify ways to improve performance. Our 
focus continues to be on acknowledging and learning from near 
misses and the root causes of incidents which, together with a shift 
towards behavioural-based safety, is, raising awareness and helping 
to more deeply engage team members in safety issues.
In 2016, our Safety Management System was implemented  
across the Group and we also introduced formal hazard and  
security incident reporting, alongside near misses, in our  
SHEBBA reporting and tracking system.
Reporting 
on Corporate 
Responsibility
Walk A Safety Mile
In 2016, additional Walk A Mile days, which are required annually by our 
leadership team, took place with HSE colleagues to encourage a greater 
understanding of HSE professionals’ day-to-day responsibilities and 
how safety is integrated into our processes across the Group.
Safety Performance 
Recordable Incident  
Rate (RIR) 
RIR is our primary Health and 
Safety performance metric. 
RIR is measured as the total 
number of injuries and illnesses 
multiplied by 200,000, divided 
by the number of actual hours 
worked by all employees.  
 
Safety Performance 
Number of locations  
achieving zero RIR 
130 out of 210 BBA Aviation 
reporting locations 
achieved zero RIR during 
2016, reflecting 62% of our 
reporting locations.
1
  Figure for 2016 excludes ASIG,  
Comparative figure including ASIG  
for 2016 was 3.31.
1  
Figure for 2016 excludes ASIG. 
Comparative figure for 2016  
including ASIG was 206 out of  
343 locations (60%).
1.79
1
2015 3.97
2014 4.00
2013 3.11
2012 3.04
2016
130
1
2015 160 
2014 164
2013 144
2012 160
2016
Our Values align and link all of our businesses 
together as one team. Wherever you go in 
BBA Aviation you will see them displayed and 
our teams actively promote and demonstrate 
them on a daily basis. We report on CR using 
our Values.  28 28
Strategic Report 
Corporate Responsibility
 
Service 
We strive continually to anticipate customer needs,  
exceeding their expectations.  
Our customers expect high-quality, reliability and excellent service 
from every business and person they deal with at BBA Aviation. We aim 
to exceed expectations in everything we do and have designed our 
businesses to anticipate customer requirements both now and into the 
future so that we can continue to lead in this area. 
We constantly review what we provide in order to meet changing 
customer needs. Innovation is crucial and BBA Aviation takes 
opportunities to serve the customer better whenever appropriate, 
including working together across the Group to create and deliver  
new ideas.
 
Responsibility 
We are committed to managing our impact on, and contributing  
positively to, society and the environment.
(a)  Community – We recognise the benefits of working in partnership 
with the communities in which we operate and we play an active role 
in local projects through volunteering and fundraising. 
 BBA Aviation’s companies and locations are encouraged to focus 
their efforts on activities and organisations in the fields of aviation, 
education and engineering and benefiting the communities in 
which they operate. Our local efforts are complemented by the BBA 
Aviation parent company charitable giving programme which was 
launched in 2010. Donations to date total more than $1.4 million. 
(b) Environment – We are committed to working in ways that limit the 
impact of our business activities on the environment and aim for 
continuous improvement in environmental performance every year, 
including the elimination of environmental incidents.  
Every BBA Aviation site records and tracks the use of resources for 
reporting purposes and to monitor efficiency and environmental 
performance.  We consider ways to reduce and prevent pollution; 
reduce emissions, electricity and waste, and increase our levels of 
recycling where possible. 
The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013 require quoted companies to report globally on 
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG reporting). We have reported on 
all the required emission sources. All of these sources fall within our 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
People 
We are committed to investing in and empowering our people  
through training and education and to providing them with  
opportunities for rewarding careers.
Our people are the foundation of our success. Their service skills  
and their functional, operational and engineering expertise are the 
core of our business. Ensuring that BBA Aviation attracts, develops 
and retains the best people is vital to the Group’s success and the 
achievement of our goals.
We provide every member of the team with equal opportunities to 
thrive, as well as specific and relevant job-related training designed to 
expand individual capabilities and give people the tools needed to reach 
their potential. We listen to all points of view, encourage everyone to 
have their say in both formal and informal ways and then we act on what 
we hear. We continue to encourage the use of our Above and Beyond 
cards, which recognise individual achievement at all levels of the Group, 
and we have an annual Vision, Mission and Values Awards programme.
Landmark Aviation Integration
In 2016, we welcomed almost 3,000 new team members to  
BBA Aviation, following the acquisition of Landmark Aviation.  
Our integration programme aimed to ensure that joining personnel  
had a deeper understanding of our Values and their importance in  
our day-to-day behaviour.
At BBA Aviation we believe diversity of background and experience 
enhances the performance and inclusive culture of our businesses  
and we apply this philosophy when seeking to find people to fill roles 
across the Group. 
Recognising that gender is only one particular form of diversity to  
which we are committed, we are pleased that across BBA Aviation’s 
various executive management teams, women make up between 12% 
and 19% of the population and we look forward to seeing this develop.
The table below shows the percentage of women employed 
 in various roles as at 31 December 2016:
Population
Total
Population 
Number of 
women
% of 
women
Board 8 1 12.5%
Executive Management Committee 8 1 12.5%
Senior Management Group 103 20 19.4%
Directors of subsidiaries included  
in consolidation
1
58 5 8.6%
All employees of the Group 15,292 3,699 24.2%
1 This disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships and we do not believe  
it is an accurate indicator of diversity.
  Note: These figures include ASIG.
Ray Pearson,  
Customer Services  
Administrator, Ontic UK. Solar panels at  
Signature Bradley  
International Airport
29
Strategic Report 
Corporate Responsibility
Greenhouse gas emissions/environmental reporting data
2016 2015
1
Combustion of fuel and operation  
of facilities 62,246 62,152 tCO2e
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use 62,628 51,600 tCO2e
Total 124,874 113,753 tCO2e
GHG intensity measurement 
Emissions reported per $m of revenue 48.67 53.41 tCO2e
1   A number of the 2015 figures have been updated to reflect data that was unavailable at the time of 
publishing the 2015 Annual Report.
  Note: These figures include ASIG.
BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported on environmental metrics for  
a number of years. The table below shows the disclosures, in a format 
that is consistent with previous disclosures.
Units 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Electricity consumption
KWh/$m revenue 49,349 50,676 54,884 48,155 51,829
GHG emissions
T onnes/$m revenue 48.67 53.41 53.42 49.54 57.25
Water consumption
1,000 litres/$m revenue 174 203 169 161 182
Revenue
$m 2,565.9 2,129.8 2,289.8 2,218.6 2,178.9
Note: These figures include ASIG.
 
Environmental KPIs 
The Group’s environmental KPIs are normalised for comparison 
purposes to dollars of revenue. We use the services of an external 
consultant to review the process for collecting and consolidating   
this data.
We have used the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition), and 
emission factors from the UK 2013 Government’s GHG Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting.
Both our recorded total GHG emissions and GHG intensity (emissions 
per $m revenue) have decreased relative to 2015. The decrease in  
GHG emissions is the result of a variety of factors, including lower  
utility usage.
 
Integrity
We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty,  
fairness, openness and by honouring our commitments.
Acting with integrity is critical to maintaining good and continuing 
relationships – from those we have with customers and other external 
stakeholders to the way we interact with each other. This is vital for our 
current and future success.
Ethical conduct and legal compliance are key expectations at BBA 
Aviation and any breach is taken extremely seriously. We continually 
look for ways to strengthen our compliance and control programmes  
to ensure we uphold these standards, which are fundamental to the  
way we operate. 
BBA Aviation has a range of formal policies relating to such areas 
as Ethics, Gifts and Entertainment and Equal Opportunities. These 
policies are reviewed regularly and compliance with our policies is 
monitored through BBA Aviation’s Internal Audit process and informal 
and formal reporting processes.   
Our Vision, Mission and Values govern the way we do business and are 
consistent with our human rights obligations. A number of our policies, 
including the Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, the Bribery 
and Corruption Policy and the Ethics Implementation Policy, while 
not specifically mentioning human rights, recognise the importance 
of how we conduct our business and its impact on a wide range of 
stakeholders. The requirement for a specific human rights policy will 
continue to be monitored.
We respect the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human  
Rights and the International Labour Organization’s core conventions.  
We value diversity of background and experience and believe in an 
inclusive culture for all of our employees.  30 30
Strategic Report 
Our Markets in 2016
Our Markets  
in 2016
BBA Aviation’s key market continued to 
recover in 2016. B&GA movements in the 
USA increased by 1% year on year. B&GA 
movements in Europe grew by 2%. 
Business & General Aviation (88% of Group revenue) 
B&GA flight activity in the USA continued to grow during 2016, with 
movements up 1% year on year. US B&GA monthly flight activity cycles 
were positive for the majority of the period with growth every month 
from August, albeit against slightly weak comparator months in 2015. In 
Europe, B&GA aircraft movements were up 2% for the year, a significant 
improvement, but against a weak comparator of (3)% in 2015. 
Modest growth in the economies of the majority of the top 20 business 
aviation markets worldwide is a key factor affecting new aircraft 
orders and sales of pre-owned aircraft. Worldwide delivery volumes 
of new business jets and turboprops fell in 2016, with business aircraft 
underutilised in the short-term. 
However, long-term forecasts still predict the delivery of nearly 8,000 
new business jets between 2017 and 2026; projecting total active global 
fleet growth of 23% or 2.1% CAGR in the period, with new platforms 
coming to market. The North American market is expected to take 
nearly 60% of these deliveries, growing the total active fleet of business 
jets in BBA Aviation’s key region by 20% over 10 years. 
The number of pre-owned business jets for sale was stable year on  
year at c9% of the active jet fleet, but average asking prices were down 
13% in the year.
Over the longer term, the key drivers for B&GA remain the same as 
historically - continued growth in GDP and total wealth, the increasing 
value of people’s time, corporate confidence and corporate activity 
levels. The unusual nature of the 2007–2009 crisis and the halting 
return to growth have meant that, although corporate profits have 
recovered and confidence is now improving, investment in aircraft and 
flight activity continue to lag.
However, steady growth in US GDP and the current upward trend 
in US business confidence supports a continued increase in B&GA 
movements in the USA with the FAA currently forecasting an average 
growth in B&GA Jet and Turboprop flying hours of 2.5% per annum to 
2036. The political environment in the USA could also be positive in the 
short and medium-term, but there remains uncertainty as to the new 
US Presidential Administration’s policy programme.
Military Aviation 
Trends in military aviation are likely to improve as the global defence 
market begins to recover after years of pressure due to budget 
retrenchment. The perceived and continuing threat environment and 
regional tensions are expected to be the biggest driver of spending. 
US defence spending represents approximately 34% of global spending 
and this grew in 2016 as a result of the DoD 2-year budget deal, with 
expected continuing growth of 0.6% CAGR 2017-21. The USA accounts 
for 26% of the global military aviation fleet (c13,700 aircraft). Budget 
growth and a higher tempo of military operations are expected to 
positively impact flight activity and thus maintenance spend as more 
missions are executed. 
Life extension programmes continue to be important as the US military 
aircraft ages. The current US Air Force fleet is more than 25 years old 
on average, with some platforms significantly older. Average age is 
expected to continue to rise despite budget increases.
US B&GA Aircraft Movements and US Small Business Confidence
 YOY 12 month rolling change in US B&GA aircraft movements
 % YOY change in US Small Business Confidence
Source: FAA (ETMSC) and Bloomberg
Jun 08 | Apr 09 | Oct 11| Apr 14 | Jul 10 | Jan 13 | 
0
15
% change
30
-30
-15
Jul 15 | Oct 16 | 
B&GA Aircraft Movement Trends USA and Europe
 US GDP (Billions in 2009 Dollars) US flight activity monthly - year on year % change
 US GDP (Billions in 2009 Dollars) Europe flight activity monthly - year on year % change
Source: FAA (ETMSC) and EUROCONTROL (ESRA 08)
Jan 10 | Jul 10 | Jul 1 1 | Jul 12 | Jul 1 3 | Jul 1 4 | Jul 1 5 | Jan 1 1 | Jan 12 | Jan 1 3 | Jan 1 4 | Jan 1 5 | Jan 1 6 | Dec 1 6 | 
0
20
15
10
5
-5
% change
-10
- Group Finance  
Director’ s Review 
BBA Aviation delivered a strong 
performance in 2016, with significant 
progress on implementing the  
Group’s strategy. 
31
Strategic Report 
Group Finance Director’s Review
Group Financial Summary
                                 2016                                2015
Continuing
1
$m 
Total
$m
Continuing
1
$m
Total 
$m
Continuing
1
%
Total 
%
Revenue 2,149.1 2,565.9 1,714.0 2,129.8 25.4% 20.5%
Underlying EBITDA3 384.5 414.7 241.2 273.1 59.4% 51.9%
Underlying operating profit3 302.6 330.1 181.5 202.0 66.7% 63.4%
Underlying operating margin3 14.1% 12.9% 10.6% 9.4% – –
Total operating profit 166.1 192.9 112.7 130.8 47.4% 47.5%
Underlying profit before tax3 238.7 266.1 149.7 170.0 59.5% 56.5%
(Loss)/Profit before tax (82.2) (164.6) 77.4 95.3 (206%) (273%)
Adjusted earnings per share3 19.4¢ 21.1¢ 18.0¢ 20.1¢ – –
Adjusted cash earnings per share3 22.1¢ 24.6¢ 18.6¢ 21.5¢ – –
(Loss)/Profit for the period (19.3) (98.9) 69.7 83.1 (128%) (219%)
Operating cash flow3 – 299.4 – 119.4 – 151%
Free cash flow
3
– 224.1 – 88.4 – 154%
Net debt
3,4
– (1,335.3) – 456.5 – –
Net debt to underlying EBITDA
3,4
– 3.2x – 2.3x – –
Return on invested capital3 – 10.1% – 11.0% – –
1  Continuing operations comprises Signature Flight Support and Aftermarket Services 
2  ASIG is reclassified as discontinued operations and reported gross of BBA Aviation support costs previously included within ASIG 
3  Defined and reconciled to reported financials under alternative performance measures (APMs). See pages 169-173.
4    Historical net debt is no longer used as an alternative performance measure. The reason it was used in 2015 was because there was a timing difference between the raising of capital in 2015 and the issue of debt in 
2016 for the Landmark acquisition. Mike Powell,
Group Finance Director
During the year we significantly expanded the size of Signature and 
created a unique global network of FBOs through the transformational 
$2.1bn acquisition of Landmark Aviation, which was completed in 
February 2016. The acquisition is delivering well and the integration 
is now successfully completed with the cost synergies now higher 
than originally anticipated and ahead of plan. In addition, we further 
enhanced BBA Aviation’s focus as a high quality, cash generative market 
leader in the provision of business and general aviation and legacy 
support services through the agreement to sell ASIG to John Menzies 
for $202 million, and Ontic’s acquisition of GE Aviation’s portfolio of 
legacy avionics products.
In Continuing Operations, existing Signature delivered excellent 
operating profit growth, continuing to outperform its markets, with 
good drop through to profit; and Landmark Aviation delivered in line 
with our expectations. Ontic, our Legacy Support business, delivered in 
line with our expectations with good contribution from licences added 
in 2015 and the anticipated second half uptick in revenue. In Engine 
Repair & Overhaul (ERO) trading conditions remained challenging, 
with no recovery in legacy mid-cabin fixed wing flying and continued 
pressure on pricing and workscopes, which led to a weak ERO result for 
the year as a whole, albeit there was an improvement in ERO’s operating 
performance in the second half of the year supported by ongoing cost 
reduction and footprint rationalisation actions.
Continuing Group revenue increased by 25% to $2,149.1 million (2015: 
$1,714.0 million), including $558.7 million contribution from acquisitions. 
Continuing Flight Support revenue increased 55%, reflecting a good 
Signature result and the contribution of acquisitions of $545.9 million, 
including Landmark Aviation and the addition of four new FBOs in 
Italy, offset by the impact of lower fuel prices and foreign exchange 
movements that reduced Flight Support revenue by $68.3 million. 
Aftermarket Services’ revenue was down 10% driven by ERO. 
Continuing underlying Group operating profit was $302.6 million (2015: 
$181.5 million). There was an excellent performance in Flight Support as 
well as a $132.4 million contribution from acquisitions, of which  
$21.9 million related to cost synergies. Aftermarket Services, now only  
12% of continuing Group underlying operating profit, pre-central 
costs, was down 30%; again due to ERO’s weak performance.
Continuing Group underlying operating profit margin increased to 
14.1% (2015 constant fuel price: 11.0%) with a greater contribution from 
Signature partly offset by a lower margin in Aftermarket Services.
Underlying net interest increased by $32.1 million to $63.9 million (2015: 
$31.8 million) mostly due to the acquisition facilities drawn down on 
completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition. Net debt increased 
to $1,335.3 million (2015: net cash position of $456.5 million). On a 
covenant basis, the net debt to EBITDA ratio increased to 3.1x (2015 
historically adjusted for the results of the capital raise: 2.3x), and on a 
reported basis to 3.2x (2015 historically adjusted 2.3x). Interest cover 
on a covenant basis decreased to 6.5x (2015: 8.5x), due to the increased 
interest on the drawn debt.
Underlying profit before tax increased to $238.7 million  
(2015: $149.7 million).
The Group’s underlying tax rate for continuing operations is 16.5% 
(2015: 13.9%). Underlying profit before tax increased by 60% and the 
adjusted average number of shares increased by 308 million via the 
October 2015 capital raising; resulting in continuing underlying adjusted 
earnings per share (EPS) increasing by 8% to 19.4 cents (adjusted 2015: 
18.0 cents).
Exceptional and other items after tax, for continuing and discontinued 
operations, totalled $316.0 million. Key items of this are the previously 
reported impairment charge of $184.4 million in relation to ERO’s 
assets due to its continuing challenging trading environment; and the 
impairment charge of $109.1 million following the write down of ASIG’s 
assets in anticipation of its sale. 
32 32
Strategic Report 
Group Finance Director’s Review Further items which were all anticipated include: restructuring 
expenses of $9.9 million (2015: $15.1 million), mainly associated with 
ERO’s ongoing footprint rationalisation programme; $24.9 million of 
integration costs related to the acquisition of Landmark Aviation; and 
$98.6 million of non-cash amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
(2015: $9.3 million), an increase resulting primarily from the acquisition 
of Landmark Aviation. This is accounted for as an other item within 
exceptional and other items. 
Continuing statutory loss before tax was $(82.2) million versus  
$77.4 million profit for the prior year. The statutory loss before tax  
arises due to the exceptional and other items charges during 2016  
as outlined above. 
Free cash flow was an inflow of $224.1 million (2015: $88.4 million 
inflow), the increase mainly due to Landmark Aviation’s strong  
cash generation.
Gross capital expenditure amounted to $102.4 million (2015: $90.7 
million). Principal capital expenditure items include the investment in 
Signature’s FBO development projects at San Jose and London Luton, 
both of which are now complete, the integration of Landmark and 
completion of Landmark development projects at Grand Rapids and 
Cleveland Burke Lakefront, and the new ERO facility associated with its 
footprint rationalisation programme.
Working capital improved by $51.5 million due to the Group’s working 
capital disciplines and processes being applied across the enlarged 
group and the timing of some payments at year end. Approximately  
$20 million of this improvement is one-off in nature and will reverse  
in 2017. 
Cash flows on exceptional and other items during the year were  
$63.5 million (2015: $28.6 million) which included integration costs 
in relation to Landmark Aviation, transaction costs arising on the 
completion of the acquisition of Landmark Aviation and the disposal  
of ASIG, ERO footprint rationalisation costs and other costs.
The Group’s tax payments during the year were $15.8 million (2015: 
$5.0 million) and interest payments were $64.5 million (2015: $41.1 
million). The dividend payment was $124.3 million (2015: $76.6 million).
Total spend on acquisitions ($2,098.2 million) and licences ($10.6million) 
completed during the period amounted to $2,108.8 million (2015: 
$32.9 million), which included $2,076.6 million for Landmark Aviation; 
a controlling shareholding in Signature Flight Support Italy Srl, which 
operates FBOs at four locations in Italy; and deferred consideration for 
Ontic’s acquisition of licences for selected JT15D engine component 
parts from Pratt & Whitney Canada. In December 2016, Ontic 
completed the acquisition of a portfolio of legacy avionics products 
from GE Aviation for $61.5 million. The cash payment for this acquisition 
was made in January 2017. The Group recorded net cash proceeds from 
the disposal of six FBOs of $186.6 million after adjusting for the impact 
of working capital. Post year end, the Group completed the disposal  
of ASIG for $202.0 million, will deliver approximately $170 million of  
net proceeds after tax, professional transaction fees and other costs.
Following a review of the impact of the Landmark Aviation acquisition 
on the Group’s long term incentive plans, in consultation with 
shareholders, the basis for calculating the key performance measures 
of EPS and return on invested capital (ROIC) has changed to simplify 
them and focus them more on cash generation. 
ROIC is now calculated as underlying operating profit, as defined in the 
Group’s financial statements; divided by statutory invested capital, 
calculated as net assets plus net debt, on a look back 13 month average.
Underlying earnings per share (EPS) is now calculated as adjusted 
earnings pre-exceptional and other items attributable to BBA Aviation 
(using a current tax charge rather than total accounting tax charge), 
divided by the weighted average shares in issue.  
$¢ / share Continuing Discontinued Total
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Underlying 
adjusted EPS 19.4 18.0 1.7 2.1 21.1 20.1
Cash EPS 22.1 18.6 2.5 2.9 24.6 21.5
Discontinued Operations 
In April 2016 the ASIG business was reclassified as a discontinued 
operation in anticipation of its sale, and an exceptional write down of 
its assets of $109.1 million was taken. The disposal of ASIG to John 
Menzies plc (‘Menzies’) was completed in January 2017. The gross 
consideration of $202 million will deliver approximately $170 million 
of net proceeds after tax, professional transaction fees, and other 
costs, which has been used to reduce Group borrowings. As part of the 
transaction, BBA Aviation is providing transitional services to Menzies 
for support services for the six month period following closing, which is 
extendable to twelve months if required by Menzies.
On an underlying basis, ASIG’s operating profit increased by 34% 
to $27.5 million (2015: $20.5 million, which included the $4.3 million 
gain on purchase of the Panama acquisition). During the year ASIG 
delivered significant operational improvements and new business 
wins, which were partially offset by reduced de-icing activity in the first 
quarter. ASIG’s profit improvement also benefited from a suspension 
of depreciation of $7.1 million during the year, the required accounting 
treatment whilst the asset was held for sale. 
33
Strategic Report 
Group Finance Director’s Review 34 34
Financial  
Matters
Strategic Report 
Financial Matters
Exchange Rate 
BBA Aviation’s revenues, cash flows and Balance Sheet are principally 
denominated, and as a result reported, in US dollars. The exchange 
rates used to translate the key non-US dollar flows and balances were: 
2016 2015 2014 
Sterling – average 1.36 1.53 1.65
Sterling – spot 1.23 1.48 1.56
Euro – average 1.11 1.11 1.33
Euro – spot 1.05 1.09 1.21
Acquisition of Landmark Aviation 
The Group completed the acquisition of Landmark Aviation on 5 
February 2016 for a final consideration of $2,076.6 million, net of 
cash acquired. The acquisition was partially funded by the proceeds 
of the rights issue completed in 2015 and by the drawdown of debt 
under the Acquisition Financing Agreement (AFA). Details regarding 
the acquisition of Landmark Aviation are disclosed in note 24 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Divestment of ASIG 
In April 2016 the ASIG business was classified as held for sale and 
as a major line of business for the Group it has been presented as a 
discontinued operation with appropriate restatement of comparative 
financial disclosures. As a result of the classification as held for sale the 
Group now holds its investment in ASIG at fair value less cost to sell. 
Further details regarding ASIG’s carrying value are included below under 
‘Carrying value of assets’. On 16 September 2016 the Group announced 
it had reached agreement with John Menzies plc on the terms of the 
sale of substantially all of the ASIG business for a consideration of 
$202.0 million. The transaction was completed on 31 January 2017. 
The financial matters that follow represent the Group’s continuing 
operations unless stated otherwise. 
Central costs 
Unallocated central costs before exceptional and other items were  
$0.9 million higher at $33.4 million (2015: $32.5 million), primarily driven 
by an increase in the costs of supporting the ASIG business, previously 
absorbed by Flight Support which are now reported as unallocated 
central costs of continuing operations following ASIG’s classification  
as a discontinued operation. 
Exceptional and other items 
Exceptional and other items are defined in note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements. Total exceptional and other items, net of tax for 
2016 were $218.5 million (2015: $59.2 million). This loss recognised in 
operating profit comprised the integration costs for the acquisition 
of Landmark Aviation totalling $24.9 million (2015: $nil), transaction 
costs of $1.5 million in respect of Ontic’s acquisition of a portfolio of 
GE Aviation’s avionics products (2015: $38.4 million representing costs 
associated with the acquisition of Landmark Aviation), restructuring 
costs totalling $9.9 million (2015: $15.1 million) relating to ongoing  
ERO footprint rationalisation and the exit of ASIG’s operations in  35
Strategic Report 
Financial Matters
Singapore in 2015, $98.6 million (2015: $9.3 million) of non-cash 
amortisation of acquired intangibles and $1.6 million (2015: $6.0)  
of other exceptional items. 
In the year, the Group incurred net exceptional finance costs of  
$nil (2015: $3.5 million). The exceptional net finance costs in 2015 
related to certain facility and commitment fees incurred in the debt 
financing arrangements to enable partial funding for the acquisition  
of Landmark Aviation. 
The exceptional and other items incurred an exceptional tax credit  
of $102.4 million (2015: $13.1 million) in relation to these items bringing 
the net loss in exceptional and other items to $218.5 million (2015: 
$59.2 million). In addition to the net loss in exceptional and other items 
for continuing operations the Group incurred a loss from discontinued 
operation, net of tax of $97 .5 million (2015: $2.0 million). The loss from 
discontinued operations in 2016 represented the impairment of the 
ASIG business when valuing the assets held for sale at their fair value 
less costs to sell and non-cash amortisation of acquired intangibles  
on ASIG in both periods.
Acquisitions and disposals 
During 2016 the Group completed five acquisitions for a total initial 
consideration of $2,101.5 million, net of cash acquired including 
settled deferred consideration totalling $0.8 million. Further details 
of these acquisitions are given in note 24 to the consolidated financial 
statements.  The acquisitions represented the purchase of Landmark 
Aviation encompassing FBOs, maintenance & repair facilities, aircraft 
management & charter operations and cargo operations, the purchase 
of Prime Aviation including four FBOs in Italy and the acquisition of 
manufacturing rights and associated processes from GE Aviation,  
Pratt & Whitney Canada and Ultra Electronics by our Ontic business. 
Interest 
Net interest expense increased by $28.6 million to $63.9 million  
(2015: $35.3 million) primarily due to the impact of higher net debt 
resulting from the acquisition of Landmark Aviation. Adjusted interest 
cover decreased as a result of the higher underlying interest expense  
to 6.5 times (2015: 8.5 times). 
Tax and Dividends 
The underlying tax rate increased to 16.5% (2015: 13.9%).  
This increase was primarily due to a greater proportion of taxable 
profits being generated in the US.
At the time of the interim results, the Board declared an increased 
interim dividend of 3.63¢ per share (2015 adjusted: 3.47¢ per share). 
The Board is now proposing a final dividend of 9.12¢ per share (2015 
adjusted: 8.68¢ per share), taking the dividend for the full year to 12.75¢ 
per share (2015: 12.15¢ per share). 
After adjusting for the impact of the rights issue this represents a 5% 
increase in the dividend on a historical basis and continues to reflect  
the Board’s progressive dividend policy and continuing confidence  
in the Group’s medium-term growth prospects.
Carrying value of assets 
As noted earlier, in April 2016 the ASIG business was classified as held 
for sale resulting in a change in the determination of its carrying value 
to a fair value less cost to sell basis rather than a value in use basis. 
This resulted in an impairment of $109.1 million based on the agreed 
consideration of $202.0 million with John Menzies plc. 
During the year a review of the carrying value of the ERO business was 
undertaken following a further period of challenging market conditions. 
Despite B&GA growth in flying hours the authorised engine platforms 
at Dallas Airmotive (DAI) and H+S are no longer projected to experience 
this level of growth as they do not have engine authorisations for a 
number of the engine platforms that are now projected to have above 
average growth. This has resulted in an impairment of both our DAI and 
H+S cash generating units. The total impairment loss against our ERO 
business is $184.4 million.
Pensions 
Agreement was reached on 31 May 2016 to close the UK defined 
benefit scheme to future accrual, principally affecting ERO employees. 
This resulted in a curtailment loss of $1.5 million which has been 
charged to exceptional and other items for the year.
The actuarial valuation of the UK plan at 31 March 2015 indicated a 
funding deficit of £45 million ($66 million rate as at 31 March 2015). 
The Group paid £4.7 million of pension payments in to the UK plan, of 
which £3.0 million represented pension deficit payments, reflecting 
the agreed payments to the scheme under an agreement to make 
additional contributions of £0.3 million ($0.4 million) per annum over the 
next five years bringing the annual deficit contribution to £3.0 million, 
and £2.7 million thereafter until 2034 in accordance with the asset-
backed funding arrangement established in 2014.
As at 31 December 2016, the accounting net deficit across the UK and 
US plans was $82.8 million (2015: $40.1 million). The significant increase 
in the accounting net deficit is primarily as a result of lower corporate 
bond yields in the UK as at 31 December 2016 and therefore a reduction 
in the discount rate applied to associated pension liabilities.
Cash Flow and Debt 
At 31 December 2016 the Group had net debt of $1,335.3 million 
(2015 net cash: $456.5 million), the increase being primarily due 
to the completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition for a total 
consideration, net of cash acquired of $2,079.4 million.  The Group’s  
net debt to underlying EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2016 was 3.1x 
(2015: 2.3x) on a covenant basis.
Net cash flow from operating activities of $374.9 million is significantly 
higher than the prior year (2015: $188.4 million) primarily as a result 
of the contribution from the acquisition of Landmark Aviation on 5 
February 2016 and improvements in working capital. Free cash flow 
increased by $135.7 million to $224.1 million (2015: $88.4 million) as 
a result of the acquisition of Landmark Aviation partially offset by 
increased capital expenditure and interest payments associated  36 36
Strategic Report 
Financial Matters
with funding the Landmark Aviation acquisition. Capital expenditure 
amounted to $102.4 million (2015: $90.7 million). Principal items 
included the completion of investment in Signature’s FBO development 
projects at San Jose and London Luton, integration projects associated 
with the acquisition of Landmark Aviation along with our Engine Repair 
& Overhaul’s footprint rationalisation and investment in its new Middle 
East facility in support of the rotorcraft authorisations. 
Other significant cash flow items include acquisition of subsidiaries, 
net of cash acquired $2,098.2 million (2015: $19.4 million), dividend 
payments of $124.3 million (2015: $76.6 million), $1.3 related to share 
repurchases (2015: $22.0 million), license acquisitions by Ontic of  
$10.6 million (2015: $13.5 million).
A significant proportion of our debt is held in US dollars as a  
hedge against our US dollar assets. A profile by currency is shown  
in the table below:
(Debt)/Cash Profile by Currency 
2016 2015
US dollars (1,389) 394
Sterling 24 41
Euros 15 12
Others 15 9
Total (1,335) 456
The Group policy with respect to cash deposits is only to have  
deposits with pre-approved banks with limits on the amounts  
deposited with each institution dependent on their long-term  
credit rating. Deposits are generally for short-term maturity  
(less than three months).
Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies 
The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding and liquidity, 
interest rate fluctuations and currency exposures. A central treasury 
department that reports directly to the Group Finance Director and 
operates according to objectives, policies and authorities approved by 
the Board, manages these risks.
The overall policy objective is to use financial instruments to manage 
financial risks arising from the underlying business activities and 
therefore the Group does not undertake speculative transactions  
for which there is no underlying financial exposure. More details are  
set out in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Funding and Liquidity 
The Group’s operations are financed by a combination of retained 
profits, equity and borrowings. Borrowings are generally raised 
at Group level and then lent to operating subsidiaries. The Group 
maintains sufficient available committed borrowing facilities to meet its 
forecasted funding requirements.
The Group has a $650 million (2015: $650 million) multi-currency 
revolving credit facility.  In addition, the Group has $500 million 
(2015: $500 million) of US private placement loan notes. These debt 
obligations and facilities are subject to cross-default. In addition, 
the Group maintains uncommitted facilities for daily working capital 
fluctuation purposes. 
During 2015, the Group put in place an Acquisition Financing 
Agreement (AFA) to fund the Landmark Aviation acquisition in 
conjunction with the rights issue. The AFA comprised three term debt 
facilities for $150 million, $400 million and $450 million. During the year 
the Group prepaid all of the $150 million facility and partially prepaid the 
$400 million facility.
At the end of 2016, the Group had committed bank facilities of $1,463 
million (2015: $1,650 million) of which $1,043 million (2015: $nil million) 
was drawn. 
The revolving credit facility, AFA facilities and the US private placement 
loan notes are subject to two main financial covenants: maximum net 
debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum net interest 
cover of 3.0 times underlying EBITDA. The facilities and the loan 
notes do permit the use of an ‘acquisition spike’ which allows for the 
net debt to be up to 4.0 times underlying EBITDA for two test periods 
following activation of the ‘acquisition spike’. The ‘acquisition spike’ 
was activated in February 2016 and the financial covenant test for net 
debt to underlying EBITDA has been 4.0 times at the 30 June 2016 & 
31 December 2016 test dates. The group has operated within these 
covenants.
The rationale for preparing the financial statements on a going concern 
basis is set out on page 79.
Interest Rate Risk Management 
The interest rate exposure arising from the Group’s borrowing and 
deposit activity is managed by using a combination of fixed and variable 
rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps. The Group’s policy 
with respect to interest rate risk management is to fix portions of 
debt for varying periods based upon the debt maturity profile and an 
assessment of interest rate trends. At the end of 2016, approximately 
65% (2015: 77%) of the Group’s total borrowings were fixed at weighted 
average interest rates of 3.3% (2015: 3.2%) for a weighted average 
period of three years (2015: four years).
Currency Risk Management 
The Group’s policy is to hedge all significant transactional currency 
exposures through the use of forward currency contracts. The Group’s 
policy is to draw its borrowings principally in US dollars in order to match 
the currency of its cash flows, earnings and assets, which are principally 
denominated in US dollars. 37
Strategic Report 
Flight Support 2016 Performance
Flight Support  
2016 performance
Flight Support’s continuing operations 
comprise Signature (existing Signature) and 
the acquired Landmark Aviation operations 
(Landmark Aviation). 
88% of underlying operating profit of continuing operations. 
Financial Summary 
$m 2016 2015 restated Change
Revenue
1,443.2 931.6
55%
Underlying operating profit
294.0 154.4
Underlying operating margins
†
20.4% 17.6%
280bps
Statutory operating profit 177.3 140.1 27%
Operating cash flow
*
276.8 143.5 93%
Divisional return on  
invested capital 11.2% 15.3% (410)bps
† Underlying operating profit at constant fuel prices as a percentage of revenue
*  Operating cash flow represents net cash inflow from operating activities less purchase of property, 
plant and equipment, purchase of intangible assets (excluding Ontic licences), plus proceeds from 
disposal of property, plant and equipment and add back taxes paid 
Revenue in Flight Support increased by 55% to $1,443.2 million 
(2015: $931.6 million), reflecting the $545.9 million contribution from 
acquisitions, primarily Landmark Aviation, and the net impact of lower 
fuel prices and foreign exchange movements that reduced revenue by 
$68.3 million. Existing Signature delivered good organic growth of  
5% against a background of modest growth in its markets with US 
B&GA movements up 1% and European B&GA movements up 2% 
during the year. 
Underlying operating profit in Flight Support increased by 90% 
to $294.0 million (2015: $154.4 million), driven by a $132.4 million 
contribution from acquisitions, which included cost synergies of  
$21.9 million and supported by continued strong underlying operational 
performance in existing Signature. Underlying operating profit 
also benefited from the profit from disposed FBOs and the aircraft 
management and charter business which is accounted for as an 
associate undertaking. On an organic basis, adjusting for acquisitions 
($132.4 million), FX ($(1.8) million), underlying operating profit increased 
by 6%. The comparator in 2015 was impacted by two one-off items; the 
reclassification of our investment in the Hong Kong Business Aviation 
Centre as an associate and the trading losses from ASIG’s operations 
at Singapore Changi Airport with a net impact of $(1.2) million, adjusting 
for which, organic underlying operating profit grew 7%. 
Statutory operating profit of $177.3 million increased by 27% (2015: 
$140.1 million). This is a result of good organic growth plus the impact of 
acquisitions in the period, partially offset by increased other item costs 
associated with the integration of Landmark Aviation and amortisation 
of intangible assets. 
Operating cash flow for the division was $276.8 million (2015:  
$143.5 million) due principally to increased EBITDA following  
the acquisition of Landmark Aviation. Return on invested  
capital is 11.2% (FY 2015: 15.3%) reflecting the recent acquisition  
 of  Landmark Aviation. 
1500
2015
931.6
FX
(11.4)
Fuel
(56.9)
2015 
Like-for-like
863.3
Acquisitions
545.9
Organic
40.0
Prior Year
one-oﬀs (HK/
Singapore)
(6.0)
2016
1,443.2
0
100
300
500
700
900
1100
1300
1500
Revenue Bridge ($m)
154.4
(1.8)
–
152.6
110.5
21.9
10.1
(1.2)
294.0
2015 2016 FX Fuel 2015 
Like-for-like
Acquisitions Synergies Organic Prior Year
one-oﬀs (HK/
Singapore)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Underlying Operating Profit Bridge ($m) 38 38
Signature Flight 
Support 2016  
Performance
Strategic Report 
Signature Flight Support 2016 Performance
Revenue 
2016
$m
2015
$m
Inc/(dec)
%
North America 1274.3 787.4 62%
Europe & ROW 164.0 132.8 23%
Total 1438.3 920.2 56%
Signature Flight Support’s existing locations (i.e. excluding acquired 
locations) delivered another strong performance in a moderate 
growth environment, reflecting the continued benefits of its strong 
and customer-relevant network. Organic revenue increased by 5% to 
$892.4 million. Signature’s continued market outperformance further 
demonstrates the strong demand from existing and new customers for 
its market leading services, and facilities across its unique, growing and 
global network. 
The acquisition of Landmark Aviation completed on 5 February 2016 
and the business has subsequently met all of our expectations. The 
detailed and large scale integration plan has been executed very 
effectively and all FBOs are now fully integrated within the Signature 
network. Following the successful integration, Signature is now well 
positioned to focus on optimising this unique and high quality global 
network of FBOs, through the provision of a broader range of B&GA 
services to our extensive customer base and enhancing network 
performance to accelerate value creation. The enlarged Signature 
network has the unmatched ability to satisfy the needs of our 
customers at many more locations that they want to fly to, supporting 
anticipated continued outperformance in 2017 and beyond. 
Cost synergies have been delivered ahead of schedule and we 
anticipate delivering $39 million of cost synergies in 2017. Landmark 
Aviation and the associated synergies will no longer be reported 
separately and will instead form part of Signature’s overall performance 
from 2017 onwards. The total cost of integration is approximately 
$42 million, consisting of $25 million of one-off expenses, (shown as 
exceptionals), which is in line with guidance, and $17 million of capital 
expenditure, which is below the $19 million originally anticipated.
Six FBOs were sold in order to satisfy regulatory requirements for the 
Landmark Aviation acquisition and this transaction was completed on 
30 June 2016; the $186.6m proceeds were used for debt repayment. 
The full year 2016 results include an EBITDA contribution of $7.9 million 
from these FBOs. 
In December we completed the transaction to combine the aircraft 
management and charter business, acquired through the acquisition 
of Landmark Aviation, with Gama Aviation’s US aircraft management 
business. The combined business, which is named Gama Aviation 
Signature Aircraft Management, is one of the largest aircraft 
management and charter businesses in the world with around 200 
airplanes under management. It also offers our Signature business 
the opportunity to provide support in terms of its global FBO network, 
hangar space, line maintenance and engine support capability.
During the year, Signature continued to expand its network with the 
addition of a new location at Stewart International Airport, NY in July, 
as well as further extensions of the Signature network in Latin America 
and the Caribbean, with the opening of new facilities at Tocumen 
International Airport, Panama and Trinidad-Piarco International Airport, 
Port of Spain. In Europe, Signature added four new FBOs to its network 
in Italy in April 2016 through a joint venture with SEA Prime S.P .A., 
adding locations at Milan Linate, Milan Malpensa, Rome Ciampino and 
Venice Marco Polo airports. 
Signature further expanded its network globally through its affiliate 
FBO programme, Signature Select
TM
, with the addition of three new 
locations in Johannesburg, South Africa, Bogota, Colombia, and at 
Farmingdale, Long Island, increasing the Signature Select
TM
 network  
to 18 locations globally.
Signature continued to invest in its current network, with the successful 
opening of its newly constructed state-of-the-art FBO at London 
Luton Airport in December 2016 and new FBO at Mineta San Jose 
International Airport in February 2016. Signature also opened newly 
constructed facilities at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport and at 
Gerald R. Ford International Airport in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In 
addition, Signature secured two new strategic and significant leases 
at its existing facilities at Biggin Hill Airport, outside of London, and in 
Nashville International Airport, in Tennessee, where the construction  
of a new FBO terminal and hangars will begin this year. 
There are now 203 locations in Signature’s global network. 39
Strategic Report 
Aftermarket Services 2016 Performance
Our Aftermarket Services division is focused 
on the support of maturing aerospace 
platforms through Ontic, our legacy support 
business, and the repair and overhaul of 
engines through our Engine Repair and 
Overhaul (ERO) businesses.
Aftermarket 
Services 2016 
Performance 
12% of underlying operating profit of continuing operations.
 
Financial Summary 
 
$m 2016 2015 Change
Revenue 705.9 782.4 (10)%
Organic revenue growth (10)%
Underlying operating profit 42.0 59.6
Underlying operating margins 5.9% 7.6% (170)bps
Statutory (loss)/profit before tax (162.2) 47.6 (441)%
Operating cash flow* 34.0 31.8 7%
Divisional ROIC 6.9% 8.2%
*Operating cash flow represents net cash inflow from operating activities less purchase of property, plant 
and equipment, purchase of intangible assets (excluding Ontic licenses), plus proceeds from disposal of 
property, plant and equipment and add back taxes paid.
In Aftermarket Services, revenue decreased by 10% to $705.9 million 
(2015: $782.4 million, a comparator that includes $39.7 million of  
engine trading). 
Underlying operating profit of $42.0 million (2015: $59.6 million) was 
driven by Ontic which now represents more than 85% of the division’s 
profits, on an ongoing basis. 
The decline in both revenue and operating profit was due to  
a weak performance from ERO. On an organic basis, the Aftermarket 
Services underlying operating profit was down 33% with underlying 
operating margins of 5.9% (2015: 7.6%), against a comparator which 
saw a material contribution from engine trading. 
Statutory loss before tax was $(162.2) million (2015: $47.6 million profit). 
This is a result of ERO’s weak operating performance, as well as the 
expected increase in the ERO footprint rationalisation costs which is 
presented as part of exceptional and other items, and the impairment 
of ERO $184.4 million during the year.
Operating cash flow for the division was $34.0 million (2015:  
$31.8 million) which reflected lower operating profit in ERO and  
the capital expenditure associated with the investment in new  
ERO facilities and the footprint restructuring. Return on invested  
capital decreased to 6.9% (FY 2015: 8.2%) reflecting the investment  
in the new ERO facilities and operating profit decline.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800 782.4
765.9
705.9
12.8
(72.8)
$(39.7)m Engine
Trading
(16.5)
2015 FX 2015 
Like-for-like
Acquisitions Organic 2016
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
59.6
56.5
42.0
(3.1)
(18.8)
2015 FX 2015 
Like-for-like
Acquisitions Organic 2016
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
4.3
Revenue Bridge ($m)
Operating Profit Bridge ($m) 40 40
Ontic 2016  
Performance 
Revenue 
2016
$m
2015
$m
Inc/(dec)
%
North America 108.9 99.3 10%
Europe & ROW 55.6 63.9 (13)%
Total 164.5 163.2 1%
Ontic, our legacy support business, continues to perform well, with 
revenue up 1% to $164.5 million (2015: $163.2 million) with increased 
activity in the second half as expected, and a good contribution from 
licences acquired in 2015, reflecting a good performance and in line with 
our expectations.
In December, Ontic completed the acquisition of a portfolio of legacy 
avionics products from GE Aviation for $61.5 million. The acquisition 
supports Ontic’s strategy to deliver continued profitable growth 
in mature avionics and electronics products with high intellectual 
property content. This business will be transitioned into Ontic’s existing 
UK facility in Cheltenham over the course of 2017. The cash payment 
for this acquisition was made in January 2017. 
Additionally, Ontic further extended its licensed product portfolio 
during the year with the addition of important new licensors; signing 
its first product licences with Ultra Electronics for electronic engine 
control equipment used on commercial aircraft, and with Safran 
Nacelles, to support the Saab 2000 nacelles and AWACS CFM56 thrust 
reverser. Ontic also expanded its existing licensor relationships by 
increasing its portfolio of JT15D products from Pratt & Whitney Canada 
Corp. Ontic continues to assess a strong pipeline of opportunities in 
relation to new products and licence adoptions.
Strategic Report 
Ontic 2016 Performance 41
Engine Repair & 
Overhaul 2016  
Performance 
Revenue 
 
2016
$m
2015
$m
Inc/(dec)
%
North America 459.0 520.1 (12)%
Europe & ROW 82.4 99.1 (17)%
Total 541.4 619.2 (13)%
Engine Repair & Overhaul’s revenue decreased by 13% to $541.4 million 
(2015: $619.2 million). Conditions in ERO’s market remain challenging 
and, while organic revenue was down 11% for the year as a whole, 
there was a small improvement in ERO’s operating performance in the 
second half of the year, in line with our expectations.
Volumes in legacy mid-cabin and rotorcraft engine overhauls 
remained depressed throughout the year, with reduced workscopes 
and competitive market pricing. Engine trading and demand for lease 
engines was significantly reduced, and this together with strong 
competitive pressures and OEM actions put further pressure on 
margins. The footprint restructuring programme and cost saving 
activities taken in the first half delivered the planned lower cost base 
which contributed to improved second half results. 
Whilst the small thrust engine repair and overhaul market remains 
competitive and volatile month-to-month, our ERO businesses did  
see improvements in market share over the second half of the year  
in the PT6 and Tay markets. 
ERO’s footprint rationalisation programme, which began in 2014, 
remains on track, and is now close to completion. The new overhaul 
facility at Dallas Fort Worth Airport (DFW) has commenced production 
with the successful transfer of overhaul operations from the Neosho 
and Forest Park facilities in the second half of the year. The sale of 
the Forest Park site is planned for this year. The new test cell facility 
at DFW has now started production on several engine models. We 
anticipate the test facility reaching full production levels in the first half 
of 2017. As the new DFW facilities become fully operational in 2017, we 
expect the continued operational improvements and further footprint 
consolidation in the Dallas metroplex will help to improve flexibility, 
customer service and financial performance and provide a more stable 
base from which to execute a long-term strategy for value creation 
from our ERO businesses.
Strategic Report 
Engine Repair & Overhaul 2016 Performance
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 28 February 2017 
and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Pryce 
Group Chief Executive
Mike Powell 
Group Finance Director 42
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Report
Chairman’ s 
Introduction
“ I am pleased to introduce 
the  Corporate Governance 
Statement for 2016. The Board 
is responsible for ensuring the 
continuing long-term success 
of BBA Aviation and the delivery 
of long-term, sustainable value 
creation for all of BBA Aviation’s 
stakeholders.”
Opposite 
Our Chairman Sir Nigel Rudd at  
our London headquarters,  
105 Wigmore Street
Sir Nigel Rudd 
Chairman 43
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Report
Governance is an important contributor to the success of the Group  
and we take pride not only in what we do but also in the way we  
conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives.  The Board  
is committed to ensuring that appropriate standards of governance  
are maintained throughout the Group.
I have updated the format of the Corporate Governance Statement 
this year to include an at-a-glance section, a section setting out our 
compliance with obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and a report on each of the Committees introduced by the Committee 
Chairman. The work of the Remuneration Committee is covered in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56-78.
As reported last year , Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress joined the 
Board on 1 January 2016 and Nick Land retired at the AGM in May.
The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital to  
the Group delivering its strategic objectives. My role as Chairman  
has been to provide leadership to ensure that it is possible to make  
high-quality decisions. I am responsible for leading the Board and 
ensuring ongoing improvement in the Board’s effectiveness. I am 
supported by all the directors, but particularly by Susan Kilsby, as the 
Senior Independent Director . Susan meets independently with the  
other directors and is available, if required, to meet with shareholders.  
As a Board, and as individual directors, we strive to continuously  
improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in  
support of the Group’s objective of delivering exceptional long-term  
sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
The Board spent a significant proportion of its time in 2016 reviewing 
the integration of Landmark into Signature and considering the  
ASIG disposal.
As shareholders will recall, in 2015, Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit 
conducted an external Board evaluation.  For 2016, we again engaged 
Clare to support the evaluation and found this to be a very effective 
approach.  The evaluation is discussed on page 49.
The Company’s remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of 
executive directors and shareholders and is structured to promote  
the long-term success of the Company. 
We keep Group policies and procedures under regular review, bearing  
in mind the ever-evolving business and governance environment that 
we operate in, as well as drawing on the range of experience offered  
by Board members. 
The Corporate Governance Statement that follows provides more 
details about our governance policies and procedures, about the 
structure of our Board Committees and the areas our meetings  
focus on.
Board members appreciate their interactions with shareholders and 
listen carefully to any comments. I welcome your comments on this 
Corporate Governance Statement and on the 2016 Annual Report  
more generally. 44
Board of Directors
and Executive
Management
Mike Powell 
Group Finance Director
Peter Edwards
Peter Ventress 
Susan Kilsby
Peter Ratcliffe
Gareth Hall
Erik Keller
Maria Sastre
Mark Johnstone
Tony Lefebvre
Simon Pryce,
Group Chief Executive
Sir Nigel Rudd,
Chairman
Wayne Edmunds David Blizzard Kevin Erickson
Executive Directors Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Management
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement 45
Peter Ventress (56)    A   N   R 
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in January  
2016. Peter is Chairman of Galliford  
Try plc and a non-executive director  
of Softcat plc. He was formerly a  
non-executive director of Premier 
Farnell plc . From 2009 he spent six years 
as Chief Executive Officer of Berendsen 
plc. Prior to this he held several senior 
executive roles, including International 
President at Staples Inc. and Chief 
Executive Officer, at Corporate Express 
NV a Dutch quoted company prior to its 
acquisition by Staples Inc. Peter has held 
a number of other senior management 
positions across different businesses 
in a variety of industries and has lived 
and worked in France, Canada and the 
Netherlands. 
Susan Kilsby (58)    A   N   R 
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board in April 2012  
and became Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee in May 2013. 
Susan brings to the Board her global 
investment banking experience, having 
begun her career at the First Boston 
Corporation and later worked at  
Bankers Trust and BZW, before the  
latter was acquired by Credit Suisse.  
She was chairman of the EMEA Mergers 
and Acquisitions Group at Credit Suisse 
until 2009 and she was also a non-
executive director of L ’Occitane, Keurig 
Green Mountain and Coca Cola HBC. 
Her current appointments include being 
chairman of Shire plc, a non-executive 
director of Fortune Brands Home 
& Security, Inc. and Goldman Sachs 
International. Her experience advising 
clients across a range of industries 
includes significant deals in the aviation 
and aerospace sectors.
Simon Pryce (55) 
Group Chief Executive    
Appointed to the Board as Group 
Chief Executive in June 2007. Simon 
also chairs the BBA Aviation Executive 
Management Committee. In addition to 
his BBA Aviation plc position, Simon is 
on the board of Electrocomponents plc 
and the General Aviation Manufacturers 
Association (GAMA), the US general 
aviation trade body, and is chairman 
of its International Affairs Committee. 
Simon is a Fellow of the Royal 
Aeronautical Society, a member  
of the Council of the University of 
Reading, a chartered accountant and 
a member of the Chartered Institute 
for Securities and Investment. He was 
previously with JP Morgan and Lazards 
in London and New York and GKN plc 
in a range of international finance and 
management roles.
Mike Powell (49)   
Group Finance Director     
Appointed to the Board as Group 
Finance Director in July 2014. Mike 
joined from AZ Electronic Materials,  
a FTSE 250 company with international 
reach, where he held the role of Chief 
Financial Officer from 2011. Prior to this 
Mike was Group Finance Director of 
Nippon Sheet Glass Co. Limited, having 
previously spent 15 years at Pilkington 
plc in a variety of senior finance roles. 
He is a non-executive director of  
Low & Bonar PLC.
Sir Nigel Rudd (70)    N   R 
Chairman
Appointed to the Board in December 
2013. Sir Nigel Rudd became Chairman 
in May 2014. Sir Nigel is also chairman  
of Meggitt PLC and Sappi Limited.  
In February 2011, he was appointed 
Chairman of the Business Growth Fund. 
Sir Nigel has a wealth of experience 
at the top of UK industry, including 
previous chairmanships of Invensys 
plc, Alliance Boots plc, Pendragon 
plc, Heathrow Airport Holdings Ltd 
and Pilkington plc; and as founder of 
Williams plc he oversaw its demerger 
in 2000, creating Chubb plc and Kidde 
plc. Sir Nigel is a Deputy Lieutenant of 
Derbyshire and a Freeman of the City  
of London. 
Peter Ratcliffe (68)    A   N   R 
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board in January 2009. 
Peter brings to the Board his experience 
of working in an industry focused on 
customer service, as he was the chief 
executive officer of P&O Princess 
Cruises PLC until April 2003 and chief 
executive officer of the P&O Princess 
Cruises division of Carnival Corporation 
and Carnival plc from 2003 to 2007.  
He also brings his significant  
experience both as an executive and 
a non-executive director of UK and 
US public listed companies. He was 
previously an executive director of 
The Peninsular and Oriental Steam 
Navigation Company. He is a chartered 
accountant and a dual US/UK citizen.  
He is currently a non-executive director 
of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company 
and Casa Pacifica Centers for Children  
and Families.
Wayne Edmunds (61)    A   N   R 
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board in August  
2013. Wayne’s current appointments 
include being Chairman of Dialight plc, 
a non-executive director  of Ashtead 
Group plc, and MSCI. He was Chief 
Executive of Invensys plc until  
January 2014. He has extensive 
commercial experience, particularly 
in the US markets. Previously, Wayne 
was chief financial officer of Invensys 
plc, having joined the business in 2008 
as CFO of Invensys Process Systems. 
He joined Invensys plc from Reuters 
America, Inc., having held other senior 
business and financial roles in the 
technology sector, including 17 years at 
Lucent Technologies, Inc.
Peter Edwards (61)    A   N   R 
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed to the Board in January 2016. 
Peter has spent his career primarily in 
the aerospace sector across a wide 
spectrum of roles. He began his career 
with Air Research Aviation, followed  
by nine years at Gulfstream in a variety  
of senior sales and marketing roles.  
In 1995, he joined Bombardier  
Aerospace Corporation, where in 2001 
he was appointed President of  
Business Aircraft. Peter was Chief 
Executive Officer of Jet Aviation, a 
global business aircraft service provider, 
between 2007 and 2011. Since leaving 
Jet Aviation, Peter is active with his 
aviation advisory practice, along with 
various roles in European-based 
ventures in the commercial and business 
aviation sectors. In January 2012, he 
co-founded Axis Simulation Holdings, 
the parent company of Austrian-based 
Axis Flight Training Systems, a high-end 
manufacturer of advanced full-motion 
aircraft flight training simulators, where 
he is both principal and Chairman.
Key to Committee members
A Audit and Risk Committee
N Nomination Committee
R Remuneration Committee
Executive Directors Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement 46
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Risk Framework
(see pages 22 to 25 for more detail) 
The Board
Group Chief Executive
Executive Management Committee
Implementation Committee
(see page 47 for more detail)
Disclosure Committee
(see page 47 for more detail) 
Remuneration Committee
(see page 47 for a summary and 
the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report starting on page 56)
Nomination Committee
(see page 47 for a summary  
and 51 for more detail)
Audit and Risk Committee 
(see page 47 for a summary 
 and 52 for more detail)
Corporate  
Governance  
at a Glance
The Board is committed to ensuring 
appropriate standards of corporate governance 
are maintained at  BBA Aviation plc. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it. The Board 
monitors the evolution of Corporate Governance best practice,  
reviews and updates its procedures as required, and adopts, where 
relevant, recommendations of governance review bodies in relation to 
Board leadership and effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and 
relations with shareholders. The governance framework is shown below:  47
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees 
The Board
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board that includes 
matters such as: strategy and objectives; Group policies; annual 
budgets; dividends; acquisitions and disposals of businesses (over  
a certain size); expenditure over a certain limit; financial results;  
and appointment and removal of directors and Company Secretary.
This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year .   
Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided  
by management in accordance with delegated authorities approved  
by the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that  
might have a financial impact on the Group. However , its primary  
roles are to: 
• monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
control and risk assessment; 
• monitor the effectiveness of the Company’s Internal Audit function;
• review and assess the Company’s external audit function, including 
the annual audit plan and results of the external audit and the 
independence of the external auditor; 
• monitor the integrity and audit of the Company’s financial 
statements and any formal announcements relating to the 
Company’s financial performance, including a review of the 
significant financial reporting judgements contained within them; 
• review the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts and advise 
the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy; 
• review the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement  
on behalf of the Board; and
• establish and oversee the Company’s arrangements for employee 
disclosure and fraud prevention within the Company.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: 
• making recommendations to the Board on the framework  
and Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive 
directors and other designated senior executives; and
• determining, on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration 
package for each of the executive directors, including pension  
rights and any compensation payments.
Nomination Committee
The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to:
• make appropriate recommendations to the Board for  
the appointment or replacement of additional Directors;
• devise and consider succession planning arrangements  
for Directors and senior executives; and 
• regularly review the structure, size and composition of the  
Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard  
to any changes.
Implementation Committee
The Implementation Committee comprises any two directors  
(normally the two executive directors) and it is authorised to  
implement Board decisions.
Disclosure Committee 
The Disclosure Committee comprises any two directors or any  
director and the Company Secretary and has responsibility for 
determining, on a timely basis, the disclosure treatment of  
material information. 48
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Compliance  
Statement 
The Company applies the principles of Corporate Governance set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 (the Code), which is the 
version of the Code that applies to the 2016 financial year.  The directors can confirm 
compliance throughout 2016 with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The section below sets out how the Company has complied with the main principles 
of the Code and the disclosures are set out in the order they appear in the Code.
Section A: Leadership 
A1: Role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.  
Its role includes providing effective leadership and agreeing the Group’s strategic 
aims. It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate 
controls are in place to examine and manage risk. 
It is responsible for reviewing management’s performance and oversees senior  
level succession planning within the Group. The Board is also responsible for setting 
the Company’s values and standards, ensuring that the Company’s obligations to its 
shareholders are met.
There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2016.
The Company has arranged insurance for the directors and officers of the Company.
A2: Division of Responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.  The division of 
responsibilities is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on the  
Corporate Governance Section of the BBA Aviation plc website.  The statement 
was last reviewed by the Board in December 2016.  In summary, Sir Nigel Rudd, the 
Chairman, is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness; Simon Pryce  
the Chief Executive is responsible for the implementation of the Group strategy  
and running the businesses.
A3: The Chairman
Sir Nigel sets the Board agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive, the 
Group Finance Director, other Board members and the Company Secretary.  
On appointment as Chairman in May 2014 the Board considered Sir Nigel to be 
independent in accordance with the Code provisions.
A4: Non-executive directors
Susan Kilsby became the Senior Independent Director and Wayne Edmunds  
became Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee following the 2016 AGM when  
Nick Land retired.
During the year, the Chairman met the non-executive directors on a one-to-one 
basis. Additionally, the Chairman met the non-executive directors without the 
executive directors on a number of occasions.  There were several occasions during 
the year when discussions between various directors took place on an informal basis.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular contact during 
the year with the other directors to discuss specific issues.
Following the Board effectiveness review (B6), Susan Kilsby collated the feedback on 
the Chairman, discussed this with the other non-executive directors and, taking into 
account the views of the executive directors, provided feedback to the Chairman.
Section B: Effectiveness 
B1: The Composition of the Board
At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, five independent  
non-executive directors and two executive directors, who contribute a wide range  
of complementary skills and experience.
The Board has concluded that Wayne Edmunds, Peter Edwards, Susan Kilsby,  
Peter Ratcliffe and Peter Ventress are independent in character and judgement.
The Company has formal procedures in place to ensure that the Board’s powers to 
authorise conflicts are operated effectively and such procedures have been followed 
throughout 2016 and to the date of this report.
B2: Appointments to the Board
There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments that is described  
in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 51.  Peter Edwards and  
Peter Ventress were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 following a 
comprehensive process.  
B3: Commitment
The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have provided assurances to 
the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate 
the necessary amount of time to attend to the Company’s affairs.  The Board is 
satisfied that each of the directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Company 
and its affairs to effectively discharge their duties.
Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection 
by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the Company’s 
registered office.
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board before  
accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.  During 2016,  
following consent of the Board, both Simon Pryce and Mike Powell accepted 
non-executive directorships.  Simon Pryce was appointed to the Board of 
Electrocomponents plc on 26 September 2016 and Mike Powell was appointed  
to the Board of Low & Bonar  PLC on 1 December 2016.  Executive directors may 
retain the fees from any such directorships.  Additionally, Simon Pryce is a member  
of the Council of the University of Reading and is on the Board of the General  
Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA).
B4: Development
There is a written framework for the induction of new directors which includes  
site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers, and the provision of  
corporate documentation.  The focus of any induction programme is tailored to  
the background of the new director concerned.  The induction programmes for  
Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress are described in more detail on page 50. 
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of Corporate Governance and  
relevant regulatory developments as they arise and receive topical business 
briefings. The Board also keeps itself informed about the Company’s activities 
through a structured programme of presentations from each of the businesses 
within the Group and from a number of Group functional leaders.
A training log is maintained by the Company and this register is periodically reviewed 
by the Chairman with the director concerned, as part of the Chairman’s regular 
review of their training and development needs.  If particular training needs are 
identified, then plans are put in place and the Company provides appropriate 
resources for developing and updating the directors’ knowledge and skills.    49
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
The Board believes that the identification of individual training and development 
needs is primarily the responsibility of each individual director, bearing in mind the 
range of experiences and skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
B5: Information and support
The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive accurate, timely 
and clear information, with Board and Committee papers being circulated sufficiently 
in advance of meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, 
and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors wishing to do so 
in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense. The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect 
of legal actions against its directors. The Company has also entered into indemnities 
with its directors, as described on page 80.
B6: Evaluation
In 2015, the Board appointed Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit to conduct a 
Board effectiveness review.  The process was described in detail in the 2015 Annual 
Report.  In 2016, the Board invited Clare Chalmers to support the effectiveness 
review.  Telephone interviews were conducted with each of the directors and Clare 
prepared and presented a paper to the Board in November reviewing progress and 
identifying points for discussion.  
Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation and appraisal process was positive, 
with all directors contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board and 
the Committees of which he or she is a member.  The new non-executive directors 
have settled in well and both felt they’d received a comprehensive and useful 
induction.  The review confirmed the strengths that had been identified in 2015  
and identified a number of areas of focus, for further continuous improvement.  
The areas for focus and continuous improvement are that:
• The succession planning process should have more visibility at Board / 
Nomination Committee level - including increasing the Board’s exposure to 
senior management below Executive Management Committee level;
• The good quality of the Board papers could be further enhanced with improved 
executive summaries and appendices or other tools to aid the reader; and
• The length and detail of the minutes should be kept under review.
The Board is committed to making improvements in these areas highlighted in the 
Board evaluation.
B7: Re-election
The Board has decided that all Board members, with the exception of Mike Powell 
(who will be leaving at the end of May 2017), will retire and stand for re-election  
at the 2017 AGM. The Board believes that each of such directors should be  
re-elected by shareholders, because each continues to be effective and 
demonstrates commitment to their role. 
Section C: Accountability 
C1: Financial and business reporting
The Directors’ responsibility statement for preparing the report and account is  
set out on page 82.
The business model is within the strategic report on pages 12 and 13.
The Going Concern and Viability Statement is set out on page 79.
C2: Risk management and internal control
The Board undertook a comprehensive review of the principal risks facing 
 the Company and how the risks may impact the Company’s prospects.   
The Risk Management process is described in detail on pages 22-25.
Overall responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the Board.   
The Board reviewed the effectiveness and systems throughout the year  
and further information is set out on pages 54 and 55.
C3: Audit Committee and Auditors
Compliance with the Code provisions in respect of the Audit Committee 
requirements and Auditors is contained within the Audit Committee  
Report on pages 52 – 55.
Section D: Remuneration
Please refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report for further information  
and in particular:
D1: Level and components of remuneration
Pages 56 – 78.
D2: Procedure
Pages 56 – 78
In addition, the fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a 
whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.  No director is involved 
in deciding his or her own remuneration or fees. 
Section E: Relations with Shareholders 
E1: Dialogue with shareholders
The Board is kept up to date on the views of BBA Aviation’s major shareholders.   
The executive directors undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, 
institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to maintain a continuing 
dialogue with the Company’s providers of finance. The Board receives formal written 
reports from its brokers (as well as reports from the executive directors) regarding 
the views of shareholders following the roadshows that follow the preliminary and 
half-year results announcements and at other times as appropriate. 
All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, are available 
to meet with major shareholders. The Chairman wrote to major shareholders  
ahead of the 2016 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any issues or 
questions. The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also  
maintain contact, as required, with major shareholders about directors’ remuneration 
matters. In 2016, there was a comprehensive engagement programme with the 
top 10-12 shareholders on remuneration and this is described in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. The Board considers that its non-executive directors, 
including the Senior Independent Director, have a good level of understanding  
of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by the Code.
E2: Constructive use of General Meetings
The Company’s AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private 
investors.  It is intended that the notice of the AGM and related papers are sent 
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.  Sir Nigel Rudd as 
Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee, Wayne Edmunds as 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, and Susan Kilsby as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director will each be available 
to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM in 2017. Shareholders can vote 
separately on each proposal.  The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect 
of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures (for, against and “vote 
withheld”) on each resolution. The voting results of the AGM, together with the 
details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and  
on the Company’s website. The results of the AGM voting is also announced to the 
market via a Regulatory News Service.  50
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Induction
The induction for Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress focused on introducing them to 
the businesses of BBA Aviation.
Peter Edwards’ induction also included a session on the obligations and requirements 
of being the director of a listed company.  Peter Ventress’ induction did not include 
this element as he already had wide experience as a non-executive director of other 
listed companies.
New non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders on request.
Board Committees
Written terms of reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and these 
are available on the Group’s website www.bbaaviation.com for the main Committees.  
The main responsibilities have been described in the At-a-glance section on page 47.
2016 Board and Board Committee meeting attendance
The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board Committee members 
at scheduled meetings. It does not show attendance by non-Committee members 
at meetings to which they were invited.
 
 
 
Board
Audit  
and Risk  
Committee
 
Remuneration 
Committee
 
Nomination 
Committee
Number of  
scheduled meetings 7 5 5 1
Sir Nigel Rudd 7/7 – 5/5 1/1
Simon Pryce 7/7 – – –
Mike Powell 7/7 – – –
Wayne Edmunds 7/7 5/5 5/5 1/1
Peter Edwards 7/7 5/5 5/5 1/1
Susan Kilsby 7/7 5/5 5/5 1/1
Nick Land 2/2 2/2 2/2 0/0
Peter Ratcliffe 7/7 5/5 5/5 1/1
Peter Ventress 7/7 5/5 5/5 1/1
Nick Land retired from the Board at the AGM in 2016 and he attended all Board and 
Board Committee meetings while he was a director of the Company.
If any director is unable to attend a meeting, they discuss, in advance, with the 
relevant chairman their views on the business of that meeting so that their position 
can be represented.
 
The Board 
 
How the Board spends its time 
Board meetings focus on strategy and financial and business performance.  
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific matters.
A number of the key matters considered by the Board during 2016 are shown  
in the table below
Meeting Main issues considered
February Annual Results and Report content 
AGM and dividend 
Health and Safety Matters
May Business review: Ontic
June Business review: Western Europe and Signature 
Visit to Signature and ASIG operations 
ASIG disposal
August Half year results and interim dividend 
Progress against Board objectives 
ASIG disposal
October ASIG disposal
November Strategy Session 
Board Evaluation 
Corporate Responsibility update 
Visit to NBAA tradeshow
December 2017 budget and goals 
Board objectives – progress and targets
 
At each meeting in 2016, the Board considered reports from the Group Chief 
Executive and the Finance Director; it also received reports and updates on mergers 
and acquisitions activity, the Signature/Landmark integration, Health and Safety 
matters and litigation at each meeting.
The Board is responsible for succession planning at Board level and below, although 
part of the work is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
In December, the Board reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2016, which included 
succession planning, senior leadership development and enhancing the Board’s 
exposure to regulatory issues. The Board considers it has made good progress 
against its objectives, although it recognises that succession planning remains an 
area of focus.
Opportunities also exist throughout the year for informal contact between Board 
members and with members of the senior management team. Site visits are an 
important part of the Board’s programme, enabling Board members to meet 
employees in individual operations. In 2016, the Board held two of its scheduled 
seven meetings in the USA. The June meeting was held in New York which allowed 
the Board to visit a number of  Signature and ASIG operations in the surrounding area.  
These visits enabled the Board to meet both formally and informally with a number 
of employees. The November meeting was held in Orlando, and the Board visited the 
NBAA tradeshow / exhibition.  During the time in Orlando, the Board met informally 
with the wider team responsible for the Landmark acquisition and integration. 51
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
The appointment process 
The Nomination Committee evaluates the existing balance of experience,  
skills, knowledge, independence and diversity of backgrounds on the Board  
when considering Board succession planning. The Committee recognises that 
promoting an inclusive environment and diverse participation on the Board requires 
that the external search consultants appointed to identify future candidates 
for a Board role be requested to approach their search with these goals in mind. 
Other factors that also need to be taken into account are the current and future 
requirements of the Company and, in the case of a non-executive appointment, 
the time commitment expected.
The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable external search 
consultants for the vacancy and preparing details of the role and capabilities  
required for the appointment. Such consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary 
code of conduct for executive search firms on gender diversity. The process differs in 
its detail depending on whether the appointment is for an executive or non-executive 
position, but the essentials remain the same.
The executive search firm would present the Committee with a list of potential 
candidates and a shortlist will be created through consultation among Nomination 
Committee members.  The Board as a whole would be updated regularly on the 
status of the process. The selected candidates would meet with the Committee 
members as appropriate and the Committee would confirm that each Board 
member was given the opportunity to meet any short-listed candidates.
The Nomination Committee would then meet to finalise a recommendation to  
the Board regarding the appointment. The final decision rests with the Board. 
In 2015, the Zygos Partnership (Zygos) was appointed to assist with the selection 
processes that resulted in the appointment of Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress 
on 1 January 2016.  Zygos’ only relationship with BBA Aviation plc was in respect of 
search, selection and recruitment.  The appointment process was described in the 
2015 Annual Report and followed the process above.
Nomination Committee 
The composition of the Nomination Committee is set out in the table below.  
During 2016, the Nomination Committee comprised the Chairman and independent 
non-executive directors. 
During year
01/01/16 Resigned Appointed 31/12/16 28/02/17
Sir Nigel Rudd (Chairman) ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Wayne Edmunds ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Peter Edwards ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Susan Kilsby ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Nick Land ✓ 6/5/16 – ✕ ✕
Peter Ratcliffe ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Peter Ventress ✓ – – ✓ ✓
The Nomination Committee meets as required and other directors attend 
Nomination Committee meetings by invitation. 
The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting and one additional  
meeting in 2016.  This was supplemented by informal meetings, individual  
briefings and meetings between Committee members.  
In 2017, the Nomination Committee plans to hold additional meetings to review 
succession planning.
How the Committee spends its time 
During the year, the Committee continued to discuss matters relating to talent 
and succession planning for leadership development across the Group.  Diversity 
is considered as one aspect of the succession planning discussions, together with 
developing and strengthening the pipeline of talent within the Group and increasing 
the interaction between Board members and senior members of executive 
management and talented future executives.
The topic of diversity covers a variety of different elements, including professional 
and industry experience and an understanding of different geographical regions, 
ethnic backgrounds and genders. The Board does not believe that gender quotas 
(or any other quotas) effectively promote the development of appropriate and broad 
diversity. The Board does believe that an appreciation of the value that a diverse 
range of backgrounds brings is an important part of succession planning at all levels 
of the Group. The Board does continue to have an aspiration to increase female 
representation on the Board and, when engaging external search consultants to 
identify future candidates for Board roles, such consultants would be requested to 
take full account of all aspects of diversity in preparing their candidate lists. 
Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for an initial term 
of three years. This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions and continued 
satisfactory performance of duties following the Board’s annual performance 
evaluation. Reappointment for a further term is not automatic but may be made by 
mutual agreement.   52
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Audit and Risk Committee 
 
The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the description of its role in the 
‘At-a-glance’ section above, discharges a number of key responsibilities on behalf 
of the Board and the Company.  These include monitoring BBA Aviation’s financial 
reporting processes, overseeing the work of the Internal Audit team and reporting  
on the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. 
While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the whole Board, the oversight 
of the processes that underpin risk assessment and internal control are matters that 
the Board delegates to this Committee. For the production of the 2016 Report and 
Accounts, the Audit and Risk Committee was asked by the Board to advise whether 
the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable 
and to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, business model and strategy. 
The Audit and Risk Committee also reviewed the Viability Statement and the 
supporting process on behalf of the Board.
The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out below.
Wayne Edmunds 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
Composition 
The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2016 is set out in  
the table below.  
During year
01/01/16 Resigned Appointed 31/12/16 28/02/17
Wayne Edmunds (Chairman) ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Peter Edwards ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Susan Kilsby ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Nick Land ✓ 06/05/16 – ✕ ✕
Peter Ratcliffe ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Peter Ventress ✓ – – ✓ ✓
Nick Land was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement at the  
AGM on 6 May 2016.
All members of the Audit and Risk Committee are independent non-executive 
directors.  Wayne Edmunds, the Committee’s Chairman, has recent and relevant 
financial experience by virtue of his senior international finance roles.  In addition,  
the other Committee members all have experience of corporate financial matters 
and Peter Ratcliffe has a professional accountancy qualification. The Committee has 
good relevant industry knowledge given Peter Edwards’ experience.
During 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled meetings, generally 
coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle. These meetings 
are minuted by the Company Secretary or his designate.  The Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Chief Risk Officer 
as well as the external auditor and the PwC partner responsible for the co-sourced 
Internal Audit function, also generally attend the Audit and Risk Committee meetings 
by invitation. In 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee held three confidential sessions 
with the Head of Group Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer and with the external 
auditor, but otherwise without management present.  In addition, the Committee 
Chairman met with the external auditor, the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit on a 
number of occasions during the year and through to February 2017. The Committee 
Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any director or the Company’s  
external auditor.
How the Committee spends its time 
The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and technical 
matters by senior management and by the external auditor. In 2016, briefings 
included considering the progress of the exposure draft on revenue recognition  
and of proposed revisions to the exposure draft on accounting for leases.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews twice-yearly reports on the Group’s key 
business risks and the Committee members (all of whom are also members 
of the Remuneration Committee) are aware of the importance of keeping the 
appropriateness of incentive structures under review.  The Committee also  
assesses compliance with the Directors’ Responsibility Statements. 
There is a twice-yearly formal report to the Committee on business ethics and 
compliance, which includes such matters as the review of the Group’s Disclosure 
of Unethical Conduct Policy, under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns 
about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters. In addition, the 
Committee reviews reports on any items arising under that policy.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on matters 
within its remit, including the remuneration and appointment of the external auditor. 
While the appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, it is the policy 
of the Committee to review the appointment in greater detail at least every five years 
(with a tender process taking place in 2014). The Committee considers a number of 
factors, including audit effectiveness at both operating Company and Group-level; 
quality, continuity and depth of resources; and expertise and competitiveness of 
fees. The appointment of the Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years. 
The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review  
of written reports circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports 
and any other matters with the relevant auditors and management.  53
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
In last year’s annual report we reported the Committee’s conclusion that a 
reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions underpinning the impairment 
tests could result in a significant impairment being recorded in the financial 
statements.  Following a deterioration in performance in the first half of 2016 an 
impairment test was undertaken as at 30 June and an impairment loss recognised in 
relation to both of the ERO cash generating units (CGUs).
The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management, the budgets  
and plans on which they were based and the report of Deloitte LLP . The  
Committee was satisfied that the impairment and the disclosure made in  
relation to it were appropriate.
c. Purchase Price Accounting 
The Group completed a number of acquisitions during 2016, the most significant 
being the acquisition of Landmark. In each case the purchase price accounting was 
applied, the results of which are detailed in note 24. 
In each case the allocation of fair values to all acquired assets and liabilities is an area 
of significant judgment. As detailed in the Critical accounting judgments, key to the 
judgments required is the estimation of the related cash flows for each and every 
asset and liability acquired. The judgments are often inherently dependent on, and 
sensitive to, long-term forecasts of the performance of the underlying business.
The Committee relied upon a combination of analysis provided by management 
and in the case of Landmark the work of external experts in relation to the valuation 
of the acquired intangible assets and property, plant and equipment both from the 
acquisition due diligence and the purchase price accounting exercise. The work of 
both management and the external experts was also reported on by Deloitte LLP . 
The Committee was satisfied that the purchase price accounting and the disclosure 
made in relation to it were appropriate.
d. Accounting for the disposal of ASIG 
On 31 January 2017, the Group concluded the disposal of the ASIG business. In 
2016, the determination of the point at which the business became held for sale, the 
presentation of the business as a discontinued operation and the determination of 
the fair value less cost to sell and hence the resulting impairment were all significant 
financial reporting issues.
The Committee reviewed analysis provided by management and the report of 
Deloitte LLP. The Committee was satisfied that the judgments made and the 
disclosures made in relation to them were appropriate.
e. Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory 
The Group holds significant inventory across its operations, with $235.8 million of  
net inventory at 31 December 2016. This inventory is held at cost net of a provision 
for slow moving or obsolete inventory. 
During 2013, management undertook a review of the consistency in the estimations 
of the excess and obsolete inventory of engine and aircraft components across 
Aftermarket Services. An amendment was made to the policy which is designed to 
achieve a greater level of consistency across the division as well as more precisely 
defining the basis for provisioning. This policy has been consistently applied by 
management during 2014, 2015 and 2016 and forms an important part of the audit by 
Deloitte LLP . 
The Committee has confirmed through its enquiries of management and Deloitte 
that the policy remains appropriate and has been consistently applied. 
Topics covered by the Committee during 2016 and to date in 2017 included:
• Review of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements 
in respect of the half-year results and year-end report and accounts 
(described in more detail below) including disclosures relating to tax;
• Review of any significant matters raised by the internal auditors;
• Consideration of the audit fee and the balance between audit and  
non-audit fees; 
• Annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of  
the schedule of the Committee’s agenda items for the forthcoming  
year, of the non-audit services policy and of BBA Aviation’s matrix of 
authority levels; 
• Review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and discussion of Group 
Internal Audit’s overall strategy; 
• Auditor independence and audit effectiveness (described in more detail  
on page 54); and
• Systems of internal control (described in more detail starting on page 54).
The Committee’s terms of reference were updated during the year, primarily to 
reflect the changes in the latest guidance. 
Significant financial reporting issues considered by the Audit  
and Risk Committee 
To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Group Finance Director 
and Group Financial Controller and also reports from the outcome of the half-year 
review and annual audit. The Committee supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the 
necessary professional scepticism its role requires. The primary areas of judgement 
considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 financial statements and how 
these were addressed include:
• Recording of exceptional and other items within operating profit; 
• Impairment;
• Acquisition accounting and the determination of the fair valuation of assets and 
liabilities acquired; 
• Accounting for the disposal of ASIG; and,
• Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory; 
These issues were discussed with management and the external auditor in the July, 
September and December meetings when signing off on the auditor’s plan for the 
year-end, and no new areas were identified subsequently. 
a. Recording of exceptional and other items within operating profit  
 The Group’s policy is to include certain items within operating profit within a middle 
column within the Income Statement. These items relate to restructuring activities, 
transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and material non-recurring events. 
b. Impairment
On an annual basis, management test for impairment of goodwill as is set out in note 
8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The Committee, through detailed discussion with both the Group Finance Director 
and external auditors, was satisfied that the policy had been applied consistently and 
these items had been properly defined in the financial statements, such that the user 
of the accounts can understand the impact on our reported performance.  54
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Audit and accountability 
a. Auditor independence and audit effectiveness
Central to the Audit and Risk Committee’s work is the review and monitoring  
of the external auditor’s independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness  
of the audit process.
The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness assessment in respect of  
work carried out during the year by the external auditor, including:
• the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and audit team;
• the effectiveness of audit planning and execution;
• the role of management in ensuring an effective audit; 
• communication with and support of the Audit and Risk Committee; and
• the formal reporting of the auditor.
The assessment was completed with input in the form of a survey of the key financial 
management team, including the divisional Chief Financial Officers (CFOs), the 
Group Financial Controller and the Group Tax Director, together with the Chairman  
of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also input their views and it 
was concluded that the external audit for 2016 had provided appropriate focus 
and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk. Overall, the quality of the audit 
was assessed as “good”.  The Audit and Risk Committee also carried out a self-
assessment and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the Code and 
the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council 
in September 2012.  The Committee has confirmed that during the year it had 
formal and transparent arrangements for considering corporate reporting, risk 
management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate 
relationship with the external auditor.
One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is the Group’s 
policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditor. The policy is 
reviewed each year and, since December 2012, the policy prohibits the Group’s 
external auditor from carrying out remuneration consultancy and tax planning work 
for the Group. The external auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number 
of other services for the Group such as book-keeping, Internal Audit, valuations, 
actuarial services and financial systems design and implementation. Services which 
the external auditor may be permitted to carry out include assurance services such 
as reporting accountant work and tax compliance services. The Company’s policy 
is not to use the external auditor for acquisition and due diligence work. However, 
where the Group considers it appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other 
than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender. This would only include the 
external auditor in unusual and exceptional circumstances. 
Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are regularly reviewed by the 
Committee and those paid in 2016 are set out in note 2 to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements. 
During 2016, if fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted tax services 
were expected to exceed £250,000, then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 
is required to pre-approve each project. In any event, specific project approval is 
required by the Committee Chairman for any such project where estimated fees 
exceed £100,000. Pre-approval would have been required for non-tax projects where 
fees are estimated to exceed £25,000. 
Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services they performed during the 
year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not impair their independence 
or objectivity. On the basis of their own review of the services performed, the 
requirement of pre-approval and the auditor’s confirmation, the Committee is 
satisfied that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair 
their independence and objectivity.
In December 2016, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the non-audit services 
policy and adopted a more restrictive regime for non-audit services to match the 
latest FCA guidance. The non-audit services policy is available on the Company’s 
website www.bbaaviation.com.
The FRC’s Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit of the BBA Aviation 
plc’s financial statements as part of their 2016 annual inspection of audit firms.  
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where 
improvements are required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above 
the expected level.  The Chairman of the Audit Committee received a full copy of 
the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these with Deloitte.  
Some matters were identified as requiring improvement and we have agreed an 
action plan with Deloitte to ensure the matters identified by the AQR have been 
addressed in the audit of the Company’s 31 December 2016 financial statements.  
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the report which 
might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
b. System of internal control. 
Overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness rests with the Board. Management is accountable to the directors 
for monitoring this system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has 
done so. The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded 
in the Group’s businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks. The Group 
considers that it has adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and 
opportunities affecting its long and short-term value.
This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2016 and up 
to 28 February 2017 and the directors can therefore confirm that they have reviewed 
the effectiveness in accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code 
throughout that period.
The Group’s internal system of control is reviewed annually by the directors and 
accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005: 
Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code (known as the Turnbull 
guidance). The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives. It can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking 
account of costs and benefits.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces are summarised on 
pages 22 to 25, together with a description of their potential impact and mitigations 
in place. The main features of the Group’s internal control and risk management 
systems are listed below. 
1.  Risks are identified through a detailed written self-assessment process  
carried out by division and by function. The process analyses risk into  
eight types covering strategic, operational, financial, people, compliance,  
governance, hazard and an ‘other’ category, including unpredictable,  
although with hindsight, often inevitable, events. They are recorded  
on risk registers together with the mitigations.
  On a bi-annual basis, risk registers are refreshed, and the key risks at division 
and Group level are plotted on risk maps, which are discussed with senior 
business management, Divisional management and BBA Aviation’s Executive 
Management Committee in order to validate the risk profile. The validated risk 
maps are then discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee, together with key 
mitigation activities, and further mitigation, if any, is agreed. 55
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance Statement
 10.  All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are 
approved by the Board.
 11.  A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures concerning: business 
ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainment, equal opportunities 
and anti-harassment, competition law, legal policy, data privacy, Corporate 
Responsibility, market disclosure and communications and share dealing.  
A review of compliance with such policies by Group companies is carried out 
twice a year and senior executives are also required to confirm compliance with 
certain policies twice a year. Group policies are complemented by divisional 
and Company-led initiatives and are supplemented by the Group’s Disclosure 
of Unethical Conduct Policy, which includes a 24-hour “hotline” available to all 
employees. This is supported by a formal investigation protocol and regular 
reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee as part of the twice-yearly report 
on Business Ethics and Compliance. The Ethics Implementation Policy seeks 
to codify the overarching principles and processes that underlie the various 
elements set out in more detail in the Code of Business Ethics and the policies 
on bribery and corruption and gifts and entertainment. Compliance with all 
these policies and with the Group’s procedures concerning the appointment 
and remuneration of foreign agents is subject to review as considered necessary 
as part of the ongoing BBA Aviation risk-based Internal Audit programme. The 
effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the risk review process 
described in item 1 above.
12.  A Group Safety Management System outlines policies, standards and 
procedures in conjunction with the business line procedure manuals of the 
operating companies which are applicable throughout the Group. Annual self-
assessment and/or audits are carried out at Company level against the Group 
standards and business line procedures. Group-level HSE audits are performed 
to validate Company level compliance. An executive summary Health, Safety 
and Environmental (HSE) report is tabled at each meeting of the Executive 
Management Committee. The Board also receives a summary HSE report in 
addition to updates on HSE activities. These reports cover all Group companies 
and are prepared by the internal Group HSE function. Key HSE performance 
metrics are reviewed and verified annually by an independent third party 
organisation. Senior managers’ performance and related financial incentives are 
tied in part to their success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives. 
Further details about HSE matters are set out in the Values Report 2016 on  
the BBA Aviation website. BBA Aviation’s Group Internal Audit team includes  
a number of questions on Corporate Responsibility matters in the annual  
Control Risk Assessment questionnaire which is completed by each of the 
operating businesses.
The Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the Board on 28 February 
2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Nigel Rudd 
Chairman
  Group Internal Audit reviews the risk maps and risk registers and builds its annual 
audit plan from the risk profile. A transparent mapping is produced to link the key 
risks to the Internal Audit profile, setting out the rationale for the focus of Internal 
Audit activity. This is agreed annually with the Audit and Risk Committee.
  Based on this information, the Board reviews the risks and, if satisfied, confirms 
it is satisfied that the risks are appropriately mitigated. If this is not the case, the 
Board requests that management take further action. 
2.  An organisational structure is in place at both head office and divisional level which 
clearly defines responsibilities for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, 
legal, company secretarial and insurance functions.
3.  An Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based reviews of 
controls and business processes. The role of Internal Audit is defined in a Group 
Internal Audit charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards 
which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and its reporting 
processes. The Audit and Risk Committee receives a report from Internal Audit 
at each meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness 
of controls by site, together with a summary of key issues, work schedules and 
details of any action required. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Audit and Risk Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of 
Internal Audit using outside specialists as well as self-assessment techniques. 
  A co-sourcing arrangement exists with PwC, headed by a specialist PwC Internal 
Audit Partner who manages both BBA Aviation and PwC staff in the delivery of the 
Internal Audit service. This arrangement provides access to a broad range of skills 
and experience to support its effective delivery.
4.  A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial controls 
applicable to all reporting units. The Group accounting policies are aligned with 
International Financial Reporting Standards and compliance with these policies is 
reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process. 
5.  An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the Group’s 
reporting units.
6.  Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management which 
measure actual performance against budget and forecasts. The monthly 
forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis. A 
monthly report is provided to the Board, based on these management accounts, 
highlighting key issues and summarising the detailed financial information 
provided by the operating units. The integrity of management accounts with 
the underlying financial records is subject to review as part of the Internal Audit 
process. 
7.  Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, authorisation levels 
requiring the approval of major projects by the Board, and post-investment 
appraisals. The lessons learned from the post-investment appraisals are also 
shared with members of senior management.
8.  Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency hedging, granting of 
guarantees and use of treasury products.
9.  A matrix defines the levels of authority for the Group’s senior executives and 
their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial 
and employee contracts and treasury matters. This is authorised by the Audit 
and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an annual basis. 
Compliance is reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.  56
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Introduction  
This has been a year of change for the Group whilst at the same time the UK 
executive remuneration landscape is going through an unprecedented level of 
uncertainty as shareholders, companies and the Government look at the current 
practice of companies in the listed space.  
As a result of the above I have consulted with shareholders a number of times during 
the year on the key remuneration issues which are set out below.
Key issues considered by the Remuneration Committee in 2016  
A )  L an dm ar k A v i a t i o n
The acquisition and associated fundraising relating to the transformational 
Landmark Aviation acquisition had a number of consequences that the 
Remuneration Committee considered.
Due to the rationale behind the transaction, its scale and the equity issue, the 
Committee decided to undertake a review of its impact on BBA Aviation’s “in-flight” 
share based awards. As I said in my statement last year, we had already determined 
that no adjustment should be made to the 2013 awards due to the short amount of 
performance period remaining at the point the acquisition occurred.  I discussed our 
proposals for the awards made in 2014 and 2015 with our larger shareholders. I am 
very grateful for the time and effort taken by shareholders during the consultation 
and I am happy that broadly the approach proposed by the Committee set out below 
has been supported. 
Following the consultation with shareholders the Committee concluded that no 
changes should be made to the targets for the 2014 awards (due to vest in March 
2017).  However, it was agreed that a minor adjustment should be made to the 
ROIC targets for the awards granted in 2015 (due to vest in 2018).  The Committee 
also clarified the calculation methodology for both the ROIC and EPS elements to 
increase transparency.  The methodology is set out on page 64.
B) New Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The Committee is engaged in a consultation with shareholders on a new 
Remuneration Policy as this report goes to print. The Committee’s intention was 
initially to seek shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM. However whilst the overall 
approach has been determined; the Committee, in consultation with shareholders, 
continues to work through some of the detail of the proposals. This process has been 
more time consuming than anticipated due to the level of change and uncertainty 
in the UK surrounding executive remuneration.  Therefore, the Remuneration 
Committee intends to finalise the consultation over the next few months and  
will put a revised policy to a formal vote at the 2018 AGM.
Directors’  
Remuneration  
Report
Susan Kilsby 
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
I am pleased to introduce our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for 2016 which 
has been prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee on behalf of the Board.    57
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The overall approach being proposed by the Committee is set out below.  
Where the changes can be made within the existing Policy and where based on 
consultation to date shareholders are supportive they will be operated in 2017. 
Changes within the current Policy:
 (a)  ELTIP – this Plan will not be operated going forward and will not form part  
of the new Policy;
 (b)  LTIP – the Committee is introducing the following changes for the  
2017 LTIP grant:
• The introduction of a comparative total shareholder return performance 
measure against the FTSE 250;
• A corresponding reweighting of the performance conditions to a 1/3rd on  
each of EPS Growth, ROIC and TSR;
• The addition of a two year holding period following the vesting of the  
2017 LTIP award;
(c)  Minimum shareholding requirement – an increase in the minimum shareholding 
requirement for the Executive Directors from 200% of salary to 300% with a 
stated time frame for new directors to build up this shareholding.
The proposed changes to the Policy which are still being discussed with  
shareholders are:
(a)  The level of the increase in the maximum opportunity under the Deferred  
Stock Plan; 
(b) The performance conditions to be used with the Deferred Stock Plan;
(c) The vesting schedule for the awards granted under the Plan.
The Deferred Stock Plan is already part of the current Policy and will be operated for 
2017. The nature of the Plan is that awards are granted on a look back basis following 
the end of the relevant financial year. Therefore, to ensure that any changes under 
the new Policy can be operated immediately following shareholder approval at the 
2018 AGM, the Committee  is setting performance conditions now for the increased 
award opportunity under the Deferred Stock Plan which will facilitate a smooth and 
prompt transition to the new Policy if it is subsequently approved by shareholders.
When the revised Policy is put to shareholders, the Committee will set out the 
detailed rationale and reasons for the proposed changes.
The Committee believes that the proposed changes summarised above are in 
the best interests of the Company.  The Committee may decide, following further 
consultation with shareholders, to amend the proposed new Policy from that 
indicated above.  
Performance in 2016 and remuneration outcomes 
In 2016, the Group has made excellent progress integrating Landmark’s bases into 
the Signature business and agreeing the disposal of ASIG. The financial highlights are 
on page 2 and the KPIs for 2016 are on page 15. 
Bonus 
Simon Pryce will receive 70.6% of his maximum bonus potential and Mike Powell 
will receive 70.1% of his maximum bonus potential – equivalent to 44.1% and 43.8% 
respectively of salary based on the financial measures of underlying profit, cash flow 
and their personal objectives.  The Board has concluded that the prior year’s targets 
are no longer commercially sensitive and you can read more about the bonuses for 
2016, including the targets, on pages 62 and 63. 
Long- Term Awards (granted in 2014)
The LTIP awards granted in 2014 will vest at 23.3% of the maximum.  Additional detail 
on these long-term awards is on page 64.
After careful consideration, the Committee has decided to calculate the level of 
bonus earned and the level of the 2014 LTIP award vesting based on the audited 
numbers, making no adjustments. This approach has been adopted to recognise 
the Committee’s objective for transparency with consistency between the 
Company’s reported results and the numbers used to calculate incentive payments 
to the executive directors. This was the philosophy behind the clarification of the 
methodology for EPS and ROIC used for the LTIP performance conditions. In 
addition, the Committee is aware of the negative shareholder sentiment around 
adjustments to performance conditions for incentive outcomes. 
2017 targets 
The Committee will continue to consider all relevant factors when setting the 
performance criteria for BBA Aviation’s incentive plans to ensure that they are set at 
an appropriate level to challenge and incentivise the senior leadership team to drive 
shareholder value and support the delivery of the Group’s long-term strategy. You 
can read more about the 2017 targets for the variable element of reward on pages 67 
and 71.
Remuneration Reporting 
We have continued with the format of our reporting on remuneration introduced 
 last year.
• In Part 1, on pages 58 - 60, we present an ‘At a glance’ section. In this section you 
will find a summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy presented in a visual 
format; a summary of the executive directors’ remuneration outcomes for 2016 
against policy; the relative importance of pay; the graph showing the Company’s 
TSR performance; and CEO remuneration over the last eight years.
•  In Part 2, on pages 61 - 71, we present our Annual Report on Remuneration for 
2016.  The Annual Report on Remuneration together with this Annual Statement 
and the ‘At a glance’ section is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM 
in May 2017.  The sections of this report that have been subject to audit are set 
out on page 71. 
• In Part 3, on pages 72 - 78 we have included a summary of the existing policy.
 
Conclusion 
I would like to thank again the shareholders who engaged with me during the year on 
the Company’s executive remuneration plans and I’d also like to thank my colleagues 
on the Remuneration Committee for their commitment and support throughout  
the year.
We take an active interest in your views as shareholders. If you would like to discuss 
any further aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views.
Susan Kilsby 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 February 2017 58
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Element of pay and time period (years)
1 2 3 4 5 Implementation of policy for 2016 Implementation of policy for 2017
Short Term
Base Salary Salary increases on 1 January 2016 were:
Simon Pryce: 9.4% to £660,750
Mike Powell: 9.3% £420,000
Salary increases on 1 January 2017 were:
Simon Pryce: 3% to £680,572.50 
Mike Powell: 3% to £432,600.00
Benefits
Including car 
allowance,  
private medical 
insurance etc.
Simon Pryce and Mike Powell received a market competitive 
level of benefits.
No change
Annual Bonus
Maximum of 62.5% of 
salary
Performance targets for 2016 included Group operating 
profit, Group free cash flow and personal objectives. 
No change
Pension
Maximum under the 
policy is 25% of salary
Executive directors received a contribution of 20% of salary in 
lieu of a pension contribution.
No change
Other Simon Pryce received £194,000 for relocation / living 
expenses / housing allowance 
It is expected this will continue in 2017
Long Term
Long- Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
Maximum of 190%  
of salary
Simon Pryce received an award of 190% of Salary;  
Mike Powell received an award of 140% of salary. 
Awards will vest subject to the achievement of  
stretching EPS, ROIC targets at the end of a  
three- year performance period. 
No change to basic structure of the award.
A total shareholder return (TSR) performance condition  
will be added. A two-year holding condition post-vesting  
will be added to the 2017 LTIP awards made to  
executive directors.
Deferred Stock Plan 
(DSP) Core
Maximum under  
the policy is 72.5%  
of Salary
Replaced Deferred Bonus Plan – these awards were granted 
in March 2016. DSP awards vest 1/3, 1/3, 1/3 annually but are not 
released until the third anniversary of grant. See page 66 for 
further details.
No change
Part 1:  
At a glance
Executive Directors’  
Remuneration
The various elements of the executive  
directors’ remuneration under the policy  
and how it was implemented in 2016 and  
the expected implementation in 2017. 59
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
2016 remuneration outcome against policy
The graph below illustrates the actual outcome against the theoretical maximum and minimum range of payments for 2016.  
This graph shows that over 50% of the Chief Executive’s reward was performance related.
The relocation and living allowance paid to Simon Pryce in 2016 is not included in this graph. The maximum line includes DSP  
awards to be granted in 2017 but disclosed in respect of 2016.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The Board recognises that the level of spend on pay is driven partly by being within the service sector and the high number of employees relative to our size.  
The remuneration receivable by employees reflects this. The comparators below have been selected as they illustrate allocation of “profits” between  
amounts payable to directors and amounts returned to shareholders by way of dividends.
28%
43%
100%
16% 41%
14% 58%
Maximum
Minimum
Actual 
outcome 
Simon Pryce
£357.1m £516m
Remuneration paid to or 
receivable by all employees 
(i.e. wages and salary)
£300m  |
£400m  | £500m  |
£200m  | £100m  |
£0m  |
2,959
 2015 2016
£2.9m
£91.4m
£3.5m
32%
74%
Remuneration paid to  
or receivable by all directors
100%
26%
16% 52%
Mike Powell
Maximum
Minimum
Actual 
outcome
 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives 
1,605
£2,250  | £2,700  | £3,250  | £1,750  | £1,400  | £1 ,050  | £700  | £350  |
’000
£65.7m
Distributions to shareholders  
by way of dividend/buy-back
1,887
706
522
814 60
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Long-term performance over the past eight years
The Remuneration Committee believes it is important to consider the longer-term performance of the Company when assessing how performance is reflected  
in reward. The graph below shows the historical cumulative total shareholder return since 2008. The Company believes that the FTSE 250 Index is a suitable  
broad-based equity index of which the Company is a constituent member.
The table below the graph shows elements of the CEO’s remuneration over this period.
The Company’s Total Shareholder Return performance since the end of 2008 has significantly outperformed the FTSE 250 as shown below by the value  
of a hypothetical holding over eight years:
The data used for the above graph is based on 30 trading day average values.
CEO’s pay with various figures from the single figure table
 BBA Aviation plc  FTSE 250 Index
Value of a hypothetical £100 investment
£800
£600
£400
£200
£0
Dec
2008
Dec
2009
Dec
2010
Dec
2011
Dec
2012
Dec
2013
Dec
2014
Dec
2015
Dec
2016
£364
£738
Total remuneration and variable pay  
payout as % of maximum 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Total single figure £’000 1,232 1,800 2,689 1,855 1,748 1,748 1,500 2,081
Bonus total and as percentage  
of maximum
453 
88%
460 
70.1%
566 
83.5%
328 
47.0%
458 
63.7%
455 
61.8%
199 
53%
291
70.6%
Long-term total and percentage  
vesting against maximum
69 
12.5%
580 
56.8%
1,453 
55.5%
824 
68.6%
580 
42.4%
499 
27.1%
479 
32%
782
45.1%
The 2016 long-term element includes the DSP shares to be granted in 2017 as a result of multi-year performance conditions. See explanation in the notes  
to single figure total. 61
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors – single figure total (£’000)
Director Year
 
Salary  
and fees
 
Benefits
 
Bonus
 Value LTIP 
vesting amount 
and DSP grant
 
Pension Other
Overall single 
figure total
Simon Pryce
2016 661 21 291 782 132 194 2,081
2015 604 20 199 479 121 77 1,500
Mike Powell
2016 420 18 184 – 84 – 706
2015 384 18 127 305 77 – 911
Sir Nigel Rudd
2016 250 – – – – – 250
2015 250 – – – – – 250
Susan Kilsby
2016 70 – – – – – 70
2015 66 – – – – – 66
Peter Ventress
2016 55 – – – – – 55
2015 – – – – – – –
Peter Ratcliffe
2016 55 – – – – – 55
2015 55 – – – – – 55
Wayne Edmunds
2016 62 – – – – – 62
2015 55 – – – – – 55
Peter Edwards
2016 55 – – – – – 55
2015 - – – – – – –
Nick Land (retired May 2016)
2016 26 – – – – – 26
2015 73 – – – – – 73
Notes
1  Taxable benefits for Simon Pryce and Mike Powell include a cash allowance in lieu of a company car and private medical insurance.
2 The LTIP awards granted in 2014 will vest at 23.3% of the maximum.
3  The performance period for the 2014 LTIP award granted to the CFO was completed at the end of the 2016 financial year. The level of vesting based on this performance would be 23.3 % (which is 52,552 shares). 
The third anniversary of the date of grant of his award is on 26 August 2017 due to the timing of his recruitment which resulted in a delay to his 2014 LTIP grant. Following the CFO serving notice the  
Committee will determine whether the level of award capable of vesting as a result of the satisfaction of the performance conditions will vest based on the circumstances and performance of the CFO up to the 
date of his departure.
4  The Deferred Stock Plan awards that are expected to be granted in March 2017 are disclosed in the table above because the operating profit used to calculate the pool was over the three financial years  
ending 31 December 2014, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016 and the strategic objectives were measured at the end of 2016. The details of these DSP awards are shown on page 64. 
5  The Company’s pension contribution for Simon Pryce and Mike Powell is 20% of basic salary. During the year Simon Pryce and Mike Powell received a cash payment in lieu of a contribution to a pension scheme. 
6  The disclosure in the “Other” column for 2016 represents payments made to Simon Pryce associated with his role as President of Flight Support and the need to spend significantly more time in the USA. 
Part 2: Annual  
Report on  
Remuneration  
for  2016
The Remuneration Committee recognises 
that BBA Aviation has made further progress 
in 2016 and continues to effectively execute its 
strategy, particularly through the acquisition of 
Landmark Aviation and the disposal of ASIG.
Background 
The single figure total for the directors is set out in the table below and the separate 
elements of remuneration are explained in the subsequent paragraphs. 62
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Base salary for executive directors
In December 2015, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the base salaries for the executive directors and their salaries were increased to reflect the increased scope, 
complexity and responsibilities of managing the enlarged Group; the challenges of effectively integrating the Landmark acquisition; and individual performance.  The base 
salary effective from 1 January 2016 for Simon Pryce was £660,750 and for Mike Powell was £420,000. 
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors
The fees for the Chairman and the non-executive directors are in the single figure table. No change to the fee rates for the Chairman or non-executive directors were made 
for 2016.
Benefits
Other benefits for the year for each executive director included a company car allowance, private medical insurance, death in service benefit, annual holiday, sick pay, an annual 
health check and gym membership. The nature of the taxable benefits for the executive directors were unchanged compared to 2015.
Bonus
The maximum bonus opportunity is 62.5% of salary for the executive directors split 52.5% of salary for financial performance (35% for operating profit and 17.5% for free 
cash flow) and 10% of salary for personal objectives. The whole bonus is paid in cash and there are no deferral obligations. The choice of performance conditions and their 
respective weightings reflected the Committee’s belief that they would drive action to deliver exceptional sustainable value for our shareholders and other stakeholders. In 
determining the bonus payment for 2016, no discretion was exercised by the Remuneration Committee in determining the bonus outcomes.
Following an assessment against the performance targets, the Committee concluded that Simon Pryce and  Mike Powell will receive 70.6% and 70.1% respectively of their 
maximum bonus opportunity for 2016. This equates to 34.1% of salary for the achievement against the financial objectives for both executives. The 34.1% of salary for 
financial objectives is split 12.4% for free cash flow and 21.7% for operating profit. Simon Pryce will receive 10% of his salary and Mike Powell will receive 9.7% of his salary for 
achievement of the personal strategic objectives. This is illustrated below:
The Board has reviewed its practice and has decided to continue with its approach to disclose the Bonus targets for the year under review. Financial measures account for 84% of the maximum opportunity.  
The operating profit represents 56% of the maximum opportunity and free cash flow represents 28% of the maximum opportunity; of this free cash flow element, half was for the half-year position and the  
remaining half for the full-year position. Personal objectives represent 16% of the maximum opportunity.
 Personal objectives Financial objectives
= 62.5% 10% plus 52.5%
Opportunity
= 44.1% 10% plus 34.1%
Simon Pryce
Mike Powell
= 43.8% plus 9.7% 34.1% 63
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Personal objectives
In February 2017, the Remuneration Committee assessed each executive director’s performance against the objectives that were set early in 2016 and concluded that Simon 
Pryce and Mike Powell had achieved 100% and 97% respectively of their personal objectives for 2016. The objectives and the performance are summarised below:
Simon Pryce’s personal objectives included financial targets in conjunction with the Landmark integration, strategic planning for all businesses with specific areas of focus 
for different businesses, setting five-year strategic VMV goals, portfolio optimisation and continuing development of senior leaders as part of the succession planning 
programme.
Mike Powell’s personal objectives included cash and covenant management, financial targets in conjunction with the Landmark integration, financial elements of the strategic 
planning process, a number of specific structural and organisational design matters and a number of projects linked to the Company’s pension arrangements. 
Financial objectives
The graph below shows the financial objectives performance: 
Performance targets and achievement for 2016
Notes
The purpose of the half-year cash flow target is to focus attention on cash throughout the year rather than at a single point in time. There is a trade creditor cap applied to the actual figures above, which  
ensures payments to creditors are not inappropriately delayed to deliver bonus targets. The measures are assessed on a straight-line basis between threshold and target and also from target to maximum.
Threshold Target Maximum
$330.1m (equalling a payment of 21.8% of salary)
$282.6m
6.5% 15% 35%
1.75%
1.75%
3.75%
3.75%
8.75%
8.75%
$134.3m
$7.3m
Threshold
$314.0m
$149.2m
$8.1m
Target
$361.1m
$171.6m
$9.3m
Maximum
Percentage of salary payable
Actual Performance
Percentage of salary payable
Actual Performance
Percentage of salary payable
Actual Performance
Operating profit
Free Cash Flow – Full Year
Free Cash Flow – Half Year
$148.1m (equalling a payment of 3.6% of salary)
$(68.8)m (equalling a payment of 8.75% of salary) 64
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Long-Term Incentive Awards
Long- Term Incentive Plan
The performance conditions for the LTIP awards granted in 2014 are set out in the table below. Performance was measured over three financial years ending  
31 December 2016.
Percentage of
shares vesting
EPS growth per annum  
(50% of each award)
Average annual ROIC  
(50% of each award)
Nil Less than 6% Below 10.5%
25% At 6% At 10.5%
25% to 100% straight line pro-rata Between 6% and 12% Between 10.5% and 12.0%
100% At or above 12% At or above 12.0%
 
For the three years ended 31 December 2016: EPS growth per annum was 1.3% and the average annual ROIC was 10.93%. Accordingly, the awards for the Executive Directors 
will vest at 23.3% of the maximum. No discretion was exercised by the Remuneration Committee in determining the vesting.
LTIP Calculation Methodology 
 
EPS = 
Adjusted Earning
 Weighted average shares in issue
ROIC = 
Adjusted operating profit
Statutory invested capital
Adjusted earnings In line with the formal IFRS calculation of EPS with two 
adjustments: (1) takes into account the Company’s exceptional policy; and  
(2) uses current underlying tax rate
Weighted average shares in issue: In line with the formal IFRS calculation
Adjusted operating profit: In line with the formal IFRS calculation of operating  
profit taking in to account the Company’s exceptional policy.
Statutory invested capital: This is the addition of average net assets to average  
net debt.
Deferred Bonus Plan
Half of the bonus in respect of 2013, paid in early 2014, was deferred for a period of three years. The deferred bonus was converted into shares and will be released shortly after 
the third anniversary of the award. As permitted by the rules of the scheme, the Remuneration Committee agreed that dividends will be awarded on the deferred element for 
the period of time after the risk of forfeiture had lifted.  The adjustment for dividends reflects the economic alignment of the director’s interests with those of shareholders.  
The Deferred Bonus is not included in the single figure table as it was included in the year it was earnt.  
Deferred Stock Plan
In 2015, the DSP was introduced for the executive directors and senior executives of the company. Under the DSP , a pool of shares is determined based on 3.5% of BBA 
Aviation’s average Operating Profit performance over the prior three years and achievement against certain strategic objectives. Participants are granted conditional shares 
which vest annually over a three year period but are not released until after the third anniversary of the grant. 
The Group operating profit for 2014 was US$201.2m; for 2015 was US$202.0 million; and for 2016 was $330.1 million giving an average of US$244.4 million and 3.5% of this  
is US$8.5 million. The Remuneration Committee concluded that 100% of the strategic objectives had been delivered and agreed the overall pool is therefore $8.5 million.  
The strategic objectives were: 
• Action plans on customer surveys prepared (Q1) and actions undertaken (Q4)
• Safety Management System and safety business plan formulated by business unit and site (H2); delivery achieved (Q4)
• Bands 1-3 and other hi-potential staff to have personal objectives that require innovation tools to be applied to specific problems
• Formal design and launch of Signature / ERO joint marketing programme and GM sales incentive scheme
• Situational Awareness training delivered to all banded employees
• Ethics Training updated and delivered to all 1500+ relevant employees
The face value of the DSP award that will be granted to Simon Pryce is equivalent to 72.5% of salary (£493,415). This award equates to 100% of the maximum for Simon Pryce. 
The Remuneration Committee anticipates that it will grant this award in March 2017 and any awards made to executive directors will be announced via the Regulatory News 
Service (RNS) as soon as they are made, as well as in the 2017 Annual Report. 65
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Pension
The Company made a cash payment equal to 20% of base salary in lieu of a contribution to a pension scheme for Simon Pryce and Mike Powell. 
Other
When Michael Scheeringa resigned in 2015, the Board asked Simon Pryce to take on the role of President of Flight Support in addition to his role as Group Chief Executive.  
In order to fulfil these duties Simon Pryce was asked to spend significantly more of his time in the United States. The Remuneration Committee agreed, in accordance with  
the Group Remuneration Policy, to provide accommodation for Simon Pryce while he is in America and an allowance to support his incidental living expenses.
The Committee agreed that the approach should be that Simon should be neither better off nor worse off as a result of the assignment and this meant certain elements have 
been grossed up for tax purposes. There was no change in applicable bonus or long-term incentive structures, contract or underlying terms and conditions as a result of this. 
It should be noted that there was no increase in the allowance in 2016. The figure disclosed in 2015 represented the allowance from the start of the assignment to the end of 
the year.
In accordance with the approach described above and the policy, Simon Pryce received the following payments:
Element Amount (£’000)
Relocation and living expenses 120
Housing allowance 74
Total 194
Payments to past directors
No payments have been made in 2016 to past directors in respect of their services as a director of the Company.  DBP shares were released to Mark Hoad, the former Group 
Finance Director, representing half of his bonus that was deferred in early 2013 in respect of 2012. These shares were earned at the end of the deferral period.
Loss of office payments
No directors received any payments for loss of office during the year. 
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year
The details of the scheme interests awarded during the financial year to the executive directors are set out below:
 
Face value of award
Director Description Shares £
Percentage if minimum 
performance  
targets met
End of  
performance  
period
Simon Pryce LTIP – Conditional Award 635,484 1,225,404 25% 31/12/2018 
LTIP – Linked Award 15,557 29,999 25%
ESOP – Approved Option 15,557 25%
DSP – Conditional Shares 248,423 497,034 100% Awards released in 2019
Mike Powell LTIP – Conditional Award 305,000 588,131 25% 31/12/2018
DSP – Conditional Shares 157,908 304,494 100% Awards released in 2019
Notes 
1  The LTIP Awards were made on 11 March 2016. The grant price was £1.9283 which was the average middle market closing price on the three trading days prior to the grant. The Conditional award for Simon Pryce 
was reduced by £29,999 allowing the same value to be awarded as an approved share option under the executive share option plan and as an LTIP Linked award.  Under normal circumstances, the linked award 
will only vest to the extent needed to provide sufficient funds to meet the exercise price of the approved share option.  The face value for both the linked award and the approved option are disclosed above – the 
combined face value of these two awards is £29,999.
2  The DSP conditional award is calculated by reference to a percentage of salary.  The pool from which the DSP awards are made is explained above on page 64. The amount of the DSP is in respect of performance 
in 2016 and is included in the single figure Table. The DSP conditional awards were made on 11 March 2016. The grant price was £1.9283 which was the average middle market closing price on the three trading days 
prior to the grant. 66
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Long- Term Incentive Plan
In 2016, Simon Pryce was awarded an LTIP of 190% of his salary and Mike Powell received an LTIP award of 140% of his salary.
Extended Long- Term Incentive Plan
No awards were made under this plan in 2016.  
SAYE 
The Company issued an invitation under the Savings Related Share Option Plan in 2016. Mike Powell accepted the invitation and was granted 18,750 options at a price of  
£1.60 and in accordance with the Scheme Rules these options will become exercisable from 1 August 2021.  
Performance conditions for LTIP awards made in 2016 
A ROIC performance condition is applied to half of the LTIP award and the EPS performance condition is applied independently to the other half of those awards. There are  
no performance conditions attached to the DSP or SAYE scheme.
The performance conditions for the LTIP awards are set out on page 71.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer and a comparator group 
The table below shows the movement in total remuneration for the CEO between the current and previous financial years compared with that of the total remuneration  
costs of relevant comparator employees as a whole. Relevant employees are employees of BBA Aviation plc and its subsidiaries who are in banded grades 1–4 (about 100  
of the Group’s senior leaders) as the Board believes this is a suitable comparator group. The CEO’s reward is made up of a larger proportion of variable pay than employees 
within this comparator group. 
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO and a relative comparator group of employees (£’000) 
Year ended  
31 December 2016
Year ended  
31 December 2015 Percentage Change
CEO base salary 661.0 604.0 9.4%
Relevant average comparator employees’ base salary 137.2 127.2 7.9%
CEO taxable benefits 21.0 20.0 5.0%
Relevant average comparator employees’ taxable benefits 8.7 7.7 13.0%
CEO annual bonus 291.0 199.0 46.2%
Relevant average comparator employees’ annual bonus 5.6 37.8 20.8%
 
Outside appointments
As explained on page 48, both Simon Pryce and Mike Powell accepted, with the consent of the Board, non-executive director appointments in 2016. Simon Pryce receives an 
annual fee of £50,000 for his role at Electrocomponents plc and Mike Powell receives an annual fee of £40,000 for his role at Low & Bonar plc. 
Implementation of policy in 2017
The proposed implementation of the existing policy for each element of remuneration in 2017 is described below.
Base salary for executive directors
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the base salaries of the executive directors in December 2016 and it was agreed that the base salary for Simon Pryce from 1 January 
2017 would increase by 3% to £680,572.50.  Mike Powell’s base salary from 1 January 2017 would increase by 3% to £432,600.  The standard pay rise from 1 January 2017 for 
employees of good standing across the Group ranged from 2.5% to 5% and the average was 3%.  
NED Fees
The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed in December 2016 and it was agreed to increase the standard fee and the Committee Chairmanship fees for the Audit 
and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee by 3%.  It was noted the Senior Independent Director fee was out of line with the market rate and it was agreed to 
increase the Senior Independent Director fee to £10,400. The fees for the Chairman are due to be reviewed in December 2017. 67
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Pension and benefits 
The Committee does not expect to change the pension or benefit arrangements for the executive directors in 2017.
Annual cash bonus
For 2017, the Committee has determined that the annual bonus opportunity for executive directors is 62.5% of salary and will again be contingent on meeting both financial 
targets and personal objectives. The Committee has reviewed targets for the year to ensure they remain appropriately stretching and relevant to the Company’s business 
strategy. In 2017, financial performance objectives will again represent 84% of the bonus opportunity and personal objectives will represent 16% of the bonus opportunity. 
The financial targets will, as in 2016 be based on operating profit and free cash flow at the half and full year with the same weights as in 2016.
The Board has decided that Bonus targets for 2017 are commercially sensitive as they could provide the market and competitors with confidential information on the Group’s 
strategy and expectations. The Board will disclose the targets once they are no longer commercially sensitive and anticipates they will be disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report 
as has been done in the last two years. This practice will be kept under review.
Deferred Stock Plan
Simon Pryce is eligible to receive an award under the plan equal to a maximum of 72.5% of salary in 2017 following an assessment of Group operating profit performance at the 
end of the 2016 financial year and performance against the strategic Group objectives. This is disclosed in the 2016 single figures total as the  
performance conditions were satisfied by 31 December 2016. 
LTIP
The LTIP award, due to be granted in March 2017 for Simon Pryce will be 190% of salary. The award will be announced to the market when it is made with additional detailed 
disclosure to shareholders in the 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Report. There will be three performance criteria – average ROIC; EPS growth and total shareholder return.  
As in previous years these targets are set using GAAP applying at the time. The performance conditions are shown on page 71. Mike Powell will not receive an LTIP award in 
respect of 2017.
Service contracts
The executive directors have rolling contracts of employment with no fixed term which entitle them to 12 months’ notice from the Company in the event of termination 
 other than for cause. Executive directors’ contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, or an 
enforced period of paid garden leave at the Company’s discretion. The Group Chief Executive is required to give the Company 12 months’ notice and the Group Finance 
Director, six months.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment. The Chairman’s appointment letter entitles him to six months’ notice from the Company  
and he is required to give the Company six months’ notice. The Company may terminate the Chairman’s contract immediately and pay him an amount in lieu of his fees for  
six months less statutory deductions.
Letters of appointment and service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office. 
There are no contractual commitments over and above those disclosed above.
Unexpired terms on service contracts and letters of appointment
Date of appointment/reappointment Unexpired term as at 28 February 2017
Simon Pryce 11 June 2007 n/a
Mike Powell 1 July 2014 n/a
Sir Nigel Rudd 1 December 2016 32 months
Susan Kilsby 10 April 2015 13 months
Wayne Edmunds 7 August 2016 28 months
Peter Ratcliffe 9 January 2015 10 months
Peter Edwards 1 January 2016 22 months
Peter Ventress 1 January 2016 22 months 68
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee and its work
The Board is responsible for remuneration policy and has delegated prime responsibility for the implementation of that policy to the Remuneration Committee. The 
Remuneration Committee is a Board Committee consisting of independent non-executive directors and the Chairman and its meetings are minuted by the Group Secretary 
or his designate. No individual is directly involved in the determination of, or votes on, any matter relating to their own remuneration.
The members of the Committee throughout the year and at the date of this report were Susan Kilsby (Chairman), Wayne Edmunds, Peter Edwards, Peter Ratcliffe, Sir Nigel 
Rudd and Peter Ventress.  Nick Land was a member of the Committee from the start of the year until his retirement at the AGM on 6 May 2016.
The Committee held five scheduled meetings and two additional meetings in 2016.  There was 100% attendance at all meetings during 2016.  
The meetings were minuted by the Company Secretary. Executive directors and the Group HR Director attend Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for, among other things:
• determining remuneration strategy;
• determining the executive directors’ remuneration;
• determining the Chairman’s remuneration;
• selecting performance measures and setting targets for the short-term and long-term incentive plans and performance-related share plans; 
• reviewing proposals in respect of other senior executives; and
• overseeing any major changes in employee incentive structures throughout the Group.
The main issues considered by the Remuneration Committee during 2016 are set out below:
Meeting Main issues considered
February Vesting levels for the long-term awards granted in 2013 
Payments of bonuses in respect of 2015 
Consideration of the DSP Pool approval 
Targets for short and long-term awards granted in 2016 
Remuneration Report on 2015 
Share Scheme Targets (DSP and LTIP) 
Proposed consultation with shareholders in respect of the Landmark acquisition
May Shareholder views  ahead of the AGM 
Feedback from shareholders in respect of the consultation in respect of the Landmark acquisition 
June Feedback and review of the proposals following feedback from the consultation in respect of the Landmark acquisition 
Review of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy
July Feedback from shareholder meetings 
Progress against targets for annual and long-term awards
September Update on shareholder and governance / market view of Directors’ Remuneration 
Consideration of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
Impact of ASIG disposal on long term incentive targets
November Remuneration Policy 
Consideration of shareholder consultation on a new Policy
December Draft Remuneration Report on 2016 
Salary review and proposals 
Initial consideration of bonuses and long-term awards for year ending 31 December 2016
In the course of these meetings, the Remuneration Committee also consulted the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group 
HR Director and the Company Secretary in connection with the Committee’s work within their particular areas of knowledge and expertise. It is expected that the Committee 
will wish to continue to consult with these people in 2017 and that they will continue to be invited to attend Committee meetings when appropriate. 
The Remuneration Committee receives updates on remuneration trends and market practices as part of its regularly scheduled business and in 2016 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) provided input and advice on these areas. 69
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Committee’s advisors throughout 2016 were PwC who have provided advice on market levels of remuneration, transaction related remuneration issues, performance 
conditions for the LTIP and consulting on the preparation of the remuneration report. The total fees paid by the Company to PwC were £149,000. 
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and are committed to that group’s voluntary code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK.  
This includes processes for ensuring integrity and objectivity of advice to the Remuneration Committee and ensuring that any potential conflicts are effectively managed. 
The Remuneration Committee also confirmed it was satisfied that it had received independent advice from PwC.
AGM voting in 2016 
The votes cast in respect of this resolution was:
Proxy  
votes for
%  
for Proxy votes against
%  
against
Votes  
cast Proxy votes withheld
Approval of the 2015 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
846,632,705 98.5 12,853,549 1.5 859,486,254 71,534,112
Note 
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and accordingly these are not included in the percentages shown above.
 
Interests in shares, options and conditional awards 
The table below shows the outstanding share scheme interests (including those granted during the year) at 31 December 2016 and the changes during the year.
Share scheme interests
 
Director Description
Performance  
measures
1 January
2016
Awarded (vested)  
during the year
(Lapsed) during  
the year
31 December
2016
Simon Pryce 2013 Conditional LTIP Yes 405,866 – (405,886) –
2013 Linked Award LTIP Yes 14,622 – (14,662) –
2013 Conditional DBP No 79,877 (79,877) – –
2013 Conditional Match DBP Yes 79,877 – (79,877) –
2014 Conditional LTIP Yes 474,151 – – 474,151
2014 Conditional DBP No 96,871 – – 96,871
2015 Conditional LTIP Yes 481,697 – – 481,697
2015 Conditional DBP No 95,639 – – 95,639
2015 Conditional ELTIP Yes 273,420 – – 273,420
2016 Conditional LTIP Yes – 635,484 – 635,484
2016 Linked Award LTIP Yes – 15,557 – 15,557
2016 Conditional DSP No – 248,423 – 248,423
Mike Powell 2014 Conditional LTIP Yes 212,661 – – 212,661
2014 Linked Award LTIP Yes 12,885 – – 12,885
2015 Conditional LTIP Yes 225,826 – – 225,826
2015 Conditional DBP No 65,577 – – 65,577
2015 Conditional ELTIP Yes 173,967 – – 173,967
2016 Conditional LTIP Yes – 305,000 – 305,000
2016 Conditional DSP No – 157,908 – 157,908 70
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Share options
Description
Performance 
measures
1 January 
2016
Awarded/
Vested/ 
(Lapsed) 
during  
the year
31 December 
2016
Exercise price 
in pence  
per share
Exerciseable 
from
Expiry  
date
Simon Pryce 2006 Executive Share Option Plan Yes 14,622 (14,622) – 205.1 2016 2016
2015 Executive Share Option Plan Yes – 15,557 15,557 192.83 2019 2019
2014 SAYE No 16,903 n/a 16,903 ~177.5 1/8/2019 31/1/2020
Mike Powell 2006 Executive Share Option Plan Yes 12,885 n/a 12,885 232.8 2017 2017
2014 SAYE No – 18,750 18,750 160.0 1/8/2021 31/1/2022
Directors’ shareholdings and interests 
In accordance with the Company’s internal shareholding guidelines, the executive directors are expected to hold the equivalent of 200% of their annual salary in shares 
although there are no formal shareholding requirements in the articles of association of the Company. Simon Pryce exceeded the expectation throughout the financial year 
and as at 31 December 2016 owned shares to the value of just under 900% of his salary. The calculation includes shares held by Simon Pryce and his connected persons and, 
in accordance with the internal guidelines, conditional shares in the DBP and DSP .  New directors are expected to build up their holding to meet this expectation over time  
and as at 31 December 2016 although Mike Powell did not hold any shares in BBA Aviation plc, his interest in shares under the DBP and DSP was just over 150% of his salary.  
Directors’ shareholding and share interests (includes connected persons)
Director
Ordinary shares held at 31 December 2016  
(or date of leaving if earlier)
Ordinary shares held  
at 1 January 2016  
(or date of joining if later)
Simon Pryce 1,650,308 1,606,432
Mike Powell – –
Wayne Edmunds – –
Peter Edwards – –
Susan Kilsby 20,000 –
Nick Land (left on 6 May 2016) 121,000 121,000
Peter Ratcliffe 33,000 33,000
Sir Nigel Rudd 230,760 208,200
Peter Ventress 25,763 –
2015 LTIP – Adjusted following consultation (during 2016) with shareholders 
Percentage of
shares vesting
EPS growth per annum  
(50% of each award)
Average annual ROIC  
(50% of each award)
Nil Less than 6% Below 9.0%
25% At 6% At 9.0%
25% to 100% straight line pro-rata Between 6% and 12% Between 9.0% and 10.5%
100% At or above 12% At or above 10.5% 71
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
2015 ELTIP
Percentage of  
shares vesting EPS growth per annum ROIC
Nil Less than 12%
25% to 100% straight line pro-rata Between 12% and 15% 9% Hurdle
100% At or above 15%
2016 LTIP 
Percentage of
shares vesting
EPS growth per annum  
(50% of each award)
Average annual ROIC  
(50% of each award)
Nil Less than 6% Below 9.0%
25% At 6% At 9.0%
25% to 100% straight line pro-rata Between 6% and 12% Between 9.0% and 11%
100% At or above 12% At or above 11%
2017 LTIP
Percentage of
shares vesting
EPS growth per annum  
(1/3 of each award)
Average annual ROIC  
(1/3 of each award) TSR to FTSE 250 ( 1/3 of each award)
Nil Less than 6% Less than 9.5% Less than 50th percentile
25% At 6% At 9.5% 50th percentile
25% to 100% straight line pro-rata Between 6% and 12% Between 9.5% and 11.5% Between 50th – 75th percentile
100% At or above 12% At or above 11.5% At or above 75th percentile
Deloitte LLP has audited the following items in the Directors’ Remuneration Report as stipulated in the regulations;
• the directors’ single total figure table and associated footnotes on page 61;
• the table of scheme interests awarded in 2016 on page 65;
• the tables of share scheme interests on pages 69 and 70; and
• the table of directors’ shareholdings and share interests on page 70.
 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 28 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Susan Kilsby 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee   72
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
In line with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2013, the full Directors’ Remuneration Policy has not been presented 
in this report given that the Policy was approved at the 2015 AGM and it is not intended to move a similar resolution again at the 2017 AGM. However, to provide shareholders 
with an overview of our policy we have presented the following sections: 
• Introduction
• Policy Table for executive directors
• Malus and Clawback
• Levels of remuneration under the policy assuming different performance outcomes for 2017
• Recruitment and appointment policy
• Policy on payment for loss of office
• Change of control
For the purpose of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, scenario charts on page 76 have been updated using levels of remuneration under the Policy for 2017. 
The full Directors’ Remuneration Policy, including the policy table for the Chairman and the non-executive directors together with the legacy plans, is available to view in full in 
the 2014 Annual Report on the Company’s website at www.bbaaviation.com. 
Unexpired service contract information is shown above on page 67.
Introduction
This section of the report describes BBA Aviation’s remuneration policy for directors.
The following key principles govern the design of the Group’s remuneration and reward structures:
• relevance to BBA Aviation, the cyclicality of our businesses and the international markets in which we compete and operate;
• pay for performance, notably the effective execution of the Group strategy and delivery of exceptional, long-term sustainable value for all our shareholders and 
stakeholders;
• top quartile for exceptional performance and mid-market for mid-level performance;
• reward actions that support our Vision, Mission and Values;
• remuneration should be commensurate with role and responsibilities and sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre individuals with relevant experience;
• reward should be appropriate and easily understood, both internally and externally;
• for executive directors a significant element of remuneration should be aligned to long-term business performance; and
• the reward structure is compatible with our risk policies and systems and must not create environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating 
irresponsible behaviour.
The remuneration policy took effect following shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM. All contractual commitments or awards made which are consistent with the 
remuneration policy in force at the time that the commitment or award was made will be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing 
when the commitment is fulfilled or awards vest. Any contractual commitments entered into or awards made before the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 came into force or before a person became a director will also be honoured. The tables below set out a clear and 
comprehensive summary of BBA Aviation’s remuneration policy for directors and how it operates.
Part 3: Summary of  
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 73
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Policy table for Executive Directors   
 
Base salary
Strategic purpose
Designed to attract individuals with the skills and capabilities to oversee the execution of the Group’s strategy.
Set to reflect the role, the international nature of operations and the contribution, skills and experience of the individual.
Operation
Reviewed annually taking into account market conditions, business performance, personal contribution and the level of pay awards and 
conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Market comparisons are carried out every three years and are made against organisations of comparable size, complexity, geographical 
spread, business focus and opportunity.
Maximum opportunity
The annual percentage salary increase will not normally exceed increases for employees across the Group as a whole with comparable 
levels of performance, except in certain exceptional circumstances such as:
• increase in scope, complexity or responsibilities of the role;
• salary progression for a newly appointed director; and
• market adjustment.
Link to performance
Salary increases are linked to individual contribution and business performance which is assessed annually by the Remuneration 
Committee.
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
No
Pension
Strategic purpose
Provides the opportunity for longer-term savings to prepare for retirement, tax efficiently where possible, to ensure arrangements are 
locally competitive.
Operation
Participation in a defined contribution pension plan or a cash allowance in lieu of this or a combination of the two.
Maximum opportunity
Up to 25% of base salary per annum as a cash payment or employer contribution into the pension scheme.
Link to performance
n/a
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
No
Other benefits
Strategic purpose
Provided to ensure arrangements are locally competitive, are consistent with arrangements provided to other senior employees and 
enhance efficiency and personal welfare.
Operation
Benefits include but are not limited to a company car or allowance, private medical insurance, health and welfare benefits, life 
insurance, death in service benefit, annual holiday, sick pay and an annual health check. Relocation benefits may be provided in certain 
circumstances.
Maximum opportunity
Benefits are set by the Remuneration Committee to be locally competitive, and consistent with arrangements provided to other senior 
employees. 
Link to performance
n/a
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
No 74
Annual Cash Bonus
Strategic purpose
Focuses on targets set over a 12-month period that are aligned to the delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives and include:
incentive for the achievement of Group financial objectives; and incentive for achievement of individual personal objectives.
Operation
Bonus is normally paid in March following the finalisation of the Company’s year-end accounts and is based on personal and Company 
performance in the previous financial year.
Bonus is delivered in cash. 
Maximum opportunity
The maximum annual cash bonus is 62.5% of salary.
Link to performance
The level of bonus paid each year is determined by the Remuneration Committee after the year end based on performance against 
target.
Financial targets will normally account for not less than 70% of the potential maximum award, with personal objectives accounting for the 
remainder.
The Committee reviews the measures, the targets and the relevant weightings on an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriately 
aligned with the business strategy.
Examples of financial performance measures include operating profit and Group free cash flow. 
Examples of personal objectives include achievement of specific strategic goals or KPIs.
Details of performance targets will be disclosed in the Annual Report covering the year that follows the end of the performance period 
subject to the Board being satisfied that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
Yes – subject to the Group’s malus and clawback policy.
Deferred Stock Plan
Strategic purpose
To strengthen the focus on delivering the Group’s medium to long-term strategic goals and enhance the alignment between the 
interests of executives and shareholders. The plan provides the individuals with an economic effect equivalent to annual bonus deferral.
Operation
An award is made up of conditional shares that will be delivered based on the Company’s operating profit, performance against strategic 
objectives and subject to continuing employment.
Under the rules of the plan the Remuneration Committee may make an award in respect of dividends that would have been received on 
the shares once the risk of forfeiture has lifted.
The Committee will operate the plan in accordance with the rules and in accordance with the principles of this remuneration policy.
Awards will be made annually and will vest over a three-year period. The first awards are likely to be made in 2016.
Maximum opportunity
The maximum opportunity under this plan is 72.5% of salary.
Link to performance
Deferred stock will be allocated from a pool. The pool will be calculated at the beginning of each year and the size of the pool will be the 
equivalent in value to 3.5% of the average Group operating profit over the prior three years. The value of the pool will be converted into a 
number of shares based on the prevailing share price. The proportion of the deferred stock pool available for allocation each year will be 
determined by the achievement of strategic Group objectives during the year. These objectives will be set annually by the Remuneration 
Committee and aligned to medium and long-term goals that support the Group’s objectives and focus on shareholder value creation. 
The allocation of deferred stock to each individual will be based on potential and performance.
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
Yes – subject to the Group’s malus and clawback policy.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report 75
Long-term incentive plan
Strategic purpose
Focuses executives on achievement of longer-term strategic objectives and ensures long-term alignment with shareholders’ interests.
Operation
Awards of shares are made on an annual basis and vest over a three-year period.
Awards will vest at 25% for the achievement of threshold performance rising on a straight line basis to 100% of the award vesting at 
maximum performance.
There is no vesting below threshold. The Remuneration Committee will review the minimum vesting level and the weightings of 
performance metrics and the performance metrics themselves annually and retains the right to amend these weightings, metrics and 
measures as it thinks appropriate to effectively incentivise directors.
In the UK, the Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) is used to grant options that are linked to the LTIP to allow directors to take advantage 
of HMRC-approved share options at no marginal cost to the Company.
Maximum opportunity
Maximum annual award is 190% of salary.
Link to performance
Financial performance is measured over three years and the performance measures are selected in accordance with the Group’s key 
long-term strategic performance indicators.
Performance standards (threshold and maximum) will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in advance of each performance 
cycle. 
Details of performance measures and targets are disclosed in the Annual Report.
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
Yes – subject to the Group’s malus and clawback policy.
Long-term incentive plan – extended awards
Strategic purpose
Seeks to more closely align senior executives with the interests of shareholders and focus participants on creating shareholder value in 
line with the Group’s growth aspirations by providing superior reward opportunity for delivering exceptional and stretch earnings growth 
above the base LTIP performance targets.
Operation
The plan is long-term in nature with performance measured over a three-year period and awards vesting in years four and five normally 
being released at the end of the fifth year.
There is no vesting below threshold performance.
Threshold will be set at an appropriately challenging level of performance with at least two performance criteria.
Maximum opportunity
Maximum award is 110% of base salary in any three-year period.
Link to performance
Financial performance is measured over three years and the performance measures are selected in accordance with the Group’s key 
long-term strategic performance indicators.
Performance standards (threshold and maximum) are reviewed in advance of each performance cycle. 
Provisions for recovery of sums paid or 
withholding of sums
Yes – subject to the Group’s malus and clawback policy.
All employee equity participation plans
Strategic purpose
To encourage employees to buy shares in the Company, tax efficiently where possible.
Operation
Executive directors may participate in locally approved plans on the same basis as all eligible employees.
Maximum opportunity
Subject to the relevant local tax limits.
Link to performance
n/a
Notes
1  The performance measures selected for the purposes of the annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive plans are either KPIs for the Group or are selected in order to encourage and reward directly or 
indirectly sustainable and long-term shareholder value creation. Performance targets are set taking into account prior year performance, annual budgets, strategic imperatives and external factors. “Threshold” 
performance is set taking into account the highly cyclical nature of our business and the variability of results from year to year and our dependence on flying hours. The “maximum” standard of performance is 
intended to be exacting and to represent a level of performance that places the Group among the best performers.
2  The elements of remuneration for executive directors are similar to those that apply to the management-banded population in the Group. Any differences that exist arise either because of market practice and/
or the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of business need and commercial necessity.
3  The Company also reimburses business expenses in accordance with the corporate business expenses policy which the Remuneration Committee has discretion to revise from time to time. 
4  In addition to other benefits, the Remuneration Committee, where necessary, will provide support in accordance with BBA Aviation’s standard approach to relocation where a director is required to relocate  
to fulfil their responsibilities. The primary purpose of the policy is to facilitate recruitment and relocation of key employees by protecting the individual and their family from costs arising directly from a move  
of residence required for business reasons. The elements of the policy include, but are not limited to, travel reimbursement of the cost of movement of household goods, housing, schooling and other 
reasonable costs.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report 76
Policy tables for Chairman and non-executive directors 
See 2014 Annual Report and Accounts on the Company website www.bbaaviation.com 
Malus and clawback policy 
The table below sets out the scope and circumstances under whic h withholding (malus) and recovery of pay (clawback) will be applied to variable pay of the executive 
directors. The same provisions also apply to the senior staff in Bands 1–4 (circa 100 employees).
Clawback triggers Malus triggers
• fraud where proven personally culpable; or
• gross misconduct.
• Time limit: Two years from vesting.
• as clawback; or 
• material misstatement in, or adverse impact on, published accounts or financial 
accounts of the relevant entity; or
• error in information or assessment of performance target or measures.
• Time limit: Until the award vests.
If a trigger event does occur, the Remuneration Committee will apply the malus and/or clawback policy fairly, taking account of all relevant circumstances, including the degree 
of personal culpability.
Levels of remuneration under the policy assuming different performance outcomes for 2017 
This information has been updated to show 2017 figures rather than the 2015 figures that were used when the policy was approved by shareholders.
For maximum performance the chart shows that, for the Chief Executive, 73% of reward is performance related and 59% is linked to longer-term performance.
For “mid-point” performance the chart shows that, for the Chief Executive, 57% of reward is performance related and 46% is linked to longer-term performance.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
 Fixed pay
 Annual bonus
 Long-term incentives 
£837,687
£1,943,617
£3,049,548
100%
43%
27% 14% 59%
11% 46%
Simon Pryce
Maximum
Minimum
Mid-point
£3,000,000  | £3,500,000  | £2,500,000  | £2,000,000  | £1,500,000  | £1,000,000  | £500,000  | £0  |
For the purposes of this analysis the following assumptions have been made:
• Fixed elements comprise base salary and other benefits.
• Base Salary and benefits and pension reflect the increases approved in December 2016 to apply in 2017.
• For mid-point performance, an assumption of 50% of annual bonus and DSP is applied and 50% vesting for the LTIP has also been used.  
• No share price increase. 
• Housing and relocation are excluded. 77
 Recruitment and appointment policy
This recruitment and appointment policy will apply if any of the following are appointed to the Board:
• an external candidate;
• an internal candidate;
• a non-executive director being appointed as Chairman or to an executive role; or
• an executive director being promoted.
All of the components in the existing policy would be considered in developing an appropriate remuneration package in accordance with the principles set out on page 72  
and taking into account the following additional considerations:
• a full range of factors including, but not limited to, the calibre of candidate, the level of existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the candidate is recruited from and into, and 
the individual’s skills and experience;
• internal relativities and appropriate market comparisons;
• any awards or payments made in consideration for remuneration that may be foregone by an external candidate will generally be share-based and subject to forfeiture if 
the executive leaves within a set period after the appointment; and
• the value assigned to any remuneration that may be foregone will take into account factors such as the vesting period and the probability of shares vesting and will be 
based on objective valuation methodologies.
As far as possible, the remuneration of new directors will be set in accordance with the existing directors’ remuneration policy; however, the Committee retains discretion to:
• use the current Listing Rule 9.4.2R, or any other existing share scheme operating at the relevant time if required, in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the 
recruitment of a director but any arrangements of this kind will not in aggregate exceed 400% of salary (or any lower limit in the relevant schemes); and
• agree contract terms to reflect local market norms but will generally seek to apply the current policy in respect of contracts of employment and Corporate Governance 
guidelines.
Policy on payment for loss of office
In the event of termination of an executive director’s contract, the Company will comply with any applicable legislative or regulatory framework and will honour contractual 
commitments that have been made. The Company will seek to avoid making any payment for failure.
The Company takes into account the circumstances of termination and seeks to strike an appropriate balance, considering all relevant matters, that it believes are in the best 
interests of shareholders. 
In certain circumstances the executive directors may receive compensation on early termination of a contract which could amount to up to one year’s base salary, benefits  
in kind and pension rights.
The contracts allow for phased payments to be made on termination and include an obligation on the former director to mitigate loss. This mechanism of phased payments 
allows for the amount of any phased payments to be reduced in circumstances where the former director secures a position during the period of phased payments.
A director who leaves as a result of poor personal performance will normally be treated differently than a director who leaves by reason of redundancy, retirement or ill health. 
The Company will not make any payments for loss of office in the event of gross misconduct.
The Remuneration Committee will operate the share schemes in accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with the principles of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to reach agreement with departing directors and approve additional payments in connection with the termination of a 
director’s office or employment where such payment is in the interests of shareholders (including the settlement or compromise of any claim or threatened claim).
There is no contractual obligation to pay a bonus which has not been superseded by the bonus rules and there is no entitlement to any bonus payments if an employee is 
under notice given or received at the end of the applicable financial year, although it is within the discretion of the Committee to award a bonus, subject to the limits set out in 
the policy.
On termination, a non-executive director would normally receive their fee for the month of termination. The Chairman is entitled to six months’ notice and benefits for that 
period if served notice by the Company.
The Company may purchase a small token leaving gift for departing directors.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report 78
The table below sets out how each component of the payment may be calculated.
Element o f payment Basis of calculation
Annual base salary Calculated on a contractual basis.
Pension and other benefits Calculated on a contractual basis and where the pay in lieu of notice clause is invoked, an amount up to one year’s accrued benefits.
The Committee also makes modest payments relating to outplacements.
Annual incentive No bonus is paid in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
Ordinarily, individuals are entitled to a bonus only when reasons for leaving include, but not limited to, retirement, death, ill health, 
redundancy, or sale of an employing entity. However the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to pay a bonus 
depending on the exact circumstances of the termination.
The bonus is not included in the calculation of any payment in lieu of notice.
The bonus is calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Long-term incentives On a contractual basis and in accordance with the scheme rules.
Unvested shares lapse under the LTIP and the ELTIP on termination unless it is for a permitted reason (ill health, redundancy, etc.)  
or the Remuneration Committee makes use of the discretion under the rules of the plan to allow the shares to vest. Any vesting is 
subject to the substitution of performance targets and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, through  
pro-rating to reflect the date of termination, relative to the performance periods of the outstanding shares.
Deferred shares under the annual bonus plan and awards under the Deferred Stock Plan may or may not be forfeitable depending 
 on the timing of the termination in the deferral periods. Unvested shares may be awarded on termination for a permitted reason 
(e.g. ill health, redundancy, etc.) or at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and will usually be subject to appropriate  
pro-rating. Any matching award under the deferred bonus plan will vest subject to performance conditions and, unless the Committee  
determines otherwise, be pro-rated for the period served as a director during the performance period at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
The contracts of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director preclude any right to other compensation for any loss of 
any share-based pay beyond the rules of the schemes.
Compensation for forfeited 
remuneration 
Upon termination, any “buy-out” awards would normally lapse. However, the Remuneration Committee does retain the discretion to 
decide otherwise, provided the termination is not as a result of poor performance.
Other benefits,  
e.g. relocation allowances, 
international mobility benefits 
and expenses
Will depend on what has been agreed on appointment, but the Remuneration Committee would not expect any or all of these elements 
of pay to form part of any termination arrangement but has discretion to make payments in respect of them.
All employee equity  
participation plans
Directors will be treated in the same manner as any other member of staff in respect of those plans.
Change of control
In the event of a change of control, the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent to which any unvested shares under all plans will vest, taking into account  
all relevant factors including the performance criteria and the time elapsed since the date of grant. Directors will be entitled to receive their conditional shares from the 
deferred bonus or Deferred Stock Plan where the risk of forfeiture has lifted.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report 79
Going Concern  
and Viability  
Statement 
Going Concern  
The Group’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future  
development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report and  
Directors’ Report on pages 01-82. The financial position of the Group, its cash  
flows and liquidity position are described on pages 34-36. In addition, note 17  
to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies  
and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives;  
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to  
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group’s committed bank facilities comprise a $650 million multicurrency revolving 
credit facility dated 10 April 2014 due to expire in April 2019 and an Acquisition 
Financing Agreement (AFA) put in place during 2015 to fund the acquisition of 
Landmark Aviation in conjunction with the rights issue. The AFA comprised three 
term debt facilities, (i) Facility A for $150 million which was repaid in full on 30 June 
2016 following the disposal of the six FBOs in accordance with the requirements of 
the U.S. Department of Justice, (ii) Facility B for $400 million due to expire in February 
2019 of which $37 million was prepaid from the disposal proceeds for the six FBOs 
received on 30 June 2016 and (iii) Facility C for $450 million due to expire in September 
2020. The AFA facilities were fully drawn on 5 February 2016 upon the completion of 
the Landmark Aviation acquisition with Facility B and Facility C outstanding as at 31 
December 2016. 
In addition, BBA Aviation plc has US private placement (“USPP”) obligations of  
$500 million senior notes with various maturity dates between 2018 and 2026. In total 
the Group has debt obligations and facilities of $1,963 million and as at 31 December 
2016 the Group has available $420 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. 
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to cross default. Further details relating 
to these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The bank facilities and the USPP notes are subject to two main financial 
covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum net 
interest cover of 3.0 times underlying EBITDA. Following an acquisition, the Group can 
invoke an acquisition spike across its debt facilities whereby the net debt to EBITDA 
covenant will increase to 4.0 times for the next two testing periods before reverting 
back to the 3.5 times level. The directors invoked the acquisition spike following the 
completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition. This resulted in the net debt to 
EBITDA covenant increasing to 4.0 times for the 30 June 2016 and 31 December 2016 
testing periods. This will now revert to 3.5 times net debt to EBITDA for the 30 June 
2017 testing period. This acquisition spike can only be utilised once during the life of 
the bank facilities and twice during the life of the USPP notes. The directors expect the 
Group to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future. 
The Group’s forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably possible changes 
in trading performance show that the Group should be able to operate within the level 
of its current facilities in the foreseeable future. The principal risks and uncertainties 
affecting the forecasts and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the 
number of hours of flying activity, principally in Business & General Aviation, but also 
to a lesser extent in commercial and military aviation. Flying hours largely dictate the 
drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, engine overhaul cycles in ERO 
and demand for components in Ontic. Further details of these risks and uncertainties 
are provided on pages 22-25.
The directors have carried out a critical review of the Group’s 2017 budget and 
medium-term plans with due regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the 
Group is exposed and the impact that these could have on trading performance.  
The key assumptions used in constructing the budget were as follows: 
• In Flight Support we anticipate continued strong momentum in Signature Flight  
Support, supported by a more sustained recovery in B&GA flying hours. 
•  In Aftermarket Services, Ontic’s outlook remains solid with a strong order 
backlog. Engine Repair & Overhaul has now addressed the operational 
inefficiencies related to the footprint rationalisation programme but with a 
competitive market and pricing environment further opportunities to simplify the 
business will be taken to improve efficiency.
•  In addition, our overall performance will be supported by further incremental 
contributions from the substantial investments made across the Group in recent 
years. Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of our market-leading 
businesses, the continuing improvement in their operational performance and 
the structural growth and consolidation in our major markets support the Board’s 
confidence in our ability to generate superior through-cycle returns.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
annual financial statements.
Viability Statement 
In accordance with provision c.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
directors have assessed the financial and operational position and prospects of the 
BBA Aviation Group. The directors’ assessment considered the three-year period to 
December 2019. This assessment was based on the three year-financial forecast for 
the BBA Aviation Group. The BBA Aviation Group three-year financial forecast was 
prepared on a business by business basis alongside the BBA Aviation Group annual 
budget process.
The Directors consider the three-year period to December 2019 to be the appropriate 
viability assessment period as it encompasses the period over which the BBA Aviation 
Group will achieve for run rate synergies following the transformational acquisition 
of Landmark Aviation and the completion of the disposal of ASIG and the associated 
T ransitional Services Agreement (TSA) period. During the viability assessment 
period BBA Aviation expects to deliver significant synergies take out (post TSA) the 
infrastructure and associated costs that currently serve ASIG and deleverage towards 
pre-Landmark Aviation acquisition levels. 
In making their assessments the directors have considered the potential financial 
and operational impacts of severe yet plausible scenarios that could impact the three 
year financial forecasts for BBA Aviation. The plausible scenarios considered are 
broadly aligned to the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 22-25. In their 
assessment of the impact of plausible scenarios on BBA Aviation, the directors have 
also considered the likely effectiveness of available mitigating actions. 
Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the BBA Aviation Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 
their liabilities as they fall due for the three-year period to December 2019. 
Directors’ Report
Going Concern and Viability Statement 80
Additional  
Disclosures 
Group results and dividends 
The results for the year ended 31 December 2016 are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 90. 
The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary share dividend for 2016  
of 9.12¢ net per share on 19 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close  
of business on 7 April 2017, which together with the interim dividend paid on  
4 November 2016 makes a total of 12.75¢ net per ordinary share for the year  
(2015: 13.53¢). Shareholders will receive their dividends in sterling unless they  
have previously elected to receive their dividends in US dollars. Shareholders who 
wish to receive dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to the 
Company’s registrars no later than 5.30 pm on 26 April 2017. A new election is not 
required if shareholders have previously made a valid election to receive dividends  
in US dollars. Further information concerning the dividend currency election  
can be found on the Company’s website at www.bbaaviation.com. 
Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described in notes 24 and 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Events after the balance sheet date
The disposal of the ASIG business was completed on 31 January 2017 and is 
described in more detail in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
There are no other disclosable events after the balance sheet date.
Board of Directors
The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear on pages  
44 and 45. Nick Land stepped down from the Board after the AGM on 6 May 2016.  
All other directors held office throughout the financial year under review.
Directors’ interests in shares
Directors’ interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its directors, 
under which the Company agrees to indemnify each director against liabilities 
incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their 
office or otherwise by virtue of their office. In addition, the Company has entered 
into indemnity deed polls in substantially similar terms in favour of members of the 
Executive Management Committee and other members of senior management. 
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors, they are qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 or 
section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, as applicable. At the date of this report, 
these indemnities are therefore in force for the benefit of all the current directors of 
the Company and other members of senior management. 
On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Aviation Finance, entered 
into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of 
the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its directors, under which each director is 
indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions 
arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such 
provisions remain in force as at the date of this report.
Employee information
The Company provides employees with various opportunities to obtain information 
on matters of concern to them and to improve their awareness of the financial and 
economic factors that affect the performance of the Company. These include 
“All Hands Briefings”, staff forums, and meetings with trade unions that take place 
throughout the year. 
All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all times and this includes 
not permitting discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment 
on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, 
military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status. This includes 
giving full and fair consideration to suitable applications for employment from 
disabled persons and making appropriate accommodations so that if existing 
employees become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever 
practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort to find 
suitable alternative employment and to provide relevant training.
Agreements
Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company discloses that in the 
event of a change of control in the Company: (i) The Company’s commitments under 
the $1,650 million Acquisition Financing Agreement dated 23 September 2015 and as 
amended and restated on 16 November 2015, its $650 million revolving credit facility 
dated 10 April 2014, its $300 million private note placement dated 18 May 2011 (as 
amended) and its $200 million private note placement dated 17 December 2014 
could become repayable; (ii) the Engine Lease Agreement dated 29 June 2009 (as 
amended) under which $83 million of aircraft engines have been leased to the Engine 
Repair & Overhaul (ERO) business could be terminated; (iii) the consent of Netjets 
would be required for the transfer of the benefits under its contract with Signature 
Flight Support; and (iv) the operating licence with London Luton Airport Operations 
may be terminable. 
Future developments 
The Strategic Report discusses future developments of the Group’s businesses.
Suppliers’ payment policy
The Company and Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of 
the terms of payment and abide by the terms of the payment.
Directors’ Report
Additional Disclosures 81
Directors’ Report
Additional Disclosures
Charitable and political donations
Group donations to charities worldwide were $1,057,712 (2015: $675,000).  
No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Auditor
As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors, at the 
date of the approval of this report, confirms that: 
a)  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and
b)  the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to 
make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance 
with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at 
the AGM.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed on page 29.
Financial Risk Management
Financial Risk Management is discussed on pages 22 to 25.
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board on 28 February 2017 and signed  
on its behalf by:
David Blizzard
Company Secretary
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital and changes to the share capital are shown 
in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. That note also contains 
a summary of the rights attaching to each class of shares and details of the 
number of ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts. Awards granted under 
the Company’s share plans are satisfied either by shares held in the employee 
benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares when awards vest. The Remuneration 
Committee monitors the number of awards made under the various share plans  
and their potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended by the 
Investment Association. There is a 5% limit in respect of discretionary plans and a 
10% limit in respect of all plans. Based on the Company’s issued share capital as at  
31 December 2016, the Company has used 2% towards the 5% limit and 2.6% 
towards the 10% limit.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its existing ordinary 
share capital at the 2016 AGM. That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM 
in 2017 unless renewed. Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares will expire at the 
conclusion of the 2017 AGM. Accordingly, an ordinary resolution to renew this 
authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. In addition, it will be proposed 
to give the directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a 
rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders. This is in line with guidance issued by 
the Investment Association. If the directors were to use such further authority in the 
year following the 2017 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would stand for 
re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Details of these resolutions are included within the Notice of AGM. 
Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held on 5 May 2017. Accompanying this report is the 
Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the 
meeting together with some explanatory notes. The resolutions cover such routine 
matters as the renewal of authority to allot shares (referred to earlier), to disapply 
pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been notified of the following material interests in the voting rights 
of the Company under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
As at  
31/12/16
As at  
28/2/17
William H. Gates III 14.19% 14.19%
Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 6.46% 6.42%
APG Asset Management NV 5.17% 5.17%
 12 West Capital Management LP 5.01% Below 3% 82
Directors’ 
Responsibilities 
Statement
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and 
of the profit or loss of the company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; 
and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting  
Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides 
relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement  
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial 
reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the board of directors on 28 February 
2017 and is signed on its behalf by:
Simon Pryce Mike Powell 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
28 February 2017 28 February 2017
Directors’ Report
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 83
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Opinion on financial statements of BBA Aviation plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and 
of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s profit 
for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise:
• the Consolidated Income Statement;
• the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets;
• the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement;
• the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity;
• the Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies;
• the related Group notes 1 to 27; and
• the related Parent company notes 1 to 13. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the 
parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Summary of our audit approach
Key risks
The key risks that we identified in the current year were:
• Acquisition accounting: new risk identified this year
• Carrying value of inventory
• Revenue recognition
• Presentation of earnings
• Goodwill impairment
Given the evolution of the related judgements during the year, we have removed taxation as a key risk in the current year.
Materiality
The materiality that we used in the current year was $10.0 million (2015: $8.5 million) which was determined on the basis of 
approximately 4% (2015: 5%) of underlying profit before tax.
Scoping
Our audit scope for 2016 was increased to 13 operating locations (2015: 11 locations) as a result of the acquisition of Landmark 
Aviation. Senior members of the Group audit team continued to visit key locations where our Group audit scope was focused. 
Independent 
Auditor’ s Report
T o the members of BBA Aviation plc 84
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the directors’ statement on the longer-
term viability of the group contained within the Directors’ Report on page 79.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on page 79 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 24-25 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement on page 79 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their  identification of any material 
uncertainties to the group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements;
• the director’s explanation on page 79 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, 
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw 
attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern 
basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events 
or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a 
guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue as a  
going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and 
confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the group and  
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have 
not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services  
referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and 
directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 53. In the current 
year we have removed the risk in relation to taxation given the evolution of the related judgements during the year. Additionally, we have included a risk around the 
accounting for the acquisition of Landmark Aviation given the significance of the transaction to the current year position and performance.  
Acquisition Accounting  
Risk description
As set out in note 24, on 5 February 2016, the Group completed the acquisition of Landmark Aviation for consideration of $2,079.4 
million, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition requires the use of significant management judgement regarding the fair valuation of the assets and liabilities 
acquired in accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”. Specifically, the identification and valuation of “right to operate” 
intangible asset of $1,160.4 million involves a number of assumptions including discount rate, average lease life and probability  
of lease renewal.  
Further details of the assets and liabilities acquired are shown in note 24 of the Group’s financial statements.
How the scope of our audit  
responded to the risk
We have challenged the key assumptions used by the Group to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Specifically in relation to the valuation of the “right to operate” intangible asset, we have challenged the key inputs and data used 
in the valuation model by reference to historical data and our expectations based on available market data.  
In performing our work in this area we used internal valuation specialists to assist in our assessment of the fair value of the non-
current assets acquired, focussing on the valuation methodologies and key assumptions applied.
For the remaining assets and liabilities acquired, we have obtained appropriate evidence to support management’s estimates.
We have evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 24 of the Annual Report.
Key Observation
Based on our procedures, we noted that the methodologies and assumptions applied were reasonable and the fair value ascribed 
to the assets and liabilities consistent with evidence obtained. 85
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Carrying value of inventory 
Risk description
As detailed within the significant financial reporting issues considered by the audit and risk committee on page 53, management 
judgement is required to establish that the carrying value of inventory across the Aftermarket Services businesses of $215.8 
million (2015: $210.4 million) is appropriate, in particular in relation to determining the appropriate level of inventory provisioning 
against surplus and obsolete items.  
The judgement reflects the nature of the Group’s Aftermarket Services operations which means that inventory must be held to 
support aircraft engine overhaul cycles, resulting in inventory which can be held for extended periods of time before utilisation. 
How the scope of our audit  
responded to the risk
Our audit procedures included testing of the inventory provisions held in the Aftermarket Services businesses by understanding 
and challenging the key assumptions used to determine the appropriate carrying value of inventories. Specifically, we assessed 
whether: 
• management’s controls relating to the estimation of the inventory provisions are appropriately designed and implemented;
• the estimates of remaining lives and usage profiles of the engine and aircraft platforms are consistent with industry 
projections and supported by industry experts; and
• where the expected future usage of inventory is based on past experience, this has been reasonably estimated. 
Furthermore, we carried out a recalculation of the expected provision based on the above key assumptions to assess the 
mathematical accuracy of the calculation. 
Key Observation
Evidence obtained during the audit shows that the level of inventory provisions is appropriate and consistent with our 
understanding of the business.
Revenue Recognition
Risk description
Revenue recognised in the Global Engine Services businesses of $541.4 million (2015: $619.2 million), as stated within the 
accounting policies to the Group’s financial statements on page 95, requires management judgement to estimate the stage of 
completion and profitability of contracts to determine the amount of revenue and profit to be recorded for engine overhauls in 
progress at the year-end.
How the scope of our audit  
responded to the risk
We considered whether management’s controls relating to the key percentage of completion estimates are properly designed 
and implemented.
We assessed the estimates applied within the percentage of completion calculation by verifying the engine overhaul costs 
incurred for work undertaken at the year end and challenging the estimated costs to completion.  In assessing the estimated 
costs to completion, we considered the historical accuracy of management’s forecasts in previous years for the cost of engine 
overhauls and made enquiries of technical staff responsible for the engine overhaul process.
Key Observation
Based on the results of each of the procedures as set out above, we considered the related financial statement amounts to be 
appropriate and in line with the group’s accounting policies as set out on page 95.
Presentation of earnings
Risk description
Management presents earnings in a columnar format, separating out those items considered as exceptional from underlying 
earnings. Total “exceptional and other items” contributed to a charge of $316.0 million (2015: charge of $61.2 million).
In addition, following the decision to dispose of the ASIG operations, management has presented the results of the business as a 
discontinued operation.
As detailed within note 2 to the Group’s financial statements, management has defined “exceptional and other items” as items 
which are material or non-recurring in nature and also include costs relating to acquisitions and disposals and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles. 
Management judgement is required in relation to the identification, measurement and disclosure of “exceptional and other items” 
to ensure clarity in the presentation of the Group’s financial performance. This is particularly significant in the current year given 
the increased number of one-off items arising through the Group’s acquisition of Landmark Aviation and the decision to dispose 
of the ASIG operations.
Specifically in relation to ASIG, management judgement is required in determining the point at which the business became held 
for sale and the presentation of the business as a discontinued operation.  86
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
How the scope of our audit  
responded to the risk
We have challenged the assumptions made to identify and measure those items classified as “exceptional and other items”. 
To determine consistency with the Group’s policy on exceptional items and for clarity in the presentation of the Group’s financial 
performance, our audit work has included: 
• obtaining supporting documentation, such as invoices, legal correspondence and severance contracts, for the measurement 
of such costs included within “exceptional and other items”;
• understanding and challenging management’s rationale for the inclusion of such costs as “exceptional and other” items.  This 
has included assessing whether management’s approach to identifying exceptional items is consistent with the prior year;
• assessing the adequacy of disclosure in relation to the “exceptional and other items”;
• understanding and challenging management’s rationale for those items included in underlying profit which may be considered 
non-recurring in nature; and
• understanding and challenging management’s rationale for disclosing ASIG as a discontinued operation.
We have also considered the use of alternative performance measures disclosed in the annual report given the recent guidance 
provided by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
Key Observation
Evidence obtained during the audit shows that the presentation of earnings is appropriate and consistent with the Group’s policy 
in this area.
Goodwill Impairment
Risk Description
Goodwill of $1,113.9 million (2015: $889.6 million) is reviewed annually for impairment using a value in use basis. 
During 2016, a goodwill impairment charge of $138.8 million has been recognised relating to the Global Engine Services division 
following continued challenging trading conditions within the Engine Repair and Overhaul business.
Additionally, a goodwill impairment charge of $114.0 million has been recognised against the ASIG cash generating unit following 
the reclassification of the CGU as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 “Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations”. 
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Our audit procedures included challenging the key assumptions used in management’s impairment model, including the 
forecasted future cash flows, growth rates applied in the medium and long term and the risk adjusted discount rates.  
In performing our audit procedures we used internal valuation specialists to assess the discount rate applied by benchmarking 
against independent data.
We reviewed historical financial performance of the business units compared with the original forecasts to evaluate the accuracy 
of management’s budgeting process. Furthermore, we benchmarked projected growth rates to external macro-economic and 
market outlook.
Specifically in relation to the ASIG cash generating unit, the impairment charge was audited with reference to the expected 
purchase price less costs to sell in accordance with the accounting standard.
In addition to the above, we have also reviewed the related presentation and disclosures surrounding the impairment of the 
relevant cash generating unit and its classification. 
Key Observation
Based on our work, we determined that the impairment charges recognised are consistent with the Group’s assessment of the 
recoverable amounts of the relevant cash generating units with no deficiencies noted in the related disclosures in note 8 of the 
financial statements.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. 87
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 
person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group materiality $10.0 million (2015: $8.5 million)
Basis for determining materiality
Materiality was determined on the basis of approximately 4% (2015: 5%) of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for the benchmark applied
Underlying profit before tax, which excludes exceptional and other items as defined in note 2 of the Group accounts, is utilised for the 
materiality determination because we consider underlying profit before tax to be a key driver of the business and eliminates potential 
volatility which may be caused by such exceptional items. 
In determining the percentage level applied, we have also taken into consideration the increase in acquired intangible amortisation 
arising from the current year acquisition and which will remain a recurring feature of the consolidated income statement. As such, a lower 
percentage to underlying profit before tax has been applied than in the previous year.
Finally, materiality equates to less than 0.2% (2015: 0.3%) of total assets.
We have agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $500,000 (2015: $170,000), as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. This threshold represents an increase from the previous year in order to 
align our reporting threshold with market practice. We also report to the Audit and Risk  Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the group level. Based on that assessment:
We focused our Group audit scope on 13 operating locations (2015: 11 locations), an increase of 2 operating locations audited in the current year. The increase arises from 
the acquisition of Landmark Aviation during the year. 
• Five of these locations (2015: six) were subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2016 in accordance with statutory reporting 
requirements in the UK and Europe.
• Three (2015: two) were subject to specific audit procedures, focused on the significant audit risk areas.
• The remaining five (2015: three) operating locations were the Group’s significant US businesses for which full scope audits were completed. This included Landmark 
Aviation US, the most significant component of the newly acquired Landmark Aviation business.
• These 13 (2015: 11) locations represent the principal operating locations of the Group and account for 96% (2015: 96%) of the Group’s revenue and 93% (2015: 84%) of 
the Group’s total assets.  
Audits of these locations are performed at materiality levels determined by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business 
concerned. Materiality for each location was set no higher than 60% of group materiality (2015: 65%).
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of 
material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the 
locations where the group audit scope was focused. Visits were made to 10 of the 13 operating locations during the year (2015: 8 out of 11). For all non-significant 
components we will include the component audit partner in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.  
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team 
throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
• the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements 
in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. 88
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of  
these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from  
these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to 
the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or 
for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Edward Hanson (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London 
United Kingdom 
28 February 2017 Consolidated Income Statement
89
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
2016
Restated
2015
For the year ended 31 December Notes
Underlying1
$m
Exceptional 
and other 
items
$m
Total
$m
Underlying1
$m
Exceptional 
and other 
items
$m
Total
$m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 2,149.1 – 2,149.1 1,714.0 – 1,714.0
Cost of sales (1,654.7) – (1,654.7) (1,352.3) – (1,352.3)
Gross profit 494.4 – 494.4 361.7 – 361.7
Distribution costs (37.6) – (37.6) (33.7) – (33.7)
Administrative expenses (172.3) (98.6) (270.9) (159.6) (9.3) (168.9)
Other operating income 5.7 – 5.7 3.7 – 3.7
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 10 13.4 – 13.4 9.4 – 9.4
Other operating expenses (1.0) (28.0) (29.0) – (44.4) (44.4)
Restructuring costs – (9.9) (9.9) – (15.1) (15.1)
Operating profit/(loss) 1, 2 302.6 (136.5) 166.1 181.5 (68.8) 112.7
Impairment of assets 8, 9 – (184.4) (184.4) – – –
Investment income 3 3.7 – 3.7 2.9 0.4 3.3
Finance costs 3 (67.6) – (67.6) (34.7) (3.9) (38.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 238.7 (320.9) (82.2) 149.7 (72.3) 77.4
T ax (charge) / credit  4 (39.5) 102.4 62.9 (20.8) 13.1 (7.7)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 199.2 (218.5) (19.3) 128.9 (59.2) 69.7
Discontinued operation
Profit / (loss) from discontinued  
operation, net of tax 25 17.9 (97.5) (79.6) 15.4 (2.0) 13.4
Profit / (loss) for the period 217.1 (316.0) (98.9) 144.3 (61.2) 83.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of BBA Aviation plc 217.1 (316.0) (98.9) 144.4 (61.2) 83.2
Non-controlling interest – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
217.1 (316.0) (98.9) 144.3 (61.2) 83.1
Earnings / (loss) per share Adjusted Unadjusted
 Adjusted
Restated
Unadjusted
Restated
Total group
Basic 6 21.1¢ (9.6)¢ 20.1¢ 11.6¢
Diluted 6 20.9¢ (9.6)¢ 20.0¢ 11.5¢
Continuing operations
Basic 6 19.4¢ (1.9)¢ 18.0¢ 9.8¢
Diluted 6 19.2¢ (1.9)¢ 17.9¢ 9.7¢
Discontinued operations
Basic 25 1.7¢ (7.7)¢ 2.1¢ 1.8¢
Diluted 25 1.7¢ (7.7)¢ 2.1¢ 1.8¢
1 Underlying profit is before exceptional and other items. Exceptional and other items are defined in note 2. 
All alternative performance measures are reconciled to IFRS measures and explained on pages 169- 173.
The prior period has been restated as required by IFRS as the Group has presented a discontinued operation in 2016, see note 25.
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information 90
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December Notes
2016
$m
2015
$m
(Loss) / profit for the period (98.9)
83.1 
Other comprehensive (loss) / income
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defined benefit pension schemes 19 (52.3)
7.6
T ax credit / (charge) relating to components of other comprehensive (loss) / income that will not 
be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 4 9.8
(1.7)
(42.5)
5.9
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 21 309.0
20.8
Losses on net investment hedges 21 (308.0)
(35.4)
Transfer of the revaluation reserve to retained earnings on the disposal of property 21 –
(5.9)
Fair value movements in available for sale investments 21 (2.0)
Fair value movements in foreign exchange cash flow hedges 17, 21 1.3
0.5
Transfer (from)/to profit or loss from other comprehensive income on foreign exchange cash 
flow hedges 17, 21 (4.5)
(1.1)
Fair value movement in interest rate cash flow hedges 17, 21 (5.4)
(2.6)
Transfer to profit or loss from other comprehensive income on interest rate cash flow hedges 17, 21 7.3
3.7
T ax relating to components of other comprehensive income that may be subsequently 
reclassified to profit or loss 4 2.8
0.1
0.5
(19.9)
Other comprehensive loss for the year (42.0)
(14.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year (140.9)
69.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of BBA Aviation plc (141.1)
68.7
Non-controlling interests 0.2
0.4
(140.9)
69.1 91
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December Notes
2016
$m
2015 
$m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 8 1,113.9 889.6
Other intangible assets 8 1,378.3 266.2
Property, plant and equipment 9 875.6 645.0
Interests in associates and joint ventures 10 40.1 12.0
Trade and other receivables 12 19.2 22.1
Deferred tax asset 20 0.4 8.2
3,427.5 1,843.1
Current assets
Inventories 11 235.8 221.3
Trade and other receivables 12 296.8 341.7
Cash and cash equivalents 12 182.5 966.4
T ax recoverable 1.4 2.0
Assets held for sale 25 267.7 –
984.2 1,531.4
Total assets 1 4,411.7 3,374.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 13 (543.2) (439.4)
T ax liabilities (36.8) (39.5)
Obligations under finance leases 14 (0.2) –
Borrowings 16 (1.0) (12.3)
Provisions 18 (27.6) (27.0)
Liabilities held for sale 25 (89.3) –                                                                       
(698.1) (518.2)
Net current assets 286.1 1,013.2
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 16 (1,546.7) (511.1)
Trade and other payables due after one year 13 (4.0) (23.1)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 19 (82.8) (40.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (120.5) (83.1)
Obligations under finance leases 14 (1.5) –
Provisions 18 (39.5) (30.5)
(1,795.0) (687.9)
Total liabilities 1 (2,493.1) (1,206.1)
Net assets 1,918.6 2,168.4
Equity 
Share capital 21 508.7 508.5
Share premium account 21 1,594.5 1,594.4
Other reserve 21 (1.0) 1.0
Treasury reserve 21 (91.0) (90.0)
Capital reserve 21 45.1 38.1
Hedging and translation reserves 21 (87.1) (87.0)
Retained earnings 21 (52.2) 208.2
Equity attributable to equity holders of BBA Aviation plc 1,917.0 2,173.2
Non-controlling interest 1.6 (4.8)
Total equity 1,918.6 2,168.4
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Pryce Mike Powell
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 92
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December Notes
2016
$m
2015
$m
Operating activities
Net cash flow from operating activities 23 374.9 188.4
Investing activities
Interest received 2.7 11.7
Dividends received from associates 2.4 3.4
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (101.6) (81.8)
Purchase of intangible assets
†
(11.4) (22.4)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 11.1 16.7
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash/(debt) acquired 24 (2,098.2) (19.4)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and associates 186.6 –
Net cash outflow from investing activities (2,008.4) (91.8)
Financing activities
Interest paid (64.5) (41.1)
Interest element of finance leases paid (0.1) –
Dividends paid 5 (124.3) (76.6)
Gains from realised foreign exchange contracts 42.7 2.4
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares net of issue costs 0.3 1,117.5
Purchase of own shares
††
(1.3) (22.0)
Increase/(decrease) in loans 1,035.3 (267.4)
Increase in finance leases 1.7 –
(Decrease)/increase in overdrafts (11.0) (8.0)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 878.8 704.8
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (754.7) 801.4
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 966.4 166.3
Exchange adjustments (6.4) (1.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12 205.3 966.4
Comprised of:
     Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 17 182.5 966.4
     Cash included in Assets held for sale at end of the period 25 22.8 –
Net debt at beginning of year 456.5 (619.2)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (754.7) 801.4
(Increase)/decrease in loans (1,035.3) 267.4
Increase in finance leases (1.7) –
Decrease in overdrafts 11.0 8.0
Exchange adjustments (11.1) (1.1)
Net debt at end of year
†††
(1,335.3) 456.5
†  Purchase of intangible assets includes $10.6 million (2015: $13.5 million) paid in relation to Ontic licences.
††  Purchase of shares includes the share purchases for the share buy-back scheme, shares purchased for the Employee Benefit Trust and shares purchased for employees to 
settle their tax liabilities as part of the share schemes.
†††  Within the Group’s definition of net debt, the US private placement is included at its face value of $500 million (2015: $500 million), reflecting the fact that the liabilities will be in 
place until maturity. This is $8.8 million (2015: $13.5 million) lower than its carrying value. 93
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes
Share 
capital
$m
Share 
premium
$m
Retained 
earnings
$m
Other 
reserves
$m
Total
$m
Non-
controlling 
interests
$m
Total 
equity
$m
Balance at 1 January 2015 252.3 733.1 194.4 (95.8) 1,084.0 (5.0) 1,079.0
Profit for the year – – 83.2 – 83.2 (0.1) 83.1
Other comprehensive loss for the year – – 6.0 (20.5) (14.5) 0.5 (14.0)
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – 89.2 (20.5) 68.7 0.4 69.1
Dividends 5 – – (76.6) – (76.6) – (76.6)
Issue of share capital 21 256.2 861.3 – – 1,117.5 – 1,117.5
Movement on treasury reserve 21 – – – (21.9) (21.9) – (21.9)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 21 – – – 2.8 2.8 – 2.8
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
T ax on share-based payment 
transactions 4 – – (1.3) – (1.3) – (1.3)
Transfer to retained earnings 21 – – 2.5 (2.5) – – –
Balance at 31 December 2015 508.5 1,594.4 208.2 (137.9) 2,173.2 (4.8) 2,168.4
Loss for the year – – (98.9) – (98.9) – (98.9)
Other comprehensive loss for the year – – (39.7) (2.1) (41.8) (0.2) (42.0)
T otal comprehensive loss for the year – – (138.6) (2.1) (140.7) (0.2) (140.9)
Dividends 5 – – (124.3) – (124.3) – (124.3)
Issue of share capital 21 0.2 0.1 – 0.3 – 0.3
Movement on treasury reserve 21 – – – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.3)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 21 – – – 9.1 9.1 – 9.1
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – 6.6 6.6
T ax on share-based payment 
transactions 4 – – 0.7 – 0.7 – 0.7
Transfer to retained earnings 21 – – 1.8 (1.8) – – –
Balance at 31 December 2016 508.7 1,594.5 (52.2) (134.0) 1,917.0 1.6 1,918.6 94
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use 
in the European Union (EU) and therefore comply with Article 4 of 
the EU International Accounting Standards (IAS) Regulation and 
the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting  
under IFRS. 
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical 
cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial 
instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out 
below. These policies have been consistently applied with the prior 
year except where noted.
New financial reporting requirements 
A number of EU-endorsed amendments to existing standards 
and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2016 and have been applied in preparing 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group. There is no 
impact on the Group Consolidated Financial Statements from 
applying these standards.
Financial reporting standards applicable for future  
financial periods 
A number of EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing 
standards and interpretations, which are described below, are 
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 
and have not been applied in preparing the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Group. 
The most significant changes to the IFRS framework in these 
forthcoming standards and amendments to standards are IFRS 9: 
Financial Instruments (IFRS 9), IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts 
with customers (IFRS 15) and IFRS 16: Leases. 
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition 
of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment and hedge 
accounting. IFRS 15 addresses recognition of revenue from 
customer contracts and impacts on the amounts and timing  
of the recognition of such revenue. In 2016 both standards were 
endorsed by the EU and will become effective on 1 January 2018. 
Whilst the Group is yet to complete its assessment of the impact 
of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
management’s expectations remain that the impact will not  
be material.
The IASB released IFRS 16: Leases on 13 January 2016. The 
expected date for adoption into EU-IFRS has not yet been set. 
Management have not yet completed their assessment of  the 
impact of the final standard on the Group’s financial statements. 
However, we note that the Group has substantial operating lease 
commitments as disclosed in note 15. The standard is expected  
to have a material impact on the Group.
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company, BBA Aviation plc, and its subsidiary 
undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. 
Control is achieved when the Company:
– has the power over the investee;
–  is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement 
with the investee; and
– has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if 
facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or 
more of the three elements of control listed above. 
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between the members of the 
Group are eliminated on consolidation. 
In 2015 the Group reclassified its 10% investment in Hong Kong 
Business Aviation Centre from a financial instrument to an 
associate to more accurately reflect its level of influence. This 
resulted in the recognition of $5.2 million of operating profit in 
2015 which related to prior periods.
Goodwill on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of 
the consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the fair 
value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the 
fair value of the identifiable net assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired. Where goodwill can only be determined on a 
provisional basis for a financial year, adjustments may be made 
to this balance for up to 12 months from the date of acquisition. 
Goodwill is capitalised and presented as part of intangible assets 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Goodwill is stated at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses and is tested for impairment on an 
annual basis.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than 
subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to 
exercise a significant influence, typically through participation 
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. 
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity 
method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The 
Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group’s share of 
the post-acquisition reserves of all such companies less provision 
for impairment.
Going concern 
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial 
statements. Further detail is contained in the directors’ statement 
of going concern on page 79 of the Directors’ Report.
Accounting Policies of the Group 95
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
Accounting Policies of the Group
Accounting Policies of the Group – continued
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s 
functional currency at the rate of exchange at the date of the 
transaction.
The individual financial statements of each group company are 
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which it operates (its functional currency).  For the purpose of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial 
position of each group company are expressed in US dollars, the 
presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The functional currency of the parent company is Sterling.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional 
currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. Any gain 
or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the 
date of transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
The income statements of operations of which the functional 
currency is other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars  
at the average exchange rate for the year. The balance sheets  
of these operations, including associated goodwill, are translated 
into US dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date. All exchange differences arising on consolidation are 
recognised initially in other comprehensive income and only  
in the Income Statement in the period in which the entity is 
eventually disposed of. 
All other translation differences are taken to the Income 
Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency 
borrowing and derivative instruments to the extent that they are 
used to provide a hedge against the Group’s equity investments in 
overseas operations. These translation differences are recognised 
in other comprehensive income, together with the exchange 
difference on the net investment in those operations.
Goodwill and intangible assets arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate of exchange.
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for 
goods supplied and services provided by the Group excluding 
inter-company transactions, sales by associated undertakings  
and sales taxes.
Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and 
associated profit on engine overhauls are recognised on a 
percentage of completion basis once the terms of the contract 
have been agreed with the customer and the ultimate profitability 
of the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty. The 
percentage of completion is based on hours incurred compared 
with management’s best estimate of the total hours of production. 
Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and 
associated profit are recognised on engine sales. Where the 
engine sold is subsequently leased back, the revenue and profit 
are only recognised where the lease can be categorised as an 
operating lease.
Business combinations 
On the acquisition of a business, fair values reflecting conditions at 
the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable separable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Where the fair 
value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, is different 
to the fair value of the identifiable separable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as 
purchased goodwill and capitalised or a bargain purchase gain and 
recognised in the income statement. Acquisition-related costs are 
recognised in the income statement as incurred. 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by 
the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, 
the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the 
accounting is incomplete. These provisional amounts are adjusted 
during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities 
are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about the 
facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if 
known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business 
combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent 
consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and 
included as part of the consideration transferred in a business 
combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent 
consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments 
are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments 
against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are 
adjustments that arise from additional information obtained 
during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year 
from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that 
existed at the acquisition date.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s 
previously-held interests in the acquired entity is re-measured 
to the acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if 
any, is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests 
in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously 
been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified 
to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that 
interest were disposed of.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the 
contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement 
period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration 
is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity  
is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and  
its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. 
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability 
is re-measured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with 
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement , or 
IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as 
appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised 
in profit or loss. 96
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
Operating profit 
Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional and other 
items and after the share of results of associates and joint 
ventures but before investment income and finance costs.
Exceptional and other items are items which are material and  
non-recurring in nature, and also include costs relating to 
acquisitions, disposals, and amortisation of acquired intangibles. 
Underlying operating profit is the Group’s key non-GAAP 
measure and directors consider that this gives a useful indication 
of underlying performance. It is calculated as operating profit 
before exceptional and other items (see note 2). Further detail and 
reconciliations to the equivalent GAAP measure are set out in the 
adjusted performance measures on pages 169-173.
Intangible assets 
Licences and contracts, other than manufacturing licences within 
the Ontic business, that are acquired separately are stated at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and impairment. Amortisation is 
provided for on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. 
The Ontic business acquires licences from Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs) to become the alternate OEM for that 
product. The useful life is based on the underlying contract 
where that is a determinable period. Where the useful life is 
indeterminable and finite, a lifespan of 20 years is typically used. 
An annual review is performed to assess the licence’s remaining 
useful life against the vitality of the underlying platform.
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item 
of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible 
asset. Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the 
costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. 
Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated 
on a straight line basis over the useful life of the software.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, arising on acquisitions are 
capitalised at fair value. An intangible asset will be recognised 
as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or 
other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably. 
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset and is 
calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful life, which typically 
is the term of the licence or contract.
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments. 
Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and 
equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on a 
straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of  
the assets:
Land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 40 years maximum
Leasehold buildings Shorter of useful life or lease term
Fixtures and equipment (including 
essential commissioning costs) 3-20 years
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised 
within fixtures and equipment.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction 
of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as 
part of those assets. The commencement of capitalisation begins 
when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being 
incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready 
for use are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all 
the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are 
complete.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 
value of its goodwill, intangible and tangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate 
cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs. Goodwill is tested for impairment 
annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may  
be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money. The risks specific to the asset are reflected as 
an adjustment to the future estimated cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the 
Income Statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to 
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that 
the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior 
years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income 
immediately. Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill 
are not reversed in subsequent periods.
Inventories 
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate 
proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress 
and finished goods. Cost is calculated using the first-in first-out 
method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted average 
method in the Aftermarket Services segment. Provision is made 
for slow-moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Accounting Policies of the Group – continued 97
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
Accounting Policies of the Group – continued
in a fair value hedge. Any difference between the proceeds, 
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on settlement 
is recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the 
borrowings.
Fair value hedges are undertaken as part of the Group’s policy 
for managing interest rate risk. Changes in value of fair value 
hedges are immediately recognised within interest in the 
Income Statement and are off-set by changes in fair value of the 
underlying borrowing. Any ineffectiveness on fair value hedges are 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Other financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the 
Group’s Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are 
accounted for at the trade date.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less which are readily 
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables excluding derivative assets are initially 
recognised at fair value and do not carry any interest and are 
stated at nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value and classified according to the substance of the 
contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is 
any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Borrowings 
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded  
at fair value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs  
at inception. Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings  
are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest  
rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item  
in a fair value hedge. Any difference between the proceeds,  
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on settlement  
is recognised in the Income Statement over the term of  
the borrowings. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade payables, excluding derivative liabilities, are not interest 
bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Associates 
Where the Group has the power to participate in (but not control) 
the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it is 
classified as an associate. Associates are initially recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet at cost. Subsequently associates are 
accounted for using the equity method, where the Group’s share 
of post-acquisition profits and losses and other comprehensive 
income is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss and other comprehensive income (except for losses in excess 
of the Group’s investment in the associate unless there is an 
obligation to make good those losses).
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group 
and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated 
investors’ interests in the associate. The investor’s share in the 
associate’s profits and losses resulting from these transactions is 
eliminated against the carrying value of the associate.
Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the 
Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying 
amount of the associate. Where there is objective evidence that 
the investment in an associate has been impaired the carrying 
amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same 
way as other non-financial assets.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise 
interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. All such 
instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk 
profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the 
Group’s risk management policies. Recognition of gains or losses 
on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument  
is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed  
to hedge.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges  
is recognised in other comprehensive income until the  
impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Income 
Statement. The ineffective portion of such gains and losses 
is recognised immediately within other gains and losses in the 
Income Statement.
Hedges of net investments in non-US dollar territories are 
accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge 
is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, and 
is included within operating profit. Gains and losses deferred in the 
foreign currency translation reserve are recognised in profit or loss 
on disposal of the foreign operation.
Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts 
which do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised within 
operating profit in the Income Statement as they arise. 
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at 
fair value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs 
at inception. Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are 
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate 
method, except where they are identified as a hedged item 
Accounting Policies of the Group – continued 98
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
Available for sale financial assets 
Available for sale (AFS) financial assets are non-derivatives that 
are either designated as AFS or are not classified as (a) loans and 
receivables, (b) held-to-maturity investments or (c) financial 
assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group holds investments in unlisted shares that are not 
traded in an active market but that are classified as AFS financial 
assets and stated at fair value (because the directors consider 
that fair value can be reliably measured). Gains and losses arising 
from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve 
with the exception of impairment losses. Where the investment is 
disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve 
is reclassified to profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets 
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is 
objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that 
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the 
estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised within 
property, plant and equipment and the capitalisation values 
written off on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the period 
of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset. Obligations 
to the lessors relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in 
respect of future periods are recorded as liabilities. The interest 
element of the obligation is allocated over the lease term to 
produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding capital 
payments.
Operating leases are not recognised in the Group’s Balance Sheet. 
The rental payments are charged to the Income Statement on a 
straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle that 
obligation and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using 
the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
carrying amount is determined by discounting the expected future 
cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle 
a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, 
the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain 
that reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related 
provision and the amount of the receivable can be measured 
reliably.
Insurance 
Provisions are recognised for self-insured risks as the cover is 
provided. The provisions cover both known claims and claims 
incurred but not reported. Provisions are made for the associated 
costs based on an assessment of the specific risk or expected 
claims development for risks that are incurred but not reported. 
The estimates of current and ultimate risk exposure are made with 
the aid of an actuary or other suitably qualified third party.
Restructuring 
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has 
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has 
raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the 
restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing 
its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of a 
restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditure arising 
from the restructuring, and comprises those amounts that are 
both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated 
with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties 
Warranties provisions are recognised when the associated 
products or services are sold. Provisions are made for the 
associated costs based on an assessment of future claims made 
with reference to past experience. 
Environmental 
Environmental provisions relate to environmental liabilities 
within continuing operations of the Group. These liabilities relate 
predominantly to the Group’s current and historic property 
portfolios. The liabilities have an expected life of up to ten years.
Post-retirement benefits 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are 
charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost 
is determined using the projected unit credit method, with 
valuations under IAS 19 (revised) being carried out annually as at 31 
December. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the 
period in which they occur. They are recognised outside of profit or 
loss and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees 
during the year is charged to operating profit in the year. Any 
past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. The interest cost on the net defined benefit 
deficit is included within finance costs.
Accounting Policies of the Group – continued 99
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced 
by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable. 
Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by 
valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-
based compensation plans. The fair value of the compensation 
is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense. The total 
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated 
using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of 
award. These include Black–Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo 
simulations. For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is 
revisited at each balance sheet date. For both cash and equity-
settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number of 
options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance 
sheet date.
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and 
comprises current and deferred taxation. Current tax is calculated 
at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted as 
at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred taxation takes into account taxation deferred due to 
temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is accounted for 
using the balance sheet liability method and is the tax expected 
to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and 
the corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit.
An uncertain tax provision is recognised for those matters for 
which the tax determination is uncertain but it is considered 
probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax 
authority. The uncertain tax provisions are reported within 
current liabilities and measured using the most likely amount 
approach. Examples of activities for which the group experiences 
tax uncertainties include but are not limited to transfer pricing 
under the application of OECD transfer pricing principles and 
the deductibility of interest payable resulting from the Group’s 
financing arrangements.
The provision for uncertainties is established based on the 
management judgment of senior tax professionals within the 
Group supported by previous experience in respect of such 
activities and in certain cases based on specialist independent 
tax advice. The methodology for establishing provisions for tax 
uncertainties has been consistently applied with the prior year.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted 
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where 
the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference 
is not foreseeable.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted  
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and that  
are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled  
or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or 
credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in the Statement  
of Comprehensive Income.
Assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale 
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of 
carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Assets are classified 
as held for sale if their net carrying amount will be recovered 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present 
condition. Management must be committed to the sale which 
should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale 
within one year of the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of 
control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that 
subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described 
above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-
controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of  
estimation uncertainty 
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources 
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
discussed below. The judgements used by management in the 
application of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of these 
key areas of estimation are considered to be the most significant.
Accounting Policies of the Group – continued Accounting Policies of the Group – continued Accounting Policies of the Group – continued
100
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements 
Accounting Policies of the Group
Purchase price accounting 
The Group is required to measure all acquired assets and liabilities 
at fair value in accordance with IFRS 3. The determination of those 
fair values requires judgement.
The valuation of acquired current assets and liabilities is not  
a key source of estimation uncertainty. However, the valuation  
of non-current assets and liabilities is often dependant on,  
and sensitive to, long-term forecasts of the related cash flows  
and the discount rates applied. These are in turn dependent  
on long-term forecasts of the performance of the business.  
As such the valuation of these assets and liabilities is considered  
to be a key source of judgement.
Details surrounding the fair values of acquired assets and  
liabilities determined through purchase price accounting are 
provided in note 24. The Group valued $1.390.1 million of  
acquired non-current assets and liabilities in 2016. 101
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Segmental information 
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of 
internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly 
reviewed by the Group Chief Executive to allocate resources to the 
segments and to assess their performance.
The Group provides information to the Chief Executive on the 
basis of components that are substantially similar within the 
segments in the following aspects:
– the nature of the long-term financial performance;
– the nature of the products and services;
– the nature of the production processes;
–  the type of class of customer for the products and services; 
and
– the nature of the regulatory environment.
Business segments
Flight 
Support
1
$m
Aftermarket 
Services
2
$m
Total
$m
Unallocated 
corporate
3
$m
Total 
$m
2016
External revenue
External revenue from continuing and discontinued operations 1,860.0 705.9 2,565.9 – 2,565.9
Less external revenue from discontinued operations, note 25 (416.8) – (416.8) – (416.8)
External revenue from continuing operations 1,443.2 705.9 2,149.1 – 2,149.1
Underlying operating profit
Underlying operating profit from continuing and discontinued operations 303.9 42.0 345.9 (15.8) 330.1
Less underlying operating profit from discontinued operations (9.9) – (9.9) 1.0 (8.9)
Adjusted for intergroup charges for discontinued operations 
4
 – – – (18.6) (18.6)
Underlying operating profit / (loss) from continuing operations 294.0 42.0 336.0 (33.4) 302.6
Underlying operating margin from continuing operations 20.4% 5.9% 15.6% 14.1%
Exceptional and other items
Exceptional and other items from continuing and discontinued operations (117.4) (19.8) (137.2) – (137.2)
Less exceptional and other items from discontinued operations 0.7 – 0.7 – 0.7
Exceptional and other items from continuing operations (116.7) (19.8) (136.5) – (136.5)
Operating profit/ (loss) from continuing operations 177.3 22.2 199.5 (33.4) 166.1
Impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets (184.4)
Net finance costs (63.9)
Loss before tax from continuing operations (82.2)
1 Operating profit/ (loss) from continuing operations includes $13.4 million profit (2015: $9.4 million profit) of associates and joint ventures. Flight Support’s segment result in 2015 
included $4.3 million in respect of a bargain purchase gain in relation to the acquisition of ASIG Panama. As described in the accounting policies in 2015 the Group reclassified its 
investment in Hong Kong Business Aviation Centre from a financial instrument to an associate. The reclassification of the investment resulted in the recognition of $5.2 million of 
operating profit during 2015 which related to prior periods.
2 In 2015 ERO entered into a series of sale and lease-back transactions with respect to parts of its rental engine fleet. The transactions led to the recognition of $39.7 million of 
revenue.
3 Unallocated corporate balances includes debt, tax, provisions, insurance captives and trading balances from central activities.
4   Costs previously allocated to ASIG.
Based on the above, the operating segments of the Group 
identified in accordance with IFRS 8 are Flight Support, which 
comprises Signature Flight Support and ASIG, and Aftermarket 
Services, which comprises Engine Repair & Overhaul (ERO) and 
Ontic.
The businesses within the Flight Support segment provide 
refuelling, ground handling and other services to the Business & 
General Aviation (B&GA) and commercial aviation markets. The 
businesses within the Aftermarket Services segment maintain and 
support engines and aerospace components, sub-systems and 
systems.
Sales between segments are immaterial.
All alternative performance measures are reconciled to IFRS 
measures and explained on pages 169-173. 102
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued
Business segments
Flight  
Support
$m
Aftermarket 
Services
$m
Total
$m
Unallocated 
corporate
$m
Total
$m
2015 restated
External revenue
External revenue from continuing and discontinued operations 1,347.4 782.4 2,129.8 – 2,129.8
Less external revenue from discontinued operations (415.8) – (415.8) – (415.8)
External revenue from continuing operations 931.6 782.4 1,714.0 – 1,714.0
Underlying operating profit
Underlying operating profit from continuing and discontinued operations 158.5 59.6 218.1 (16.1) 202.0
Less underlying operating profit from discontinued operations (4.1) – (4.1) – (4.1)
Adjusted for intergroup charges for discontinued operations – – – (16.4) (16.4)
Underlying operating profit / (loss) from continuing operations 154.4 59.6 214.0 (32.5) 181.5
Underlying operating margin from continuing operations 16.6% 7.6% 12.5% – 10.6%
Exceptional and other items
Exceptional and other items from continuing and discontinued operations (16.7) (12.0) (28.7) (42.5) (71.2)
Less exceptional and other items from discontinued operations 2.4 – 2.4 – 2.4
Exceptional and other items from continuing operations (14.3) (12.0) (26.3) (42.5) (68.8)
Operating profit / (loss) from continuing operations* 140.1 47.6 187.7 (75.0) 112.7
Net finance costs (35.3)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 77.4
* Operating profit / (loss) from continuing operations includes $9.4 million profit of associates and joint ventures within Flight Support. 
Other information
Capital additions** 55.4 45.9 101.3 2.9 104.2
Depreciation and amortisation 60.7 20.5 81.2 1.6 82.8
** Capital additions represent cash expenditures in the year.
Balance sheet
Total assets 1,545.2 853.0 2,398.2 976.3 3,374.5
T otal liabilities (258.2) (160.9) (419.1) (787.0) (1,206.1)
Net assets 1,287.0 692.1 1,979.1 189.3 2,168.4
1. Segmental information – continued
Other information
Flight 
Support
1
$m
Aftermarket 
Services
2
$m
Total
$m
Unallocated 
corporate
3
$m
Total 
$m
Capital additions** 74.2 38.7 112.9 0.1 113.0
Depreciation and amortisation 158.7 24.8 183.5 0.4 183.9
** Capital additions represent cash expenditures in the year.
Balance sheet
Total assets 3,515.7 747.5 4,263.2 148.5 4,411.7
T otal liabilities (397.6) (233.2) (630.8) (1,862.3) (2,493.1)
Net assets / (liabilities) 3,118.1 514.3 3,632.4 (1,713.8) 1,918.6 103
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Geographical Segments
Revenue by 
destination 
$m
Revenue by 
origin 
$m
Capital
 additions1
$m
Restated 
non-current 
assets2  
$m
2016
United Kingdom 128.0 320.8 14.7 226.7
Mainland Europe 200.9 54.5 0.2 46.1
North America 2,098.5 2,148.0 92.1 3,117.2
Rest of World 138.5 42.6 6.0 23.5
Total from continuing and discontinued operations 2,565.9 2,565.9 113.0 3,413.5
Less discontinued operations (416.8) (416.8) (10.3) –
Total from continued operations 2,149.1 2,149.1 102.7 3,413.5
2015
United Kingdom 212.4 356.0 19.7 216.8
Mainland Europe 116.8 32.0 0.5 34.7
North America 1,665.8 1,705.7 74.9 1,533.0
Rest of World 134.8 36.1 9.1 33.3
T otal from continuing and discontinued operations 2,129.8 2,129.8 104.2 1,817.8
Less discontinued operations (415.8) (415.8)  
Total from continued operations 1,714.0 1,714.0  
1 Capital additions represent cash expenditures in the year.
2  The disclosure of non-current assets by geographical segment has been amended to exclude deferred tax of $0.4 million (2015: $8.2 million) and financial instrument  
balances of $13.6 million (2015: $17.1 million) in all periods, as required under IFRS 8.
An analysis of the Group’s revenue for the year is as follows:
Revenue from  
sale of goods
Revenue from  
services
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Flight Support 1,027.2 714.8 832.8 632.6
Aftermarket Services 189.2 187.2 516.7 595.2
1,216.4 902.0 1,349.5 1,227.8
A portion of the Group’s revenue from the sale of goods denominated in foreign currencies is cash flow hedged. Revenue from the sale of 
goods and services of $1,216.4 million (2015: $902.0 million) includes a gain of $1.2 million (2015: gain of $1.1 million) in respect of the recycling 
of the effective amount of foreign currency derivatives used to hedge foreign currency revenue. 104
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
2. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Exceptional and other items 
Underlying profit is shown before exceptional and other items on the face of the income statement. Exceptional and other items are items which 
are material or non-recurring in nature and also include costs relating to acquisitions and disposals and amortisation of acquired intangibles.  
The directors consider that this gives a useful indication of underlying performance and better visibility of Key Performance Indicators.
All alternative performance measures are reconciled to IFRS measures and explained on pages 169- 173.
Note
Administrative  
expenses  
2016 
$m
 Other 
operating 
expenses 
2016 
$m
Restructuring  
costs 2016 
$m
 Total  
2016 
$m
Administrative  
expenses  
2015 
$m
 Other 
operating 
expenses 
2015 
$m
Restructuring 
costs  
2015 
$m
 Total 
2015 
$m
Restructuring expenses
ERO footprint rationalisation – – 9.9 9.9 – – 8.3 8.3
Closure of ASIG Singapore – – – – – – 6.8 6.8
Acquisition related
Amortisation of intangible assets 
arising on acquisition and valued in 
accordance with IFRS 3 98.6 – – 98.6 9.3 – – 9.3
Landmark integration costs – 24.9 – 24.9 – – – –
Transaction costs
1
– 1.5 – 1.5 – 38.4 – 38.4
Other – 1.6 – 1.6 – 6.0 – 6.0
Operating loss on continuing 
operations 98.6 28.0 9.9 136.5 9.3 44.4 15.1 68.8
Impairment loss 8 184.4 –
Net finance costs – 3.5
Loss before tax on continuing 
operations 320.9 72.3
T ax impact of exceptional and  
other items (102.4) (13.1)
Loss for the year on continuing 
operations 218.5 59.2
Loss from discontinued operation,  
net of tax 25 97.5 2.0
Total exceptional and other items 316.0 61.2
1 All transaction costs presented as exceptional and other items in 2016 related to the acquisition by Ontic of GE’s Aviation portfolio, see note 24. All transactions costs in 2015 
related to the acquisition of Landmark Aviation. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 105
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Net cash flow from exceptional items was an out flow of $63.5 million (2015: out flow of $28.6 million). 
Other
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Net foreign exchange (gains) (3.2) (3.2)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 69.7 58.5
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in cost of sales) 4.6 2.9
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in administrative  expenses) 109.6 21.4
Total depreciation and amortisation expense 183.9 82.8
T otal employee costs (note 7) 702.2 596.0
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales 931.6 931.1
The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.5 1.9
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.2
Total audit fees 2.9 2.1
Transaction related services – 1.8
T ax compliance services 0.1 –
0.1 1.8
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor 3.0 3.9
In 2015 Deloitte LLP received fees totalling $1.8 million in relation to the reporting accountant’s role provided on the Landmark Aviation 
transaction. 106
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
3. Investment income and finance costs
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Interest on bank deposits 4.0 3.1
Underlying investment income 4.0 3.1
Exceptional interest income – 0.4
Total investment income 4.0 3.5
T otal investment income from discontinued operations 0.3 0.2
T otal investment income from continuing operations 3.7 3.3
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (42.4) (13.4)
Interest on loan notes (24.7) (25.0)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (0.1) (0.1)
Net finance expense from pension schemes (1.4) (1.9)
Other finance costs (1.5) (3.2)
Total borrowing costs (70.1) (43.6)
Less amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 1.7 2.8
Fair value losses on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges transferred from equity (7.3) (3.7)
Fair value gains on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 7.7 9.4
Underlying finance costs (68.0) (35.1)
Exceptional interest costs – (3.9)
Total finance costs (68.0) (39.0)
Finance costs from discontinued operations (0.4) (0.4)
Finance costs from continuing operations (67.6) (38.6)
Net finance costs (64.0) (35.5)
Net finance costs from discontinued operations (0.1) (0.2)
Net finance costs from continuing operations (63.9) (35.3)
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying 
a capitalisation rate of 3.85% (2015: 3.85%) to expenditure on such assets, which represents the weighted average interest rate for the 
currency in which the expenditure has been made.
Exceptional interest income during 2015 related to the interest received on deposits from the proceeds of the rights issue which had not  
been deployed but related to the acquisition of Landmark Aviation. Exceptional finance costs related to certain facility and commitment fees 
incurred in the financing structure set up to enable the Landmark Aviation transaction.
4. Income tax
Recognised in the Income Statement
2016 
$m
2015 
Restated 
$m
Current tax expense 16.0 14.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years – current tax (1.6) 0.3
Current tax 14.4 15.1
Deferred tax (note 20) (78.7) (6.6)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – deferred tax (note 20) 1.4 (0.8)
Deferred tax (77.3) (7.4)
Income tax (credit)/expense for the year from continuing operations (62.9) 7.7
UK income tax is calculated at 20.0% (2015: 20.3%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 107
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
2016 
$m
2015 
Restated 
$m
(Loss)/profit before tax on continuing operations (82.2) 77.4
T ax at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdictions 25.3% (2015: 22.6%) (20.8) 17.5
Tax effect of offshore financing net of UK CFC charge (34.1) (16.9)
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 16.6 8.1
Items on which deferred tax has not been recognised 1.3 0.9
T ax rate changes 0.2 (0.2)
Difference in tax rates on overseas earnings (25.9) (1.1)
Capital gains – (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.2) (0.5)
Tax (credit)/expense for the year (62.9) 7.7
The applicable tax rate of 25.3% (2015: 22.6%) represents a blend of the tax rates of the jurisdictions in which taxable profits have arisen.  
The change from the prior year is due to a change in the proportion of profits that have arisen in each jurisdiction and the benefits  
associated with certain financing structures implemented.
 Tax credited/(expensed) to other comprehensive income and equity is as follows:
Recognised in other comprehensive income
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Current tax credit on pension deficit payments 0.5 2.0
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on actuarial gains/(losses) 9.3 (3.7)
9.8 (1.7)
Tax on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Current tax credit on foreign exchange movements 0.7 1.2
Deferred tax charge on derivative instruments 2.1 (1.1)
2.8 0.1
Total tax credit/(charge) within other comprehensive income 12.6 (1.6)
Recognised in equity
Current tax credit on share-based payments movements 0.1 0.5
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on share-based payments movements 0.6 (1.8)
Total tax credit/(charge) within equity 0.7 (1.3)
Total tax credit/(charge)   within other comprehensive income and equity 13.3 (2.9)
5. Dividends
On 20 May 2016, the 2015 final dividend of 8.68¢ per share (total dividend $87.2 million) was paid to shareholders (2015: the 2014 final dividend 
of 11.58¢ per share (total dividend $53.8 million) was paid on 22 May 2015).
On 4 November 2016, the 2016 interim dividend of 3.63¢ per share (total dividend $37.1 million) was paid to shareholders (2015: the 2015 
interim dividend of 4.85¢ per share (total dividend $22.8 million) was paid on 30 October 2015).
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a final dividend of 9.12¢ per share will be paid to shareholders on 19 May 2017.  
The proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the register of members on 7 April 2017. The total estimated dividend to be paid 
is $94.0 million. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the Reporting 
Period, has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 108
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
6. Earnings per share
All alternative performance measures are reconciled to IFRS measures and explained on pages 169-173. 
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Continuing Total
2016
$m
2015
Restated
$m
2016
$m
2015
Restated
$m
Basic and diluted
Earnings:
Profit/(loss) for the year (19.3) 69.7 (98.9) 83.1
Non-controlling interests (0.4) 0.5 – 0.1
Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders (19.7) 70.2 (98.9) 83.2
Exceptional items (net of tax) 218.5 59.2 316.0 61.2
Adjusted earnings for adjusted earnings per share 198.8 129.4 217.1 144.4
Underlying deferred tax 27.7 4.3 35.6 9.8
Adjusted earnings for tax adjusted earnings per share 226.5 133.7 252.7 154.2
Number of shares
Weighted average number of 29
16
/
21
p ordinary shares:
For basic earnings per share 1,026.6 718.6 1,026.6 718.6
Dilutive potential ordinary shares from share options 9.9 2.9 9.9 2.9
For diluted earnings per share 1,026.6 721.5 1,026.6 721.5
For diluted losses per share 1,036.5 721.5 1,036.5 721.5
Earnings per share
Basic:
Adjusted 19.4¢ 18.0¢ 21.1¢ 20.1¢
Cash 22.1¢ 18.6¢ 24.6¢ 21.5¢
Unadjusted (1.9)¢ 9.8¢ (9.6)¢ 11.6¢
Diluted:
Adjusted 19.2¢ 17.9¢ 20.9¢ 20.0¢
Cash 21.9¢ 18.5¢ 24.4¢ 21.4¢
Unadjusted (1.9)¢ 9.7¢ (9.6)¢ 11.5¢
Adjusted earnings per share is presented calculated on earnings before exceptional and other items (note 2) and using current tax charge, 
not the total tax charge for the period thereby excluding the deferred tax charge. Both adjustments have been made because the directors 
consider that this gives a useful indication of underlying performance.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 109
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
7. Employees
Average monthly number (including executive directors)
2016 
number
2015 
number
By segment
Flight Support 11,472 9,343
Aftermarket Services 1,530 1,581
Total employment numbers by segment from continuing and discontinued operations 13,002 10,924
By region
United Kingdom 2,804 2,846
Mainland Europe 226 116
North America 9,765 7,712
Rest of World 207 250
Total employees by region from continuing and discontinued operations 13,002 10,924
T otal employees from continuing operations 6,848 4,349
T otal employees from discontinued operations 6,154 6,575
2016
$m
2015
$m
Employment costs
Wages and salaries 642.5 542.6
Social security costs 46.6 40.9
Pension costs (note 19) 13.1 12.5
Total employment costs from continuing and discontinued operations 702.2 596.0 
T otal employment costs from continuing operations 439.7 332.7
T otal employment costs from discontinued operations 262.5 263.3 110
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
8. Intangible assets
Goodwill
2016
$m
Licences 
and  
contracts 
2016
$m
Computer 
software 
2016
$m
Total
2016
$m
Goodwill
2015
$m
Licences 
and  
contracts 
2015
$m
Computer 
software 
2015
$m
Total
2015
$m
Cost
Beginning of year 889.6 360.9 47.7 1,298.2 897.9 331.6 40.1 1,269.6
Exchange adjustments (10.0) (16.3) (0.6) (26.9) (9.5) (5.0) (0.2) (14.7)
Acquisitions 557.7 1,251.7 – 1,809.4 – 27.9 – 27.9
Acquisitions in prior years – 0.7 – 0.7 1.2 – – 1.2
Additions – 0.2 0.6 0.8 – 7.1 1.8 8.9
Impairments on classification as 
held for sale/write offs (114.0) (0.2) – (114.2) – – (1.1) (1.1)
Transfer to assets held for sale (70.6) (16.3) (1.5) (88.4) – – – –
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Transfers (to)/from other asset 
categories – 5.4 (3.1) 2.3 – (0.5) 7.1 6.6
End of year 1,252.7 1,586.1 42.8 2,881.6 889.6 360.9 47.7 1,298.2
Amortisation
Beginning of year – (115.0) (27.4) (142.4) – (92.6) (25.4) (118.0)
Exchange adjustments – 5.2 0.6 5.8 – 2.0 0.1 2.1
Amortisation charge for the year – (112.0) (2.2) (114.2) – (20.6) (3.7) (24.3)
Impairment charges (138.8) (12.8) – (151.6) – – 1.0 1.0
Transfer to assets held for sale – 10.6 1.1 11.7 – – – –
Disposals – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.2 – 0.2
Transfers to other asset categories – 0.9 0.1 1.0 – (4.0) 0.6 (3.4)
End of year (138.8) (223.1) (27.5) (389.4) – (115.0) (27.4) (142.4)
Carrying amount
End of year 1,113.9 1,363.0 15.3 2,492.2 889.6 245.9 20.3 1,155.8
Beginning of year 889.6 245.9 20.3 1,155.8 897.9 239.0 14.7 1,151.6
Included within the amortisation charge for intangible assets of $114.2 million (2015: $24.3 million) is amortisation of $99.4 million 
(2015: $11.7 million) in relation to the amortisation of intangible assets acquired and valued in accordance with IFRS 3 and disclosed as an 
exceptional and other items. 
Included within the acquisitions of $1,809.4 million (2015: $27.9 million) is $2.5 million (2015: $10.6 million) of Ontic licence acquisitions which 
are not accounted for as a business combination under IFRS and hence not presented under note 24.
Licences and contracts are amortised over the period to which they relate, which is on average 16 years (2015: 16 years) but with a wider 
range, with some up to 60 years in duration. Computer software is amortised over its estimated useful life, which is on average five years 
(2015: five years). 
Transfers to assets held for sale relates to the ASIG business as disclosed in note 25.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 111
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Flight Support:
Signature Flight Support 1,048.7 496.0
ASIG (discontinued operations) 70.6 185.9
Aftermarket Services:
Engine Repair & Overhaul – 140.1
Ontic 65.2 67.6
Total goodwill from continuing and discontinued operations 1,184.5 889.6
T otal goodwill from continuing operations 1,113.9 703.7
T otal goodwill from discontinu ed operations 70.6 185.9
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Group has determined the recoverable amount of each CGU from value-in-use calculations. The value-in-use calculations are based 
on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and detailed financial projections for the next 5 years, as approved by 
management, with a terminal growth rate after five years. The resultant cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate appropriate 
for the relevant CGU.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are as follows.
Sales volumes, selling prices and cost increases over the five years covered by management’s detailed plans 
Sales volumes are based on industry forecasts and management estimates for the businesses in which each CGU operates, including 
forecasts for Business & General Aviation (B&GA) flying hours, aircraft engine cycles and US military spending. Selling prices and cost 
increases are based on past experience and management expectations of future changes in the market. The extent to which these 
assumptions affect each principal CGU with a significant level of goodwill are described below.
Signature Flight Support and Engine Repair & Overhaul (ERO) both operate in the B&GA market. Signature Flight Support is the world’s 
largest and market-leading Fixed base operation (FBO) network for business aviation providing full services support for B&GA travel, focused 
on passenger handling and customer amenities such as refuelling, hangar and office rentals, and other technical services. ERO is a leading 
independent engine repair service provider to the B&GA market with strong relationships with all major engine OEMs.
Ontic operates in the Military and Commercial sectors and is the leading provider of high-quality, cost-effective solutions in the continuing 
support of maturing aerospace platforms to the major aerospace OEMs and airframe operators.
In B&GA, growth is measured principally in relation to B&GA flying hours. Over the longer term, the key drivers for B&GA remain the same 
as historically – continued growth in GDP and total wealth, the increasing value of people’s time, corporate confidence and corporate 
activity levels. The unusual nature of the 2007-2009 crisis and the halting return to growth have meant that, although corporate profits have 
recovered and confidence is now improving, investment in aircraft and flight activity continue to lag. Modest growth in the economies of the 
majority of the top 20 business aviation markets worldwide is a key factor affecting new aircraft orders and sales of pre-owned aircraft. B&GA 
flight activity in the US continued to grow during 2016, with movements up 1% year on year. US B&GA monthly flight activity cycles were 
positive for the majority of the period with growth every month from August, albeit against slightly weak comparator months in 2015. 
 In Europe, B&GA aircraft movements were up 2% for the year, a significant improvement, but against a weak comparator of -3% in 2015. 
Trends in military aviation are likely to improve as the global defence market begins to recover after years of pressure due to budget 
retrenchment. Life extension programmes continue to be important as the US military aircraft ages. The current US Air Force fleet is more 
than 25 years old on average, with some platforms significantly older. Average age is expected to continue to rise despite budget increases.
Growth rates used for the periods beyond those covered by management’s detailed plans
Growth rates are derived from management’s estimates, which take into account the long-term nature of the industry in which each CGU 
operates, external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the aerospace and defence sectors, the maturity of the platforms supplied by 
the CGU and the technological content of the CGU’s products. For the purpose of impairment testing, a conservative approach has been 
used and where the derived rate is higher than the long-term GDP growth rates for the countries in which the CGU operates, the latter has 
been used. As a result, an estimated growth rate of 2.0% (2015: 2.2%) has been used for the flight support and Ontic CGUs, which reflects 
forecast long-term US GDP growth. ERO has an estimated long term growth rate of 1% as set out in more detail in the following section on 
ERO impairment. 112
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
8. Intangible assets – continued
Discount rates applied to future cash flows
The Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) has been used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be 
applied. The WACC has then been adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU not already reflected in the future cash flows for that CGU. 
The discount rate used was 7.3% (2015: 8.4%) for the CGUs within Flight Support and 9.4% to 9.6% (2015: 9.2% to 9.6%) for the CGUs within 
Aftermarket Services.
Sensitivity analysis
Both the ERO CGUs, Dallas Airmotive (DAI) and H&S Aviation (H+S) have recognised impairment in 2016, see below. 
In relation to ASIG CGUs the operations were held for sale at 31 December 2016 and subsequently have been sold. The business’ assets were 
impaired in 2016 based on the fair market value established in that disposal process, see notes 25 and 27.
In relation to Signature Flight Support and Ontic management has concluded that for these CGUs no reasonably foreseeable change in the 
key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
ERO impairment
Management previously reported that a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model could result in an 
impairment charge for Dallas Airmotive DAI.
The ERO trading conditions remained challenging during the year, with no recovery in legacy mid-cabin fixed wing and rotorcraft flying 
visible for the engine platforms on which ERO operates. This coupled with continued pressure on pricing and workscopes, has led to another 
disappointing ERO result. Engine trading is much reduced and this, together with further margin pressure arising from OEM actions, and 
reduced demand for lease engines, was only partially offset by the limited cost savings so far delivered through the footprint restructuring 
programme and additional cost reduction actions. As a result of this performance and with no visible recovery in legacy mid-cabin fixed wing 
and rotorcraft flying, an impairment review was carried out at 30 June 2016 for both the DAI and H+S CGUs within the ERO business. 
Key assumptions used in the ERO impairment test
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are consistent with the year end goodwill impairment test as set out above, with the 
exception of discount rates that are set out below.
Despite the level of B&GA growth in flying hours the authorised engine platforms at DAI and H+S are no longer projected to experience this 
level of growth as DAI and H+S do not have engine authorisations for a number of the engine platforms that are now projected to have above 
average growth. Cuts to the US military budget continue to negatively impact the flight activity of some platforms and thus maintenance 
spend. 
As a result, the significant improvement in performance included in the ERO forecast period for the purposes of the 31 December 2015 
impairment review is no longer expected to be achieved. For the impairment model used at 31 December 2015, the average annual growth 
rate in EBITDA across 2016-2020 was 11%. For the impairment model used at 30 June 2016, the average annual growth rate for the 
equivalent period is now assumed to be 1.3%.
Beyond the 5 year forecast period, a conservative approach has been used of 1% long-term growth which reflects the declining nature 
of the existing platforms on which DAI and H+S are currently operating and we have assumed that new engine authorisation acquisitions, 
which would require significant further investment are not secured. This compares to a long-term growth rate of 2.2% used previously which 
broadly reflected the GDP growth rate over the long term. The weaker outlook for the DAI and H+S engine platforms relative to the markets 
as a whole has resulted in the reduction of the long-term growth rate to 1%.
The Group’s pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) was used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied. 
The WACC was then adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU not already reflected in the future cash flows for that CGU. The discount 
rate used for the impairment was 10.9% (31 December 2015: 9.5%) for the DAI CGU and 10.4% (31 December 2015: 9.2%) for the H+S CGU.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 113
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Impairment recognised
Following testing it was concluded that the carrying value of the DAI and H+S CGUs exceeded their recoverable values. Accordingly in the 
Group’s interim report as at 30 June 2016 management recognised an impairment loss for the DAI and H+S CGU assets to bring them to their 
value-in use. A further impairment review as at 31 December 2016 was undertaken for both the DAI and H+S CGU assets as set out above. 
The review concluded that there was no material change in the outlook or the discount rate for the CGUs. The table below summarises the 
allocation of the impairment loss for each asset class within both CGUs.
Goodwill
$m
Intangible 
Assets
 $m
Property Plant & 
Equipment 
$m
Total
$m
DAI carrying value before impairment 124.2 28.9 92.3 245.4
H+S carrying value before impairment 14.6 12.8 25.7 53.1
Total ERO carrying value before impairment 138.8 41.7 118.0 298.5
DAI impairment to recoverable amount 124.2 8.3 24.4 156.9
H+S impairment to recoverable amount 14.6 4.5 7.2 26.3
Total ERO impairment to recoverable amount 138.8 12.8 31.6 183.2
DAI carrying value after impairment – 20.6 67.9 88.5
H+S carrying value after impairment – 8.3 18.5 26.8
Total ERO carrying value after impairment – 28.9 86.4 115.3
Goodwill
$m
Intangible Assets
$m
Property Plant & 
Equipment
$m
Total
$m
Impairment on the balance sheet 138.8 12.8 31.6 183.2
Disposal of impaired assets – – 1.2 1.2
Impairment in profit or loss 138.8 12.8 32.8 184.4
The Group has determined the recoverable amount of each CGU from value-in-use calculations and our best estimate of proceeds relating  
to certain asset disposals associated with our ERO footprint rationalisation. 114
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
9. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings
2016
$m
Fixtures and 
equipment 
2016
$m
Total
2016
$m
Land and 
buildings
2015
$m
Fixtures and 
equipment 
2015
$m
Total
2015
$m
Cost or valuation
Beginning of year 757.2 458.0 1,215.2 761.4  465.7  1,227.1 
Exchange adjustments (12.2) (11.5) (23.7) (4.2) (8.0) (12.2)
Transfers from/(to) other asset categories 27.4 (40.1) (12.7) (4.9) (5.4) (10.3)
Acquisition of businesses 292.9 27.6 320.5 8.7 5.0 13.7
Additions 66.6 40.5 107.1 52.5 30.2 82.7
Disposals (1.1) (12.4) (13.5) (10.7) (14.7) (25.4)
Asset write downs (5.7) (4.1) (9.8) (45.6) (14.8) (60.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale (32.9) (145.9) (178.8) – – –
End of year 1,092.2 312.1 1,404.3 757.2 458.0 1,215.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Beginning of year (302.2) (268.0) (570.2) (318.5) (272.7) (591.2)
Exchange adjustments 3.5 5.3 8.8 1.7 3.8 5.5
Transfers to/(from) other asset categories (13.8) 18.4 4.6 3.3 (1.4) 1.9
Depreciation charge for the year (50.7) (19.0) (69.7) (36.3) (22.2) (58.5)
Disposals 0.7 6.0 6.7 2.3 10.3 12.6
Impairment – (31.6) (31.6) – – –
Asset write downs 5.0 2.4 7.4 45.3 14.2 59.5
Transfer to assets held for sale 18.2 97.1 115.3 – – –
End of year (339.3) (189.4) (528.7) (302.2) (268.0) (570.2)
Carrying amount 
End of year 752.9 122.7 875.6 455.0 190.0 645.0
Beginning of year 455.0 190.0 645.0 442.9  193.0  635.9 
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for continuing and discontinued operations 49.9 80.4
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for continuing operations 44.8 68.2
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for discontinued operations 5.1 12.2
Where assets have been written down or impaired, the recoverable amount has been determined by reference to its value in use, estimated 
using the forecast cash flows over the remaining life of the asset and discounted using a rate of 10.9% (31 December 2015: 9.5%) for the  
DAI CGU and 10.4% (31 December 2015: 9.2%) for the H&S CGU.
The amounts disclosed above for asset write downs are attributable to $1.8 million (2015: $0.9 million) in Flight Support, $0.6 million (2015: 
$nil million) in Aftermarket Services and $nil (2015: $nil) in unallocated corporate.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 115
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
10. Interests in associates and joint ventures
Interests in associates
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Cost of investment in associates 26.3 –
Share of post-acquisition profit, net of dividends received 7.5 5.9
Group share of net assets of associates 33.8 5.9
The investment in associates relates to the Landmark Aviation FBO disposal bases, the Landmark Aviation aircraft charter and  
management business, Page Avjet Fuel Co LLC and Hong Kong Business Aviation Centre Limited.All of which are  investments within  
the Flight Support segment.
On 5 February 2016 the Group acquired Landmark Aviation. Under the terms of the regulatory approval in connection with the acquisition 
of Landmark Aviation, the Company was required to sell six legacy Landmark Aviation FBOs, see note 25. Though the operations are wholly 
owned by the Group, as a result of the restrictions placed upon our influence by the requirements of the U.S. Department of Justice the 
results of the operations have been accounted for as an associate undertaking.
As part of the acquisition of Landmark Aviation the Group also acquired Landmark’s aircraft management and charter business. The 100% 
equity holding in this business was classified as an associate on acquisition as a result of operating restrictions imposed on the Group’s 
investment by foreign ownership regulations. 
On 30 December 2016 the Group agreed to the merger of its aircraft management and charter business with Gama Aviation’s US aircraft 
management business. The Group now owns a 24.5% equity holding of the merged venture, Gama Aviation Signature Aircraft Management 
and has classified its investment as an associate.
In 2015 the Group’s investment in Hong Kong Business Aviation Centre Limited was reclassified from a financial instrument to an associate 
to more appropriately reflect our level of influence. As described in note 2 the reclassification resulted in the recognition of $5.2 million of 
operating profit during 2015 which related to prior periods.
Aggregated amounts relating to associates
2016
$m
2015
$m
Total assets 144.9 113.6
T otal liabilities (93.5) (57.1)
Net assets 51.4 56.5
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Revenue 436.3 343.9
Profit for the year 33.2 3.1
Group’s share of profit for the year relating to the current year 11.7 2.4
Group’s share of profit for the year relating to prior periods – 5.2
Group’s share of profit and total comprehensive income for the year 11.7 7.6
A list of investments in associates, including name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in the note on 
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings on pages 161-167.
Interests in joint ventures
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Cost of investment in joint ventures 4.2 4.2
Share of post-acquisition profit, net of dividends received 2.1 1.9
Group share of net assets of joint ventures 6.3 6.1
Summary of aggregate financial results and position of joint ventures:
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Current assets 5.9 12.2
Non-current assets 8.7 7.6
Total assets 14.6 19.8 116
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Current liabilities (2.9) (6.8)
T otal liabilities (5.4) (8.3)
Net assets 9.2 11.5
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
T otal revenues 36.8 56.4
Total profit for the year 8.7 10.1
Group’s share of profit and total comprehensive income for the year 1.7 2.0
The Group has two joint venture investments being Signature Canada FBO Services Inc and Jacksonville Jetport LLC. The Group holds a 75% 
ownership interest and a 50% share of voting power in Signature Canada FBO Services Inc, a company incorporated in Canada.
The Group acquired 80% of ASIG Panama SA in 2015, taking its ownership to 100% and therefore took control of the entity from 1 July 2015. 
From the date of change in control the entity was fully consolidated as a wholly owned subsidiary.
11. Inventories
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Raw materials 133.8 131.1
Work in progress 25.3 24.1
Finished goods 76.7 66.1
235.8 221.3
As at 31 December 2016, included within assets classified as held for sale is a further $4.0 million (2015: $nil million) of inventories (see note 25).
12. Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables Note
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Amounts due within one year
Trade receivables 223.9 231.9
Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 69.8 103.9
Derivative financial instruments 17 3.0 5.9
Trade and other receivables due within one year 296.8 341.7
Amounts due after one year
Trade and other receivables 5.6 5.0
Available for sale investments 4.5 5.5
Derivative financial instruments 17 9.1 11.6
Trade and other receivables due after one year 19.2 22.1
316.0 363.8
As at 31 December 2016, included within assets classified as held for sale is a further $100.8 million (2015: $nil) of trade and other receivables 
(see note 25).
Trade receivables
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services of $7.5 million (2015: $3.5 million). 
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and current expectations.
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balances are debtors with a carrying amount of $58.7 million (2015: $44.5 million) which are past due 
at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are 
still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. The average age of these overdue receivables is 73 
days (2015: 62 days).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued
10. Interests in associates and joint ventures – continued 117
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
30–60 days 30.6 33.1
60–90 days 11.3 4.6
90–120 days 6.6 3.2
Over 120 days 10.2 3.6
58.7 44.5
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts
Beginning of year (3.5) (1.8)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 –
Amounts written off as uncollectable 1.4 1.9
Charged in the year (8.6) (3.6)
Allowance for doubtful debts transferred to assets held for sale 3.1 –
End of year (7.5) (3.5)
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the 
date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and 
unrelated. Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.  
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
30 – 60 days 1.7 –
60–90 days 3.0 0.3
90–120 days 1.4 1.1
Over 120 days 1.4 2.1
7.5 3.5
Cash and cash equivalents
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Cash at bank and in hand 111.2 123.7
Short-term bank deposits 71.3 842.7
Cash and cash equivalents for continuing operations 182.5 966.4
Cash and cash equivalents held for sale 22.8 –
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 205.3 966.4
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
In 2015 the Group’s net cash position related to the proceeds of the rights issue which had not been deployed but relate to the acquisition of 
Landmark Aviation. 118
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
12. Other financial assets – continued
Credit risk 
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables, investments and derivative 
financial instruments.
The Group’s policy on credit risk relating to cash and derivative financial instruments is disclosed in note 17.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and finance lease receivables. The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net 
of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous 
experience, is evidence of a reduction of the cash flows.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
13. Trade and other payables
Note
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Amounts due within one year
Trade payables 297.0 252.1
Other taxation and social security 10.9 12.4
Other payables 87.3 55.2
Accruals and deferred income 141.4 117.2
Derivative financial instruments 17 6.3 2.5
542.9 439.4
Amounts due after one year
Trade and other payables – 18.4
Derivative financial instruments 17 4.0 4.7
4.0 23.1
Total trade and other payables 546.9 462.5
As at 31 December 2016, included within assets classified as held for sale is a further $88.5 million (2015: $nil) of trade and other payables (see 
note 25).
In 2015 there was a re-classification between current other payables and accruals and deferred income and current and non-current 
provisions. Further information is provided in the accounting policies note.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
The average age of trade creditors was 52 days (2015: 52 days). 
14. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease
 payments
Present value of
minimum lease
payments
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year (0.3) – (0.2) – 
In the second to fifth years inclusive (1.8) – (1.5) – 
(2.1) – (1.7) – 
Less: future finance charges 0.4 – – – 
Present value of lease obligations (1.7) – (1.7) –
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) 0.3 – 0.2 – 
Amount due for settlement after 12 months (1.4) – (1.5) – 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 119
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The Group acquired leased assets in the year, see note 24. The average lease term was 5 years for equipment and 22 years for FBO leasehold 
improvements. In 2016, the average effective borrowing rate for the Group was 6.2%. Interest rates were fixed at the contract date or varied 
based on prevailing interest rates. For the year ended 31 December 2015 there were no finance leases outstanding.
All of the Group’s finance lease obligations are denominated in US dollars.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
15. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year for continuing  
and discontinued operations 114.1 98.5
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year for continuing operations 90.0 74.1
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year for discontinued operations 24.1 24.4
At the balance sheet date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Within one year 187.5 91.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive 623.5 375.6
After five years 1,812.5 1,008.3
T otal outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases on continuing and  
discontinued operations 2,623.5 1,475.5
T otal outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases on continuing operations 2,582.9 1,428.6
T otal outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases on discontinued operations 40.6 46.9
Operating lease payments represent amounts payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, plant, FBOs and equipment. Leases 
are negotiated for an average term of five years for office properties, nine years for plant and warehouses, 25 years for FBOs and four years 
for equipment. Rentals are generally fixed or adjusted based on inflation.
The total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases at 31 December 2016 were $303.3 
million (2015: $252.5 million).
16. Borrowings
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Bank overdrafts 1.0 12.0
Bank loans 1,036.2 –
Loan notes 507.3 507.8
Other loans 3.2 3.6
1,547.7 523.4
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year 1.0 12.3
In the second year 121.8 –
In the third to fifth years inclusive 1,214.4 122.8
After five years 210.5 388.3
1,547.7 523.4
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown within current liabilities) (1.0) (12.3)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,546.7 511.1
Current year bank loans and loan notes are stated after their respective transaction costs and related amortisation.  120
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
16. Borrowings – continued
2016
Type
Facility 
amount 
$m
Principal 
$m
Amortisation 
costs 
$m
Fair value 
adjustment 
$m
Drawn 
$m
Headroom 
$m
Facility 
date
Maturity  
date
Multicurrency revolving bank credit 
facility 650.0 230.0 (1.8) – 228.2 420.0 Apr 2014 Apr 2019
Acquisition facility bank term loan 
– Facility B
1
363.4 363.4 (1.8) – 361.6 Sep 2015 Feb 2019
Acquisition facility Bank term loan 
– Facility C
1
450.0 450.0 (3.6) – 446.4 Sep 2015 Sep  2020
Total bank loans 1,036.2
$300m US private placement 
senior notes – Series A 120.0 120.0 (0.3) 2.1 121.8 May 2011 May 2018
$300m US private placement 
senior notes – Series B 120.0 120.0 (0.3) 4.1 123.8 May 2011 May 2021
$300m US private placement 
senior notes – Series C 60.0 60.0 (0.2) 0.2 60.0 May 2011 May 2023
$200m US private placement 
senior notes – Series A 50.0 50.0 (0.2) 1.7 51.5 Dec 2014 Dec 2021
$200m US private placement 
senior notes – Series B 100.0 100.0 (0.3) 0.4 100.1 Dec 2014 Dec 2024
$200m US private placement 
senior notes – Series C 50.0 50.0 (0.2) 0.3 50.1 Dec 2014 Dec 2026
Total loan notes 507.3
Bank overdraft – UK cash pool 1.0
Other loans 3.2
1,963.4 1,547.7 420.0
1  Initial drawings under the Landmark Aviation acquisition debt facilities were for $1,000 million drawn under three facilities - Facility A, Facility B and Facility C. Facility A was a  
short-term bridge to disposal facility which was fully repaid on 30 June 2016 from the proceeds of $187 million from the disposal of the FBO bases as part of the requirements of 
the U.S. Department of Justice under the terms of the regulatory approval following the acquisition of Landmark Aviation. The balance of the proceeds $37 million was used to 
prepay part of Facility B under the requirements of the loan documentation.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 121
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
2015
Type
Facility 
amount 
$m
Principal 
$m
Amortisation 
costs 
$m
Fair value 
adjustment 
$m
Drawn 
$m
Headroom 
$m
Facility
date
Maturity  
date
Multicurrency revolving bank credit 
facility 650.0 – – – – 650.0 Apr 2014 Apr 2019
Acquisition facility bank term loan 
– Facility A 150.0 – – – – Sep 2015 Aug 2016
Acquisition facility bank term loan 
– Facility B 400.0 – – – – Sep 2015 Feb 2019
Acquisition facility Bank term loan 
– Facility C 450.0 – – – – Sep 2015 Sep  2020
Total bank loans –
$300m US private placement 
senior notes – Series A 120.0 120.0 (4.1) 3.9 119.8 May 2011 May 2018
$300m US private placement 
senior notes – Series B 120.0 120.0 (0.5) 5.5 125.0 May 2011 May 2021
$300m US private placement 
senior notes – Series C 60.0 60.0 (0.3) 0.7 60.4 May 2011 May 2023
$200m US private placement 
senior notes – Series A 50.0 50.0 (0.2) 2.3 52.1 Dec 2014 Dec 2021
$200m US private placement 
senior notes – Series B 100.0 100.0 (0.4) 0.8 100.4 Dec 2014 Dec 2024
$200m US private placement 
senior notes – Series C 50.0 50.0 (0.2) 0.3 50.1 Dec 2014 Dec 2026
Total loan notes 507.8
Bank overdraft – UK cash pool 12.0
Other loans 3.6
2,150.0 523.4 650.0
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had $500 million of U.S. private placement senior loan notes outstanding with $400 million accounted for 
at fair value through profit and loss as the fair value interest rate risk has been hedged from fixed to floating rates. The remainder is accounted 
for at amortised cost.
Under IFRS hedge accounting rules the fair value movement on the loan notes is booked to interest and is offset by the fair value movement on 
the underlying interest rate swaps.
The Group includes the fair value gain on the interest rate swaps in relation to the loan notes within net debt so that the net effect is to show 
the $500 million US private placement at face value and to reflect the fact that the liabilities will be in place until maturity. More information is 
included in note 17. 
All other borrowings are held at amortised cost. 122
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
16. Borrowings – continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
Sterling 
$m
US dollar  
$m
Euro 
$m
Other  
$m
Total 
$m
31 December 2016
Bank overdrafts 0.2 – 0.8 – 1.0
Bank loans – 1,036.2 – – 1,036.2
Loan notes – 507.3 – – 507.3
Other loans 0.2 3.0 – – 3.2
0.4 1,546.5 0.8 – 1,547.7
31 December 2015
Bank overdrafts 8.6 2.3 0.1 1.0 12.0
Loan notes - 507.8 - - 507.8
Other loans 0.3 3.0 - 0.3 3.6
8.9 513.1 0.1 1.3 523.4
The average floating interest rates on borrowings are as follows:
2016 2015
Sterling 1.4% 1.5%
US dollar 2.5% 0.5%
Euros 0.0% 0.2%
The Group’s borrowings are funded through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. The floating rate debt exposes the Group to cash 
flow interest rate risk whilst the fixed rate US dollar private placement loan notes exposes the Group to changes in the fair value of fixed 
rate debt due to changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk is managed by the combination of fixed rate debt and interest rate swaps in 
accordance with pre-agreed policies and authority limits. As at 31 December 2016, 65% (2015: 77%) of the Group’s borrowings are fixed at a 
weighted average interest rate of 3.3% (2015: 3.2%) for a weighted average period of three years (2015: four years).
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. All bank loans and loan notes are unsecured. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 123
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
17. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
The carrying values of the financial instruments of the Group are analysed below:
2016 
Carrying 
value 
$m
2015 
Carrying 
value 
$m
Financial assets
Fair value through profit or loss – foreign exchange contracts
a
2.7 5.9
Derivative instruments held in fair value hedges
b
5.5 9.3
Derivative instruments in cash flow hedges 3.9 2.3
Available for sale investments 4.5 5.5
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents)
c, d
406.5 1,198.5
423.1 1,221.5
Financial liabilities 
Fair value through profit or loss – foreign exchange contracts
a
(0.9) (0.7)
Derivative instruments held in cash flow hedges (9.4) (6.5)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
d
(1,507.4) (381.7)
Financial liabilities at fair value (406.4) (406.5)
(1,924.1) (795.4)
a
   Foreign exchange contracts disclosed as fair value through profit and loss are substantially contracts not designated in a formal hedging 
relationship and are used to hedge foreign currency flows through the BBA Aviation plc company bank accounts to ensure that the Group 
is not exposed to foreign exchange risk through the management of its international cash management structure.
b
   Derivative instruments held in fair value hedges are designated in formal hedging relationships and are used to hedge the change in fair 
value of fixed rate US dollar borrowings.
c
   Recoveries from third parties in respect of environmental and other liabilities totalling $5.7 million (2015: $4.8 million) are included within 
trade and other receivables.
d
  The carrying value of trade and other receivables, and other payables approximates their fair value.
Derivative financial instruments 
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative financial instruments are shown below. The fair value on initial recognition is the 
transaction price unless part of the consideration given or received is for something other than the instrument itself. The fair value 
of derivative financial instruments is subsequently calculated using discounted cash flow techniques or other appropriate pricing models. All 
valuation techniques take into account assumptions based upon available market data at the balance sheet date. The notional amounts are 
based on the contractual gross amounts at the balance sheet date. 
Derivative financial assets 2016 2015
Notional 
amount 
$m
Fair value 
$m
Notional 
amount 
$m
Fair value 
$m
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps (590.0) 3.4 (630.3) 2.2
Foreign exchange forward contracts 1.9 0.5 4.0 0.1
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps (400.0) 5.5 (400.0) 9.3
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
Foreign exchange forward contracts 159.9 2.7 233.6 5.9
(828.2) 12.1 (792.7) 17.5 124
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
17. Financial instruments – continued
Derivative financial liabilities measured at fair value 2016 2015
Notional 
amount 
$m
Fair value 
$m
Notional 
amount 
$m
Fair value 
$m
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps (455.0) (3.5) (505.0) (4.2)
Foreign exchange forward contracts (55.5) (5.9) (75.9) (2.3)
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps – – – –
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
Foreign exchange forward contracts 48.4 (0.9) (25.7) (0.7)
(462.1) (10.3) (606.6) (7.2)
Adjustments relating to the credit risk of BBA Aviation plc and its counterparties, as defined within IFRS 13, are immaterial in the current and 
prior periods. 
The maturity of derivative financial instruments is as follows:
2016 2015
Asset  
fair value 
$m
Liability  
fair value
$m
Asset  
fair value 
$m
Liability  
fair value
$m
Current
Less than one year 3.0 (6.3) 5.9 (2.5)
Total current 3.0 (6.3) 5.9 (2.5)
Non-current
One to two years 2.5 (3.7) 0.1 (1.6)
T wo to three years – (0.3) 3.8 (2.6)
Three to four years 3.4 – – (0.5)
Four to five years 2.1 – 2.2 –
More than five years 1.1 – 5.5 –
Total non-current 9.1 (4.0) 11.6 (4.7)
12.1 (10.3) 17.5 (7.2)
Collateral 
As part of the Group’s management of its insurable risks, a proportion of this risk is managed through self-insurance programmes operated 
by the Group’s captive insurance companies, BBA Aviation Insurances Limited, based in the Isle of Man, and BBA Aviation Insurances 
(Vermont) Inc. These companies are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group and premiums paid are held to meet future claims. The cash 
balances held by these companies are reported on the balance sheet within cash and cash equivalents. As is usual practice for captive 
insurance companies some of this cash is used as collateral against contingent liabilities (standby letters of credit) that have been provided to 
certain external insurance companies.
The table below details the contractual amount of the cash balances that have been pledged as collateral for these contingent liabilities, all of 
which are current:
2016 2015
US dollar 
$m
Sterling 
$m
Total
$m
US dollar 
$m
Sterling 
$m
Total
$m
BBA Aviation Insurances Limited 11.3 0.7 12.0 11.4 0.8 12.2
BBA Aviation Insurances (Vermont) Inc 15.2 – 15.2 15.1 – 15.1
Total 26.5 0.7 27.2 26.5 0.8 27.3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 125
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The standby letters of credit have been issued via bank facilities and the amount of these facilities corresponds to the amounts pledged as 
detailed in the table above. The amounts pledged are usually for less than one year, and are secured by a legal charge to the bank providing 
the letters of credit, over the cash balances of these companies corresponding to the amount of the standby letters of credit. 
Financial risk factors
Our activities expose the Group to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity 
risk. Overall the risk management policies and procedures focus on the uncertainty of financial markets and seek to manage and minimise 
potential financial risks through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Group does not undertake speculative transactions for which 
there is no underlying financial exposure.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors of BBA Aviation plc. This 
department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with Group subsidiary companies. The treasury policies 
cover specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and the investment of 
excess liquidity. These policies are outlined on page 36.
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return 
to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt to equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash 
equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent comprising capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group’s policy is to borrow centrally to meet anticipated funding requirements. These borrowings, together with cash generated from 
the operations, are on-lent or contributed as equity to subsidiaries at market-based interest rates and on commercial terms and conditions.
The Group is subject to two financial covenant requirements within its borrowing facilities: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 
3.5 times and minimum net interest cover of 3.0 times (based on EBITDA). The borrowing facilities permit the use of an ‘acquisition spike’ 
which allows for the maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA covenant to be 4.0 times for two test periods following the activation of the 
‘acquisition spike’. The ‘acquisition spike’ was activated in February 2016 so the higher test applied for the testing periods ending June 2016 
and December 2016. The maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA will revert back to 3.5 times from the testing period ending June 2017. 
The Group complied with these covenants during the year.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact due to changes in fair values or future cash flows of financial instruments from fluctuations 
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group has well-defined policies for the management of these risks which includes 
the use of derivative financial instruments.
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group has significant overseas businesses whose revenues, cash flows, assets and liabilities are mainly denominated in the currency in 
which the operations are located. The Group’s policy in relation to foreign exchange translation risk is not to hedge the income statement 
since such hedges only have a temporary effect. In relation to the balance sheet, the Group seeks to denominate the currency of its 
borrowings in US dollars in order to match the currency of its cash flows, earnings and assets which are principally denominated in US dollars.
As at 31 December 2016, the majority of the Group’s net borrowings were denominated in US dollars as set out below:
                      2016
US dollar 
$m
Euros 
$m
Sterling 
$m
Other 
$m
Total
$m
Cash and cash equivalents 136.8 15.5 22.2 8.0 182.5
Borrowings and finance leases (1,548.2) (0.8) (0.4) – (1,549.4)
Net borrowings per the Balance Sheet (1,411.4) 14.7 21.8 8.0 (1,366.9)
2015
US dollar 
$m
Euros 
$m
Sterling 
$m
Other 
$m
Total
$m
Cash and cash equivalents 893.9 12.0 50.4 10.1 966.4
Borrowings (513.1) (0.1) (8.9) (1.3) (523.4)
Net borrowings per the Balance Sheet 380.8 11.9 41.5 8.8 443.0 126
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
17. Financial instruments – continued
Within the Group’s definition of net debt the US Private Placement (USPP) is included at its face value of $500 million (2015: $500 million) 
reflecting the fact that the liabilities will be in place until maturity. This is $7.3 million (2015: $7.8 million) lower than the carrying value, adjusted 
for the deduction of debt issuance costs. The net carrying value as at 2016 was $507.3 million (2015: $507.8 million).  
The Group manages its transactional foreign currency risk by hedging significant currency exposures in accordance with foreign exchange 
policies that our subsidiaries have in place which have been pre-agreed between Group Treasury and the subsidiary. Each foreign exchange 
policy is individually tailored to the foreign exchange exposures within the relevant subsidiary. Transaction currency risk is managed through 
the use of spot and forward foreign exchange contracts. All committed exposures are fully hedged 100% and where significant foreign 
currency exposures exist then generally a percentage of the projected foreign currency flows are covered, depending on the certainty of 
these cash flows.
The transaction foreign exchange risk is measured by each subsidiary submitting regular reports to Group Treasury which detail the foreign 
currency exposure reported on the balance sheet as committed exposures and, for those subsidiaries with significant foreign exchange 
transaction exposures, an additional report detailing the future projected foreign currency cash flows over the life of the policy. The pre-
determined policy margin is shown against the projected exposures to determine whether there is a net exposure which needs to be hedged. 
If this is the case, then foreign exchange spot or forward contract(s) will be undertaken by Group Treasury on behalf of the relevant subsidiary 
with the Group’s relationship banks.
2016
US dollar 
$m
Euros 
$m
Total
$m
Net foreign exchange transaction cash flow exposure 71.3 1.5 72.8
Derivative effect – foreign exchange contracts spot/forwards (53.7) (0.5) (54.2)
Net asset position excluding inter-company debt post hedging effect 17.6 1.0 18.6
2015
US dollar 
$m
Euros 
$m
Total
$m
Net foreign exchange transaction cash flow exposure 90.5 3.2 93.7
Derivative effect – foreign exchange contracts spot/forwards (70.7) (2.0) (72.7)
Net asset position excluding inter-company debt post hedging effect 19.8 1.2 21.0
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to $1.3 million (2015: $0.5 million) 
has been recognised in other comprehensive income. A gain of $4.5 million (2015: gain of $1.1 million) has been transferred to the income 
statement. 
Foreign exchange contracts that are not designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge foreign currency flows through the BBA 
Aviation plc company bank accounts and to ensure that the Group is not exposed to foreign exchange risk through the management of its 
international cash pooling structure.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts which have not been designated as cash flow hedges amounting to $34.6 million 
(2015: $5.7 million) have been transferred to administrative expenses in the income statement in the year. The net impact on the Group’s 
result for the period is immaterial, since the balances which these contracts relate to have had a similar but opposite effect on administrative 
expenses.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s borrowings are funded through a combination of bank debt and capital markets borrowings. The Group’s bank debt is funded 
through floating rate debt which exposes the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s capital markets borrowings are financed 
through US private placement fixed rate debt which exposes the Group to changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to changes in 
interest rates. The Group’s policy in relation to interest rate risk specifies the portion of its debt obligations, which should be fixed through the 
use of fixed rate debt and/or interest rate swaps, based on the debt maturity profile and an assessment of interest rate trends. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 127
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The fixed/floating interest rate mix within net debt and other financial instruments is as follows: 
2016
Cash and 
cash 
equivalents 
$m
Book  
value of 
borrowings 
$m
Fair 
value of 
borrowings
$m
Fixed interest rate (adjusted for interest rate hedging)
Less than one year – (180.0) (180.4)
Between two and five years – (732.8) (734.4)
After five years – (74.8) (84.6)
Total fixed interest rate (adjusted for interest rate hedging) – (987.6) (999.4)
Floating interest rate 182.5 (561.8) (561.8)
Total interest-bearing assets/(liabilities) within net debt 182.5 (1,549.4) (1,561.2)
2015
Cash and 
cash 
equivalents 
$m
Book  
value of 
borrowings 
$m
Fair 
value of 
borrowings
$m
Fixed interest rate (adjusted for interest rate hedging)
Less than one year – – –
Between two and five years – (301.6) (303.6)
After five years – (99.3) (115.0)
Total fixed interest rate (adjusted for interest rate hedging) – (400.9) (418.6)
Floating interest rate 966.4 (427.5) (427.5)
Total interest-bearing assets/(liabilities) within net debt 966.4 (828.4) (846.1)
In 2015, as part of the Group’s cash management strategy of the rights issue proceeds some of this cash was used to temporarily repay 
borrowings under the $650m facility prior to completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition. Therefore, as at 31 December 2015 bank loans 
were $nil but the table above includes $305 million of cash flow interest rate swaps which have been put in place to hedge the bank debt. 
The fair values of the financial instruments above are categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy on the basis that their fair value has 
been calculated using inputs that are observable in active markets which are related to the individual asset or liability. 
The Group has designated $1,045 million interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of which $150 million are forward starting interest rate 
swaps and the fair value gain of $5.4 million (2015: gain of $2.6 million) has been recognised in other comprehensive income. A charge of $7.3 
million (2015: charge of $3.7 million) has been booked against hedged interest payments made in the period. 
As detailed in note 16, $400million of the $500million US dollar private placement loan notes included within borrowings above have been 
adjusted by fair value changes due to interest rate risk, as this has been hedged using interest rate swaps converting fixed interest to floating 
interest rates. The fair value loss of $3.8 million on the swaps has been recognised in the income statement (2015: gain of $1.1 million) which 
has been offset by the fair value gain on the related fixed rate debt of $3.8 million (2015: loss of $1.1 million). This has also been booked to the 
income statement and the net impact is immaterial. 
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well 
as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. As part of the Group’s operations, cash 
management and risk management activities, the Group is exposed to counterparty risk arising on the financial assets held by the Group and 
the credit risk on outstanding derivative financial instruments. 128
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
17. Financial instruments – continued
Treasury-related credit risk 
The Group aims to reduce counterparty risk by dealing with counterparties with investment grade ratings, as measured by financial credit 
rating agencies. All treasury related activity is concentrated with relationship banks that provide unsecured committed facilities to the Group. 
Across the subsidiaries, wherever possible and where services can be provided efficiently and cost-effectively, bank accounts, surplus cash  
and any hedging activity are concentrated and undertaken with relationship banks.
Each counterparty that the Group uses for derivatives, bank account activity and the investment of surplus cash is assigned a maximum 
credit limit dependent upon the counterparty’s credit rating. This limit gives a maximum permitted amount of cash and derivatives that can 
be held or undertaken with each counterparty. Deposits are generally for short-term maturity of less than three months.
As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the Group had a number of exposures to individual counterparties. These exposures are 
continually monitored and reported and no individual exposure is considered significant in the ordinary course of treasury management 
activity. No significant losses are expected to arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
Commercial-related credit risk
The Group’s exposure to commercial-related credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and finance lease receivables and the amounts 
presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. Sales to customers are settled by a number of different ways 
including cash, credit cards, cheques and electronic payment methods. A customer or potential customer is assessed on a case-by-case 
basis to determine whether credit terms will be provided. The Group does not expect any significant losses of receivables that have not been 
provided for, as shown in note 12.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its liquidity requirements through the use of short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts. In addition to strong cash 
generation in the businesses the Group maintains unsecured committed borrowing facilities from a range of banks to mitigate this risk 
further. Headroom on our facilities is regularly evaluated and consistently monitored to ensure that the Group has adequate headroom and 
liquidity. 
The table in note 16 provides a breakdown of the Group’s committed borrowing facilities.
The following table provides an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under the financial liabilities as at the balance 
sheet date:
2016
US$
private
placement
$m
Bank
loans and 
overdrafts  
$m
Finance 
leases 
$m
Other
loans
$m
Trade
payables
$m
Non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
$m
Derivative
financial
liabilities 
$m
Total
$m
Due within one year 24.3 33.2 0.3 0.2 364.4 422.4 8.3 430.7
Due between one and two years 140.3 32.0 0.4 0.2 – 172.9 2.0 174.9
Due between two and three years 17.9 610.6 0.4 3.4 – 632.3 (0.1) 632.2
Due between three and four years 17.9 460.4 0.4 – – 478.7 – 478.7
Due between four and five years 183.5 – 0.4 – – 183.9 – 183.9
Due in more than five years 234.9 – – – – 234.9 – 234.9
Total 618.8 1,136.2 1.9 3.8 364.4 2,125.1 10.2 2,135.3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 129
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Restated
2015
US$
private
placement
$m
Bank
loans and 
overdrafts  
$m
Finance 
leases
$m
Other
loans
$m
Trade
payables
$m
Non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
$m
Derivative
financial
liabilities 
$m
Total
$m
Due within one year 24.3 12.0 – 0.6 264.8 301.7 4.8 306.5
Due between one and two years 24.3 – – 0.2 – 24.5 2.1 26.6
Due between two and three years 140.3 – – 0.2 – 140.5 1.0 141.5
Due between three and four years 17.9 – – 3.4 – 21.3 (0.1) 21.2
Due between four and five years 17.9 – – – – 17.9 – 17.9
Due in more than five years 418.4 – – – – 418.4 – 418.4
Total 643.1 12.0 - 4.4 264.8 924.3 7.8 932.1
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial derivatives using undiscounted cash flows is as follows:
2016 2015
Payable 
$m
Receivable 
$m
Payable 
$m
Receivable
$m
Due within one year (339.4) 336.6 (386.8) 391.4
Due between one and two years (44.7) 46.2 (52.6) 54.2
Due between two and three years (23.5) 26.5 (27.3) 29.6
Due between three and four years (18.7) 20.7 (20.5) 23.6
Due between four and five years (11.5) 11.0 (18.5) 20.6
Due in more than five years (17.7) 16.7 (29.3) 27.7
Total (455.5) 457.7 (535.0) 547.1
Sensitivity analysis as at 31 December 2016
Financial instruments affected by market risk are derivative financial instruments. The following analysis is intended to illustrate the 
sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the derivative portfolio and the proportion of derivatives hedging foreign 
exchange risk and interest rate risk are all constant and on the basis of hedge designations in place at 31 December 2016 and 2015 
respectively. As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position at these dates and is not representative of the year then 
ended.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
–  fair value interest rate swaps are assumed to be fully effective and therefore there is no impact on the income statement or balance sheet 
from changes in interest rates; 
–  changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges are assumed to 
be recorded fully within other comprehensive income; 
–  the sensitivity of accrued interest to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate exposures on debt, cash and derivative 
instruments;
– changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the income statement;
–  all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the 
Income Statement; 
–  the floating rate leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in the 
interest rate affects a full 12-month period for the accrued interest portion of the sensitivity calculations;
–  the sensitivity of foreign exchange rates only looks at the outstanding foreign exchange forward book and the currency bank account 
balances of the Company only as at the balance sheet date and assumes this is the position for a full 12-month period;
–  the sensitivity of a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates has been used due to the fact that historically rates can move by 
approximately 10% per annum; and
–  the sensitivity of a 1% movement in interest rates has been used due to the fact that historically floating US dollar interest rates have 
moved by on average 1% per annum. 130
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
17. Financial instruments – continued
Using the above assumptions the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Income Statement and within other comprehensive 
income that would result from reasonably possible movements in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, before the effects  
of tax.
2016 2015
Income  
Statement 
$m
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
$m
Income  
Statement 
$m
Other 
comprehensive 
income
$m
£/$ FX rates – £ strengthens 10% – 4.9 – 6.4
£/$ FX rates – £ weakens 10% – (6.0) – (7.9)
£/euro FX rates – £ strengthens 10% – 0.1 – 0.2
£/euro FX rates – £ weakens 10% – (0.1) – (0.2)
Interest rates + 1.00% (5.5) 36.0 (4.1) 55.1
Interest rates –1.00% 3.8 (38.6) 1.3 (59.7)
The foreign exchange analysis in the sensitivity table above illustrates the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates on foreign 
currency transactional exposures and does not include the impact on the translation of the Group’s overseas Income Statement and Balance 
Sheet. The translation impact on profit before tax in the Group’s Income Statement from the movement in exchange rates is approximately 
$0.1 million (2015: $nil million) for each 1% movement in the £/$ exchange rate.
18. Provisions
Beginning 
of year 
$m
Exchange 
rate 
adjustments 
$m
Reallocation 
to/from 
other
assets/ 
liabilities
$m
From 
acquisitions 
$m
Charged in 
year  
$m
Utilised in 
year 
$m
Transfer to 
Assets held 
for sale
$m
Released in 
year
$m
End 
of year 
$m
31 December 2016
Insurance provisions 28.1 (2.9) – – 19.8 (13.0) – (3.4) 28.6
Restructuring provisions 4.5 0.1 – – – (4.6) – – –
Discontinued operations 17.3 – – – 1.2 (7.1) – (0.1) 11.3
Environmental provisions 2.1 (0.3) – 8.1 0.3 (0.7) – – 9.5
Warranty provisions 5.1 (0.4) – 4.3 2.8 (0.9) – (0.1) 10.8
Other provisions 0.4 (0.3) – 9.4 – – (0.6) (2.0) 6.9
57.5 (3.8) – 21.8 24.1 (26.3) (0.6) (5.6) 67.1
Restated
31 December 2015 
Insurance provisions 25.9 (0.7) – – 16.8 (13.9) – – 28.1
Restructuring provisions 2.4 – – – 6.8 (4.7) – – 4.5
Discontinued operations 14.2 (0.2) 1.9 – 4.2 (2.8) – – 17.3
Environmental provisions 3.1 – (0.5) – 0.7 (1.2) – – 2.1
Warranty provisions – – 3.6 2.1 1.0 (1.4) – (0.2) 5.1
Other provisions – – – – 0.4 – – – 0.4
45.6 (0.9) 5.0 2.1 29.9 (24.0) – (0.2) 57.5
In 2016 warranty provisions have been disclosed separately from other provisions;  the 2015 note has been represented for comparability.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 131
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Insurance provisions relate to the Group’s captive insurance Companies. The Group’s captive insurance companies retain a portion of the 
exposure they insure on behalf of the remainder of the Group. Currently the Group retains all or a portion of the risk in relation to its Aviation, 
Workers Compensation, Automobile and Property damage insurances. Significant delays occur in the notification and/or settlement of 
claims and judgements involved in assessing outstanding liabilities, the ultimate cost and timing of which cannot be known with certainty 
at the balance sheet date. The insurance provisions are based on information currently available, however, it is inherent in the nature of the 
business that ultimate liabilities may vary. Provisions for outstanding claims are estimated to cover the outstanding expected liability as well 
as claims incurred but not yet reported. The liabilities have an expected life of up to ten years (2015: ten years).
Restructuring provisions represent costs provided in relation to commitments made at the balance sheet date for reorganisations which 
are expected to occur within one year of the balance sheet date. In 2015 the charges and the closing balance relate to the closure of ASIG 
Singapore. 
Provisions in respect of discontinued operations represent a provision for environmental and other liabilities relating to businesses that  
have been disposed of by the Group in prior years. The provision of $11.3 million (2015: $17.3 million) is partially offset by expected recoveries 
from third parties of $5.7 million (2015: $4.8 million), which are included within trade and other receivables due after one year $5.0 million, 
(2015: $4.1 million) and trade and other receivables due within one year $0.7 million, (2015: $0.7 million) in note 12. The liabilities have an 
expected life of up to 50 years.
Environmental provisions relate to environmental liabilities within continuing operations of the Group. The liabilities have an expected life of 
up to ten years (2015: ten years).
Other provisions relate to other trading matters, primarily relating to warranties in the Aftermarket Services division. Due to acquisitions the 
balance of other liabilities of this nature now warrants separate disclosure. As such the liabilities have been transferred from other liabilities 
and accruals to provisions in the year to better reflect their nature. The liabilities have an expected life of up to ten years (2015: ten years).
Analysed as:
2016 
$m
201 5 
$m
Current liabilities 27.6 27.0
Non-current liabilities 39.5 30.5
 67.1 57.5
19. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group operates a number of plans worldwide, of both the funded defined benefit type and the defined contribution type. The normal 
pension cost for the Group, including early retirement costs, was $13.1 million (2015: $12.5 million) of which $8.9 million (2015: $8.1 million) 
was in respect of schemes outside of the United Kingdom. This includes $10.9 million (2015 $9.7 million) relating to defined contribution 
schemes. The pension costs and defined benefit obligation are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The Group’s main UK pension commitments are contained within a final salary defined benefit scheme, the BBA Income and Protection 
Plan (IPP), with assets held in a separate trustee-administered fund. Contributions to the IPP are made and the pension cost is assessed 
using the projected unit method. As required by UK pension law, there is a board of Trustees that, together with the Group, is responsible for 
governance of the IPP .
During 2008, the Trustees of the UK defined benefit plan purchased from Legal & General Group plc an annuity to match the liabilities 
associated with pensioner members. Since the initial ‘buy-in’, further tranches of annuities have been purchased periodically in respect of 
new pensioner liabilities, although there have been no new tranches purchased during 2015 or 2016. The annuity is an investment of the UK 
plan, and all pension liabilities and responsibility for future pension payments remain with the plan. The income from the annuity matches the 
payments to be made to the pensioner members it covers and removes mortality risk in relation to those members which are the subject of 
the annuity purchase.
The Company closed the IPP to future accrual with effect from 31 May 2016 after consultation with members. On this date, all active 
members became deferred and their pension increases in future will be linked to deferred revaluations.
The actuarial valuation of the UK Income and Protection Plan (the “IPP”) as at 31 March 2015 indicated a funding deficit of £44.5 million 
($66 million at rate as at 31 March 2015).  As agreed with the Trustees of the IPP , BBA will make deficit contribution payments to the IPP of 
£0.3 million per annum in addition to the Asset-Backed Funding payments (set out below) to meet the costs of running the IPP. The next 
actuarial valuation is due as at 31 March 2018.
The US Minimum Funding actuarial valuation for the BBA retirement plan as at 1 January 2016 indicated a funding deficit of $2.3 million.  
As required by US law, BBA will make contribution payments that are in excess of the minimum required contribution amounts. The next 
actuarial valuation is due as at 1 January 2017.  132
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
19. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits  – continued
During the first half of 2014, the Group agreed a new long-term funding package with the Trustee of the IPP , following the sale of APPH 
Limited.  As part of this funding package, an Asset-Backed Funding (ABF) structure was put in place, which entitles the Trustee to receive 
payments of £2.7 million each year until 2034.  In addition, the Group made an additional payment of £4.2 million in January 2015.
The ABF structure consists of a Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP), formed between two newly incorporated subsidiaries of the Group 
and the Trustee of the IPP .  The SLP has a long-term inter-company loan receivable due from Ontic Engineering & Manufacturing UK 
Limited (Ontic UK), on which annual interest payments of £2.7 million are due over the term of the loan.  The SLP will make quarterly profit 
distributions of the interest payments received from Ontic UK to the IPP , totalling £2.7 million per annum. The Trustee of the IPP acquired its 
interest in the SLP via an in-specie contribution from BBA.
The ABF structure has been established so that the three newly created entities are consolidated into the Group’s financial statements.  In 
addition, the interest in the SLP held by the IPP is not treated as an asset under IAS19, and therefore is not included as part of the Group’s 
pensions disclosures under IAS19.  Instead, the payments due to the IPP are treated as a series of payments which the Group has committed 
to make
The split of the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2016 is approximately 45% in respect of deferred members and 55% in respect of 
pensioner members.  The weighted average duration of the IPP’s liabilities is approximately 15 years. 
In February 2016, the Company acquired the Northern Executive Aviation Limited Pension and Assurance Scheme as part of the Landmark 
Acquisition. This Plan has been included in the consolidated accounts within this report with effect from 5 February 2016. The Group’s foreign 
pension schemes (all in North America) mainly relate to a funded defined benefit pension arrangement.
There is also a post-retirement medical plan and a deferred compensation plan. Pension costs have been calculated by independent qualified 
actuaries, using the projected unit method and assumptions appropriate to the arrangements in place.
In accordance with IAS 19, and subject to materiality, the latest actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and 
healthcare plan have been reviewed and updated as at 31 December 2016. The following weighted average financial assumptions have  
been adopted:
United Kingdom North America
2016 2015 2016 2015
Per annum (%)
Discount rate 2.5 3.7 4.1 4.3
Rate of increase to pensionable salaries – 3.5 – –
Price inflation 3.2 3.0 2.3 2.3
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.1 2.9 2.3 2.3
IAS 19 requires that the discount rate used to discount the liability be determined by reference to market yields at the reporting date on high 
quality corporate bond investments. The currency and terms of these should be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post-
employment obligations. The discount rate for the UK Plans have been derived using a yield curve approach. The yield curve is based on the 
yield available on Sterling AA rated corporate bonds of a term similar to the liabilities.
The RPI assumption for the UK Plans allow for the shape of the inflation spot curve and the duration of the Plan’s liabilities. A deduction of 
30 basis points has been made to the breakeven inflation assumption to allow for an inflation risk premium. For the UK Plans, the mortality 
assumptions are based on the recent actual mortality experience of members within the plan, and a best estimate view of future mortality 
improvements. The life expectancy assumptions applying to the IPP as at 31 December 2016 are as follows:
2016 2015
Male Female Male Female
Life expectancy for a current 65-year-old (years) 22.1 24.3 22.0   24.2 
Life expectancy for a 65-year-old in 15 years (years) 23.5 26.2 23.4  26.1 
For the US post-retirement medical plan, the immediate trend rate for medical benefits was 7.50% which is assumed to reduce by 0.5% per 
annum to 5.0% in 2022 onwards.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 133
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The fair value of the assets and liabilities of the schemes at each balance sheet date were:
United Kingdom North America Total
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Assets
Equities 138.9 180.0 16.9 17.0 155.8 197.0
Government bonds 32.5 28.2 – – 32.5 28.2
Corporate bonds 83.9 73.1 20.4 19.9 104.3 93.0
Property 29.8 38.6 2.5 2.5 32.3 41.1
Insurance policies 361.7 401.3 – – 361.7 401.3
Cash 32.7 4.3 0.9 0.7 33.6 5.0
Total fair value of scheme assets 679.5 725.5 40.7 40.1 720.2 765.6
For the UK plans, at 31 December 2016, a total of $460.8m of assets were not quoted on an active investment market (comprising $12.1m 
government bonds, $31.3m of corporate bonds, $29.5m property, $361.7m of insurance policies and $26.2m of cash). All of the assets in 
respect of the US plans were quoted on an active investment market except the $0.9m held in cash.
Present value of defined benefit obligations (737.3) (739.6) (65.7) (66.1) (803.0) (805.7)
Liability recognised on the Balance Sheet (57.8) (14.1) (25.0) (26.0) (82.8) (40.1)
In accordance with IAS 19 and IFRIC 14 a minimum funding liability arises where the statutory funding requirements are such that future 
contributions in respect of past service will result in an unrecognisable surplus in future. As a result of the change to the Rules of the IPP , a 
minimum funding liability does not need to be recognised at 31 December 2016.
The funding policy for the IPP and majority of the North American schemes is reviewed on a systematic basis in consultation with the 
independent scheme actuary in order to ensure that the funding contributions from sponsoring employers are appropriate to meet the 
liabilities of the schemes over the long term.
Included within other receivables in the balance sheet are $2.9 million (2015: $3.1 million) of listed investments which are held in trust for the 
benefit of members of the deferred compensation plan in North America. These amounts are not included within the assets shown in the table 
above as they are not controlled by the plan in question.
United Kingdom North America Total
2016 
$m
2015
$m
2016 
$m
2015
$m
2016 
$m
2015
$m
Analysis of Income Statement charge
Current service cost 0.8 2.8 – – 0.8 2.8
Net interest on the net defined benefit asset/liability 0.4 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.4 1.9
Administration expenses 1.6 1.8 0.7 0.6 2.3 2.4
Recognition of past service cost 1.4 – – – 1.4 –
Expense recognised in Income Statement 4.2 5.4 1.7 1.7 5.9 7.1 134
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
19. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits – continued
United Kingdom North America Total
2016 
$m
2015
$m
2016 
$m
2015
$m
2016 
$m
2015
$m
Changes to the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation during the year
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 739.6 781.0 66.1 74.3 805.7 855.3
Current service cost 0.8 2.8 – – 0.8 2.8
Interest cost 24.5 25.2 2.7 2.9 27.2 28.1
Contributions by plan participants 0.2 0.4 – – 0.2 0.4
Past service cost 1.4 – – – 1.4   –
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to change in financial assumptions 158.2 (31.4) 2.0 (2.6) 160.2 (34.0)
Net increase in liabilities from acquisitions 3.8 – – – 3.8 –
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to change in demographic 
assumptions
– (2.2) (1.2) (1.4) (1.2) (3.6)
Experience (gains)/losses on scheme liabilities (10.3) 53.1 0.1 (0.1) (10.2) 53.0
Net benefits paid out (42.9) (49.3) (4.0) (7.0) (46.9) (56.3)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes (138.0) (40.0) – – (138.0) (40.0)
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 737.3 739.6 65.7 66.1 803.0 805.7
United Kingdom North America Total
2016 
$m
2015
$m
2016 
$m
2015
$m
2016 
$m
2015
$m
Changes to the fair value of scheme assets during the year
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 725.5 749.6 40.1 43.5 765.6 793.1
Interest income on scheme assets 24.1 24.4 1.7 1.8 25.8 26.2
Actual employer contributions 6.5 14.5 2.0 6.0 8.5 20.5
Contributions by plan participants 0.2 0.4 – – 0.2 0.4
Net benefits paid out (42.9) (49.3) (4.0) (7.0) (46.9) (56.3)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on assets 94.9 26.6 1.6 (3.6) 96.5 23.0
Net increase in assets from acquisitions 3.6 – – – 3.6 –
Administration expenses (1.6) (1.8) (0.7) (0.6) (2.3) (2.4)
Foreign currency exchange rate changes (130.8) (38.9) – – (130.8) (38.9)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 679.5 725.5 40.7 40.1 720.2 765.6
At 31 December 2016, the largest single category of investment held by the UK Plans are annuities purchased from Legal and General which 
matches the liabilities associated with pensioner members, with a value of $361.7 million (53.2% of the asset holding at 31 December 2016).  
The value of these annuities has been calculated as being equivalent to the value of the pensioner liabilities which they match, using the same 
actuarial assumptions used to calculate the corresponding element of the DBO. The purpose of the annuity is to help reduce asset/liability 
mismatch risk.
The remainder of the assets of the UK Plan are invested in a range of funds with different risk and return profiles, with equities being the next 
largest asset class held after the insurance contract. The objective of the remainder of the portfolio is to generate excess returns, in order to 
partially fund the UK Plan through asset performance. To the extent that actual investment returns achieved are lower than those assumed, 
then this may result in a worsening of the funding position and higher future cash contribution requirements for the Group. This is particularly 
the case in respect of the proportion of the assets held within equity instruments.
The assets of the US Plans are invested in a range of funds with different risk and return profiles. The risks inherent in the investment strategy 
for these Plans is similar to the risks posed by the investment strategy for the UK Plans, albeit they are smaller in magnitude given the size of  
the US Plans relative to the UK Plans.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 135
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
United Kingdom North America Total
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Actual return on scheme assets 119.0 51.0 3.3 (1.8) 122.3 49.2
United Kingdom North America Total
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Analysis of amounts recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income
Liability (losses)/gains due to changes in financial assumptions (158.2) 31.4 (2.0) 2.6 (160.2) 34.0
Liability gains/(losses) due to changes in  
demographic assumptions – 2.2 1.2 1.4 1.2 3.6
Asset gains/(losses) arising during the period 94.9 26.6 1.6 (3.6) 96.5 23.0
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 10.3 (53.1) (0.1) 0.1 10.2 (53.0)
T otal gains/(losses) before exchange (losses)/gains (53.0) 7.1 0.7 0.5 (52.3) 7.6
Exchange gains 7.1 1.2 – – 7.1 1.2
T otal gains/(losses) recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income (45.9) 8.3 0.7 0.5 (45.2) 8.8
The UK Plans are exposed to inflation risk as a result of the decision to grant inflation-linked increases to pensions in payment and deferment. 
There is also a longevity risk to the UK Plans if member mortality improves beyond expectations. The sensitivity of the liabilities to such 
changes are given below.
Impact on defined  
benefit obligation
United 
Kingdom 
$m
North 
America 
$m
Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used  
to measure plan defined benefit obligations
Increase of 0.25% in discount rate (28.2) (1.8)
Decrease of 0.25% in discount rate 30.1 1.9
Increase of 0.25% in inflation 24.1 0.2
Decrease of 0.25% in inflation (26.2) (0.2)
Increase of 0.25% in pension increase rate 19.7 0.2
Decrease of 0.25% in pension increase rate (18.9) (0.2)
Increase of one year in life expectancy 34.3 2.3
Decrease of one year in life expectancy (34.3) (2.3) 136
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
19. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits – continued
The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, therefore interdependencies 
between assumptions are excluded, with the exception of the inflation rate sensitivity which also impacts salary and pension increase 
assumptions. The analysis also makes no allowance for the impact of changes in gilt and corporate bond yields on asset values. The 
methodology applied is consistent to that used to determine the defined benefit obligation.
United Kingdom 
$m
North America 
$m
Total 
$m
Employer contributions for 2017 are estimated to be as follows: 5.2 2.6 7.8
20. Deferred tax
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
$m
Other  
assets 
$m
Goodwill  
and 
intangibles
$m
Tax losses 
and tax 
credits
$m
Retirement 
benefits
$m
Share-
based 
payments 
$m
Total
$m
Balance as at 1 January 2015 (9.7) 23.2 (118.9) 13.6 18.5 3.2 (70.1)
Expense/(credit) for the year from continuing 
operations 1.9 5.2 (11.8) 14.2 (1.3) (0.8) 7.4
Expense/(credit) for the year from discontinued 
operations 0.9 0.3 (1.0) (5.4) – – (5.2)
Expense to other comprehensive  
income and equity – (1.1) – – (3.7) (1.8) (6.6)
Acquisitions/disposals 0.3 0.8 (1.1) – – – –
Exchange adjustments 0.3 – 0.1 (0.5) (0.2) (0.1) (0.4)
Balance as at 31 December 2015 (6.3) 28.4 (132.7) 21.9 13.3 0.5 (74.9)
Expense/(credit) for the year from continuing 
operations 10.6 17.8 46.0 2.3 (0.5) 1.1 77.3
Expense/(credit) for the year from discontinued 
operations (1.8) 7.6 (1.3) (0.2) – – 4.3
(Credit)/expense to other comprehensive  
income and equity – 2.1 – – 9.3 0.6 12.0
Acquisitions/disposals (3.6) (3.0) (154.1) 1.9 – – (158.8)
Transfers to assets held for sale 4.8 (11.3) 27.0 (1.0) – – 19.5
Exchange adjustments 0.8 – 1.9 (0.5) (1.3) (0.4) 0.5
Balance as at 31 December 2016 4.5 41.6 (213.2) 24.4 20.8 1.8 (120.1)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes:
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Deferred tax liabilities (120.5) (83.1)
Deferred tax assets 0.4 8.2
(120.1) (74.9)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has gross temporary differences and tax losses of $1.2 billion (2015: $1.4 billion) available for offset 
against future profits for which deferred tax has not been recognised. These assets have not been recognised as the precise incidence of 
future profits in the relevant countries and legal entities cannot be accurately predicted at this time. Included in the unrecognised gross 
temporary difference is $9.5 million (2015: $8.7 million relating to losses due to expire in 2020) which relates to losses that will expire by 2020. 
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely under current tax legislation.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
deferred tax liabilities could arise but have not been recognised is $13.0 million (2015: $1.5 million). No liability has been recognised in respect 
of these differences because the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that 
such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 137
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
21. Share capital and reserves
Allotted, called up  
and fully paid
Share capital
2016 
millions
2015 
millions
Number of shares
Ordinary 29
16
/
21
p shares
At the start of the year 1,044.5 481.4
Issued during the year 0.4 563.1
At the end of the year 1,044.9 1,044.5
5% cumulative preference £1 shares at the start and end of the year 0.2 0.2
Nominal value of shares
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Equity shares
Ordinary 29
16
/
21
p shares 508.7 508.5
Non-equity shares
5% cumulative preference £1 shares 0.2 0.3 
508.9 508.8
Issue of share capital
On 27 October 2015, the Company raised $1,117.1 million (net of expenses of $26.0 million) through a rights issue of 562,281,811 ordinary 
shares at 133p each on the basis of six new ordinary shares for every five existing ordinary shares. The issue price represented a discount of 
47.8% to the closing share price on 23 September 2015, the announcement date of the rights issue. The discount element inherent in the 
rights issue is treated as a bonus issue of 224.9 million shares. 
During the year, the Group issued 0.4 million (2015: 0.9 million) ordinary 29
16
/
21
p shares to satisfy the vesting of share awards under the BBA 
Aviation plc share option schemes. The consideration for shares issued in respect of share options was $0.3 million (2015: $0.4 million).
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Reserves attributable to equity interests
Share premium account
Beginning of year 1,594.4 733.1
Issue of share capital 0.1 861.3
End of year 1,594.5 1,594.4
Other reserve
Beginning of year 1.0 6.9
Transfer of the revaluation reserve to retained earnings on the disposal of property – (5.9)
Fair value movements on available for sale financial instruments (2.0) –
End of year (1.0) 1.0
Treasury reserve
Beginning of year (90.0) (71.9)
Purchase of own shares (2.4) (23.9)
Sale/transfer of own shares 1.1 2.0
Transfer from retained earnings 0.3 3.8
End of year (91.0) (90.0) 138
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Capital reserve
Beginning of year 38.1 41.6
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 9.1 2.8
Transfer to retained earnings on exercise of equity-settled share-based payments (2.1) (6.3)
End of year 45.1 38.1
Hedging reserve
Beginning of year (12.6) (13.1)
Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives (4.1) (2.1)
Transfer to Income Statement 2.8 2.6
End of year (13.9) (12.6)
Translation reserve
Beginning of year (74.4) (59.3)
Transfers from/(to) non-controlling interest 0.2 (0.5)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.7 (14.6)
End of year (73.5) (74.4)
Retained earnings
Beginning of year 208.2 194.4
Transfer from capital reserve on exercise of equity-settled share-based payments 2.1 6.3
Transfer to treasury reserve (0.3) (3.8)
Deferred tax on items taken directly to reserves 13.3 (2.9)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (52.3) 7.6
Dividends paid (124.3) (76.6)
(Loss)/profit for the year (98.9) 83.2
End of year (52.2) 208.2
At 31 December 2016, 4,428,002 ordinary 29
16
/
21
p shares (2015: 4,860,076 shares) with a nominal value of £1.3 million (2015: £1.4 million) 
and a market value of $15.4 million (2015: $13.6 million) were held in the BBA Employee Benefit Trust, a trust set up in 2006. EES Trustees 
International Limited, the Trustees of the BBA Employee Benefit Trust, has agreed to waive its dividend entitlement in certain circumstances. 
Rights of non-equity interests
5% cumulative preference £1 shares:
i.  entitle holders, in priority to holders of all other classes of shares, to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at a rate of 5.0% per annum 
per share payable half yearly in equal amounts on 1 February and 1 August;
ii.  on a return of capital on a winding up, or otherwise, will carry the right to repayment of capital together with a premium of 12.5p per share 
and a sum equal to any arrears or deficiency of dividend; this right is in priority to the rights of the ordinary shareholders; and
iii.  carry the right to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company only if, at the date of the notice convening the meeting, payment 
of the dividend to which they are entitled is six months or more in arrears, or if a resolution is to be considered at the meeting for winding 
up the Company or reducing its share capital or sanctioning the sale of the undertakings of the Company or varying or abrogating any of 
the special rights attached to these.
Rights of equity interests in 29
16
/
21
p ordinary shares
The rights of equity interests in 29
16
/
21
p ordinary shares:
i.  each share has equal rights to dividends; 
ii.  carry no right to fixed income;
iii.   on a return of capital on a winding up, or otherwise, will carry the right to repayment of capital; this right is subordinate to the rights of the 
preference shareholders; and
iv. carry the right to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued
21. Share capital and reserves – continued 139
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
22. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments 
The number of options and the associated share prices in the tables below have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the shares 
issued under the terms of the rights issue.
(i) Share options 
The Group plan provides for a grant price equal to the average of the middle market price of a BBA Aviation plc ordinary share up to five 
dealing days prior to the date of grant. The vesting period is generally three years. Share options are forfeited if the employee leaves the 
Group before the options vest.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2016 2015
Number  
of share  
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
Number  
of  
share  
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,164,391 151p 4,192,888 201p
Granted during the year 3,685,380 162p 72,390 26p
Impact of the rights issue – – 1,614,503 143p
Exercised during the year (689,034) 76p (1,160,629) 112p
Lapsed during the year (999,832) 178p (554,761) 156p
Outstanding at the end of the year 6,160,905 113p 4,164,391 151p
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 220.93p (2015: 112p). The options 
outstanding at 31 December 2016 had weighted average remaining contractual life of 26 months (2015: 20 months), and an exercise price 
range of 156p to 248p (2015: 112p to 177p). Options of 221,896 (2015: 72,390) shares were granted under the BBA UK Share Option Plan in 
the year. 3,463,484 options (2015: nil) shares were granted under the BBA Savings Related Share Option Plan.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated 
using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award. These include Black–Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo 
simulations. The inputs into the models were as follows:
Issued in  
March 2016
Issued in  
March 2015
Weighted average share price (pence) 202 239
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 160 26
Expected volatility (%) 23.9% 25.1%
Expected life (months) 36 36
Risk-free rate (%) 0.56% 0.80%
Expected dividend yield (%) 4.61% 3.21% 140
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
22. Share-based payments – continued
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the period of time equivalent to the 
remaining contractual life of the option. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for 
the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
(ii) Share awards 
Details of the conditional share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Number
of shares
2016
Number
of shares 
2015
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 11,135,460 10,095,305
Granted during the year 6,471,140 3,554,918
Impact of the rights issue – 3,486,300
Exercised during the year (825,123) (1,946,297)
Lapsed during the year (3,304,340) (4,054,766)
Outstanding at the end of the year 13,477,137 11,135,460
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 18 months (2015: 19 months). The 
weighted average fair value of conditional shares granted in the year was 167p (2015: 210p).
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted and calculated 
using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award. These include Black–Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo 
simulations. The inputs into the model were as follows:
Issued in March  
2016
Issued in March 
2015
Weighted average share price (pence) 194 237
Expected volatility (%) 23.9% 25.1%
Expected life (months) 36 36
Risk-free rate (%) 0.56% 0.80%
Expected dividend yield (%) 4.75% 3.12%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the period of time equivalent to the 
remaining contractual life of the option. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for 
the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
(iii) Expense charged to Income Statement
The Group recognised a total expense of $9.1 million (2015: $2.8 million) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions and 
$0.7m (2015: Nil) related to cash-settled share-based payment transactions during the year. $3.7 million of that expense was classified 
as exceptional and other costs with $3.2m in relation to the integration of Landmark Aviation and $0.5m in relation to ERO footprint 
rationalisation.
(iv) Other share-based payment plan
The Company’s Savings Related Share Option Plan is open to all eligible UK employees. Options are granted at a price equal to the average 
three-day middle market price of a BBA Aviation plc ordinary share prior to the date of grant, less 20%. Options are granted under three or 
five-year SAYE contracts. The maximum overall employee contribution is £500 per month. Pursuant to this plan, the Group issued 416,456 
ordinary shares in 2016 (2015: 19,494 ordinary shares).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 141
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
23. Cash flow from operating activities
All alternative performance measures are reconciled to IFRS measures and explained on pages 169-173.
2016
$m
2015
$m
Operating profit 166.1 112.7
Operating profit from discontinued operations 26.8 18.1
Share of profit from associates and joint ventures (13.4) (9.6)
Profit from operations 179.5 121.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 69.7 58.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 114.2 24.3
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (4.3) (3.7)
Share-based payment expense 6.1 2.8
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (7.8) 5.7
Pension scheme payments (6.6) (15.3)
Other non-cash items 2.5 21.0
Unrealised foreign exchange movements 1.3 0.6
Operating cash inflows before movements in working capital 354.6 215.1
Decrease/(increase) in working capital 36.1 (21.7)
Cash generated by operations 390.7 193.4
Net income taxes paid (15.8) (5.0)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 374.9 188.4
Dividends received from associates 2.4 3.4
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (101.6) (81.8)
Purchase of intangible assets* (0.8) (8.9)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 11.1 16.7
Interest received 2.7 11.7
Interest paid (64.5) (41.1)
Interest element of finance leases paid (0.1) –
Free cash flow 224.1 88.4
* Purchase of intangible assets excludes $10.6 million (2015: $13.5 million) paid in relation to Ontic licences, since the directors believe these payments are more akin to 
expenditure in relation to acquisitions, and are therefore outside of the Group’s definition of free cash flow. These amounts are included within purchase of intangible assets 
 on the face of the Cash Flow Statement. 142
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
24. Acquisition of businesses
During the period the Group made the following acquisitions: 
On 5 February 2016, the Group completed the acquisition, acquiring control and 100% of the shareholding of Landmark Aviation for a total 
consideration of $2,079.4 million following the receipt of clearance under the U.S. Hart-Scott-Rodino Act as announced on 3 February 2016.
On 1 April 2016, SFS UK Limited, a subsidiary company, acquired control and 60% of the shareholding in Prime Aviation Services for a total 
consideration of $1.5 million, being cash consideration of $1.3 million and deferred consideration of $0.2 million, which was settled during 
2016. Prime Aviation Services operates FBOs at four locations in Italy.
On 30 June 2016, the Group’s Ontic business acquired the manufacturing rights and processes from Pratt & Whitney Canada for selected 
JT15D engine component parts for a total consideration of $17.0 million, $4.0 million of which is deferred as at 31 December 2016. The rights 
and processes acquired in this acquisition constitute a business under the definition of IFRS 3. 
On 30 December 2016, the Group’s Ontic business reached agreement to acquire a portfolio of legacy avionics products from GE Aviation, 
for a cash consideration of $61.5 million on a cash and debt free basis, all of which is deferred. The total consideration of $57.9 million 
presented below represents the $61.5 million less customer advances acquired of $3.6 million, presented as payables. The Business 
comprises a portfolio of legacy avionics parts servicing the military and commercial aviation markets, including electro mechanical, 
barometric, gyroscopes and electronics products.
On 30 December 2016, the Group’s Ontic business acquired the manufacturing rights and processes from Ultra Electronics to support the 
Bombardier Q400 Propeller Engine Control product for a total consideration of $6.8 million.
In the year, an increase in intangible assets totalling $0.7 million has been recognised in respect of prior year acquisitions in Aftermarket 
Services as a result of completing final fair value exercises.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 143
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The fair value of the net assets acquired and goodwill arising on these acquisitions are set out below:
Prime 
Aviation 
Services 
$m
Landmark 
$m
Flight 
Support 
$m
Ontic 
JT15D 
parts  
series
2016 
$m
Ontic 
JT15D 
parts  
series
2015
$m
Ontic
GE Aviation 
portfolio
$m
Ontic
 Q400 parts 
series
$m
Aftermarket 
services   
$m
 
Total  
2016 
$m
Intangible assets 1.2 1,160.4 1,161.6 18.4 0.7 60.1 9.1 88.3 1,249.9
Property, plant and equipment 0.4 320.1 320.5 – – – – – 320.5
Assets classified as held for sale – 186.2 186.2 – – – – – 186.2
Investments in associates and joint 
ventures – 26.3 26.3 – – – – – 26.3
Inventories 0.1 10.6 10.7 0.3 (0.3) 11.0 – 11.0 21.7
Receivables 0.6 41.6 42.2 – – 1.3 – 1.3 43.5
Payables (1.3) (60.6) (61.9) – – (3.6) – (3.6) (65.5)
Provisions – (17.5) (17.5) (1.7) (0.4) (1.5) (0.7) (4.3) (21.8)
Taxation 0.3 (145.7) (145.4) – – (11.5) (1.6) (13.1) (158.5)
Cash 0.5 5.0 5.5 – – – – – 5.5
Finance leases – (2.2) (2.2) – – – – – (2.2)
Net assets 1.8 1,524.2 1,526.0 17.0 – 55.8 6.8 79.6 1,605.6
Non-controlling interests (0.7) – (0.7) – – – – – (0.7)
Goodwill 0.4 555.2 555.6 – – 2.1 – 2.1 557.7
Total consideration 
(including deferred consideration) 1.5 2,079.4 2,080.9 17.0 – 57.9 6.8 81.7 2,162.6
Satisfied by:
Cash 1.5 2,079.4 2,080.9 13.0 0.8 – 6.8 20.6 2,101.5
Deferred consideration – – – 4.0 – 57.9 – 61.9 61.9
Net cash consideration 1.5 2,079.4 2,080.9 17.0 0.8 57.9 6.8 82.5 2,163.4
Net cash flow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 1.5 2,079.4 2,080.9 13.0 0.8 – 6.8 20.6 2,101.5
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.5) (5.0) (5.5) – – – – – (5.5)
Debt acquired – 2.2 2.2 – – – – – 2.2
1.0 2,076.6 2,077.6 13.0 0.8 – 6.8 20.6 2,098.2
 
With the exception of the accuisition of Landmark and Ontic’s JT15D 2015 parts series, all fair values are provisional.
All acquisition costs incurred in the year are in relation to the acquisition of Ontic’s GE Aviation portfolio. In 2015, all acquisition costs related 
to the Landmark Aviation acquisition. In both periods these costs were recognised as part of transaction costs under exceptional and other 
items. Refer to note 2 for further details.
As a material transaction the Landmark Aviation transaction is presented separately below. The following disclosure relates to all 
transactions in this year.
In 2016, $0.8 million of deferred consideration was paid in relation to prior year acquisitions in Ontic. In the prior year, $1.1 million of deferred 
consideration was paid in relation to prior year acquisitions in Flight Support.  144
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
24. Acquisition of businesses – continued
The goodwill arising on these acquisitions is attributable to anticipated future operating synergies. $92.7 million of the goodwill is expected to 
be deductible for income tax purposes.
In the period since acquisition, the operations acquired have contributed $549.2 million and $133.7 million to revenue and operating profit 
respectively.  If the acquisitions had occurred on the first day of the financial year, it is estimated that the total revenue and operating profit 
from these acquisitions would have been $658.0 million and $156.5 million respectively. 
The fair value of the financial assets includes receivables with a fair value and book value of $43.5 million. The best estimate at the acquisition 
date of the contractual cash flows not expected to be collected is $nil.
Landmark Aviation
Net book value 
on the opening  
balance sheet 
$m
Debt and  
interest repaid 
 on acquisition   
$m
Fair value 
adjustments   
$m
Landmark 
 Aviation Total  
$m
Intangible assets 767.7
–
392.7 1,160.4
Property, plant and equipment 325.3
–
(5.2) 320.1
Assets classified as held for sale 75.6
–
110.6 186.2
Investment in associates 13.3
–
13.0 26.3
Inventories 13.7
–
(3.1) 10.6
Receivables 68.2
–
(26.6) 41.6
Cash  5.0
–
– 5.0
Finance leases (2.2)
_
_ (2.2)
Payables (67.7 )
–
7.1 (60.6)
Provisions (1.7)
–
(15.8) (17.5)
Taxation (69.2)
–
(76.5) (145.7)
Borrowings (907.5)
907.5
– –
Net assets 220.5 907.5 396.2 1,524.2
Goodwill 555.2
Total consideration satisfied by cash 2,079.4
 
Investments in associates relate to the Group’s interest in Landmark’s Aircraft Management and Charter business.  Though wholly owned 
by the Group throughout 2016, due to restrictions on our ability to control the business as a non-US citizen, has been accounted for as an 
associate undertaking. See note 10 for further details.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the anticipated profitability arising from the growth of the Signature network and 
anticipated future operating synergies. $92.7 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
In the period since acquisition, amortisation totalling $85.0 million has been recognised in relation to intangible assets identified and 
accounted for relating to the Landmark Acquisition. The Intangible assets relate to the right to operate at the Landmark FBO locations and 
are being amortised based on their individual useful lives which range up to 58 years with an average life of 18 years.
In the period since acquisition, the operations of Landmark Aviation have contributed $540.3 million and $132.7 million to revenue and 
underlying operating profit respectively. $21.9 million of underlying operating profit recognised in the period resulted from realised synergies.  
If the acquisition had occurred on the first day of the financial year, the total revenue and underlying operating profit from these acquisitions is 
estimated to be $607.0 million and $143.9 million respectively. 
The fair value of the financial assets includes receivables with a fair value and book value of $41.6 million. The best estimate at the acquisition 
date of the contractual cash flows not expected to be collected is $nil.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 145
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
25. Disposals and assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale
FBO disposals  
Under the terms of the regulatory approval in connection with the acquisition of Landmark Aviation, the Company was required to sell six 
legacy Landmark Aviation FBOs at: Westchester County Airport, New York; Washington Dulles International Airport, Virginia; Scottsdale 
Airport, Arizona; Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport, Alaska; Jacqueline Cochran Regional Airport, California; and part of the 
Landmark facilities at Fresno Yosemite International Airport. As a result the six FBOs referred to above were classified as a disposal group and 
held for sale from the date of acquisition. Though the operations are wholly owned by the Group, as a result of the restrictions placed upon 
our influence by the requirements of the U.S. Department of Justice, the results of the operations have been accounted for as an associate 
undertaking.
In March 2016, the Group announced the sale of six FBOs, as agreed with the U.S. Department of Justice under the terms of the regulatory 
approval for the acquisition of Landmark Aviation, for an aggregate consideration of $190 million to affiliates of KSL Capital Partners LLC (the 
transaction). The transaction closed on 30 June. 
Net cash proceeds totalled $184.7 million after adjusting for the impact of working capital. There was no gain or loss recognised on the 
transaction. In the period of the Group’s ownership the disposal group contributed $nil million of revenues and $7.9 million of underlying 
operating profit which is included in the share of profits of associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated Income Statement.
ASIG divestiture
It was announced in March 2016 that, following significant inbound interest, management was assessing value maximising options for the 
Group’s investment in the ASIG business, part of the Flight Support segment. At the beginning of April 2016, management committed to a 
plan to sell substantially all of the ASIG business and as such at that point the relevant assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale.  At 
that time, as a major line of the Group’s business, the ASIG operations were also classified as a discontinued operation.
ASIG was not previously classified as held for sale or as a discontinued operation. The comparative consolidated profit or loss and other 
comprehensive income has been restated to show the discontinued operation separately from continuing operations. Following its 
classification as held for sale, the asset group is held at fair value less cost to sell.
On 16 September 2016, the Group announced that it had reached agreement with John Menzies plc on the terms of the sale of the ASIG 
business. The transaction completed on 31 January 2017. Further detail is provided in note 27.
The fair values of the assets held for sale are categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy on the basis that their fair value has been 
calculated using inputs that are observable in active markets which are related to the individual asset or liability. 146
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
25. Disposals and assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale – continued
Results of discontinued operations
 
  
2016
 Restated
2015
Notes
Underlying
1
$m
Exceptional 
and other  
items
$m
Total
$m
Underlying
1
$m
Exceptional 
and other  
items
$m
Total
$m
Revenue 2 416.8 – 416.8 415.8 – 415.8
Cost of sales (373.9) – (373.9) (381.2) – (381.2)
Gross profit 42.9 – 42.9 34.6 – 34.6
Distribution costs (2.0) – (2.0) (1.3) – (1.3)
Administrative expenses (31.9) (0.7) (32.6) (35.1) (2.4) (37.5)
Other operating income 1.1 – 1.1 5.7 – 5.7
Share of profits of associates and joint ventures       10 – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Other operating expenses (1.2) – (1.2) – – –
Operating profit/(loss) incl. group charges 8.9 (0.7) 8.2 4.1 (2.4) 1.7
Elimination of internal group charges 18.6 – 18.6 16.4 – 16.4
Operating profit/(loss) 1, 2 27.5 (0.7) 26.8 20.5 (2.4) 18.1
Impairment and other charges on classification  
as held for sale
2
8 – (109.1) (109.1) – – –
Investment income 3 0.3 – 0.3 0.2 – 0.2
Finance costs 3 (0.4) – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
Profit/(loss) before tax 27.4 (109.8) (82.4) 20.3 (2.4) 17.9
T ax (charge)/credit 4 (9.5) 12.3 2.8 (4.9) 0.4 (4.5)
Profit/(loss) for the period 17.9 (97.5) (79.6) 15.4 (2.0) 13.4
Attributable to:
Equity holders of BBA Aviation plc 18.3 (97.5) (79.2) 15.0 (2.0) 13.0
Non-controlling interests (0.4) – (0.4) 0.4 – 0.4
Profit/(loss) for the period 17.9 (97.5) (79.6) 15.4 (2.0) 13.4
Earnings per share Note Adjusted
1
Unadjusted Adjusted
1
Unadjusted
Basic 6 1.7¢ (7.7)¢ 2.1¢ 1.8¢
Diluted 6 1.7¢ (7.7)¢ 2.1¢ 1.8¢
1 Underlying profit and adjusted earnings per share is stated before exceptional and other items.
2  The impairment of $109.1 million reported in exceptional and other items includes $114.0 million impairment of net assets held for sale to fair value less costs to sell, $1.0 million 
impairment of ASIG Singapore assets, $6.3 million impairment of non-controlling interest reserve, $7.3 million of deal costs incurred in 2016, and a $19.5 million gain on the right  
off of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to the disposal group. 
All alternative performance measures are reconciled to IFRS measures and explained on pages 169- 173.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 147
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
All exceptional items relate to the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition and valued in accordance to IFRS 3.
Cash flows from/(used in) discontinued operation
2016  
$m
2015  
$m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 18.8 18.9
Net cash outflow from investing activities (10.0) (1.3)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (1.7) (0.8)
Net cash flows for the year 7.1 16.8
Effect of the disposal group on financial position of the group
Notes
2016
$m
2015
$m
Assets held for sale
Non-current assets
Goodwill 8 70.6 185.9
Other intangible assets 8 6.1 6.6
Property, plant and equipment 9 63.4 59.1
140.1 251.6
Current assets
Inventories 11 4.0 3.6
Trade receivables 12 72.9 54.3
Other receivables 12 27.9 39.0
Cash and cash equivalents 12 22.8 15.7
127.6 112.6
Total assets held for sale 267.7 364.2
Liabilities held for sale
Current liabilities
Trade payables 13 (38.0) (36.8)
T ax liabilities (0.2) –
Other payables 13 (33.6) (32.4)
Borrowings 16 – (0.9)
Provisions 18 (0.6) –
(72.4) (70.1)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 16 – (0.4)
Other payables 13 (16.9) (17.8)
Provisions 18 – (0.1)
(16.9) (18.3)
Total liabilities held for sale before tax (89.3) (88.4)
Net assets held for sale 178.4 275.8 148
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
26. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are detailed below.
Compensation of key management personnel
Key management are the directors and members of the Executive Committee. The remuneration of directors and other members of key 
management during the year was as follows:
2016
$m
Restated
1
2015
$m
Short-term benefits 7.7 7.1
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.6
Share-based payments 2.7 2.4
10.9 10.1
1
 There has been a reclassification of $1.5 million between short-term benefits and share-based payments in the prior period to improve consistency of treatment in respect  
of the deferred bonus plan.
Post-employment benefits include contributions of $0.5 million (2015: $0.6 million) in relation to defined contribution schemes.
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of 
individuals and market trends. The directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56-78.
Other related party transactions 
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties which are not members of the Group:
Sales of goods Purchase of goods
Amounts owed by  
related parties
Amounts owed to  
related parties
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Associates 5.7 8.5 292.5 355.5 1.5 0.3 46.8 52.1
Purchases of goods principally relates to the purchase of aviation fuel. Purchases were made at market price discounted to reflect the 
quantity of goods purchased. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given 
or received.
At the balance sheet date, Group companies had loan receivables from an associated undertaking of $2.2 million (2015: $2.6 million).  
The loans are unsecured and will be settled in cash, and were made on terms which reflect the relationships between the parties.
The Group operates various pension and other post-retirement benefit schemes for its employees. Details are set out in note 19. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements – continued 149
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
27. Post balance sheet events
It was announced on 16 September 2016 that the Group had reached agreement with John Menzies plc (“Menzies”) on the terms of the sale 
of ASIG, a leading commercial aviation services company, for $202 million in cash. On 31 January 2017 the Group completed the sale and all 
the terms of the transaction remain as outlined in the announcement made on 16 September 2016.
Following the completion of the sale, adjusting for foreign exchange reserves write-offs and based on expectations of the working capital 
agreement there is no material gain or loss expected to be recognised on the disposal in 2017. 
Further detail of the operations covering its treatment as a discontinued operation, the assets and liabilities held for sale and subsequently 
disposed of, and the impairment of the assets based on the expected sale can be found in note 25. 150
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet
Notes
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current assets
Tangible fixed assets 3 1.0 1.2
Fixed asset investments 4 3,632.8 2,971.9
Derivative financial instruments 5 8.2 8.5
Other non-current assets 6 29.3 30.4
Deferred tax asset 10.6 1.6
3,681.9 3,013.6
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments 5 7.4 5.8
Other debtors 6 2,742.4 1,706.1
Cash at bank and in hand 8 38.2 561.5
2,788.0 2,273.4
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 7, 8 (0.8) (6.1)
Derivative financial instruments 5 (6.1) (2.0)
Others 7 (3,110.4) (2,879.8)
Corporate tax payable (3.6) (5.4)
Provisions 9 (0.2) (0.2)
Net current liabilities (333.1) (620.1)
Total assets less current liabilities 3,348.8 2,393.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 8 (1,255.1) (343.3)
Derivative financial instruments 5 (3.5) (3.2)
Retirement benefit obligations 12 (46.7) (9.5)
Provisions 9 (0.6) (0.8)
Total net assets 2,042.9 2,036.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 310.9 310.8
Share premium account 10 978.7 978.6
Other reserves 10 200.2 198.8
Profit and loss account 10 553.1 548.5
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,042.9 2,036.7
The financial statements of BBA Aviation plc (registered number 00053688) were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2017 
and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Pryce   Mike Powell 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
In accordance with the exemptions permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has  
not been presented. The profit for the financial year in the accounts of the Company amounted to £119.2 million (2015: £49.7 million loss).
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
Company Balance Sheet 151
Consolidated Financial Statements
Company Statement  
of Changes in Equity
Notes
Share  
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Profit and loss 
account
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 143.3 415.1 640.8 216.4 1,415.6
Loss for the year – – (49.7) – (49.7)
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 3.9 0.1 4.0
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – (45.8) 0.1 (45.7)
Dividends – – (50.1) – (50.1)
Issue of share capital 167.5 563.5 – – 731.0
Movement on treasury reserve 10 – – – (14.4) (14.4)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 10 – – – 1.8 1.8
T ax on share-based payment transactions – – (1.5) – (1.5)
Transfer to profit and loss account – – 5.1 (5.1) –
Balance at 31 December 2015 310.8 978.6 548.5 198.8 2,036.7
Profit or Loss for the year – – 119.2 – 119.2
Other comprehensive income for the year – – (29.0) 1.2 (27.8)
T otal comprehensive income for the year – – 90.2 1.2 91.4
Transfer between reserves – – 4.2 (4.2) –
Dividends – – (91.4) – (91.4)
Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 – – 0.2
Movement on treasury reserve 10 – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 10 – – – 6.7 6.7
T ax on share-based payment transactions – – 0.3 – 0.3
Transfer to profit and loss account – – 1.3 (1.3) –
Balance at 31 December 2016 310.9 978.7 553.1 200.2 2,042.9
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 152
Consolidated Financial Statements
Accounting Policies of the Company
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Basis of Accounting
BBA Aviation plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have 
been prepared using the historical cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance with 
applicable UK accounting standards and law. In the prior year, UK GAAP changed and the Company adopted and transitioned to Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101).
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the Going Concern and 
Viability Statement on page 79 of the Directors’ Report.
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures:
– A Cash Flow Statement and related notes;
– Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries;
– Disclosures in respect of capital management;
– The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs; 
– Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel; and,
– Presentation of comparative information in respect of certain items
As the Consolidated Financial Statements of BBA Aviation plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the 
exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures:
– IFRS 2: Share-Based Payments in respect of Group settled share-based payments;
– Certain disclosures required by IAS 36: Impairment of Assets in respect of the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets;
–  Disclosures required by IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, in respect of the cash flows of 
discontinued operations;
– Certain disclosures required by IFRS 3: Business Combinations, in respect of business combinations undertaken by the Company; and,
–  Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7: Financial Instrument Disclosures.
The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial 
statements. 
Prior year representation of statement of changes in equity 
In the comparative period £2.4 million of tax on items recognised in equity has been transferred to other comprehensive income.
In the comparative period fair value movements and the transfer to profit and loss from equity on cash flow hedges have been transferred 
to other comprehensive income within other reserves. These changes have been made to more accurately present other comprehensive 
income in the prior year.
Investments
In the Company’s Financial Statements, investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision 
for impairment.
Treasury
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date. Any gain 
or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. All such instruments 
are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Group’s risk management 
policies. All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments 
depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the 
profit and loss account. The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
Accounting Policies of the Company 153
Consolidated Financial Statements
Accounting Policies of the Company
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses on the underlying 
net investment. The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss 
account as they arise.
Post-retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is determined using the projected unit credit method, with valuations under IAS 19 
(revised) being carried out annually as at 31 December. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are 
recognised outside of profit or loss and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit in the year. Any past service 
cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
average period until the benefits become vested. The interest cost on the net defined benefit deficit is included within finance costs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as 
adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is only 
recognised to the extent that it is recoverable. 
Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
Share-based payments 
The Company operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the compensation is 
recognised in the profit and loss account as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference 
to the fair value of the options granted and calculated using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award. These include 
Black–Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations. For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance 
sheet date. For both cash and equity-settled options, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Tangible fixed assets
Plant and machinery and land and buildings are stated in the balance sheet at cost or valuation. Depreciation is provided on the cost of 
tangible fixed assets less estimated residual value and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the 
assets:
Land Not depreciated
Buildings 40 years maximum
Plant and machinery (including essential 
commissioning costs) 3–5 years
Computer and office equipment are categorised within plant and machinery in note 3 to these accounts.
Leases
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar to ownership (finance leases), the assets are treated as if they had 
been purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors. The capitalisation values of the assets are written off 
on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned. The capital elements of future 
lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the 
leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases (operating leases) the rental payments are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lives of  
the leases.
Taxation 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the 
year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet  154
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such 
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive 
income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the 
company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis.
 Current tax and deferred tax for the year 
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity respectively.
1. Dividends
Details of the Company’s dividends paid are provided in note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2. Directors and employees 
Emoluments and interests
Details of directors’ emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 56-78.
Employees
2016 2015
Average monthly number 54 43
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Salaries 7.1 5.7
Social security 1.0 0.8
Contributions to defined contribution plans 0.4 0.4
Expenses related to defined benefit plans 3.1
3.6
11.6
10.5
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information 155
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
3. Tangible fixed assets
Leasehold  
improvements 
2016 
£m
Plant and
machinery
2016
£m
Total
2016
£m
Leasehold 
improvements 
2015 
£m
Plant and
machinery
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Cost or valuation
Beginning of year 0.8 1.4 2.2 0.8 1.3 2.1
Additions – – – – 0.7 0.7
Disposals – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.6)
(0.6)
End of year 0.8 1.2 2.0 0.8 1.4 2.2
Accumulated depreciation
Beginning of year 0.4 0.6 1.0 0.3 1.1 1.4
Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
Disposals – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.6)
(0.6)
End of year 0.5 0.5 1.0 0.4 0.6 1.0
Net book value end of year
Owned assets – 0.7 0.7 – 0.8 0.8
Leasehold improvements 0.3 – 0.3 0.4 –
0.4
0.3 0.7 1.0 0.4 0.8 1.2
2016
£m
2015
£m
Land and buildings
Short leasehold
0.3 0.4
4. Fixed asset investments
2016
£m
2015
£m
Subsidiary undertakings
Cost of shares
Beginning of year 3,000.3 2,257.5
Additions 660.9 745.7
Disposals – (2.9)
End of year 3,661.2 3,000.3
Provisions for impairments
At beginning of year (28.4) (28.4)
Provided in year – –
End of year (28.4) (28.4)
Net book value end of year 3,632.8 2,971.9
The additions of £660.9 million in 2016 relate to an increase in the entity’s investment in Balderton Aviation Holdings Limited.
The subsidiaries and related undertakings of BBA Aviation plc are listed on pages 161-167. 156
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
5. Derivative financial instruments
2016 
Current 
£m
2016 
Non-
current
£m
2016
Total
£m
2015 
Current 
£m
2015 
Non-
current
£m
2015
Total
£m
Derivative financial assets
Foreign exchange  forward contracts 7.4 1.0 8.4 5.8 0.8 6.6
Interest rate swaps – 7.2 7.2 – 7.7 7.7
7.4 8.2 15.6 5.8 8.5 14.3
Derivative financial liabilities
Foreign exchange forward contracts (5.8) (1.0) (6.8) (1.9) (0.4) (2.3)
Interest rate swaps (0.3) (2.5) (2.8) (0.1) (2.8) (2.9)
(6.1) (3.5) (9.6) (2.0) (3.2) (5.2)
Details of the foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps are provided in note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
6. Debtors
2016
£m
2015
£m
Prepayments relating to the Company’s pension scheme, note 12 29.3 30.4
Debtors due after one year 29.3 30.4
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 2,738.3 1,693.3
Other debtors, prepayments and accrued income 4.1 12.8
Debtors due within one year 2,742.4 1,706.1
Within other debtors is a balance of £1.8m classified as assets held for sale.  This is incorporated within note 25 of the Consolidated  
Financial Statements.
7. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2016
£m
2015
£m
Borrowings (note 8)
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.8 6.1
0.8 6.1
Other
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,100.2 2,870.7
Other taxation and social security 0.2 0.1
Other creditors 3.0 5.6
Accruals and deferred income 7.0 3.4
3,110.4 2,879.8
Notes to the Company Financial Statements – continued
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information 157
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
8. Cash and borrowings
Borrowings summary
2016
 £m
2015
 £m
Medium-term loans
Repayable between one and two years 99.0 –
Repayable between two and five years 985.0 80.9
Repayable in more than five years 171.1 262.4
Borrowings: due after more than one year 1,255.1 343.3
Short-term
Overdrafts and borrowings repayable within one year (note 7) 0.8 6.1
T otal borrowings 1,255.9 349.4
Cash at bank and in hand (38.2) (561.5)
Net borrowings/(cash) 1,217.7 (212.1)
Borrowings analysis
2016
 £m
2015
 £m
Unsecured
Bank loans and overdrafts
Sterling 0.4 5.8
US dollar 1,254.9 343.5
Other currencies 0.6 0.1
T otal borrowings 1,255.9 349.4
Cash at bank and in hand (38.2) (561.5)
Net borrowings/(cash) 1,217.7 (212.1)
The interest rates on unsecured loans range from 1.0% to 5.9% per annum (2015: 0.5% to 5.9%) and repayments are due at varying dates up to 
2026.
Operating lease commitments
Land and buildings
2016
 £m
2015
 £m
Within one year 0.4 0.4
One to five years 1.6 1.6
More than five years 0.1 0.5
2.1 2.5 158
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
9. Provisions
Beginning  
of year 
£m
Charged  
in year 
£m
Utilised  
in year 
£m
Released  
in year 
£m
End  
of year 
£m
31 December 2016
Discontinued operations 1.0 – (0.2) – 0.8
Environmental provisions – – – – –
1.0 – (0.2) – 0.8
31 December 2015 
Discontinued operations 1.3 – (0.3) – 1.0
Environmental provisions 1.0 – (1.0) – –
2.3 – (1.3) – 1.0
Analysed as:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current liabilities 0.2 0.2
Non-current liabilities 0.6 0.8
0.8 1.0
Provisions in respect of discontinued operations represent environmental liabilities and onerous lease obligations relating to businesses that 
have been disposed of by the Company in prior years.
Environmental provisions in 2015 related to environmental remediation works on one of the Company’s sites.
10. Capital and reserves
Details of Company share capital, including the issuance of new shares in the year, are provided within note 21 to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements.
2016
£m
2015
£m
Reserves attributable to equity interests
Share premium account
Beginning of year 978.6 415.1
Premium on shares issued 0.1 563.5
End of year 978.7 978.6
Revaluation reserve
Beginning of year – 3.5
Transfer of the revaluation reserve to profit and loss account on the disposal of property – (3.5)
End of year – –
Merger reserve
Beginning and end of year 99.3 99.3
Capital reserve
Beginning of year 154.0 156.3
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments 6.7 1.8
Transfer to retained earnings on exercise of equity-settled share-based payments (1.5) (4.1)
End of year 159.2 154.0
Notes to the Company Financial Statements – continued 159
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
2016
£m
2015
£m
Treasury reserve
Beginning of year (57.4) (45.5)
Purchase of own shares (1.0) (14.4)
Transfer to profit and loss account 0.2 2.5
End of year (58.2) (57.4)
Hedging reserve
Beginning of year 2.9 2.8
Transfer to P&L reserves (4.2) –
Fair value movements in interest rate cash flow hedges (4.2) (1.2)
Transfer to profit or loss from other comprehensive income on interest rate cash flow hedges 5.4 1.3
End of year (0.1) 2.9
Profit and loss account
Beginning of year 548.5 640.8
Transfer from hedging reserve 4.2 –
Transfer from revaluation reserve – 3.5
Transfer from capital reserve on exercise of equity-settled share-based payments 1.5 4.1
Transferred from treasury reserve (0.2) (2.5)
T ax on items taken directly to reserves 8.5 (3.9)
Actuarial (losses) /gains (38.9) 4.6
Other items taken directly to/(from) reserves 1.7 1.7
Profit/(loss) for the year 119.2 (49.7)
Equity dividends (91.4) (50.1)
End of year 553.1 548.5
A transfer between the hedging reserve and profit and loss reserve of £4.2 million took place during the year to correct the presentation of 
the hedging reserve. 
At 31 December 2016, 4,428,002 ordinary 29
16
/ 21p shares (2015: 4,860,076 shares) with a nominal value of £1.3 million (2015: £1.4 million) 
and a market value of £12.5 million (2015: £9.2 million) were held in the BBA Employee Benefit Trust, a trust set up in 2006. EES Trustees 
International Limited, the Trustees of the BBA Employee Benefit Trust, has agreed to waive its dividend entitlement in certain circumstances. 
The profit and loss account includes £30.4 million (2015: £31.5 million) which is not distributable.
11. Share-based payments
Details of share-based payments are provided within note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
12. Pension and other post-retirement benefits
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the United Kingdom. Assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund. 
Contributions to the scheme are made and pension cost is assessed using the projected unit method.
During the first half of 2014, the Group agreed a new long-term funding package with the Trustee of the IPP , following the sale of APPH Limited. 
This new funding package replaced the deficit contributions agreed with the Trustee as part of the 2012 triennial valuation of the IPP. As part of 
this funding package, an Asset-Backed Funding (ABF) structure was put in place. In accordance with the implementation steps of the structure 
the Company made a capital contribution to a newly formed partnership of £33 million. This has been re-classified as a prepayment following 
the adoption of FRS 101. This asset will unwind over the life of the ABF structure as contributions to the plan reduce the Plan deficit. The final 
cash contribution will be made by the ABF structure to the Plan in March 2034, at which point the prepayment will be fully unwound.
Details of the UK scheme are provided within note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 160
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Notes to the Company Financial Statements – continued
13. Contingent liabilities
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee.
Contingent liabilities:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Guarantees of subsidiary undertakings, overdrafts or loans and other guarantees 4.2 9.9 161
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
Antigua
Roberts & Co Law, 60 Nevis Street, St. Johns, Antigua
SFS Operations Antigua Ltd Aviation 100%
Bahamas
50 Shirley Street, Nassau, Bahamas
ASIG Nassau Fueling Services Ltd Aviation 100%
Barbados
The Phoenix Centre, George Street, Belleville, St. Michael, Barbados
ASIG Holdings (Barbados) Limited Holding 100%
BBA Aviation (Barbados) Limited Holding 100%
Brazil
Av. Jamaris, 100, 12° andar, conj. 1202, Indianópolis, CEP 04078-000, São Paulo
BBA South América Ltda. Holding 100%
Avenida Professor Magalhães Penido, 120, Loja 1, São Luiz, CEP 31270-700, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Dallas Airmotive Manutenção de Motores Aeronáuticos Ltda. Aviation 100%
Canada
181 Bay Street, Suite 1800, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5J 2T9
ASIG Canada Limited Aviation 100%
ASIG Ground Handling Canada Ltd Aviation 100%
Landmark Aviation FBO Canada Inc. Aviation 100%
SFS Operations Canada Ltd Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Canada Ltd Aviation 100%
Signature Select Operations Canada Ltd Aviation 100%
Cayman Islands
Maples & Calder, PO Box 309, Ugland House, Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies
BBA Financial Services (Cayman Island) Ltd Holding 100%
England
3rd Floor, 105 Wigmore Street, London, W1U 1QY
Balderton Aviation Holdings Limited ∆ Holding 100%
BBA Aviation Business Support Centre – EMEA Limited
Support 
Services
100%
BBA Aviation Finance Holding 100%
BBA Aviation Life Benefits Trustee Limited ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA China Holdings No 1 Ltd Dormant 100%
BBA Finance ∆ Finance 100%
BBA Finance No 1 Holding 100%
BBA Finance No 3 Finance 100%
BBA Finance No 4 Limited Holding 100%
BBA Finance No 5 Finance 100%
BBA Financial Services Finance 100%
BBA Financial Services (UK) Limited ∆ Holding 100%
BBA Five Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA Four Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA Group Limited Dormant 100%
BBA Group Leasing Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA Holdings Limited Holding 100%
BBA Hydraulic Brake Company Ltd Dormant 100%
BBA Nominees Ltd Dormant 100%
BBA One Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA Overseas Holdings Limited Holding 100%
BBA Pension Trustees Limited ∆ Holding 100% 162
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
BBA Properties Limited Holding 100%
BBA Six Limited ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA Three Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
BBA Two Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Bonetights Ltd Dormant 100%
British Belting & Asbestos Ltd Dormant 100%
CBS (Automotive & Industrial) Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Cresswells Asbestos Company Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
CSE Aviation Limited Dormant 100%
Dallas Airmotive (UK) Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Falcon Air Training School Limited Dormant 100%
Falcon Aviation Training (UK) Limited Dormant 100%
Falcon Aviation Training Limited Dormant 100%
Frothgun (SA) Limited Dormant 100%
Guthrie & Company (UK) Ltd Dormant 100%
Guthrie International Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Guthrie Overseas Holdings Ltd Dormant 100%
Guthrie Overseas Investments Limited Holding 100%
Guthrie Scottish Nominees (No 1) Ltd Dormant 100%
Guthrie Scottish Nominees (No 3) Ltd Dormant 100%
Guthrie Trading (UK) Ltd Dormant 100%
Guthrie Trustees Ltd Dormant 100%
Guthrint Ltd Dormant 100%
Hamsigh Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Hants and Sussex Aviation Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Husbang Ltd Dormant 100%
Lintafoam (Manchester) Ltd Dormant 100%
Mulcott Belting Co. Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Nonehay Limited ∆ Dormant 100%
Notiontoken Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Oilark Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Okefab Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Ontic Engineering & Manufacturing UK Limited Aviation 100%
Oxford Aviation Holdings Limited ∆ Dormant 100%
Oxford Aviation Properties Limited Dormant 100%
PCCN 1997 Ltd Dormant 100%
Salprep Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Synterials Limited ∆ Dormant 100%
Texidwarf Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
T exstar Limited Dormant 100%
The Guthrie Corporation Limited Holding 100%
Valcove Ltd Dormant 100%
Versil Ltd ∆ Dormant 100%
Airport Service Road, Portsmouth, Hampshire, P03 5P J
H+S Aviation Limited ∆ Aviation 100%
Aviation House, Southern Perimeter Road, London Heathrow Airport, Hounslow, Middlesex, TW6 3AE
ASIG (UK) Ltd Dormant 100%
ASIG Ground Handling Limited Aviation 100%
ASIG Holdings Limited Holding 100%
ASIG Ltd Aviation 100%
ASIG Manchester Limited Aviation 100%
Aviation Consultancy Services Ltd Dormant 100%
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings – continued 163
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidaries and Related Undertakings
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
BBA Aviation ASIG Europe Ltd (name changed to BBA Aviation Europe Limited at date of Report) Holding 100%
Boker Aeroclean Ltd Dormant 100%
Coronet Aviation Services Ltd Dormant 100%
Hangar 100, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6NW
CSE Bournemouth Limited Aviation 100%
Voyager House, 142 Prospect Way, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9QH
Air Hanson Ltd Dormant 100%
BBA Aviation Lynton Group Ltd Holding 100%
Dollar Air Services Ltd Dormant 100%
European Helicopters Ltd Dormant 100%
Execair (East Midlands) Ltd Dormant 100%
Execair (Scotland) Ltd Dormant 100%
Landmark Aviation (UK) Limited Aviation 100%
Lynton Aviation Aircraft Sales Ltd Dormant 100%
Lynton Aviation Ltd Dormant 100%
Lynton Corporate Jet Ltd Dormant 100%
RSS Aircraft Engineering Limited Dormant 100%
RSS Jet Centre (Prestwick) Limited Dormant 100%
RSS Jet Centre Limited (45,833 £1 preference shares in addition to ordinary shares) Aviation 100%
SFS (Gatwick) Limited Dormant 100%
Signature Flight Support (Gatwick) Limited Dormant 100%
Signature Flight Support Heathrow Limited Dormant 100%
Signature Flight Support Limited Finance 100%
Signature Flight Support London Luton Limited Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Southampton Limited ∆ Dormant 100%
France
Lieudit Le Fond De Rosiere, 95500 Bonneuil-en-France
BBA Holdings France SAS Holding 100%
Encore FBO SAS Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Paris SAS Aviation 100%
Germany
Ostallee, GAT / Room 132, D-85356 Munich Airport
BBA Holding Deutschland GmbH Holding 100%
SFS Munich GmbH & Co. KG Aviation 95%
SFS Verwaltungs GmbH Aviation 95%
Signature Flight Support Germany GmbH Aviation 100%
Greece
59 Attikis & Ydras Str., Koropi 19400
Signature Flight Support Athens SA Aviation 100%
Ireland
70/71 O'Connell Street, Limerick
BBA Aviation LM Finance Ltd Finance 100%
BBA Finance Ireland No 1 Ltd Holding 100%
BBA Investment Aviation Limited Holding 100%
BBA Luxembourg Finance No2 Limited Finance 100%
Signature Flight Support Irish Holdings Ltd Holding 100%
Signature Flight Support Shannon Ltd Aviation 85%
North Terminal, Dublin Airport
FBO Dublin Dormant 100%
Signature Flight Support Dublin Ltd Aviation 100% 164
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
Isle of Man
3rd Floor, St George's Court, Upper Church Street, Douglas
BBA Aviation Insurances Limited ∆ Finance 100%
Italy
Viale dell' Aviazione 65, 20138 Milano
Prime Aviation Services Spa (name changed to Signature Flight Support Italy Srl at date of Report) Aviation 60%
Via Visconte di Mordone, 11, 20122 Milano
Signature Flight Support Italy (name changed to SFS Italy at date of Report) Aviation 100%
Jersey
47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD
BBA Financial Services (Jersey) Limited Finance 100%
Guthrie Estates Holdings Limited Dormant 100%
Luxembourg
6, avenue Pasteur, L -2310 Luxembourg 
BBA Aviation Finance Luxembourg No.10 Sarl Finance 100%
BBA Aviation LM Finance Sarl Finance 100%
BBA Aviation Sarl Finance 100%
BBA International Investments Sarl Holding 100%
BBA Luxembourg Finance Sarl Holding 100%
BBA Luxembourg Investments Sarl Holding 100%
BBA ROW Investments Sarl Holding 100%
BBA US Investments Sarl Holding 100%
Landmark Aviation FBO Luxembourg Sarl Finance 100%
Netherlands 
Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, The Netherlands
R.R. FBO Cooperatie U.A. Holding 100%
Netherlands Antilles
Schottegatweg Oost 44, PO Box 812, Willemstad, Curacao
Guthrie Investments NV Dormant 100%
Panama
PH ARIFA, 10th Floor, West Boulevard, Santa Maria Business District, PO BOX 0816-01098, Republic of Panama
ASIG Panama S.A. Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Panama Aviation 100%
Puerto Rico
CT Corporation System, 361 San Francisco Street, 4th Floor, San Juan, Puerto Rico
Signature Flight Support Puerto Rico, Inc Aviation 100%
Scotland
C/O Maclay Murray & Spens Llp, Quartermile One, 15 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh, EH3 9EP
BBA Aviation Pensions (GP ) Limited Finance 100%
BBA Aviation Pensions (Initial LP) Limited Finance 100%
4th Floor, 115 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4JN
Edinburgh Refuellers Ltd Dormant 100%
Execair Aviation Services Ltd Dormant 100%
Signature Flight Support UK Regions Limited Aviation 100%
Signature Refuelers Limited Aviation 100%
The Group has an interest in a partnership, the BBA Aviation Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group financial statements. The Group has  
taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of the qualifying 
partnership to these financial statements. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings – continued 165
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
Singapore
1075 West Camp Road, Seletar Airport, Singapore 797800
Aircraft Service International Group Asia-Pacific Pte Limited (name changed to BBA Aviation Asia-Pacific Pte Limited at date of Report) Aviation 100%
BBA Aviation Singapore Holdings Pte Limited Holding 100%
Dallas Airmotive Asia-Pacific Pte Limited Aviation 100%
Ontic Engineering and Manufacturing Asia-Pacific PTE. LTD Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Asia - Pacific Pte. Limited Aviation 100%
South Africa
C/O Interjet, Hanger 6, Lanseria International Airport, Lanseria 1748
Dallas Airmotive South Africa Dormant 100%
Beechraft Road, General Aviation Area, Cape Town International Airport 7525
Signature Flight Support Cape T own (Pty) Ltd Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support South Africa (Pty) Limited Holding 100%
Spain
Ocean Sky Jet Centre SLU Dormant 100%
St Kitts & Nevis
Liburd & Dash, Foundation House, Government Road, Charlestown, St. Kitts and Nevis
SFS Island Operations Ltd Aviation 100%
St Maarten
Princess Juliana International Airport, Simpson Bay, St. Maarten
Arrindell Aviation by Signature N.V. Aviation 95%
Thailand
Chandler and Thong-Ek Law Offices Limited, 20 Bubhajit Building, 7th-9th Fl. North Sathorn Road, Silom Bangrak, Bangkok 10500 Thailand
ASIG (Thailand) Company Limited Aviation 51%
Trinidad and T obago
M. Hamel-Smith & Co. Eleven Albion, Cor Dere and Abion Sts, Port of Spain, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago
Signature Trinidad Limited Aviation 100%
United Arab Emirates
Abu Dhabi International Airport, Abu Dhabi Airport Business City, Logistics Park, Warehouse No. A15
H+S Aviation Middle East LLC Aviation 100%
United States
201 S. Orange Avenue, Orlando, Florida, 32801
Aircraft Service International Group Inc. Holding 100%
Aircraft Service International Inc. Aviation 100%
ASIG Holdings Corporation Holding 100%
ASIG Lounge, Inc. Aviation 100%
Atlantic Aero Holdings. Inc. Holding 100%
Atlantic Aero Inc. Aviation 100%
Aviation Fuel Distributors LLC Aviation 100%
BBA Aviation USA. Inc. Aviation 100%
BBA Diagnostics LLC Dormant 90.6%
BBA U.S. Holdings. Inc. Holding 100%
Bradley Pacific Aviation. Inc. Aviation 100%
Bradley Ross LLC Aviation 100%
Burke Lakefront Services Co. Aviation 100%
Business Aircraft Center. Inc. Aviation 100%
Daedalus. Inc. Aviation 100%
Elington Partner LP Aviation 100%
Encore ACQ LLC Aviation 100%
Encore Addison FBO LLC Aviation 100%
Encore Addison Holdings LLC Aviation 100% 166
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
Encore Ashville Holdings LLC Aviation 100%
Encore Ashville FBO LLC Aviation 100%
Encore Employment LLC Aviation 100%
Encore FBO Acquisition LLC Aviation 100%
Encore FBO LLC Aviation 100%
Endzone Inc. Aviation 100%
Era FBO LLC Aviation 100%
Executive Beechcraft Inc. Aviation 100%
Executive Fueling Services LLC Aviation 100%
First Aviation Holdings Corp Holding 100%
First Aviation Intermediate Holdings Corp Holding 100%
First Aviation Services Inc. Aviation 100%
Fresno FBO LLC Aviation 100%
Galvin Aviation LLC Aviation 100%
Galvin Flying Services Inc. Aviation 100%
Galvin Flying Inc. Aviation 100%
Galvin Holdings LLC Holding 100%
Global FBO Holdings Inc. Aviation 100%
Landmark Aviation Aircraft Sales Holdings LLC Aviation 100%
Landmark Aviation Aircraft Sales LLC Aviation 100%
Landmark Aviation FBO Holdings LLC Holding 100%
Landmark Aviation GSO-SAN LLC Aviation 100%
Landmark Aviation Miami LLC Aviation 100%
Landmark Aviation Scottsdale Inc. Aviation 100%
Landmark FBO LLC Aviation 100%
Laredo Aero Center Inc. Aviation 100%
LM RA Holdings LLC Holding 100%
LM RA Intermediate Holdings LLC Holding 100%
LM US Member LLC Holding 100%
MEA Ross LLC Aviation 100%
Miami Executive Aviation LLC Aviation 100%
Midlantic Jet Aviation Inc. Aviation 100%
Midlantic Jet Charters Inc. Aviation 100%
MMU Hangar 10 LLC Aviation 100%
Page Avjet Corporation Aviation 100%
Panorama Flight Services Inc. Aviation 100%
Piedmont Hawthorne Aviation LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Advanced Holdings LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Aviation LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Baton Rouge LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Chester County LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Denver Air LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Fresno LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Laredo LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Midland LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Pilot Drive LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Scotsdale, LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Spokane LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Tradition LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Trenton LLC Aviation 100%
Ross Williston LLC Aviation 100%
Salprep II Inc Dormant 100%
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings – continued 167
Subsidiaries Principal Activity % Holding
Santa Fe Air Center LLC Aviation 100%
Signature 7156 LLC Aviation 100%
Signature 8361 LLC Aviation 100%
Signature 8390 LLC Aviation 100%
Signature 8433 LLC Aviation 100%
Signature Combs, Inc. Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Acquisition Co LLC Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Corporation Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support Holdings Co, LLC Aviation 100%
Signature Flight Support of Nevada Inc. Aviation 100%
Signature Select FBO Corporation Aviation 100%
Signature VNY LLC Aviation 100%
Southwest Airport Services, Inc. Aviation 100%
T opeka Aircraft, Inc. Holding 100%
Trenton Aviation LLC Aviation 100%
Williston Air Center JV LLC Aviation 100%
1626 Tobacco Road, Augusta, Georgia, 30906
Barrett Turbine Engine Company Aviation 100%
400 Cornerstone Drive, Suite 240, Williston, Vermont, 05495
BBA Aviation Insurances (Vermont), Inc. Finance 100%
900 Nolen Drive, Grapevine, Texas, 76051
Dallas Airmotive Inc. Aviation 100%
International Airmotive Holding Co. Holding 100%
7290 West 118th Place, Broomfield, Colorado, 80020
International Governor Services LLC Aviation 100%
20400 Plummer Street, Chatsworth, California, 91311
Ontic Engineering & Manufacturing Inc. Aviation 100%
General Aviation Terminal, Washington Nat’l Airport, Washington, District of Columbia, 20001
Signature Flight Support Washington National, Inc. Holding 100%
Signature Tradewinds - Washington National LC Aviation 80%
CT Corporation System, 206 S. Coronado Ave., Espanola, New Mexico 87532
Advanced Aviation, LLC Aviation 100%
Joint Ventures Principal Activity % Holding
181 Bay Street, Suite 1800, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5J 2T9
Signature Canada FBO Services Inc. Aviation 75%
465 North Mill Street, #3 Aspen, Colorado, 81 611, United States
FBOASE, LLC Aviation 53%
Two Corporate Drive, Suite 1050, Shelton CT 064 84, United States
GB Aviation Holdings LLC Aviation 50%
13365 Simpson Way, Jacksonville, FL 32221, United States
Jacksonville Jetport LLC Aviation 50%
9800 NW 41st Street, #400, Miami, FL 33178, United States
Page Avjet Fuel LLC (500 shares divided into 450 Class A voting shares and 50 Class B non-voting shares) Aviation 50% 
Associated Undertakings Principal Activity % Holding
Chandler and Thong-Ek Law Offices Limited, 20 Bubhajit Building, 7th-9th Fl. North Sathorn Road, Silom Bangrak, Bangkok 10500 Thailand
Aircraft Service International Group Holdings (Thailand) Ltd Holding 49.6%
ASIG T anking (Thailand) Limited Aviation 40%
12 South Perimeter Road, Hong Kong International Airport, Lantau, Hong Kong
Hong Kong Business Aviation Centre Limited Aviation 10%
Avenida Santa Rosa 123, Sao Luiz, Belo Horizonte, MG 31270–750 Brazil
Lider T axi Aereo S.A Air Brasil Aviation 1.45%
Notes: Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings as at 31 December 2016. 
Entries marked with a ∆ are directly held by BBA Aviation plc. All entities have ordinary shares unless otherwise stated.
Consolidated Financial Statements
Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings 168
Five Year Summary
Continuing
Group 
2016 
$m
Continuing 
Group Restated 
2015 
$m
Restated 
2014 
$m
2013 
$m
2012 
$m
Income statement
Revenue 2,149.1 1,714.0 2,289.8  2,218.6  2,178.9 
Underlying operating profit 302.6 181.5 201.2  200.1  192.7 
Exceptional items (136.5) (68.8) (20.0) (25.3) (32.7)
Impairment of assets (184.4) – – – –
Underlying interest (net) (63.9) (35.3) (28.8) (29.6) (34.9)
Profit before tax (82.2) 74.4 152.4  145.2  125.1 
Tax 62.9 (7.7) 10.1 (7.1) (14.8)
Loss/profit for the period on continuing operations (19.3) 69.7 162.5  138.1  110.3 
Loss on discontinued operations, net of tax (79.6) 13.4 – – –
Loss/profit for the period (98.9) 83.1 162.5  138.1  110.3 
Non-controlling interests – 0.1 0.3  0.4  0.3 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (98.9) 83.2 162.8  138.5  110.6 
Earnings per share
Basic: Adjusted 19.4¢ 18.0¢ 21.9¢  30.5¢  27.9¢ 
Basic: Unadjusted (1.9)¢ 9.8¢ 24.6¢  28.9¢  23.1¢ 
Diluted: Adjusted 19.2¢ 17.9¢ 21.8¢  30.1¢  27.5¢ 
Diluted: Unadjusted (1.9)¢ 9.7¢ 24.4¢  28.5¢  22.7¢ 
Dividends
Dividends per ordinary share 12.75¢ 13.53¢ 16.20¢ 15.40¢  14.65¢ 
Balance sheet
Employment of capital
Non-current assets 3,427.2 1,843.1 1,833.5  1,652.6  1,585.0 
Net current assets 286.4 1,013.2 223.4  254.3  217.4 
T otal assets less current liabilities 3,713.6 2,856.3 2,056.9  1,906.9  1,802.4 
Non-current liabilities (1,635.0) (574.3) (862.0) (711.0) (671.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (160.0) (113.6) (115.9) (101.9) (109.2)
Net assets 1,918.6 2,168.4 1,079.0  1,094.0  1,021.4 
Capital employed
Called up share capital 508.7 508.5 252.3  251.8  251.5 
Reserves 1,408.3 1,664.7 831.7  846.9  774.4 
Shareholders’ funds 1,917.0 2,173.2 1,084.0  1,098.7  1,025.9 
Non-controlling interests 1.6 (4.8) (5.0) (4.7) (4.5)
1,918.6 2,168.4 1,079.0  1,094.0  1,021.4 
Capital expenditure 113.0 104.2 139.0  89.8  56.5 
Number of employees, end of year 6,848 4,349 12,173  11,212  11,430 
Consistent with the 2015 annual report the summary has been restated in 2014 for the impact of the rights issue and the impact of a 
reclassification of provisions.
2015 and 2016 are presented as the continuing Group as reported. The significant changes in the Group in those years as a result of the rights 
issue, the acquisition of Landmark and the disposal of ASIG mean that the 2016 and 2015 financials presented above are not compaable with 
our years.
The dividend per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 totalled 13.53¢ being an interim dividend of 4.85¢ per share plus the final 
dividend per share of 8.68¢. Removing the impact of the rights issue the total dividend per share for 2015 would have been 12.15¢.
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Five Year Summary 169
Alternative Performance Measures 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Alternative performance measures
Introduction
We assess the performance of the Group using a variety of alternative performance measures. We principally discuss the Group’s results 
on an ‘adjusted’ and/or ‘underlying’ basis. The rationale for using adjusted measures is explained below. Results on an adjusted basis are 
presented before exceptional and other items.
We also explain financial performance using measures that are not defined under IFRS and are therefore termed ‘non-GAAP’ measures. 
The non-GAAP measures we use are: organic revenue growth, underlying operating profit and margin, underlying and reported EBITDA, 
underlying profit before tax, underlying deferred tax, adjusted weighted average number of shares, adjusted basic and diluted earnings per 
ordinary share, return on invested capital, operating cash flow, free cash flow, cash conversion, and net debt. A reconciliation from these  
non-GAAP measures to the nearest measure prepared in accordance with IFRS is presented below. The alternative performance measures 
we use may not be directly comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Exceptional items
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis separately identify trading results before exceptional and other items. The 
directors believe that presentation of the group’s results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the Group’s financial performance, as 
exceptional and other items are identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. This presentation is consistent with the way that financial 
performance is measured by management and reported to the Board and the Executive Committee and assists in providing a meaningful 
analysis of the trading results of the group. In determining whether an event or transaction is treated as an exceptional and other item, 
management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence. 
Examples of charges or credits meeting the above definition and which have been presented as exceptional and other items in the current 
and/or prior years include acquisitions/disposals of significant businesses and investments, regulatory settlements, business restructuring 
programmes, and asset impairment charges. In the event that other items meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from year to year, 
they are also treated as exceptional and other items.
Exceptional and other items are disclosed in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Organic revenue growth 
Organic revenue growth is a measure which seeks to reflect the performance of the group that will contribute to long-term sustainable 
growth. As such organic revenue growth excludes the impact of acquisitions or disposals, fuel price movements and foreign exchange 
movements. We focus on the trends in organic revenue growth.
A reconciliation from the growth in reported revenue, the most directly comparable IFRS measures, to the organic revenue growth,  
is set out below.
Organic revenue growth
2016 
$m
2015 
$m
Reported revenue prior year 2,129.8 2,289.8
Rebase for foreign exchange (41.3) (43.0)
Rebase for fuel (59.2) (205.0)
Rebase for disposals – –
Like for like revenue prior year 2,029.3 2,041.8
Reported revenue 2,565.9 2,129.8
Less acquisitions (567.6) (48.0)
Organic revenue 1,998.3 2,081.8
Organic revenue growth (1.5%) 2.0% 170
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Alternative performance measures
Alternative Performance Measures – continued 
Underlying operating profit and margin
Underlying operating profit and margin are measures which seek to reflect the underlying performance of the group that will contribute to 
long-term sustainable profitable growth. As such, they exclude the impact of exceptional and other items. We focus on the trends in  
underlying operating profit and margins.
A reconciliation from operating profit, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to the underlying operating profit and margin, is set out 
below.
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
2015 
Discontinued 
$m
Reported revenue 2,565.9 2,149.1 416.8 2,129.8 1,714.0 415.8
Operating profit 192.9 166.1 26.8 130.8 112.7 18.1
Exceptional and other items 137.2 136.5 0.7 71.2 68.8 2.4
Underlying operating profit 330.1 302.6 27.5 202.0 181.5 20.5
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
2015 
Discontinued 
$m
Operating margin 7.5% 7.7% 6.4% 6.1% 6.6% 4.4%
Exceptional and other items 5.4% 6.4% 0.2% 3.3% 4.0% 0.6%
Underlying operating margin 12.9% 14.1% 6.6% 9.4% 10.6% 5.0%
Underlying EBITDA and EBITDA
In addition to measuring the financial performance of the Group and lines of business based on operating profit, we also measure performance 
based on EBITDA and underlying EBITDA. EBITDA is defined as the Group profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense 
and taxation. Underlying EBITDA is defined as EBITDA before exceptional and other items. EBITDA is a common measure used by investors 
and analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of companies.
We consider EBITDA and underlying EBITDA to be useful measures of our operating performance because they approximate the underlying 
operating cash flow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation. EBITDA and underlying EBITDA are not direct measures of our liquidity, 
which is shown by our cash flow statement, and need to be considered in the context of our financial commitments.
A reconciliation from Group operating profit, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to reported and underlying Group EBITDA, is set out 
below. 
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
2015 
Discontinued 
$m
Reported depreciation and amortisation 183.9 180.5 3.4 82.8 69.0 13.8
Exceptional amortization (99.3) (98.6) (0.7) (11.7) (9.3) (2.4)
Underlying depreciation and amortisation 84.6 81.9 2.7 71.1 59.7 11.4
Operating profit 192.9 166.1 26.8 130.8 112.7 18.1
Reported depreciation and amortisation 183.9 180.5 3.4 82.8 69.0 13.8
Reported EBITDA 376.8 346.6 30.2 213.6 181.7 31.9
Exceptional and other items 37.9 37.9 – 59.5 59.5 –
Underlying EBITDA 414.7 384.5 30.2 273.1 241.2 31.9
Underlying profit before tax
Underlying profit before tax is a measure which seeks to reflect the underlying performance of the group that will contribute to long-term 
sustainable profitable growth. As such underlying profit before tax excludes the impact of exceptional and other items. We focus on the trends 
in underlying profit before tax.
A reconciliation from profit before tax, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to the underlying profit before tax, is set out below. 171
Consolidated Financial Statements
Alternative performance measures
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
2015 
Discontinued 
$m
(Loss)/profit before tax (164.6) (82.2) (82.4) 95.3 77.4 17.9
Exceptional and other items 430.7 320.9 109.8 74.7 72.3 2.4
Underlying profit before tax 266.1 238.7 27.4 170.0 149.7 20.3
Underlying deferred tax 
Cash adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share set out in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements are calculated by 
removing exceptional and other items and underlying deferred tax to better reflect the underlying basic and diluted earnings per share.
A reconciliation from deferred tax, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to the underlying deferred tax, is set out below:
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
2015 
Discontinued 
$m
Deferred tax 81.6 77.3 4.3 2.2 7.3 (5.1)
Exceptional deferred tax (117.2) (105.0) (12.2) (12.0) (11.6) (0.4)
Underlying deferred tax (35.6) (27.7) (7.9) (9.8) (4.3) (5.5)
Cash basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share
As set out in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated using  
the adjusted basic and diluted earnings.
A reconciliation from the basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to the cash basic and 
diluted earnings per ordinary share, is set out below.
 
2016 
Total
¢
2016 
Continuing
¢
2016 
Discontinued
¢
 2015 
Total
¢
2015 
Continuing
¢
 2015 
Discontinued 
¢
Basic earnings per share (9.6) (1.9) (7.7) 11.6 9.8 1.8
Adjustments for adjusted measure 34.2 24.0 10.2 9.9 8.8 1.1
Cash basic earnings per share 24.6 22.1 2.5 21.5 18.6 2.9
Diluted earnings per share (9.6) (1.9) (7.7) 11.5 9.7 1.8
Adjustments for adjusted measure 34.0 23.8 10.2 9.9 8.8 1.1
Cash diluted earnings per share 24.4 21.9 2.5 21.4 18.5 2.9 172
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Consolidated Financial Statements
Alternative performance measures
Alternative Performance Measures – continued 
Return on invested capital (ROIC)
Measuring ROIC ensures BBA Aviation is focused on efficient use of assets, with the target of operating returns generated across the cycle 
exceeding the cost of holding the assets.
ROIC is calculated by dividing underlying operating profit for ROIC by net assets for ROIC, both of which are at the same exchange rate which is the 
average of the last 13 months spot rate. The net assets for ROIC are calculated by averaging the net assets over the last thirteen months.
A reconciliation from underlying operating profit to underlying operating profit for ROIC is set out below. In addition, a reconciliation from net 
assets, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to invested capital for ROIC, is set out below.
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
Restated  
2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
 2015 
Discontinued 
$m
Underlying operating profit 330.1 302.6 27.5 202.0 181.5 20.5
Adjustments for FX (0.1) (0.1) – 0.1 0.1 –
Underlying operating profit for ROIC 330.0 302.5 27.5 202.1 181.6 20.5
Net Assets 1,918.6 1,740.2 178.4 2,168.4 1,892.6 275.8
Impact of rights issue cash on average net debt – – – (1,117.1) (1,117.1 –
Add back impairment made to disposal group – (109.1) 109.1 – – –
Adjustments for FX and averaging 42.9 42.9 – 187.2 187.2 –
Net Assets for ROIC 1,961.5 1,674.0 287.5 1,238.5 962.7 275.8
Reported Borrowings (1,549.4) (1,549.4) – (523.4) (522.1) (1.3)
Reported Cash and cash equivalents 205.3 182.5 22.8 966.4 950.7 15.7
Impact of rights issue cash on average net debt – – – (1,117.1) (1,117.1) –
Adjustments for FX and averaging 22.3 22.3 – 78.9 78.9 –
Less: Net Debt for ROIC (1,321.8) (1,344.6) 22.8 (595.2) (609.6) 14.4
Invested Capital for ROIC 3,283.3 3,018.6 264.7 1,833.7 1,572.3 261.4
ROIC 10.1% 10.0% 10.4% 11.0% 11.6% 7.8% 173
Consolidated Financial Statements
Alternative performance measures
Operating cash flow
Operating cash flow is one of the Group’s Key Performance indicators by which our financial performance is measured. Operating cash flow 
is defined as the aggregate of Cash generated by operations, purchase of property, plant and equipment, purchase of intangible assets less 
Ontic licences, and proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Operating cash flow is primarily an overall operational performance measure. However, we also believe it is an important indicator of our 
liquidity.
Operating cash flow reflects the cash we generate from operations after net capital expenditure which is a significant ongoing cash outflow 
associated with investing in our infrastructure. In addition, operating cash flow excludes cash flows that are determined at a corporate level 
independently of ongoing trading operations such as dividends, share buy-backs, acquisitions and disposals, financing costs, tax payments, 
dividends from associates and the repayment and raising of debt. Operating cash flow is not a measure of the funds that are available for 
distribution to shareholders.
2016 
Total
$m
2015  
Total 
$m
Reported Cash generated by operations 390.7 193.4
Add: Reported Purchase of property, plant and equipment (101.6) (81.8)
Add: Reported Purchase of intangible assets (11.4) (22.4)
Less: Ontic licences (10.6) (13.5)
Add: Reported Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 11.1 16.7
Operating cash flow 299.4 119.4
Cash conversion
Cash conversion is a key part of the Group strategy for disciplined capital management with absolute cash generation and strong cash 
conversion. Cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage of continuing and discontinued operating profit. Operating cash 
flow has been reconciled above to the most directly comparable IFRS measure, being cash generated from operations.
2016 
Total
%
2015  
Total 
%
Cash conversion 155% 92%
Free cash flow
Free cash flow is set out in note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and reconciled to net cash inflow from operating activities, the 
most directly comparable IFRS measure.
Net debt
Net debt consists of borrowings (both current and non-current), less cash and cash equivalents and the fair value adjustment on the US Private 
placement loan. 
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s net indebtedness that provides an indicator of the overall balance sheet strength. It is also a single 
measure that can be used to assess both the Group’s cash position and its indebtedness. The use of the term ‘net debt’ does not necessarily 
mean that the cash included in the net debt calculation is available to settle the liabilities included in this measure.
Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure as it is not defined in IFRS. The most directly comparable IFRS measure is the 
aggregate of borrowings (current and non-current), and cash and cash equivalents. A reconciliation from these to net debt is given below.
 
2016 
Total
$m
2016 
Continuing
$m
2016 
Discontinued
$m
 2015 
Total
$m
2015 
Continuing
$m
 2015 
Discontinued 
$m
Reported Borrowings (1,547.7) (1,547.7) – (523.4) (522.1) (1.3)
Reported finance leases (1.7) (1.7) – – – –
Reported Cash and cash equivalents 205.3 182.5 22.8 966.4 950.7 15.7
Fair value adjustment on USPP 8.8 8.8 – 13.5 13.5 –
Net Debt (1,335.3) (1,358.1) 22.8 456.5 442.1 14.4
  174
Consolidated Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Financial statements
89 Consolidated Income  
Statement
90 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income
91 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
92 Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
93 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
94 Accounting Policies of 
the Group
101 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
150 Company Balance Sheet
151 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
152 Accounting Policies of 
the Company
154 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
161 Subsidiaries and Related 
Undertakings
168 Five Year Summary
169 Alternative Performance 
Measures
17 4 Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information
Shareholdings
As at 31 December 2016, there were about 3,700 shareholders 
on the register of members.
Dividends
Shareholders will receive their dividend payment in sterling unless 
they have elected to receive it in US dollars. If you wish to receive 
your dividends in US dollars, your appropriate election must be 
received by Capita no later than 5.30 pm on 26 April 2017. Please 
note that if you have previously made a valid election, that election 
will cover all future dividend payments and a new election is not 
required. The dividend will be converted at a prevailing exchange 
rate on 27 April 2017 and this exchange rate will be announced on 
28 April 2017. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available, giving ordinary 
shareholders the option to buy shares in lieu of a cash dividend. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan terms and conditions are available 
upon request from the Company’s registrars via the registrars’ 
helpline on 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 12p per minute plus network 
extras; lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday; 
(overseas +44 371 664 0300), by e-mail: shares@capitaregistrars.
com or visit www.capitashareportal.com.
Share dealing service
A share dealing service is available for UK shareholders from  
Capita Asset Services to either sell or buy BBA Aviation plc 
shares. For further information on this service, please contact 
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing) or 0371 664 0445 
(telephone dealing). Call costs vary by provider. Lines are open 8.00 
am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
ShareGift
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which 
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating  
them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity  
(charity no. 1052686). Further information is available by visiting  
www.sharegift.org or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
Key dates Date payable
Financial calendar
Dividend and interest payments
Ordinary shares:
final 2016 May 2017
interim 2017 November 2017
5% cumulative preference shares February 2017 and August 2017
Date announced
Announcement of Group results
Half-year result August
Annual results March
Report and accounts Posted March
Share price information
The price of the Company’s shares is available at  
www.bbaaviation.com.
For the purpose of Capital Gains Tax (CGT) calculations, the base 
cost of the old BBA Group plc shares held immediately before the 
demerger on 17 November 2006 has to be apportioned between 
BBA Aviation plc shares and Fiberweb plc shares. The ratio is BBA 
Aviation plc shares 84.73%, Fiberweb plc shares 15.27%. This is 
based on the respective market values on 17 November 2006, 
determined according to CGT rules at that time, of 281.155p for 
BBA Aviation plc shares and 170.5p for Fiberweb plc shares.
This information is provided as indicative guidance. Any person 
wishing to calculate their CGT should take their own financial 
advice from their accountant or other authorised financial adviser 
and if they are in any doubt about their taxation position they 
should obtain professional advice.
Company registrar
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
BR3 4TU  
Telephone: 0871 664 0300  
(calls cost 12p per minute plus network charges)  
Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday 
From outside the UK: +44 371 664 0300 
E-mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com 
www.capitaassetservices.com
Please contact the registrar directly if you wish to advise a change 
of name, address or dividend mandate or wish to participate in 
the Dividend Reinvestment Plan or wish to elect to take your 
dividend in US dollars rather than receive it in the default currency 
of sterling.
You can access general shareholder information and personal 
shareholding details from our registrar’s website. Our registrar 
provides a share portal through which you can view up-to-date 
information and manage your shareholding. You can register for 
this service via www.capitashareportal.com. You will require your 
Investor Code (IVC), which can be found on your share certificate 
or dividend tax voucher, to register for the share portal service or 
to access other information from the registrar’s website.
Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the 
registered holder of those shares to receive information rights 
under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to 
direct all communications to the registered holder of their  
shares, not to the Company’s registrar, Capita Asset Services,  
or to the Company. 175
Consolidated Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Warning to shareholders – boiler room share scams
Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, 
or offered an inflated price for shares that investors already own. These calls come from fraudsters operating in “boiler rooms” that are mostly 
based abroad. BBA Aviation plc is aware that, in common with other companies, a small number of our shareholders have received unsolicited 
telephone calls concerning their investment in the Company, which may have been from fraudsters.
Callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive. Shareholders are advised not to give details of their e-mail addresses or  
other personal details to any third party that they do not know. Further information can be found on the Company’s website at  
www.bbaaviation.com under investors and shareholder information.
Table of information in compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.4C
Clauses Reference
A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the period under review with an indication of 
the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Note 3 to the  
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period under review: 
(a) to which the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed 
Company is or was materially interested; and
(b) between the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
Note 26 to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, where a 
shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends 
which are payable during the period under review.
Note 21 to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Any matters not listed above are not applicable. 
Registered office
105 Wigmore Street 
London W1U 1QY 
Telephone: +020 7514 3999  
Fax: +020 7408 2318 
www.bbaaviation.com 
E-mail: info@bbaaviation.com 
Registered in England 
Company number: 53688 176 This Annual Report is addressed solely to members of BBA 
Aviation plc as a body. Neither the Company nor its directors, 
employees, agents and advisors accept or assume responsibility 
to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities 
arising from the production of this Annual Report under the 
requirements of applicable English company law. Sections of this 
Annual Report, including but not limited to the Strategic Report, 
Directors’ Report and Directors’ Remuneration Report may contain 
‘forward-looking statements’ about certain of BBA Aviation plc’s 
current plans, goals and expectations relating to future financial 
condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives including, 
without limitation, statements relating to: future demand and 
markets of the Group’s products and services; research and 
development relating to new products and services; liquidity and 
capital; and implementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies. 
Statements containing the words “believes”, “intends”, “targets”, 
“estimates”, “expects”, “plans”, “seeks” and “anticipates” and 
any other words of similar meaning are forward-looking. These 
‘forward-looking statements’ involve risks and uncertainties 
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances 
that will or may occur in the future which may be beyond BBA 
Aviation plc’s control.
Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those set out 
in the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors 
including, without limitation: changes in interest and exchange 
rates, commodity prices and other economic conditions; 
negotiations with customers relating to renewals of contracts and 
future volumes and prices; events affecting international security, 
including global health issues and terrorism; changes in regulatory 
environment; and the outcome of litigation. The Company 
undertakes no obligation to update or  revise any forward-
looking statement in this document or any other forward-looking 
statements it may make, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise. Consequently, such forward-looking 
statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties (including, without limitation, both economic and 
business risk factors) underlying such forward-looking statements 
or information.
Pages 1 to 82 inclusive consist of a Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report including the Directors’ Remuneration Report that have 
been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance 
upon applicable English company law. The liability of the directors in 
connection with such reports shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by, and shall be no greater than is required by, 
applicable English company law.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a  
profit forecast.
Designed by MSLGROUP 
Photography by © Christoffer Rudquist & Samuel Zeller 
Board photography by Anna Batchelor & Jo Hanley 
Printed by PureprintGroup BBA Aviation plc
Registered Office 
105 Wigmore Street 
London, W1U 1QY 
Telephone +44 (0)20 7514 3999 
Fax +44(0)20 7408 2318
Registered in England 
Company number 53688 
www.bbaaviation.com
