 CAPTURING GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
BGEO Group Annual Report 2016 ABOUT US
Find the digital version of this report
on our corporate website at:
www.bgeo.com
BGEO GROUP
BGEO Group PLC (BGEO or Group) is a UK incorporated 
holding company of a Georgia-focused investment platform. 
BGEO aims to deliver on a 4x20 strategy: At least 20% 
ROAE and at least 20% growth of retail loan book in 
Banking Business, and at least 20% IRR and up to 20% 
of the Group’s profit contribution from Investment Business.
See page 14 for our business model and page 20 for our strategy.
BANKING BUSINESS
Our Banking Business comprises at least 80%  
of BGEO’s profit and consists of Retail Banking and 
Corporate Investment Banking businesses at its core  
and other banking businesses such as P&C insurance, 
leasing, payment services and banking operations in 
Belarus (BNB). The Group strives to benefit from the 
underpenetrated banking sector in Georgia, especially 
through its Retail Banking services.
See page 4 for the overview of our Banking Business.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS
Our Investment Business comprises up to 20% of the 
Group’s profit and consists of Georgia Healthcare Group 
PLC (Healthcare Business or GHG) – an LSE (London 
Stock Exchange PLC) Premium Segment listed company, 
m
2
 Real Estate (Real Estate Business or m
2
), Georgia 
Global Utilities (Utility and Energy Business or GGU)  
and Teliani Valley (Beverage Business). Georgia’s fast-
growing economy provides opportunities in a number  
of underdeveloped markets and the Group is well 
positioned to capture growth opportunities in the  
Georgian corporate sector. 
See page 5 for the overview of our Investment Business. 01 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
CONTENT
20-31
Our strategy
75-77
Board of Directors
118-213
Financial statements
Strategic report 02-73 
Overview
02 Financial highlights
03 Operating highlights
04 At a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Strategy
10 Industry and market overview
14 Our business model
20 Our strategy
32 Key performance indicators 
34 BGEO risk management
36 Principal risks and uncertainties
40 Bank risk management
46 Resources and responsibilities
Performance
53 Overview of financial results
56 Discussion of Banking Business results
59 Discussion of segment results
Read this report online.
Find the digital version of this  
report on our corporate website at: 
www.bgeo.com
Please note that long forms of abbreviated
terms can be found in the abbreviations
section on page 214.
Governance 74-117 
74 Directors’ Governance Overview
75 Board of Directors
78 Executive Management
82 Corporate Governance Framework
86 Nomination Committee Report
89 Audit Committee Report
94 Risk Committee Report
97 Shareholder engagement
98 Annual Statement by the Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee
100 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
107 Annual Report on Remuneration
114 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
115 Directors’ Report
Financial statements 118-213 
118 Independent Auditor’s Report
126 Consolidated statement of  
financial position
128 Consolidated income statement
132 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
133 Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
134 Consolidated statement of cash flows 
136 Separate statement of financial position
137 Separate statement of changes  
in equity
138 Separate statement of cash flows
139 Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
Additional information 214-218 
214 Abbreviations
216 Glossary
218 Shareholder information 02 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
The effectiveness of our strategy is reflected in the record 2016 financial results highlighted below
* 2016 profit excludes material one-offs from deferred tax adjustments, gain from the purchase of GGU and other net non-recurring items. Including these one-offs, profit from our 
Investment Business was 119.1 which contributed 27.8% to the Group’s profit in 2016.
** Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5 million distributed as dividend from the Bank to the holding level on 29 December 2016. These funds are earmarked for regular dividends 
to be paid from BGEO Group in respect of the 2016 financial year and will be payable in 2017, subject to shareholder approval. Including this payment, NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I and 
Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, respectively.
REVENUE (GEL million)
BGEO
17.8% y-o-y
1,014.8
INVESTMENT BUSINESS PROFIT (GEL million)
+65.9% y-o-y
60.8
RETURN ON EQUITY
Banking Business 
+0.4ppts y-o-y
22.1%
NET LOANS (GEL million)
Banking Business
+24.5% y-o-y
6,681.7
SHARE IN GROUP’S PROFIT
Investment Business 
+4.7ppts y-o-y
16.5%
CLIENT DEPOSITS (GEL million)
Banking Business
+14.8% y-o-y
5,730.4
COST TO INCOME RATIO
Banking Business
+2.0ppts y-o-y
37.7%
TIER 1 CAPITAL RATIO (NBG, BASEL 2/3)
Bank of Georgia
-0.8ppts y-o-y
10.1%
2014 2015 2016
4,438.0
5,366.8
6,681.7
PROFIT (GEL million)
BGEO
+37.8% y-o-y
428.6
EARNINGS PER SHARE (GEL)
BGEO
31.3% y-o-y
10.41
2014 2015 2016
1,014.8
861.6
621.2
2014 2015 2016
20.3
36.7
119.1
58.3
60.8*
2014 2015 2016
3,482.0
4,993.7
 5,730.4 
2014 2015 2016
40.5
35.7
37.7
2014 2015 2016
8.4
11.8
27.8
11.3
16.5*
2014 2015 2016
20.6 21.7 22.1
2014 2015 2016
11.1 10.9
10.1**
2014 2015 2016
240.8
310.9
428.6
2014 2015 2016
10.41
7.93
6.72 03 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
BANKING BUSINESS: 
NUMBER OF RETAIL BANKING CLIENTS
BANKING BUSINESS: 
NUMBER OF CARDS
BANKING BUSINESS: 
BANKING BRANCHES
2,141,229 
10,357 801
2,056,258
2,729
407 169
278
76
+141,360 (over 2015)
+2,254 (over 2015) +55 (over 2015)
+97,881 (over 2015)
+140 (over 2015)
+61 (over 2015) +7 (over 2015)
+12 (over 2015)
+34 (over 2015)
2016 operating highlights reflect the expanding footprint of our Banking and Investment Businesses in Georgia
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS:  
NUMBER OF HEALTHCARE FACILITIES
REAL ESTATE BUSINESS:  
NUMBER OF APARTMENTS SOLD
UTILITY AND ENERGY BUSINESS:  
WA TER BILLED TO CUSTOMERS, MILLION M
3
BANKING BUSINESS: 
POS TERMINALS
BANKING BUSINESS: 
EXPRESS PAY TERMINALS
BANKING BUSINESS: 
ATMs 04 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
AT A GLANCE
RETAIL BANKING
CLIENT-CENTRIC, MULTI-BRAND STRATEGY FOR OUR C.2.1 MILLION CLIENTS.
WEALTH MANAGEMENT
WE ARE AN ESTABLISHED LEADER OF 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES  
IN GEORGIA.
P&C INSURANCE
THE LEADING PROPERTY AND CASUALTY 
INSURANCE BUSINESS.
BNB
WELL CAPITALISED SME BANK IN BELARUS.
CORPORATE INVESTMENT BANKING
INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CIB CLIENTS.
Our Bank is the leading corporate lender in the country with deep sector knowledge and local 
expertise. Our Corporate Banking business is characterised by outstanding flexibility in meeting 
our corporate clients’ needs and offers the most comprehensive range of products and services  
in the country. We are proud to accommodate more than 3,000 businesses in Georgia and play 
our part in developing various sectors of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and 
tourism, among others. Corporate Banking additionally serves as the country’s leading trade 
finance business and provides leasing services through the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Georgian Leasing Company (GLC).
We are at the forefront of capital markets development in Georgia. We aim to leverage our superior 
knowledge and capital markets capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms  
of reach and the expertise that we have accumulated during the past several years through our 
corporate advisory, research and brokerage practices united under Galt & Taggart – a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group. Our brokerage 
business, serves regional and international markets, including hard-to-reach frontier economies. Our Macro and Sectoral Research currently covers 
the Georgian and Azeri economies and publishes Georgian sector research (subscription to the research on www.galtandtaggart.com). 
We are the leading retail banking player in Georgia, serving c.2.1 million customers through the 
widest network of 273 retail branches, 801 ATMs and 2,729 Express Pay (self-service) terminals,  
a sales force of more than 3,000 people, along with our diverse products and services. Our Retail 
Banking business, the prominent ingredient of our business, runs a client-centric, multi-brand 
strategy which reaches the entire spectrum of retail customers through three well-established and 
recognised brands:
1. Express – designed to magnetise emerging retail customers with minimal incremental 
operational costs through cost-efficient distance channels such as our Express Pay terminals, 
internet and mobile banking and technology-intensive Express branches;
2. Bank of Georgia – providing the long-established traditional banking services to our mass retail 
clients; and
3. Solo – targeting mass affluent customers and providing a unique blend of banking and lifestyle 
products and services.
Accommodating international clients from  
68 countries, our Wealth Management  
business provides private banking services  
to our high-net worth individual clients and 
offers investment management products 
internationally through representative offices  
in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.  
As Georgia has a pay-as-you-go pension 
system, the Bank believes that its wealth 
management franchise can benefit by  
focusing on the distribution of local debt.
Our Property & Casualty business (P&C or 
Aldagi) is a leading player in the Georgian P&C 
insurance market, with a market share of 
34.9% in 2016. Covering more than 700,000 
insured customers, the P&C insurance business 
is synergistic to the to the Bank’s operations. 
Aldagi will be stepping-up cross-selling  
of its insurance products with the Bank’s  
Retail Banking and Corporate Investment 
Banking products.
JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank (BNB) offers 
individual and business banking services 
principally to SMEs and middle-income retail 
banking customers in Belarus. BNB was one  
of the first privately-owned commercial banks  
in Belarus, established in 1992. The Group has 
recently increased its ownership of BNB from 
80% to 95% while IFC now holds the remaining 
5%. BNB is a non-core business and the Group 
aims to exit from it eventually. 05 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP (GHG)
THE LEADING INTEGRATED PLAYER IN THE GEORGIAN HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM OF GEL 3.4 BILLION VALUE.
GEORGIA GLOBAL UTILITIES (GGU)
MAJOR UTILITY AND ENERGY COMPANY, WITH CLEAR GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES AND ROOM TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY.
m
2
 REAL ESTATE (m
2
)
A FAST-GROWING, LEADING REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER AND ASSET MANAGER IN GEORGIA.
Our real estate business, the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiary, m
2
 Real Estate, develops and sells 
residential and commercial properties in Georgia. m
2
 also manages yielding real estate asset portfolio, 
which it accumulated through its own developments as well as opportunistic investments in high 
street real estate. For the past couple of years m
2
 has established itself as one of the most 
recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands in the country. m
2
 Real Estate outsources the 
construction and architecture works while focusing on project management and sales. m
2
 Real Estate 
completed sales of 2,047 apartments worth US$ 172.9 million since 2011 with 97.2% of apartments 
sold in six successfully completed projects and 35.1% pre-sales in four ongoing projects. The number 
of apartments financed with BOG’s mortgages in all m
2
 Real Estate projects as of 31 December 2016 
totalled 946, with an aggregate amount of GEL 110.7 million. 
m
2
 Real Estate has the exclusive right to develop Wyndham Ramada Anchor hotels in Georgia. 
Construction of one hotel has begun and work on two more is expected to start during 2017.
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC is the UK incorporated holding company of the largest healthcare 
services provider in the fast-growing, predominantly privately-owned, Georgian health market. 
GHG offers by far the most comprehensive range of inpatient and outpatient services in Georgia. 
GHG targets the mass market segment through its vertically integrated network of 35 hospitals 
and ten ambulatory clusters, including 13 district ambulatory clinics and 28 express ambulatory 
clinics as at 31 December 2016. GHG is the single largest market participant, accounting for 
23.4% of total hospital bed capacity in the country as at 31 December 2016.
GHG is the largest pharmaceuticals retailer and wholesaler in Georgia, with approximately 29%* 
market share by revenue in 2016. GHG has approximately two million client interactions per 
month, with 0.5 million loyalty card members.
GHG is also the largest provider of medical insurance in Georgia, with a 35.1% market share 
based on net insurance premiums earned and has approximately 211,000 insurance customers 
as at 31 December 2016.
GGU has two main business lines – water utility and electric power generation. In its water utility 
business, GGU is a natural monopoly that supplies water and provides a wastewater service to 
1.4 million people (approximately one-third of Georgia’s population) in three cities: Tbilisi, Mtskheta 
and Rustavi. In the electric power business, GGU owns and operates four hydropower generation 
facilities with a total capacity of 149MW. Generated power is primarily used by GGU’s water 
business, with the excess amount of generated capacity sold to third parties. GGU has a pipeline 
of developments in hydro power plants and wind and solar energy production. When BGEO 
acquired its initial stake in GGU in 2014, the Group put in place a strong management team.  
The team has been further strengthened since the acquisition of full control in 2016. 
TELIANI VALLEY
CREATING A LEADING BEVERAGES PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN CAUCASUS.
Teliani is a leading Georgian wine producer and beverage distributor with a wide distribution 
platform of a variety of imported beverages as well as own produced wine. Teliani sells over three 
million bottles of wine annually, with about 60% of sales coming from exports. Building on its 
existing franchise of distribution, Teliani is currently expanding into a new business line of beer  
and soft beverage production, with a ten-year exclusivity from Heineken to sell in three countries: 
Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan – a total population of 17 million people. The construction of  
the beer production facility has been completed during 2016 and Teliani aims to start brewing  
in the first half of 2017. With a strong management team and a proven track record, Teliani aims  
to become a leading beverages producer and distributor in the South Caucasus.
* Including ABC’s market share acquired by GHG in January 2017. 06 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
The business and political mood is upbeat in 
Georgia, and my coverage of the four topics  
of this letter reflects these positive conditions.  
I will start with the economic and political 
overview, followed by a discussion on our 
Group strategy, talent development, and then 
board development. The CEO letter that follows 
will go into more specific details on each of  
our businesses. 
Economics and Politics: A few months ago, 
Georgia once again demonstrated its 
commitment to European standards and norms 
by ensuring the successful delivery of 2016’s 
democratic parliamentary elections. As 
expected, the Georgian people overwhelmingly 
supported the incumbent government. The 
elections turned out to be open, clean, and 
transparent with a very clear mandate for the 
incoming government. Most of the population 
believe that economic development is the way 
to prosperity and progress and this national 
consensus is the key to political stability.
After the elections, Georgia’s ruling Georgian 
Dream party introduced a package of legislative 
changes to support the implementation of  
the Government’s four-pillar reform programme 
(introduced in February 2016) to boost growth 
and enhance the economy’s resilience to 
external shocks. The programme includes  
new tax benefits, infrastructure schemes, 
governance reforms and the modernisation  
of the education system. Corporate tax reform 
was enacted and effective as of January 2017, 
undistributed profits are tax free, ensuring  
a significant potential boost to Georgia’s 
investments and economic growth.
The country continues to be very business 
friendly. The World Bank ranks Georgia 16th 
out 189 economies in terms of ease of doing 
business, up from 23rd position a year ago. 
With its business-friendly environment,  
stable Government, developed infrastructure, 
stable energy supply, flexible labour legislation, 
stable and profitable banking sector, strategic 
geography and a Government committed to 
addressing structural improvements in the 
economy through its four-pillar reform 
programme, Georgia is well positioned to 
become a significant regional hub economy.
In fact, we expect GDP to grow 4.3% in 2017 
compared to 2.7% in 2016. The number of 
visitors to Georgia increased at a 22.1% CAGR 
over 2007-2016 and tourism inflows stood at 
US$ 2.2 billion (15.1% of GDP) in 2016. The 
Government plans to enhance Georgia’s 
positioning as a four season tourism location 
through improving the connectivity of different 
regions with an aim to enhance their untapped 
potential. Despite the fact that many countries 
faced reduced capital inflows during the recent 
economic turbulence, FDI into Georgia has 
remained relatively secure thanks to the 
business-friendly environment as well as 
strategic infrastructure projects. In 2016 FDI 
inflow to Georgia was up 5.2% y-o-y and 
totalled US$1.6 billion (11.5% of GDP).
International relations are on the right track. 
Georgia’s accession to the visa free programme 
with the EU was a concrete benefit for all to 
see. Moreover, the Government continues to 
constructively manage its relation with Russia. 
Tourists from, and exports to, Russia have 
increased 12.0% to 1.0 million persons and 
26.6% to US$ 206.2 million last year, 
respectively, while the share in Georgia’s total 
still remains low at 16.3% for tourists and 9.8% 
for exports. On the regional front, Turkey’s 
situation has had some effect on Georgian 
economy. In contrast, recovery in other regional 
economies, particularly in Russia through its 
positive spillovers on Georgia’s major trading 
partners, is strengthening Georgia’s growth 
outlook. To summarise the situation: Georgia  
is boringly tranquil, in a neighborhood in turmoil. 
This bodes well for Georgia’s strategy to become 
a regional business hub. 
Group strategy: Last year, we informed you  
of our new two-pronged strategy. Firstly, we 
would continue to make Bank of Georgia an 
excellent institution, and secondly, we would 
buy assets in Georgia cheaply, grow them, and 
then sell them to investors at a higher price. 
We continue to view BGEO as a vehicle whose 
goal is to maximise the value of its assets for its 
shareholders. This means that we will continue 
to pursue our “buy low, sell high” asset strategy. 
GHG is a very good example of how we want 
to execute this strategy. Importantly, we don’t 
consider any of our activities “core” anymore 
– including the Bank. This is why we call 
ourselves: a Georgia Focused Investment 
Platform.
Let me give you a review of our main strategic 
priorities, while Irakli, our CEO, will talk in more 
detail about the strategic goals for each of our 
businesses in his letter. 
• The Bank has become an excellent 
institution both in terms of innovation and 
cost management. We aim to become the 
best in class when the transformation of  
our retail bank is completed. In addition,  
we believe that regional wealth management 
holds a potential that we have not yet 
exploited. We believe Galt and Taggart and 
the corporate bank have the best 
investment banking capabilities in the 
country. These capabilities should translate 
into a more dynamic and profitable 
corporate banking segment. Today, the 
banking market is a two-player market –  
a market we share with a good competitor. 
• GHG has three main strategic priorities: 
launch new services at hospitals to grow 
revenue from planned treatments, grow 
market share in outpatient clinics – a market 
which is highly fragmented, and digitalise 
healthcare system to accomplish further 
efficiency and more importantly, better 
quality of care. We are leading the 
improvement of healthcare in the country,  
by establishing new standards and 
developing new operating models and 
procedures which don’t exist in Georgia yet. 
Additionally, we have an open dialogue with 
the regulatory authorities to establish rules 
and regulations to reach significantly 
improved health care practice for the 
population of Georgia. Finally, we believe 
that our presence in hospitals, policlinics, 
pharmacies, and insurance holds enormous 
NEIL JANIN
CHAIRMAN 07 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
synergetic potential to serve our clients 
profitably, especially using digital technologies. 
GHG does not have the same market value 
as our Bank yet, but it holds much promise. 
• In the utility and energy arena, we bought,  
at a good price, a water utility with many 
improvement opportunities. This year and 
next, we will be on the lookout for more 
acquisition opportunities in the areas of 
energy and utilities. Additionally, we aim  
to develop hydro, solar and wind energy 
production. Georgia could become a clean 
energy producer, and should become an 
electricity trading hub. We intend to be a 
major player in this emergent market. Again, 
we will follow our usual investment strategy, 
and seek to realise the value created 
through an IPO in a few years’ time. 
It should be clear that we are continuing to 
pursue and expand a strategy announced  
in the past. We believe Georgia is too small  
to attract private equity investment. This is 
where we can play a significant role, providing 
capital and management talent, our two 
traditional strengths. At BGEO, our new  
slogan, Georgia Focused Investment Platform, 
reflects this mindset. 
Talent development: For many years, we have 
defined our key assets as access to capital and 
to Georgian talent. We have built the credibility 
to tap capital markets, having raised over US$ 
1.4 billion up until now. Now we must make an 
even more concerted effort to develop talent. 
We need that talent to develop the “cheap” 
assets that we are acquiring. Our CEOs at 
GHG, m
2
 and GGU, as well as many other top 
executives at the Group, came out of the 
Bank’s management pool, but we need to 
accelerate the growth of this talent pool if we 
want to continue to grow and develop staff 
properly. We need to continue to align our 
talent strategy with our business objectives.
One of the key components of our talent or 
human resource development strategy has 
been our incentive system. Its intent is to 
incentivise management to create value on  
a long term basis: c.85% of management’s 
compensation is in shares that vest over  
3-5 year period – discouraging quick earnings 
temptations. The unvested shares are normally 
“clawed-back” if a manager is fired for cause 
which includes a broad range of misconduct 
and this fully aligns shareholders’ and 
managements’ interests in the long-term.  
This system also encourages teamwork. 
Shareholders’ interests are perfectly aligned 
with those of top management. 
Incentive systems are important but don’t 
create talent. Until now, we have brought back 
talent who had trained abroad and developed 
others on the job. Today, we want our talent 
strategy to provide a supply of leader/managers 
to newly created positions. In effect, we need  
to build a pipeline of talent. We have named  
a new Chief Talent Officer, whose background 
is not personnel management, and given him 
this mission. He will ensure that BGEO further 
strengthens its culture of meritocracy, 
teamwork, and that it continues to develop  
a strong pipeline of capable managers ready  
to take the available positions. 
The essence of a meritocracy is having 
employees feeling free to share their ideas  
and being evaluated and rewarded for their 
performance. This requires dialogue which  
we will promote by the spreading of the habit  
of coaching – up and down the hierarchy.  
We would like to see constructive feedback  
and frequent developmental discussions 
between managers and their direct reports. 
This is not an idle talk. Most of our top 
managers have chosen to be coached by 
external coaches in the past years. We believe 
that a coaching culture starts at the top. Our 
top managers are urged to coach their direct 
reports, and to encourage such behaviour to 
cascade down through the organisation. 
This effort is reinforced by the development  
of a teamwork culture. This is a culture that is 
characterised within and across functions for 
the greater good of the institution. Our incentive 
system encourages that and we have started  
to implement a leadership development 
programme whose aim is to foster trust across 
horizontal managers. 
We already see the results of these efforts in  
a few of our business units, namely, Bank of 
Georgia, m
2
, GHG, and elsewhere. Our next 
step is to align our HR systems and integrate 
such habits throughout the organisation. We 
would like our leadership programmes to initially 
cover 60 of our top managers, followed by the 
next 400. We believe that no other private 
institution is as large or as professional in 
Georgia as BGEO. We must become the talent 
development engine of the country. Georgian 
institutions and corporates need managerial 
talent. If we don’t lead, then who will?
The Board. Our board is constituted of capable 
individuals who are T shaped. They all were 
chosen for the quality of their analysis and their 
judgment, the horizontal T, and for their deep 
specialty, the vertical of the T. I described their 
talent in my letter to shareholders last year. As 
our businesses diversify across the industries  
in the Georgian economy, the talent pool to 
supervise them must adapt. In the case of 
GHG, we have built a separate board with the 
requisite talent and continue to enrich it.  
We will also be adding two new board and/or 
committee members with IFRS experience 
– one to each of the BGEO and GHG boards. 
As we continue to refresh our Board, increasing 
female Board representation remains a priority. 
We were not successful in advancing that 
priority in 2016, but aim to make good on  
our promise this year and next.
Attracting talent to our boards remains key.  
We must build the capacity of the board to 
guide and supervise all our business entities.  
It is not economical at this stage to build 
full-fledged boards for the smaller ones, but  
in the fullness of time, we will need to do so.  
As Chairman, I am keenly aware that the 
Board’s responsibilities and capabilities must 
evolve to adapt and support our strategy. 
I would like to thank investors who have given 
us their confidence and money from early on.  
I speak on the boards’ and managements’ 
behalf when I assure you that we are committed 
aiming to offer you a good return on your 
investment. I would like to also underline that 
your investment continues to develop BGEO 
Group, the country of Georgia and its population 
through better healthcare, housing, utilities, 
banking services, and economic development 
in general. It is also providing strong support  
to the people employed by all our companies. 
Neil Janin
Chairman
13 April 2017 08 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
Georgia continued to achieve consistent 
improvements in its macroeconomic 
performance and improved levels of business 
confidence, and the Group delivered another 
year of strong business performance with over 
30% basic earnings per share growth, and 
improved returns in both the banking business 
and the investment businesses. With the 
economy seemingly on the rebound in 2017  
as measured by levels of business confidence, 
a number of recent strategic initiatives and 
acquisitions are expected to continue to deliver 
excellent performance in 2017 and beyond.  
In this annual letter, I will therefore update you 
on our medium-term strategic goals. 
The Group will continue to focus on 
capturing growth opportunities in the rapidly 
growing Georgian economy. Our ‘4x20’ 
strategy will continue to be targeted over the 
medium-term to deliver:
• A return on average equity in the Banking 
Business of at least 20%
• Retail Banking customer lending growth  
of at least 20% per annum 
• A minimum targeted Internal Rate of Return 
of 20% on investments in the Group’s 
investment businesses, and 
• A maximum 20% profit contribution,  
of the Group’s profits, from our investment 
businesses
The Group will continue to aim to maintain  
a regular dividend payout ratio from the 
Banking Business profits in the 25%-40% 
range. Since the introduction of dividends in 
2010, the Group has managed to grow its 
annual dividend per share by 51.6% CAGR.  
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting the Board 
intends to recommend an annual regular 
dividend for 2016 of GEL 2.6 per share payable 
in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate. 
This is within the range of our regular dividend 
payout ratio target of 25-40% paid from the 
Banking Business profits, and represents an 
8.3% increase over the 2015 dividend. 
2016 marked the first ever issuance of 
Eurobonds at the holding company level, 
through which we raised US$ 350 million, with 
a coupon of 6.00%, due 2023. Overall, the 
Group’s capital and funding position continues 
to be very strong, with capital being held both 
in the regulated banking business and at the 
holding company level. Within the bank, the 
NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier 1 Capital Adequacy ratio 
was 10.1%
1
, comfortably ahead of the Bank’s 
minimum capital requirement. In addition, as of 
31 March 2017, GEL 335.2 million liquid assets 
were held at the Group level. 
As a result of the Group’s strong capital 
position, excess levels of liquidity and high level 
of internal capital generation, in November 
2016 the Board approved a $50 million share 
buyback and cancellation programme, to be 
completed over a two year period, in addition 
to the regular annual dividend to be paid to 
shareholders. Over the last few months, the 
Group Employee Benefits Trust has also 
purchased shares in the market totalling 
approximately US$ 20 million.
A recent development in the Georgian 
Government’s tax policy is now effective, and 
applies the profit tax (currently set at 15%) only 
to distributed profits. Undistributed profits will 
no longer be subject to the profits tax. As a 
result, approximately GEL 500-600 million 
equity will be left to profit-generating corporates 
that are expected to profitably reinvest this 
capital. This tax policy amendment took effect 
for most companies on 1 January 2017, and for 
certain financial companies (including banks 
and insurance companies) it is expected to take 
effect from 1 January 2019. This will reduce the 
effective tax rate of the Group’s non-banking 
businesses in 2017, and the entire Group in 
2019. In addition, the Bank expects to benefit 
from the general improved creditworthiness of 
its entire corporate portfolio. The impact of 
these changes has led to a number of deferred 
tax adjustments that increased profits in 2016 
by GEL 63.8 million.
Despite some regional headwinds, the 
Georgian economy remained resilient during 
2016, with estimated GDP growth of 2.7%  
for the year. Foreign Direct Investments were 
solid at 11.5% of GDP and tourist numbers –  
a significant driver of US Dollar inflows for the 
country – continued to rise throughout the year. 
Inflation remained well controlled at 1.8% at the 
end of 2016. 
Turning to the business, let me talk about our 
two business lines – the Banking Business and 
the Investment Businesses – separately:
BANKING BUSINESS 
The Bank delivered another very strong year 
in 2016, characterised by the expected strong 
growth in the retail bank, and a repositioning  
of the corporate bank to further reduce 
concentration risk. Customer lending increased 
by 24.5% during the year, with 39.5% growth  
in the retail bank and 8.3% growth in the 
corporate investment bank. The Return on 
Average Equity in the banking business 
increased from 21.7% in 2015, to 22.1%  
in 2016.
Over the next few years, Bank of Georgia 
aims to shift the mix of its customer lending 
to become 65% retail and 35% corporate 
(currently 61% retail; 39% corporate) with 
the product per client ratio in the mass  
retail banking targeted to increase to  
3.0 products, from a current 1.7 products.
We are now running a client-centric, 
multi-brand strategy in our Retail Bank. Over 
the past decade, Retail Banking has delivered  
a stellar performance by reaching c.2.1 million 
clients, delivering exceptional loan book growth 
and achieving its ROAE targets. While we were 
targeting these milestones, the Bank was 
product-centric with an active client acquisition 
1 Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5mln distributed as dividend from the Bank to the holding level on 29 December 2016. These funds are earmarked for regular dividends  
to be paid from BGEO Group in respect of the 2016 financial year and will be payable in 2017, subject to shareholder approval. Including this payment, NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I  
and Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, respectively.
IRAKLI GILAURI
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 09 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
approach. Having over two million clients now, 
this phase is less prevalent and we target 
stronger growth through increasing the product 
to client ratio by introducing our client centric 
model while running a multi-brand strategy for 
different segments of population. 
Our Express brand caters to the emerging retail 
segment and offers predominantly transactional 
banking services to clients through small-format, 
Express branches, ATMs and Express Pay 
Terminals. In this segment, the Bank will aim  
to double the number of transactions over the 
next 2-3 years. 
Our Solo brand caters to the mass affluent 
segment and offers exclusive products and the 
finest lounge-style environment at our newly 
designed Solo lounges, together with new 
lifestyle opportunities, such as exclusive events 
and handpicked lifestyle products. Solo already 
has very encouraging early signs: we have 
invested only US$ 11.5 million in this new 
concept since its launch in April 2015 and we 
have almost doubled the annual net profit to 
GEL 25.3 million. In this segment, the Bank will 
aim to increase the number of Solo clients to 
40,000 (19,267 as at 31 December 2016).
Our Bank of Georgia brand caters to the 
mass retail segment. This is our flagship brand 
and our most significant profit contributor. We 
are currently transforming our service delivery  
to mass retail clients from a product-centric  
to a customer-centric one. The client centric 
approach has also had very encouraging early 
signs and in 24 pilot branches, sales have 
increased threefold. Going forward, expanding 
express branches will be very important to 
move out transaction focused clients from 
flagship branches and allow our universal 
bankers to cross-sell and increase the product 
to client ratio. We will be launching the first fully 
transformed branch in April 2017.
The Bank will continue to reduce concentration 
risk in the corporate lending portfolio, with the 
support of the Investment Management 
business. The target is for the top ten 
borrowers to represent less than 10% of the 
total loan portfolio (currently 11.8%). Georgia  
is becoming the service hub of the region and 
Bank of Georgia is in a great position to capture 
wealth management clients from throughout 
the region. In 2016, we have attracted more 
than 150 clients from 68 countries and we plan 
to step up these efforts. The Bank’s aim is to 
develop a significant regional private banking 
franchise to reach AUM of GEL 2.5 billion 
(currently GEL 1.6 billion). In this regard, we 
leverage superior knowledge and capital 
markets capabilities in the Georgian and 
neighbouring markets both in terms of reach  
and the expertise that we have accumulated 
during the past several years through our 
corporate advisory, research and brokerage 
practices united under Galt & Taggart – a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, which is 
at the forefront of capital markets development 
in the county. 
At the end of 2016, we announced a number  
of appointments that further strengthened the 
management team of the Bank. 
We appointed Kaha Kiknavelidze as CEO  
of the Bank. Kaha has been on the BGEO 
board for 8 years and knows the Group and 
management very well. At the same time he 
brings new perspectives to the executive team 
who have worked together for a very long time 
– the mix of old/new blood is important to bring 
new topics for discussion to the table. Kaha 
has over 15 years of experience in financial 
services in a number of roles at UBS and Troika 
Dialog. Prior to his current role, he was the 
founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital 
Partners LLP , a London-based investment 
management company.
We also have two new members in the 
executive management team of the Bank. 
David Tsiklauri was appointed to the position  
of Deputy CEO at the Bank, and leads the 
Bank’s Corporate Investment Banking 
Department. David has extensive experience  
in banking as well as the corporate segment  
in Georgia, having worked as the Deputy CEO 
in charge of Corporate Banking at TBC Bank 
and as Vice President of the Capital Markets 
and Treasury Solutions team at Deutsche Bank. 
Ramaz Kukuladze was appointed Deputy  
CEO at the Bank, and leads the Bank’s SME 
and Solo businesses. Ramaz has extensive 
experience in the financial services industry and 
wide experience with and a deep knowledge of 
the segments that he is leading. Prior to joining 
the Bank, Ramaz worked at Bank Republic 
Société Générale where he led the bank’s 
corporate and retail business as Deputy CEO. 
I am confident that the strengthened executive 
team of the Bank will deliver on the opportunity 
to build on the Bank’s recent strong growth by 
further developing its presence and profitability 
in both the retail and corporate banking sectors 
in Georgia.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS 
The Group’s Investment Businesses continued 
to deliver very strong earnings performances in 
2016, with strong organic growth supported by 
the impact of recent acquisitions – specifically 
(1) the addition to our healthcare business 
Georgia Healthcare Group (GHG) of the GPC 
pharmacy business following its acquisition 
during the second quarter, and (2) the second 
half consolidation of our utility and energy 
business Georgia Global Utilities, GGU, 
following the acquisition of the remaining 75% 
equity stake in GGU for a cash consideration  
of $70 million in July 2016. EBITDA from the 
investment businesses increased by 71.1%  
to GEL 132.6 million in 2016.
In the healthcare business, Georgia 
Healthcare Group, GHG, we are present in 
whole healthcare ecosystem, which in size is 
GEL 3.4bln, with a best in class management 
team and access to capital. We see three key 
opportunities in healthcare business: Firstly, 
continue the introduction of new services in  
our hospitals, which should further strengthen 
our leading market position. Secondly, expand 
in the outpatient segment where the market  
is highly fragmented. We see the same 
opportunity now in the fragmented outpatient 
sector that we saw in the hospital business 
number of years ago. Lastly, we see an 
opportunity in digitilisation of healthcare 
services by creating electronic patient records 
and advising our patients in maintaining  
a healthy lifestyle. Our scale is important to  
deliver on our targets of delivering good quality 
healthcare at affordable prices. 
In m
2
 Real Estate we are targeting an internal 
rate of return of c.40%+, whilst delivering a 
capital return to the Group of US$ 20-25 million 
in 2019/20. As we have previously declared, we 
are no longer buying land plots as our aim is to 
develop third party land. In essence our aim is 
to evolve m
2
 from a real estate developer into  
a real estate asset manager. 
In the beverage business, Teliani, we  
are launching beer production and will be 
opportunistically expanding the beverage 
business in order to penetrate the retail network 
by offering a diversified product base, as well  
as enlarging the business to achieve economies 
of scale and cost advantage. Our primary exit 
strategy is expected to be a trade sale.
In the utility and energy business, GGU, we 
aim to achieve EBITDA of more than GEL 80 
million in 2018, whilst establishing a renewable 
energy platform, targeting 200MW operating, 
57MW ready-to-build,150MW in the pipeline for 
the hydro power plants; and 20-20MW 
ready-to-build wind farms and solar photo-
voltaic stations. All of this by 2019 with a 
targeted IRR in excess of 20%. GGU has a 
significant opportunity to increase its 
operational cash flow over the next few years 
from a combination of improving cash collection 
rates, increasing energy efficiency and reducing 
water loss rates, and by the development of 
renewable energy resources. We are aiming to 
prepare the combined utility and renewable 
energy business for an IPO in approximately 
2-3 years.
As we start to prepare GGU for an IPO, we 
have further strengthened the GGU team and 
appointed Archil Gachechiladze as the CEO of 
GGU. Having been with the Group for almost 8 
years in various roles, Archil has an outstanding 
execution track record with the Bank and, just 
as importantly, he is very passionate about  
the business of GGU having initiated our 
investment in the utility and energy business. 
We are also consolidating the Group’s utilities 
and energy businesses under GGU, the two 
investments that the Group made separately.
Last but not least, I would like to reiterate our 
commitment to the highest level of corporate 
governance which is a foundation for accessing 
management and capital. A key focus for me 
– and my board – is to grow and develop talent. 
Coaching and a feedback culture has become 
part of BGEO. Helping each other to succeed  
is the core principle of our management team. 
We understand very clearly that we are in the 
same boat as our shareholders and our 
mandate is very clear: to create sustainable 
shareholder value.
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
13 April 2017
This Strategic Report as set out on pages 
2 to 73 was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on 
its behalf by
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
13 April 2017 10 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW
REFORMS-DRIVEN SUCCESS 
Georgia carried out genuine economic  
and structural improvements which were 
institutionalised. As a result, corruption 
decreased, doing business became easier, 
productivity was enhanced and the economy 
diversified – enabling the country to withstand 
global financial crisis and recent shocks related 
to the commodity price slump with a relative 
strength. Georgia is consistently ranked as  
the top performer in governance and doing 
business indicators, in economic policy and 
institutional assessments as tracked by eminent 
international institutions. Georgia was named 
top performer globally over the past 12 years  
in the latest WB-IFC doing business report. 
The economic Liberty Act, effective since 
January 2014, ensures the continuation of a 
credible fiscal and monetary framework for 
Georgia, by capping consolidated Government 
expenditures at 30% of GDP , fiscal deficit at 3% 
of GDP and public debt at 60% of GDP . The 
Liberty Act also requires electorates’ approval 
through a nationwide referendum for imposing 
new taxes and raising existing tax rates, subject 
to certain exceptions. To further liberalise tax 
policy, in 2016 Tax Code was amended and 
corporate income tax is now applicable to only 
distributed profits; undistributed profits, 
reinvested or retained, are exempted. Georgia 
has one of the world’s friendliest tax regimes 
according to Forbes Misery Tax Index by 
slashing the number of taxes from 21 in 2004 
to just six currently.
The country is ranked 16th out of 190 
economies in the World Bank’s 2017 Ease of 
Doing Business, 13th out of 180 countries by 
Index of Economic Freedom measured by 
Heritage Foundation in 2017 and 11th out of 
197 countries in the Trace International’s 2014 
Matrix of Business Bribery Risk. Georgia is a 
positive exception to the trend of high bribery 
rates in regional economies and is on a par with 
EU member states with only 7% of people 
admitting having paid a bribe, according to the 
2016 Global Corruption Barometer study by 
Transparency International. 
The EU-Georgia Association Agreement that 
came into force in July 2016 and related Deep 
and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement 
effective since September 2014 lay solid 
groundwork to improve governance, strengthen 
the rule of law and provide more economic 
opportunities by expanding the EU market to 
Georgian goods and services. A closer 
economic tie with the EU and related trust in 
prudent policy-making are also expected to 
attract foreign investments to Georgia. Visa-free 
travel to the EU, granted to Georgian passport 
holders since March 2017, is another major 
success in Georgia’s foreign policy. While 
remaining committed to EU integration, Georgia 
has also managed to stabilise relations with 
Russia as the latter lifted its embargo on 
Georgian products in 2013. Tourism sector 
increasingly benefits from rising Russian 
arrivals, with Georgia being re-discovered  
by Russian as well as other visitors from 
regional countries.
Georgia once again demonstrated its 
commitment to European standards and norms 
by ensuring free and fair 2016 parliamentary 
elections. After the elections, Georgia’s ruling 
Georgian Dream party introduced a package of 
legislative changes to support the implementation 
of the Government’s four-pillar reform programme 
(introduced in February 2016) aimed to boost 
growth and enhance the economy’s resilience  
to external shocks. The programme includes  
new tax benefits, infrastructure schemes, 
governance reforms and modernisation of the 
education system. 
Measures to further liberalise tax and customs 
procedures include the introduction of the 
Estonian model, which envisages the application 
of corporate income tax to only distributed 
profits; undistributed profits, reinvested or 
retained, are exempted starting 1 January 2017. 
Based on USAID assessment, this measure  
will add 1.5ppts to growth in the medium term. 
Other reform measures, amongst others,  
include creating a single window principle for  
the provision of Government services to legal 
persons, tailoring the education system offerings 
to labour market demands and speeding up  
the implementation of strategic infrastructure 
projects. Under new infrastructure schemes, the 
Government plans to implement the projects that 
would enhance the country’s tourist and transit 
potential, support private sector investments  
and create new jobs. 
Resilient economy with a comprehensive reform agenda to boost growth
Georgia is an open and resilient emerging market with a realistic ambition to transform itself into a Regional Hub Economy. The Government’s 
four-pillar reform programme and deepening economic integration with the EU is expected to boost the economy’s productive capacity, support 
further economic diversification and attract foreign investments. Measures to sustain fiscal discipline and increase the usage of local currency  
are expected to insure macroeconomic stability, strengthen resilience to external headwinds and boost growth in 2017 and beyond.
EASE OF DOING BUSINESS RANKED 
GEORGIA IN 2017
In registering property
3rd
In protecting minority investors
7th
In starting a business
8th
Overall ranking
16th
Up from 23
rd
 in 2016, ahead of Germany,  
Ireland and Austria.
Source: World Bank-IFC Doing Business.
ECONOMIC FREEDOM INDEX RANKED 
GEORGIA IN 2017
Up from 23
rd
 in 2016, Ahead of the Netherlands, 
the United States and Sweden
13th
Source: Heritage Foundation.
GLOBAL CORRUPTION BAROMETER (% 
ADMITTING HAVING PAID A BRIBE IN 2015)
Ahead of the Czech Republic, the Slovak 
Republic and Latvia
7%
Source: Transparency International. 11 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Georgia
Armenia
Euro
Moldova
Turkey
Russia
Kazakhstan
Belarus
Ukraine
Azerbaijan
15.9%
26.1%
28.7%
28.9%
36.4%
41.3%
44.8%
45.0%
54.4%
54.5%
9.4%
12.6%
2.4%
-3.7%
6.2%
7.2%
6.4%
3.4%
4.6%
2.9% 2.7%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
7.8
10.2
12.8
10.8
11.6
14.4
15.8
16.1
16.5
14.0
14.0
Georgia
Ukraine
Hungary
Slovenia
Serbia
Latvia
Estonia
Czech Rep
Bulgaria
Bosnia & Herz
Russia
Lithuania
Romania
Montenegro
Macedonia
Slovak Rep
Moldova
Poland
Turkey
Belarus
Armenia
Kazakhstan
5.1
In an effort to put fiscal accounts on a 
sustainable path faced with higher capital 
expenditures and lower corporate income tax 
revenues under the four-pillar reform 
programme, the Government introduced 
revenue generation as well as expenditure 
consolidation measures in its 2017 budget. 
Constrained by the Economic Liberty Act 
provisions and in order to achieve a better 
management of public sector recurrent 
spending, the Government plans to overhaul 
public finance management. In this context, the 
Government works to address shortcomings  
in employment benefit schemes, further cut 
non-essential expenditures, consolidate public 
sector institutions, make social and healthcare 
spending more targeted and increase capital 
expenditure efficiencies.
In order to enhance external sustainability, 
National Bank of Georgia introduced a 
ten-point de-dollarisation action plan, including 
reforms to expand the use of the local currency 
in the economy, address high dollarisation in 
the banking sector and support domestic 
savings in the economy through capital markets 
development. Moreover, a new US$ 285 million 
three-year IMF programme, which supports the 
Government’s economic reform agenda and is 
subject to IMF board approval in April 2017, 
feeds trust in the continuity of prudent 
economic policies.
MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN  
GEORGIA’S POSITIONING TO BECOME  
THE REGIONAL HUB ECONOMY
With its business-friendly environment, stable 
Government, developed infrastructure, stable 
energy supply, flexible labour legislation,  
stable and profitable banking sector, strategic 
geography and a Government committed  
to addressing structural improvements in  
the economy through its four-pillar reform 
programme, Georgia is well positioned to 
become a regional hub economy. 
A natural transport and logistics hub, 
connecting important regions and a market 
of 900 million customers without customs 
duties. Georgia’s favourable geographic 
location (between land-locked energy-rich 
countries in the East and European markets in 
the West) and well-developed air, land and sea 
transport networks position the country to reap 
the benefits in transport, logistics and tourism. 
The Anaklia deep sea project is seen as a  
major scheme to enhance regional transit  
hub potential. The Port of Anaklia sits on the 
shortest route from China to Europe, the route 
that has become a major focal point for 
Chinese investments in infrastructure. Once 
completed, it will be the first Georgian port 
capable of accommodating Panamax size 
cargo vessels. Government infrastructure 
investments under the four-pillar reform 
programme and increased spending on roads, 
energy, tourism and municipal infrastructure  
will also reinforce the potential. To enhance 
Georgia’s competitiveness Government 
continues to strengthen integration in existing 
international systems as well as new transit 
routes (e.g. Lapis Lazuli, Persian Gulf – Black 
Sea, Baltic Sea – Black Sea). Georgia is a 
regional energy corridor that accounts for 
approximately 1.6% of the world’s oil and gas 
supply transit volumes. Georgia’s existing free 
trade deals (with the EU, CIS, Turkey), enable  
it to access a market of 900 million customers. 
An imminent free trade agreement with China 
(negotiations completed in 2016) and ongoing 
free trade agreement negotiations with Hong 
Kong are expected to strengthen Georgia’s 
positioning as a platform to trade with, produce 
for and service regional markets.
Established tourism destination. Georgia is 
already an established tourism destination. 
Travel inflows are a significant source of foreign 
currency for Georgia. The number of visitors  
to Georgia increased at a 22.1% compounded 
annual growth rate (CAGR) over 2007-2016 
and tourism inflows stood at US$ 2.2 billion 
(15.1% of GDP) in 2016. The Government 
plans to enhance Georgia’s positioning as a 
four season tourism location through improved 
connectivity of different regions with an aim to 
tap their potential.
COMPARATIVE REAL GDP GROWTH  
RATES (%), 2006-2015
Source: IMF, GeoStat.
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (%)
Source: GeoStat.
Source: Bloomberg.
Note: Dollar per unit of national currency;  
August 2014 to March 2017.
■ Nominal GDP , US$ billion
■ Real GDP growth, y-o-y %
STRONGER DOLLAR, REGIONAL ECONOMIC 
PROBLEMS AND DOMESTIC EXPECTATIONS 
FED INTO GEL MOVES (%) 12 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Georgia
Kazakhstan
Ukraine
Turkey
Russia
Armenia
Moldova
Belarus
Azerbaijan
2.7%
1.2%
-4.5%
-12.8%
-19.4%
-19.5%
-21.2%
-27.3%
-64.4%
Poland
Turkey 3.2
Georgia 3.7
Latvia 3.8
Lithuania
Macedonia
5.5
Russia
7.2
Hungary
9.7
Moldova
10.0
Romania
11.1
Belarus
11.3
11.5
Bosnia & Herz. 12.1
Croatia 15.9
4.4
NPLS TO GROSS LOANS (%), 1H16
Stable energy supply and electricity transit 
hub potential. Georgia has a developed, stable 
and competitively priced energy sector. The 
country has overcome the chronic energy 
shortages of electricity and gas supply 
interruptions of a decade ago by renovating 
and building new hydropower plants, improving 
transmission infrastructure and increasingly 
diversifying its natural gas import partners. 
Georgia became a net electricity exporter in 
2016 and in the years 2007-2011 (a net 
importer in 2012-2015 due to low precipitation 
and increased domestic demand), after being  
a net importer for more than a decade before 
2007. Currently, only an estimated 20-25%  
of Georgia’s hydro potential is utilised. The 
pipeline of investment projects in the energy 
sector is estimated at about US$ 5.4 billion in 
the next five to seven years, including US$ 2.5 
billion for three large HPP projects: Nenskra, 
Khudoni and Tskhenistskali cascade. Currently, 
52 power plants are in various stages of 
construction or development, with 66 more in 
feasibility study stage. A total installed capacity 
of 352MW was added to the grid in 2013-
2016. Georgia’s transmission capacity is poised 
to increase and accommodate an additional 
installed capacity of 3.5GW by 2027 to meet 
the export and domestic demand growth. 
Georgia is foreseen to be an electricity transit 
hub for neighbouring economies; in 2016, 
850GWh of electricity was already transited 
through Georgia to neighbouring countries. 
Attractive place for foreign investors. 
Georgia’s business-friendly environment coupled 
with its sustainable growth prospects continues 
to attract foreign investments. Georgia’s liberal 
economic reforms, favourable international 
rankings of business environment and low level 
of corruption supported substantial Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) over the past decade. 
These capital flows boosted productivity and 
accelerated growth. Public infrastructure 
projects were also instrumental in driving 
growth, as well as better realising the country’s 
potential in logistics, transport and tourism. 
Faced with low domestic savings, FDI is an 
important source of financing growth in 
Georgia, as well as a reliable source of 
Georgia’s persistently high current account 
deficit funding. Despite the fact that many 
countries faced reduced capital flows during 
recent economic turbulence, FDI into Georgia 
was relatively secure thanks to the business-
friendly environment as well as strategic 
infrastructure projects – such as the BP gas 
pipeline construction project and the railway 
project connecting Azerbaijan-Georgia-Turkey. 
In 2016 FDI inflow to Georgia was up 5.2% 
y-o-y and amounted to US$ 1.6 billion (11.5% 
of GDP).
Georgia’s exports – untapped potential. 
There have been significant changes in 
Georgia’s export structure and destination 
markets in recent years; however, Georgia  
has not yet demonstrated success in tapping 
international markets, notwithstanding 
remarkable improvements in the business 
environment, progress in trade liberalisation, 
enhancement of trade-related infrastructure and 
streamlining of customs procedures. Another 
big change in Georgian exports has been a 
reorientation from the Russian market after the 
2005 embargo, which caused the share of 
exports to Russia in total exports to decrease 
from 18% in 2005 to 8% in 2006 and 2% in 
2008-2012. The embargo forced Georgian 
producers to redirect exports to other CIS 
countries, the EU and the Middle East. Exports 
to Russia picked up in 2013 as Russia opened 
its borders to Georgian products, but 
accounted for only six percentage points in  
the 22% total export growth in 2013. Despite 
these positive developments, the share of 
merchandise exports to GDP has not increased 
significantly over the past decade, while the 
share of services exports to GDP has almost 
doubled, driven by growth in tourism and 
transport receipts. Georgia’s exports 
performance is explained by its commodity 
structure, dominated by used car re-exports 
and resource-based metals and minerals, while 
employment-generating processed product 
exports remained secondary. While recent 
regional economic troubles significantly 
weighed on car re-exports to Azerbaijan and 
Armenia, since 2013 Georgia’s developed 
logistics and transport infrastructure has helped 
to shore up opportunities for new re-export 
commodities, including copper and 
pharmaceuticals. Given these trends, it is likely 
that re-exports will continue to fuel Georgia’s 
export growth supported also by the 
Government policies aimed at further enhancing 
the platform for current and potential trade 
partners. The share of Georgia’s exports to the 
EU has increased in recent years and averaged 
28.0% in 2015-2016 and export flows to the 
EU remained relatively stable during recent 
shocks. 
As noted above, Georgia’s existing free trade 
deals (with the EU, CIS, Turkey), enable it to 
access a market of 900 million customers.  
An imminent free trade agreement with China 
(negotiations completed in 2016) and ongoing 
free trade agreement negotiations with Hong 
Kong are expected to strengthen Georgia’s 
positioning as a platform to trade with, produce 
for and service regional markets and offer 
significant upside potential for Georgia’s exports.
WHILE GEORGIA USED LESS RESERVE  
TO SUPPORT GEL COMPARED TO PEERS 
(RESERVE LOSS/GAIN, %)
INDUSTRY AND MARKET OVERVIEW CONTINUED
Source: IMF.
Note: August 2014 to February 2017; Armenia’s reserves 
exclude a US$ 500mln Eurobond issued in March 2015.
Source: IMF. 13 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
GEORGIAN ECONOMY – TOP 
PERFORMER IN THE REGION IN 2016
The Georgian economy has performed relatively 
well, notwithstanding long-lasting external 
shocks related to the oil price slump, currency 
depreciations, geopolitical tensions and related 
weakness in external markets. Growth 
remained stable at 2.7% despite the reduction 
in the exports and further depreciation against 
the Dollar. Capital flows and remittances have 
increased. Despite the growth below potential, 
some country-specific characteristics, stronger 
institutions and prudent policies have helped 
Georgia to weather shocks better than regional 
peers. Price pressures have been contained 
due to weak aggregate demand, low global oil 
and food prices and the last year’s high base. 
Annual inflation came in at 1.8% in December 
2016 – well below the NBG’s target of 5.0%. 
The NBG has reacted to weak inflation and 
persistently low global commodity prices by 
gradually cutting its policy rate to 6.5% at the 
end of 2016 from 8.0% at the beginning of 2016. 
Tourism drove the growth with the number of 
tourists visiting Georgia increasing 19.1% to  
2.7 million tourists in 2016. Notably, export of 
services, fuelled by tourist inflows, have 
surpassed the export of goods for two years in 
a row and averaged 22.9% in 2015-2016, 
which is 1.7ppts higher than the same figure for 
the export of goods. Construction sector, the 
largest contributor to growth, increased 8.1% 
y-o-y despite a slowdown in the second half of 
2016, which is explained by the high base last 
year. Importantly, growth was posted in the two 
largest sectors of the economy – manufacturing 
(+4.8% y-o-y) and trade (+1.8% y-o-y) – 
reflecting a recovery in both external and 
domestic demand, supported by increased 
remittances since June 2016. Robust tourist 
arrivals drove growth in hospitality sector which 
increased 9.9% y-o-y. Financial sector grew 
9.3% y-o-y, and real estate was another fastest 
growing sector (+6.7% y-o-y) despite the 
uncertainties related to the GEL depreciation. 
Transport (-0.9% y-o-y) and communication 
(-0.2% y-o-y) were the only sectors in 
downturn, while growth in agriculture was flat. 
Increased capital and parliamentary elections 
related spending widened the fiscal deficit to 
4.1% of GDP in 2016. The deficit, however, is 
expected to decrease in the medium term 
subject to ongoing reforms in public finance 
management. The Current account deficit 
widened to 13.3% of GDP in 2016 from 12.0% 
in 2015. However FDI, increasing 5.2% y-o-y to 
US$ 1.6 billion (11.5% of GDP) remained the 
main source of current account deficit funding, 
with net FDI financing 74.9% of the deficit. 
Prudent supervision as well as positive growth 
supported the stability in the banking sector 
with NPLs amounting to 3.4% in December 
2016. 
More uncertain global and regional financial 
markets, a stronger Dollar following the 
elections in the USA and domestic factors 
renewed pressure on the GEL in 4Q16, which 
regained some of its earlier losses in 1H16. 
This, coupled with slowly adjusting imports, 
resulted in GEL weakness. The Lari lost another 
9% in 2016 against the Dollar after a 22% 
depreciation in 2015. Commitment to exchange 
rate flexibility helped Georgia again in 2016 to 
absorb most of the shocks through the 
exchange rate minimising potential negative 
impact on real sector as well as preserving FX 
reserves. 
Comprehensive reform agenda strengthens 
growth outlook for 2017 and beyond. 
2017 started strongly with the growth averaging 
4.8% y-o-y in 2M17 reflecting recovery in 
external markets as well as improved consumer 
and business confidence locally due to 
appreciating GEL. The latter was affected by 
surge in export of goods, remittances and 
tourist arrivals in the first two months of 2017. 
The improving external environment due to the 
stabilisation of commodity prices and a 
moderate recovery in the economies of the 
partner countries is expected to positively 
impact the export of goods throughout the year. 
Moreover, significant growth is anticipated in 
tourism revenues, with Georgia being a cheap 
and popular tourist destination, as well as  
a solid level of FDI (US$ 1.7 billion expected) 
are other significant positive factors for growth.  
A projected 15% increase in remittances 
coupled with new job creation anticipated in  
the construction sector is expected to support 
increased retail spending. In 2017 the budget  
is more focused on capital spending, compared 
to previous years, and investments are 
expected to drive the growth. Corporate 
income tax benefits for companies has created 
further stimulus for domestic investments. 
Fresh reforms under the four-pillar reform 
programme aiming to boost the growth, 
together with the measures addressing high 
dollarisation of the Georgian economy to 
improve resilience to external headwinds, feed 
trust in Georgia’s growth framework and 
macroeconomic stability. The IMF expects 
growth to be 4.0% y-o-y in 2017 and to 
average 5.0% annually in 2018-2021. 
WELL CAPITALISED BANKING SECTOR 
WITH LOW NPLS
The Georgian banking sector has been  
one of the faster growing sectors of the 
Georgian economy. The banking sector 
assets’ growth rate of 21.7% (ten-year CAGR) 
has far outstripped the nominal GDP growth 
rate for the same period. The banking sector  
is entirely privately-owned and quite 
concentrated, with the two largest banks 
accounting for 63% of total assets. Amidst 
multiple downgrades by global rating agencies 
in the face of the recent economic recession 
across the region, the Georgian banking sector 
has remained profitable and maintained its 
credit ratings with a stable outlook. Prudent 
regulation and conservative oversight by the 
central bank resulted in stability and resilience 
of the financial sector during different shocks  
to the economy. In 2016 the average capital 
adequacy ratio remained above 16%, the share 
of NPLs stood at 3.4% and the overall liquidity 
ratio remained high at close to 40%. Credit 
growth remained stable averaging 10% y-o-y. 
Although Lari depreciation spurred loan and 
deposit ratios to GDP , penetration rates still 
remain low with retail loans estimated at 27.7% 
of GDP and total loans at 53.4% of GDP as of 
2016 (and 50.1% of GDP for deposits). Due to 
the Central Bank’s conservative regulations, 
liquidity in the banking sector and capitalisation 
rates have been historically high. Nevertheless, 
profitability in banking sector has remained 
robust at 19% ROE over the past three years.  14 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
We are a Georgia–focused investment platform. We have a successful track record of delivering profitable growth for more than a decade, 
growing our market capitalisation since 2004 by approximately 80 times to c.US$ 1.7 billion as at 7 April 2017.
Comprising at least 80% of the Group’s profit, our Banking Business includes Retail Banking, Corporate Investment Banking, Wealth 
Management, P&C Insurance and banking operations in Belarus through BNB. 
Comprising up to 20% of our profit, the Investment Business includes our healthcare business, real estate business, utility & energy business  
and beverage business. We believe that our Banking Business is the number one or two player on the market in all its major business lines and 
each of our investment businesses is number one in its market.
We believe that our business model is simple and purpose-built to capture growth opportunities in Georgia 
REGULAR DIVIDENDS
BANKING BUSINESS
Retail Banking GHG (Healthcare)
Wealth Management m
2
 (Real Estate)
Corporate Investment Banking GGU (Utility & energy)
Aldagi (P&C Insurance) Teliani Valley (Beverages)
BNB (Bank in Belarus)
CAPITAL RETURNS
INVESTMENT BUSINESS
CASH BUFFER
Investors
BGEO  
Group 15 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Strategy  
Announced
2014
5 YEARS 5 YEARS
50% of regular dividends  
paid during 2020-2024
50% of regular dividends  
paid during 2015-2019
2019 2024
Three forms  
of special  
capital return
Five-year cycle  
for capital 
return
CAPITAL RETURNS: THREE FORMS, FIVE-YEAR CYCLE
WE RUN TWO FORMS OF CAPITAL RETURN: 
1. Ordinary Dividends paid by the Banking Business. 
Ordinary dividends are linked to the recurring profit from our Banking Business, with an aim of a 25-40% dividend payout ratio. Bank of Georgia  
is by far the largest and most valuable asset in our Group, which provides a stable dividend flow to our shareholders. Implementing our strategy 
successfully should improve the quality of ordinary dividend generation capabilities of Bank of Georgia and make it more sustainable over a long 
period of time. For information on this year’s dividend, see page 31.
2. Special Capital Returns (SCR), generated by our Investment Business. 
We updated our strategy in December 2014 and introduced the Investment Business and the concept of Special Capital Returns (SCR). The 
Investment Business aims to deliver SCRs from divestments of our portfolio of companies. Our aim over a five-year period is to deliver SCRs  
of at least 50% in aggregate of the ordinary dividends delivered by the Banking Business over the 2015-2019 period. We view SCRs in three  
different forms: cash dividends, BGEO share buybacks and the potential distribution of shares in our listed portfolio company. We are also aiming  
to buyback shares for our management trust, rather than issue new ones – as we historically used to do. The aim is not to increase the Group’s 
outstanding number of shares from the current 39.5 million level.
Cash dividends
1
Stock dividends
2
Share buyback
3 16 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
THE WAY WE INVEST AND MANAGE THE COMPANIES
Due to the limited access to capital and management in a small frontier economy such as Georgia, we see a much better risk return profile 
when investing in Georgian companies than when lending to those same corporates. We also believe that the Group will be adding value for 
our shareholders by investing in opportunities which currently are not accessible to our shareholders, changing management and governance, 
institutionalising and scaling up the companies and, most importantly, unlocking value by exiting from these companies over time. Our Plan A  
in exit is to take the Company public. This way, as far as possible, it is our firm intention to create an opportunity for our shareholders to participate  
in such offerings.
Investment is not  
a primary mandate
Platform to produce  
executive management
Decentralised 
subsidiaries/investments
Mandate to divest 
Neither PE
nor Conglomerate
(within 
6-years)
OUR KEY PRINCIPLES AROUND INVESTING AND  
MANAGING THE COMPANIES AT BGEO:
BGEO INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY
BGEO AS AN INVESTMENT PLATFORM
1. BE OPPORTUNISTIC AND DISCIPLINED 
The Georgian economy was born around ten 
years ago and different sectors and businesses 
are in the process of formation, access to 
capital and management is limited, owners of 
businesses are cash poor and therefore good 
opportunities can be captured cheaply. At the 
same time, we are under no pressure to make 
new investments and we are extremely 
selective and opportunistic and will not commit 
more than US$ 25 million in a single investment 
in a sector where we are not already present. 
Our dividend policy is a natural self-discipline 
mechanism for our Investment Business, as 
explained on the previous page.
2. IN SCALE WE TRUST
Achieving superior economies of scale in a 
small frontier economy is an essential part of 
the success. It actually significantly diminishes 
the risk of failure.
3. GET OUR HANDS DIRTY
Similarly to the limited access to capital in this 
country, the availability of management is 
limited and by producing top talent in the 
country we can add value for our shareholders. 
We understand that great management teams 
make great companies, and investing time in 
growing people continues to be critical for the 
success of our strategy.
4. GOOD GOVERNANCE MAKES  
GOOD RETURNS
We are big believers that robust governance  
is the source of value creation for our shareholders. 
The natural and simple alignment of interest 
between shareholders and management by 
awarding long-term stock works well for value 
creation and, finally, we want to have good 
balance by having separate people as the 
Chairman and CEO of the Company.
5. LIQUIDITY IS KING
In order for our strategy to work we need  
to be disciplined in unlocking the value of 
companies in which we invest and manage. 
Taking companies public is our preferred  
option for exit, as it is our intention to give  
our shareholders an opportunity to participate.
PRIVATE EQUITY CONGLOMERATE 17 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
BGEO STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
ALL REASONS STILL IN PLACE AND OUR STRATEGY IS MORE RELEVANT
ROBUST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ACCESS TO CAPITAL ACCESS TO MANAGEMENT
OPPORTUNITIES IN CORPORATE SECTOR IN GEORGIA BGEO IS BEST POSITIONED TO CREATE VALUE
Big opportunities with small capital commitments
Leading investment platform with in-depth country knowledge
Access to capital on capital markets or from institutional  
investors is limited in a small frontier economy such as Georgia
Strong management skills with proven track record
Opportunities to add value through better management 
Access to capital
Strong corporate governance
  Raised US$ 350 million 6.000% bond due 2023
 6.125% yield
 Lowest coupon from Georgia
  Local currency funding of GEL 280 million raised at  
Bank of Georgia to support local currency lending
  Raising long-term debt of more than US$ 200 million at our 
Investment Businesses 
  No cash bonus and heavily weighting salary to long term 
deferred share remuneration, with long-term vesting, for 
executive management*
 Attractive for top talent to be part of what they are creating 
  Full alignment of interest between shareholders and management
  Developing our management through:
 Helping each other to succeed
 Coaching and feedback culture
 Rotations and promotions
  BGEO as a talent producing engine
  Further stepping up this machine to produce more senior and 
middle level managers
Since December of 2014, the Group’s strategy 
has been focused on enhancing BGEO’s 
profitability by optimising capital allocation to 
the more attractive corporate segments and 
investment opportunities, capturing compelling 
opportunities in the Georgian corporate  
sector. This included the Group’s continued 
commitment to the Bank’s highly profitable 
retail franchise and augmenting the Group 
returns through carefully targeted direct equity 
investments with a clear exit strategy and 
targeted IRR above 20%.
During this period, BGEO has made strong 
progress in delivering its 4x20 strategy through 
profitable growth in its Banking Businesses,  
as well as significant development and profitable 
growth of its Investment Businesses together with 
delivering the IPO of the healthcare business.
Georgia’s economic development has remained 
robust and the Group expects this progress  
to be maintained in the future. The banking sector 
in Georgia remains relatively underpenetrated and 
we expect our recent strong customer lending 
growth, particularly in the retail bank, to continue. 
Georgia’s capital markets development, which 
remains in its infancy, will create significant 
opportunities over the next few years to develop 
more capital efficient growth opportunities 
throughout the business. The Group expects  
to be at the forefront of that capital market 
development in the country, thereby producing 
value creation opportunities for its shareholders.
The Group’s depth of management bench, 
ability to develop talent, management expertise 
and access to international capital markets 
combined with a limited buyer universe for large 
domestic acquisitions in Georgia positions it 
extremely well to acquire high quality assets at 
attractive valuation levels. BGEO’s management 
has a proven track record of creating value 
through successful business development  
and investments.
* The structure of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy as it applies to our Executive 
Directors (set out on pages 100 to 106) will apply equally to executive management 
below the Board level, even though outside of the scope of the Policy.  18 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
30 November
2006
0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
30.0
35.0
40.0
11 February 
2008
5 December 
2014
10.2
BGEO IPO
US$ 159,843,726 
Issue price GBP 9.2
13.2
Capital Raise
US$ 100,000,000 
Issue price GBP 12.8
20.7
Capital Raise
US$ 114,069,564
Issue price GBP 20.3
1995
BGEO’S CAPACITY TO ACCESS CAPITAL
ACCESS TO CAPITAL MARKETS
EBRD, IFC, DEG 
and other IFIs
provide credit lines 
to fund growth
Mid-1990s
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issues Eurobonds
US$ 250,000,000 
7.75% five-year 
Eurobond
Jul 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADB
US$ 50,000,000 
five-year maturity 
loan for SMEs
Dec 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPIC
US$ 29,000,000
ten-year senior  
mortgage facility
Dec 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issues Bonds
GEL 2,000,000 
11% callable two-
year local bonds
Feb 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EBRD becomes a 
shareholder
1998
 
Firebird & East 
Capital 
become 
shareholders
Oct 2004
 
IPO
US$ 159,843,723 
Issue price GBP 9.2
GDR listing on LSE
Nov 2006
 
FMO
US$ 12,500,000
to finance SME 
loan portfolio
Jan 2007
Issues Eurobonds
US$ 200,000,000
9% five-year 
Eurobond
Feb 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BGEO has superior access to both equity and 
debt capital, which provides flexibility with 
liability management and is our key competitive 
advantage in realising our ambition to capture 
attractive investment opportunities in Georgia. 
We have completed:
• IPO on the LSE in 2006 (first from  
Georgia and second from the CIS)
• US$ 200 million Eurobond issue in 2007 
(first from Georgia)
• US$ 100 million capital raised in 2008 
• Premium listing on the LSE in 2012  
(first from Georgia)
• US$ 250 million Eurobond issued in 2012
• US$ 114 million capital raised in 2014
• US$ 150 million Eurobond issue in 2013
• IPO on the LSE in 2015 of our healthcare 
subsidiary – GHG
• US$ 350 million Eurobond issued in 2016
We are the undisputed leader in the local 
capital market industry through Galt & Taggart 
and Bank of Georgia custody:
• GEL 618.5 million local corporate bonds 
placed by Galt & Taggart since 2014
• The only international sub-custodian in the 
region through State Street, Citi and 
Clearstream Bank Luxembourg
The strength of our franchise and brand name 
translates into pricing power driving down  
Cost of Deposits. Ability to replace more costly 
borrowings with cheaper funding also leads to 
improved funding costs:
• Lower deposit rates than offered on the market;
• Cost of Client Deposits and Notes 3.8%  
in 2016 down from 7.5% in 2010
• Cost of Funds 4.7% in 2016 down from 
8.2% in 2010
Premium listing 
on London Stock 
Exchange
Feb 2012
Issue Price Premium Listing GDR Listing Share Price, GBP 19 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
2016
2% 7%
11%
80%
EFSE
EUR 18,500,000
for SME and micro 
businesses
Jun 2014
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IFC
US$ 90,000,000 
subordinated debt
May 2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EBRD, IFC, EFSE, 
BSTDB, DEG, 
FMO, Proparco, 
responsAbility
Around US$ 
230,000,000
senior loans for 
Banking and 
Investment Businesses
2016
 
 
 
 
EBRD
GEL 220,000,000
for M/SME financing, 
with five-year maturity
May 2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issues Eurobonds
US$ 150,000,000 7.75% 
Eurobond consolidated with 
US$ 250 million 2012 bonds
Nov 2014
US$ 114 million capital raise
Share price GBP 20.25
Raised capital to purchase  
Privatbank and support  
further acquisitions
Dec 2014
GHG IPO
Proceeds of GBP 70,697,598 
from premium listing  
on London Stock Exchange
Nov 2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Citibank
US$ 40,000,000 
financing for SME
Sep 2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issues  
Eurobonds
US$ 350,000,000 
6% seven-year 
Eurobond
Jul 2016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
European  
Investment Bank
EUR 40,000,000 
financing for SME and 
micro businesses with 
seven-year maturity
Apr 2015
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance 
Asset Managers
Bank & PBs
Hedge Funds
ISSUANCE OF US$ 350 MILLION & LIABILITY MANAGEMENT OF US$ 400 MILLION
ALLOCATION BY INVESTOR TYPE
 
 
 
 
 
KEY NEW ISSUE TERMS
TENDER OFFER DETAILS
Issuer
Tender Type
Maturity date
Early participation 
deadline
Issue format
Total consideration
Re-offer yield
Issue size
T ender offer consideration
Benchmark
Listing/Law
Rating
Announcement date
Coupon
Expiration date
Status
Early tender premium
Re-offer price
Spread to UST
Settlement date
Total tendered
Spread over mid-swaps
CEMBI eligibility
JSC BGEO Group
Any-and-all cash tender offer
26 July 2023
July 14, 2016
Reg S/Rile 144A.
105.750%
6.125%
US$ 350 million
102.750%
UST 1.375% due June 2023
Irish Stock Exchange/English Law
B1 by Moody’ s and BB- by Fitch
June 30, 2016
6.000%
July 28, 2016
Senior Unsecured
3.000%
99.297%
475.7bps
26 July 2016
US$ 313.9 million (78.5%)
489.0bps
Yes
NEW ISSUE:
• On July 19, 2016, JSC BGEO Group (BGEO) 
successfully priced a US$ 350 million 6.000% 
Rule 144A/Reg S bond due 2023:
 – Lowest coupon achieved by a borrower 
from Georgia
 – Longest maturity from Georgia
 – First bank transaction from the CIS in 2016
 – Lowest coupon achieved by a private bank 
from the CIS with a seven-year maturity
• Marketing: covered over 35 investors in 
London, Zurich, Geneva, New Y ork and Boston:
 – 62.9% (US$ 228.2 million) of tendering 
accounts requested allocation codes for 
the new transaction
 – Existing holders accounted for 43% of 
the total order book
• Launched a “US$ 300 million expected” 
seven year with “low to mid 6%” guidance 
on price
• Order book rapidly built to over US$ 750 million 
from 90 high quality accounts and we released 
an official price guidance of “6.25% area”
• Upsized to US$ 350 million and priced at the 
yield of 6.125%, or a spread of MS+489bps, 
curve adjusted spread of 130bps over Georgia
LIABILITY MANAGEMENT:
• In parallel to the new issue by BGEO, BOG 
completed an any and all cash tender and 
exit consent of its US$ 400 million due  
2017 note
• Early bird incentive offer expired on  
July 14th, offering investors a tender price  
of 105.75% (versus 102.75% at final expiry  
on July 28th)
• Participation ratio of 78.5% as of early 
participation deadline (US$ 313.9 million 
notional), surpassing the necessary majority 
for the exit consent to pass 20 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
2013 2014 2015 2016
19.9%
20.6%
21.7%
22.1%
2013 2014 2015 2016
19.6%
28.1%
35.3%
39.5%
1Q15 1Q16 2Q15 2Q16 3Q15 4Q16 3Q16 4Q15
6.0%
17.7%
11.6%
12.8%
9.8%
18.3%
16.4%¹
18.5%
PERFORMANCE AGAINST STRATEGY IN 2016
OUR STRATEGY – delivering on our 4x20 strategy
1 Excluding deferred tax adjustments, gain from bargain purchase of GGU and other net non-recurring items. 
 Including the deferred tax adjustments and other net non-recurring items, Investment Business contributed  
GEL 13.4 million or 15.1% to the Group’ s profit in 4Q16 and GEL 119.1 million or 27.8% to the Group’ s profits in 2016.
4x20 strategy – Georgia-focused investment platform – reflects our competitive strengths and opportunities  
in the market
During 2016, our 4x20 strategy entailed a 20% metric for our ROAE, retail loan growth, minimum IRR for investment business and its profit 
contribution to the Group’s profit. This strategy is built to allow us to capture compelling investment opportunities in Georgia’s corporate sector,  
on top of our continued commitment to growing our strong Banking Business.
ROAE 
20%+
Min. IRR  
of 20%
Profit  
up to  
20%
2
1 3
4
Retail loan 
book growth 
20%+
BANKING BUSINESS INVESTMENT BUSINESS
121% IRR from GHG IPO
78% IRR from  
m
2
 Real Estate projects
STRATEGIC TARGET 2016 PERFORMANCE
Banking  
Business
20%+ Return on Equity  
in the Banking Business
Record profitability:
• Revenue up 6.8% y-o-y to GEL 802.5 million in 2016
• Profit up 12.8% y-o-y to GEL 309.4 million in 2016
• Non-interest income up 3.1% y-o-y to GEL 245.7 million in 2016
• NIM stood at 7.5%
• ROAE stood at 22.1% in 2016
Operational efficiency and scale: 
• Cost to Income ratio at 37.7% in 2016
Prudent risk management: 
• Cost of Risk of 2.7% in 2016
20%+ Retail loan book growth • Net retail banking loan book grew 39.5% y-o-y to GEL 3,902.3 million, while client deposits 
increased 28.4% y-o-y to GEL 2,413.6 million. Growth on constant currency basis was 31.5%  
and 19.2% for retail net loan book and retail deposits, respectively
• Retail Banking Loan Yield was 16.8% in 2016 compared to 17.6% in 2015, Retail Banking Cost  
of Client Deposits decreased to 3.3% in 2016 from 3.9% in 2015
Investment 
Business
Internal rate of return of 
minimum 20% for each of the 
individual future investments  
of the Group
• Achieved 121% IRR and 3.9x-money on our investment in GHG at IPO in November 2015
• 78% IRR from m
2
 Real Estate projects
Profit up to 20% of 
BGEO Group profit 
• Investment Business generated a profit of GEL 119.1 million, 27.8% of the Group’s profit
• 2016 profit includes material one-offs from deferred tax adjustments, gain from the purchase  
of GGU and other net non-recurring items. Excluding these one-offs, profit from our Investment 
Business was GEL 60.8 million, or 16.5% of the Group’s profit 
• Furthermore, if we exclude our publicly listed subsidiary, GHG, from this figure, then our Investment 
Business profit was GEL 26.0 million or 7.8% of the Group’s profit
Dividend 
Payout
Dividend payout 
ratio of 25-40%  
from Banking Business
• At the 2017 AGM the Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.6 per share 
payable in Sterling at the prevailing rate, representing 32.4% payout ratio. This represents an 
increase of 8.3%, compared to the annual dividend of GEL 2.4 per share last year
Capital return from investment • In addition, at least three capital returns over the next five years will be targeted in the light of 
potential divestments, with the objective of ensuring that these three capital returns total at least 
50% of the regular dividends from the Banking Business. These capital returns could take the form 
of either special dividends, share buybacks and/or stock dividends
• As part of this commitment, in 2016, the Board has approved a US$ 50 million share buyback  
and cancellation programme over a two-year period. In addition, the Group has instructed the 
administrators of the Group Employee Benefits Trust to purchase shares in the market totaling 
approximately US$ 20 million, which was completed at the beginning of 2017
• As of February 2017, we completed GEL 98.2 million worth of market purchases of BGEO shares 
for the Employee Benefit Trust since 2015 21 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
OUR STRATEGY – going forward
 4x20 strategy going forward
At the end of 2016, the Board approved to keep our 4x20 strategy, as declared at the end of 2015, unchanged. Our key goal is to continue 
producing high returns in the long run for our shareholders. 
1
 
AT LEAST 20% RETURN ON EQUITY IN THE BANKING BUSINESS
Profitability is expected to be driven by further growth in both the Retail and Corporate Investment Banking businesses with an increased focus on 
the significantly more profitable retail franchise, as we aim to increase our share in retail loans.
2
 
AT LEAST 20% RETAIL LOAN BOOK GROWTH
Our retail net loan book has grown at a CAGR of 26.1% from 2010 to 2016 and we remain committed to at least 20% growth in our retail customer 
lending. Our focus persists on increasing the retail loan portfolio to 65%, from its current 61%, over the next two years. Specifically, we are looking  
to continue to further grow our Express (self-service) Banking network as well as our payments business, while benefiting from our transformed  
retail mass market operations, through the customer-centric Bank of Georgia brand and significantly increase our market share in the mass affluent 
segment with our premium brand Solo.
3
 
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN OF MINIMUM 20% FOR EACH OF THE INDIVIDUAL FUTURE INVESTMENTS OF THE GROUP
We will target investments with a minimum of 20% IRR and partial or full exit in a maximum of six years. We will acquire only businesses that we 
believe have a well-defined exit path, to which end we will target companies with potential EBITDA of at least US$ 30 million within three to four 
years post-acquisition with a view to potential future exits, including by way of stock market listings or trade sale.
4
 
A MAXIMUM 20% PROFIT CONTRIBUTION, OF THE GROUP’S PROFITS, FROM OUR INVESTMENTS IN NON-BANKING BUSINESSES 
We aim to remain primarily a banking group, with an investment arm. No matter how well our non-banking companies do in terms of operating 
results, we want to see their exit to unlock the value and with the generated profit return capital to our shareholders and pursue new opportunities 
– in the event that we see them.
Dividends: Our future dividend policy is expected to comprise recurring ordinary dividend payments linked to recurring profits from the banking 
group, with a targeted dividend payout ratio of 25-40%. In addition, we will aim to provide capital returns upon the realisation of our financial 
investments and are targeting at least three capital returns in the next five years. We aim for capital returns to represent at least 50% of regular 
dividends paid from the Banking Business within 2015-2019. Some of the profits may be reinvested if further attractive investment opportunities 
arise. This statement should be read alongside our business model and projected returns on page 15 and our proposed dividend payment this  
year to be approved at our Annual General Meeting.
ROAE 20%+ Min. IRR of 20%
Retail loan book growth 20%+ Profit up to 20%
1 3
2 4
BANKING BUSINESS
DIVIDENDS
INVESTMENT BUSINESS
• Ordinary dividends: linked to recurring profit from the 
Banking Business. Aiming at a 25-40% dividend payout ratio
• Capital return: aiming for at least three capital returns  
within five years (2015-2019 period)
• Aiming for Capital Return to represent at least 50% of regular 
dividend paid from Banking Business within 2015-2019 period 22 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
ROAE
RETAIL BANKING GROWTH
INCREASE PRODUCT TO CLIENT RATIO FROM 1.7 IN 2015 TO 3.0
HOW WE ARE GOING TO ACHIEVE OUR TARGETS 
OVER THE NEXT TWO TO THREE YEARS
Banking Business – crown jewel in our Group and the key driver of profitability
Two key metrics we measure our Banking Business performance against are Return on Average Equity (ROAE) and retail loan book growth,  
each targeted at the 20% level. To further improve profitability, in 2015 we set a three-year target to increase the share of Retail Banking lending  
in the overall loan book, from then 55% to a targeted 65% level. Bank of Georgia is also well positioned in terms of both capital and liquidity  
to deliver on its growth strategy.
We have two segments in the Bank, of which 
Retail Banking will drive most of our Banking 
Business growth and Corporate Investment 
Banking will improve our ROAE, with the latter 
also contributing an increasing share of our fee 
and commission income. Wealth Management, 
under Corporate Investment Banking, will focus 
on further strengthening our regional private 
banking franchise.
The Bank’s strategic targets are:
• Over the next one to two years, the Bank of 
Georgia aims to shift the mix of its customer 
lending to become 65% retail and 35% 
corporate (currently 61% retail; 39% 
corporate). In the Retail Banking segment, 
the Bank aims at increasing mass retail 
product per client ratio from the current  
1.7 to 3.0 in the next three years
• In the Express Banking segment, the  
Bank will aim to double the number of 
transactions over the next two to three years
• In Solo Banking, the Bank will aim to 
increase the number of Solo clients to 
40,000 (19,267 as at 31 December)
• The Bank will continue to reduce 
concentration risk in the corporate lending 
portfolio with a target for the top ten 
borrowers to represent less than 10%  
of the total loan portfolio (currently 11.8%)
• The Bank will aim to develop a significant 
regional private banking franchise to reach 
AUM of GEL 2.5 billion (currently GEL  
1.6 billion)
In addition, over the medium-to-long term:
• The net interest margin is expected  
to be in the 7.25-7.75% range (currently 7.5%)
• The Bank aims to manage to a cost/income 
ratio of around 35% (currently 38%)
• The Bank will continue to enhance its 
already prudent risk management practice, 
and will aim to maintain its Non-Performing 
Loans coverage ratio in the range of 
80-120% through the economic cycle 
(currently 86.7%) – with a normalised 100% 
ratio. Through the long-term economic 
cycle, the Bank’s cost of risk ratio is 
expected to be c.2.0% per annum
FIVE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES  
FOR THE NEXT THREE YEARS
TWO STRATEGIC  
TARGETS
Client-Centric Model
Express
Target: 20%+
2016: 22.1%
Target: 20%+
2016: 39.5%
Ordinary dividends: 
linked to recurring profit 
from Banking Business. 
Aiming at a 25-40%  
dividend payout ratio
1 1
2
DECONCENTRATE CIB
GROW FEE INCOME
GROW SOLO & SME
REGIONAL PRIVATE BANKING HUB
Digital Banking
2
5
3
4 23 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
2008 2012 2013 2009 2014 2010 2015 2016 2011
733,643
1,054,248
1,245,048
806,473
1,999,869
823,859
1,451,777
2,141,229
Product to 
Client 2.0
888,794
Over 2 Million 
Retail Clients
CAGR 14.3%
Over two million retail clients
Emerging Retail Mass Affluent Mass Retail
MSME
Micro, Small
and Medium
 Business
RETAIL BANKING SEGMENTS
Two- to three-year targets and priorities
In order to better connect with the various segments of the retail client 
base, Bank of Georgia operates a multi-brand strategy. 
We began implementing our Express Banking strategy in 2012 by rolling 
out small-format, Express branches offering predominantly transactional 
banking services to clients through ATMs and Express Pay terminals.
Under the Bank of Georgia brand we target the mass retail segment. 
This is our flagship brand and the most significant profit contributor. We 
are currently transforming our service delivery to mass retail clients from 
a product-centric to a customer-centric one.
In April 2015, we launched Solo – a fundamentally different approach  
to premium banking. As part of the new strategy, the Bank’s Solo clients 
are given access to exclusive products and the finest concierge-style 
environment at our newly designed Solo lounges and are provided with 
new lifestyle opportunities, such as exclusive events and handpicked 
lifestyle products.
Double number  
of transactions
Product/client  
ratio growth to 3.0  
from 1.7 (in 2016)
Client growth to  
40,000 from 8,507  
(in April 2015)
Increase
number of clients
Segments
Strategic Focus
Clients
Full year profit
Profit per client
P/C ratio 
Branches
NUMBER OF RETAIL BANKING CLIENTS
Over the past decade, Retail Banking delivered a stellar performance by reaching c.2.1 million clients, delivering loan book growth and ROAE 
targets. While we were targeting this milestone, the Bank was product-centric with an aggressive client acquisition approach. Having over two 
million clients now, this phase is over and we target growth through increasing product to client ratio. 
472.0k 1,523.1k 19.3k 126.9k
GEL 34.2mln
+107% y-o-y
GEL 104.8mln
+23% y-o-y
GEL 25.3mln
+95% y-o-y
GEL 46.1mln
+63% y-o-y
GEL 77.4 GEL 64.9 GEL 1,691.9 GEL 387.2
3.1 1.7 6.9 1.2
128 134 11 n/a 24 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
RETAIL BANKING – CLIENT-CENTRIC, MULTI-BRAND STRATEGY 
EXPRESS – CAPTURING EMERGING RETAIL BANKING CLIENTS
SOLO – A FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT APPROACH TO PREMIUM BANKING
BANK OF GEORGIA – UNPARALLELED MASS RETAIL BANKING FRANCHISE
Our Express Bank brand is aimed at the emerging bankable population. Express serves as a platform for bringing the currently under-banked 
population into banking and its main focus is to enable its client base to transact in a fast and easy way.
The Solo brand is used for servicing the emerging mass affluent segment. Our new Solo model was introduced in 2015. It is a fundamentally 
different approach to premium banking. As a part of the new strategy, the Bank’s Solo clients are given access to exclusive products and the 
finest concierge-style environment at our newly designed Solo lounges and are provided with new lifestyle opportunities, such as exclusive events 
and handpicked lifestyle products.
Under the Bank of Georgia brand, we serve mass retail clients. However, we now have a relationship with c.2.1 million clients and our challenge 
by 2018, as declared in 2015, was to increase the product to client ratio from a low 1.7 at the end of 2015, to 3.0 in 2018. To this end, we are 
shifting our business model from product to client-centric. During 2016, we worked on three main areas to achieve our goal of higher product  
to client ratio in this segment.
In 2016, we installed 140 new Express Pay terminals, resulting in  
2,729 total Express Pay terminals as of the end of the year. We are now 
leaders in Georgia in the payment systems market. We have combined 
our travel card for the Tbilisi bus and metro (of which we are the sole 
provider) and our contactless card with a loyalty programme linked to the 
customer’s current account to create an “Express card” and issued 
566,394 such cards in 2016. At the end of the year we had 1,279,113 
Express cards outstanding. We also sell only a limited number of banking 
products to our Express banking clients. Currently, 85 out of a total of 
128 Express branches are located in Tbilisi and going forward we would 
like to roll out Express branches in regions to reach a wider population. 
The all-in cost of opening a new Express branch is just US$ 50,000.
Nowadays, Express is the major growth driver in our fee and commission 
income from the Retail Banking segment and a strong franchise attracting 
the unbanked population to the Bank, eventually growing them into mass 
retail customers.
To qualify for Solo services one needs to have 
an income of GEL 3,000 per month. At Solo 
lounges, clients are served by personal bankers 
and, in addition to the banking products,  
are offered luxury goods at cost and other 
lifestyle offers including a travel magazine  
and entertainment. In 2016 Solo organised the 
concerts with the world famous artists. The 
events were limited to Solo clients only, which 
created further interest in the Solo franchise. 
We intend to grow the number of Solo clients  
to 40,000 by the end of 2018, from the current 
19,267 level. Net profit per Solo client stood  
at GEL 1,692 in 2016, over 26 times what we 
have in the mass retail segment under the Bank 
of Georgia brand.
We recognise that our current service model and branches are built 
around products and they are not convenient to our clients. We have 
product specialist bankers and separate corners for various products 
and clients must navigate the branch space to get all the services they 
need. To address this, we have trained our bankers to become universal 
product bankers and also freed up their time from processes that do not 
involve client interaction, by moving those processes to the back office. 
We also redesigned the branches to build them around the client and 
make their experience comfortable. In 2016, we moved to a focused 
service model in 15 branches, so called live-labs, where clients have  
a single touchpoint to acquire products and receive consultation. In the 
medium term, we intend to convert the Bank of Georgia brand into  
a single touchpoint front office organisation. We are launching our first 
client-centric branch in April 2017 and are aiming to complete the 
redesign of most of the branches by the end of 2017.
  25 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
CUSTOMER-  
centric approach
PRODUCT-  
centric approach
NEW SERVICE MODEL
New way of thinking: CUSTOMER FIRST!
CUSTOMER SEGMENTATION
...FROM
...FROM
...TO
...AIMING TO
Number of 
customers
Number of 
customers
Number of 
branches
Number of 
branches
Clients Product specialist Products
Mortgages
Deposits
Current Accounts
Credit Cards
Consumer Loans
Clients Universal bankers Products
Mortgages
Deposits
Current Accounts
Credit Cards
Consumer Loans
Advisory 
model
True personal 
advisory
360° financial  
planning light
Product-centric
cross-selling
Personal 
Banker
Universal 
Banker
Teller-seller
Key client 
contact
40.0k 12
550.0k 83
1,400.0k 175
NEW
19.3k 11
1,523.1k 134
472.0k 128
Express
Retail
Retail
SOLO
Express 26 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
GHG – LEADING IN ALL SEGMENTS OF GEORGIAN  
HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM
GHG will continue to focus on building its presence throughout the Georgian healthcare ecosystem, while also focusing on enhancing its margins 
and achieving higher intergroup synergies through various cross-selling initiatives. GHG’s strategic priorities are set out below:
In the hospitals and ambulatory clinics business 
GHG’s aim is to:
• At least double 2015 hospital and ambulatory 
revenues in 2018, with an EBITDA margin  
of 30% 
• Launch two hospitals with a total of c.650 
hospital beds in 2017, achieve a 25% 
market share of hospital revenues by 2018, 
and a market share of 28% in the medium-
to-long-term (currently 20% share of 
revenues and 23% share of hospital beds)
• Roll out a network of ambulatory clinics  
to achieve a 5% market share of revenues  
in 2018 and a 15%+ market share of 
revenues in the medium-to-long term 
(currently 1.5%)
• The key strategic focus in the hospital 
business over the next few years will be  
to enhance the Group’s footprint in Tbilisi, 
continue to fill the current gaps in medical 
services in Georgia and strengthen and 
expand services in elective care
• In the ambulatory business, the key focus 
will be on developing and achieving 
significant sales growth through a wide 
variety of distribution channels – including 
pharmacies, insurance, corporates and 
state programmes
In the pharmaceuticals business GHG’s aim  
is to:
• Complete the planned integration of  
GPC and ABC businesses, and capture  
the significant synergy potential
• Achieve a 30%+ market share in 2018, 
whilst increasing the EBITDA margin  
to 8.0%+
• Continue to decrease the cost of goods 
sold/services, by consolidating GHG’s 
pharmacy and hospital purchases of 
pharmaceuticals and medical disposables
• Enhance the retail margin by launching  
private label and contract manufacturing 
initiatives, increasing the number of loyalty 
programme users and expanding sales  
to hospitals
• Extract revenue synergies with ambulatory 
clinics by increasingly redirecting patients 
from pharmacies to ambulatory clinics 
through various cross-selling initiatives
In the medical insurance business GHG’s aim  
is to:
• Reduce the combined ratio to less than 97% 
over the next few years (currently 104.7%)
• Improve Group synergies by seeking to retain 
more than 50% of medical insurance claims 
costs within the Group (currently 23%)
18% | 27%
20% | 23%
25% | 28%
30%+
In 2015
2016
YE2018
Long-term
<1%
1.5%
5%
15%+
–
15%
30%+
30%+
38%
35%
30%+
30%+
• Renovations at 
Deka & Sunstone 
(budgets on 
track; slight 
delay at Deka)
• Launched 64 
new services 
with target 
annual revenue 
of GEL 18.6mln
• Launched  
six clusters
• Entered 
pharmacy 
segment by 
purchasing third  
& fourth players
• Successful GPC 
integration: 
synergies above 
initial guidance
• Increased claims 
retained within 
the group from 
16.1% to 23.3%
• Turning the 
corner in 
profitability
HOSPITALS AMBULA TORIES PHARMACY INSURANCE
By Revenue | Beds By Revenue By Revenue By Revenue
GHG HAS FULL PRESENCE IN GEORGIAN HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM 
GEL 1.2bln GEL 0.9bln GEL 1.3bln GEL 0.17bln
SEGMENT
MARKET (2015)
Progress toward  
strategic goals in 2016
MARKET
SHARES
TARGET  
MARKET SHARES 27 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
m
2
 – A FAST-GROWING, LEADING REAL ESTATE 
DEVELOPER AND ASSET MANAGER IN GEORGIA
Over the past several years, m
2
 Real Estate has established itself as one of the most recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands  
in the country. For the next three years, the main priority for m
2
 Real Estate will be to target an internal rate of return of 40%+, whilst delivering  
a capital return to the Group of US$ 20-25 million in 2020 by:
Developing remaining residential land 
bank. The total value we are aiming to unlock 
from the remaining residential land bank  
is US$ 26.3 million with 5,126 apartments  
(in addition to 827 remaining apartments to  
be sold in the existing seven projects, both 
completed and ongoing).
Franchising real estate development in 
Georgia. m
2
 will focus on franchising its brand 
to develop third-party land plots and generate  
a fee income by capitalising on its: 
• Strong brand name. m
2
 enjoys 92% 
customer brand awareness among real 
estate developers in Georgia
• Pricing power. Under m
2
, apartments can 
sell at a higher price than under other 
brands. m
2
 has development expertise that 
the company uses to achieve efficiency in 
planning and design stages which drives 
revenues as well as margins
• Sales. m
2
 is distinguished by its ability  
to accomplish strong sales performance 
through dedicated sales personnel and 
access to finance. Pre-sale reduces equity 
needed to finance the projects. The top two 
banks provide mortgages under m
2
 
completion guarantee
• Execution. m
2
 has an excellent track record 
for the projects completed on time and 
budget. The company manages the entire 
process from feasibility through apartment 
handover and property management. m
2
 
has discounts from the contractors and can 
do development at much lower costs. The 
company can do turnkey projects as well
Growing yielding business. m
2
 will continue 
growing its yielding asset portfolio through: 
• Commercial space: retaining commercial 
real estate on ground floors in m
2
 developed 
projects, opportunistic purchases of the 
yielding real estate in prime locations,  
high street, industrial and office space real 
estate assets
• three-star hotel development: m
2
 obtained 
Ramada Encore exclusivity for seven years 
and aims to develop three hotels (three-star, 
select service mixed-use hotels) in the  
next seven years in Tbilisi and Kutaisi with 
minimum room-count of 370 in total, catering 
to budget travellers. When hotels are in  
a mixed-use development, m
2
 finances the 
equity needs of the hotel from the profits and 
land value unlocked through the sale of the 
apartments in the development. Construction 
of a three-star hotel in Kutaisi and a mixed-use 
hotel in Tbilisi will start in 2017 and complete 
in 2018
Unlocking land value by developing housing projects. Buy land opportunistically
Accumulate yielding assets from own-developed projects:
Start developing third-party lands
As at 31 December, 2016:
• Capital management discipline – aim to pay US$ 20-25 million dividends to BGEO in 2019
• Possibility to establish m
2
 as a REIT in the local market
• Mainly retain commercial real estate in residential buildings
• Develop hotels and apartments (mixed-use) to increase yielding business
• NAV (Net Asset Value) – US$ 52.8 million
• Land bank – US$ 27.5 million
• Yielding assets currently – US$ 18.7 million
• Deferred revenue – US$ 36.1 million (inc. VAT)
TARGETS AND PRIORITIES FOR THE NEXT TWO TO THREE YEARS 
1
2
3 28 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
GGU – NATURAL MONOPOLY IN WATER BUSINESS,  
WITH UPSIDE IN ELECTRICITY GENERA TION AND SALES
In July 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 75% equity stake we did not own of GGU, our water utility and energy business, for a cash 
consideration of US$ 70 million and GGU is fully consolidated in the accounts of BGEO from the acquisition date. The Group has a significant 
opportunity to increase GGU’s operational cash flow over the next few years from a combination of improving cash collection rates, increasing 
energy efficiency and reducing water loss rates, and by the development of additional revenue streams. 
GGU is an established business, targeting 
further EBITDA growth as a result of its strategy, 
which implies strong cash flow generation 
post-prudent capital expenditures. GGU aims 
to achieve EBITDA of more than GEL 80 million 
in 2018, whilst establishing a renewable energy 
platform targeting 200MW operating,57MW 
ready-to-build and 150MW pipeline for hydro 
power plants, and 20-20MW ready-to-build 
wind farms and solar photo-voltaic stations  
by 2019, with an IRR in excess of 20%. We  
are aiming to prepare the combined utility  
and renewable energy business for an IPO  
in approximately two to three years. 
Key measures to increasing operational cash 
flow are outlined below:
• Stable cash collection rate. The Georgian 
water utility sector has low, but improving 
collection rates among households. The 
latest available data (from 2005), shows 
average collection rates at only 65% in 
major cities. The average collection rate 
from households throughout Georgia was 
only 45%. GGU’s collection rate was around 
95% in 2016
• Increasing energy efficiency and 
reducing water loss rates. The Georgian 
water utility sector is also characterised by 
the existing high level of water delivery 
losses of an average 50%, which is about 
four to five times higher than that in Western 
Europe, creating an opportunity for 
efficiency gains. Reducing water delivery 
losses to 30%, from the current 50% level, 
would result in a significant cost reduction. 
There is a dual-effect from water delivery 
loss reduction, as freed-up energy can be 
sold to third parties
• Generation of additional income streams. 
This will require the utilisation of GGU’s 
existing infrastructure and the development 
of hydropower plants to increase electricity 
sales to third parties and installing turbinators 
to achieve more efficient water supply
Steering GGU towards an eventual IPO is 
another key project for us – similar to the GHG 
IPO we completed in 2015. In preparing for its 
IPO, GGU will be making its water utility more 
efficient and, if opportunities arise, will make 
bolt-on acquisitions in the sector. At the same 
time we will be developing untapped hydro, 
wind and solar energy resources. In 2017 Archil 
Gachechiladze, a long-time professional at 
BGEO Group, was appointed as a CEO of GGU 
to lead the company on its road to an eventual 
IPO, aimed for in two to three years’ time. 
Purchased remaining 75% of GGU at 4.2x EV/EBITDA 2016E
Recognised GEL 31.8 million negative goodwill from the acquisition
UTILITY ENERGY
WATER UTILITY
OPPORTUNISTIC DIVIDENDS VALUE CREATION UPSIDE
HYDRO & other renewables
EBITDA 2018:  
GEL 80 million+
50% water losses
HYDROs:
200MW operating
57MW ready to build
150MW pipeline
WIND & SOLAR:
20-20MW ready to build
REVENUE 2016: GEL 127.4 million 
EBITDA 2016: GEL 68.1 million
70% water losses
HYDROs:
149MW operating
50MW ready to build
57MW pipeline
Aim to IPO in two to three years’ time
ACQUISITION
BUSINESS
CURRENT STANDING
MEDIUM TERM GOAL
TARGETING
1 2
TARGETS AND PRIORITIES FOR THE NEXT TWO TO THREE YEARS  29 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Attractive 
Investment 
Opportunity
CASE STUDY – GGU ACQUISITION
The purchase of the remaining 75% stake in Georgian Global Utilities
In June 2016 the Group announced its agreement to acquire the 75% equity stake in Georgian Global Utilities Limited that it did not already own.  
In July 2016 the acquisition was completed for cash consideration of US$ 70 million and the Group now owns 100% of GGU. The transaction put  
GGU’s enterprise value at GEL 287.5 million, or 4.2x EV/EBITDA 2016E. The transaction was both earnings and book value accretive from day one.
GGU is a privately-owned company, which 
benefits from a natural monopoly that 
supplies water and provides wastewater 
services through its wholly-owned subsidiaries 
to 1.4 million people (approximately one-third of 
Georgia’s total population) in Tbilisi, Mtskheta 
and Rustavi. In addition, GGU owns and 
operates four hydropower generation facilities 
with a total capacity of 149.1MW. GGU was 
privatised in 2008. The terms of the 
privatisation include certain commitments by 
the Government and the investor, part of which 
have been discharged, and it is expected that 
the remaining commitments (primarily requiring 
refurbishment of assets) will be discharged in 
2018. BGEO believes that GGU operates in a 
stable regulatory environment.
GGU is self-sufficient in power for water 
transportation and it benefits from additional 
revenue from third-party electricity sales. 
GGU owns and operates four hydropower 
generation facilities with a total capacity of 
149.1MW and invests in additional capacity for 
electricity generation through the development 
of hydro power plants, as well as solar and 
wind power sources. Average annual production 
varies between 380GWh and 560GWh, 
depending on rainfall during the year. Its 
average annual electricity consumption for its 
own account varies between 250GWh and 
300GWh, which means GGU is self-sufficient in 
power for water transportation and it benefits 
from additional revenue from third-party electricity 
sales. During the last few years the company 
has achieved certain efficiencies in terms of its 
own energy consumption. The involvement in 
hydro power also provides revenue 
diversification.
Room for efficiencies in water business  
from improving the worn-out infrastructure. 
The Georgian water pipeline infrastructure is 
dilapidated due to legacy underinvestment.  
The poor condition of the infrastructure is the 
main reason for leaks and accidents, causing 
on average 50% water losses annually. An 
additional 20% loss of water is caused by 
unregistered customers. The current high level 
of water losses is significantly worse than the 
peer average and represents a strong efficiency 
upside for the business. GGU owns and 
operates a water supply network of around 
2,700km and about 1,700km of wastewater 
pipelines. It also has 45 pumping stations,  
84 service reservoirs with a total capacity of 
320,000m
3
 and one water treatment plant. 
Around 520 million m
3
 of potable water is 
supplied from water production/treatment 
facilities annually. By improving the pipeline 
infrastructure and as a result reducing the water 
supplied to its utility customers, GGU expects 
to free-up water supply for additional electricity 
generation, which in turn can be sold to  
third parties.
Water tariff and regulation. The current water 
tariff for residential customers stands at GEL 
3.15 (per month, per capita) for non-metered 
customers and at GEL 0.27 per m
3
 for metered 
customers. All of GGU’s commercial customers 
are metered and the tariff stands at GEL 4.40 
per m
3
. The tariff is set per cubic metre of water 
supplied to customers. Georgian National 
Energy and Water Supply Regulatory 
Commission (GNERC), regulates GGU’s water 
tariffs. GNERC is an independent regulatory 
body, not subject to direct supervision from any 
other state authority, but accountable to 
parliament. It is funded predominantly from the 
fees paid by market participants (0.3% of total 
revenues).
Strong cash flow generation is expected  
to enable GGU to sponsor stable dividend 
payouts to shareholders starting from 2018. 
GWP , a wholly-owned subsidiary of GGU, 
which operates the water business, has a credit 
rating of BB- with stable outlook from Fitch.
In December 2014, BGEO acquired a 25% 
shareholding in GGU for c.GEL 49.4 million 
(US$ 26.25 million). The acquisition was 
earnings as well as book value accretive in year 
one. In addition, BGEO had a call option to 
acquire an additional 24.9% shareholding within 
a ten-month period for a further US$ 26 million, 
plus interest at 20% per annum accrued on the 
option consideration from the closing date of 
the initial shareholding acquisition until the call 
option exercise date, less any dividends 
distributed through the call option period. 
Subsequently, BGEO did not exercise the call 
option mainly due to Lari depreciation which 
made the exercise of the option unattractive  
at that time.
The outstanding performance of GGU  
in 2015 was primarily driven by efficiency 
improvements achieved following the 
appointment of a new management team. 
Since 2014, GGU put in place a strong 
management team and streamlined operations, 
however, there remains room for significant 
further improvement. GGU has reported 
growing revenues, with a 4.4% CAGR 
2010-2016 and revenues of GEL 127.4 million 
for 2016, up 7.7% y-o-y. EBITDA was GEL 68.1 
million in 2016, up 10.3% y-o-y, with an EBITDA 
margin of 53.0%, up 100bps y-o-y. GGU’s debt 
to EBITDA ratio stood at 1.6-times at the end  
of 2016. 
The combination of GGU’s strong performance 
during 2015 and the prospect of significant 
further improvement over the medium term  
led the BGEO Board of Directors to make the 
decision to step up the Group’s investment in 
GGU by purchasing the remaining 75% stake. 
In exchange for the 75% stake in GGU, BGEO 
paid cash consideration of US$ 70.0 million 
(c.GEL 164.2 million). This cash consideration 
was paid in full at the closing of the transaction, 
within one month following the signing of the 
Share Purchase Agreement (SPA). Additionally, 
as contemplated by the SPA, GGU distributed 
dividends in the aggregate amount of GEL 13.0 
million to its existing shareholders (including 
BGEO Group PLC), on a pro rata basis, before 
the completion of the GGU acquisition. BGEO 
funded the acquisition through the Eurobonds  
it issued in July 2016. GGU’s planned capital 
expenditure programme is fully funded and, 
accordingly, BGEO does not expect that GGU 
will require any additional equity financing in the 
medium term.
TRANSACTION RATIONALE
Exit strategy through potential IPO is feasible
Strong management and streamlined 
operations but room for potential further 
improvement exists
Cash generating business, no additional 
equity financing required for planned capex
Strong potential for value generation  
for the shareholders in the short term
A natural monopoly
A profitable company with significant 
capacity for growth
Potential to improve utilisation 30 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
TELIANI – CREATING A LEADING BEVERAGES 
PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN THE SOUTH 
CAUCASUS
Teliani Valley is a leading wine producer in Georgia, selling around three million bottles of wine in 12 countries globally per annum, with about  
60% of its revenue coming from exports. Teliani has strong production and distribution franchise, and we aim to leverage this expertise by 
launching beer production in partnership with Heineken. Teliani will produce beer in Georgia and sell it throughout the South Caucasus  
(c.17 million population). Note that Heineken does not produce in either the Caucasus or Turkey. Of the c.US$ 41.3 million investment in the  
beer project, US$ 21.7 million is equity of which US$ 16.3 million is BGEO’s share. We expect EBITDA to grow to c.US$ 12.8 million in 2020,  
up from current US$ 1.4 million, with growth primarily driven by the expansion into the beer segment. A trade sale seems the most likely exit.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
PRIORITIES BY 2018
Wine production
Wine production
Distribution
Distribution
Beer production
Beer production
GOAL – BECOME LEADING BEVERAGES PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN THE SOUTH CAUCASUS
CONSTRUCTION OF THE BEER FACTORY WAS COMPLETED IN 2016
• c.3 million bottles sold annually
• GEL 29.8 million revenue in 2016
• GEL 3.4 million EBITDA in 2016
• 60% of sales from export
• Grow in line with market locally
• Enhance exports
• 4,600 sales points
• Exporting wine to 12 countries, 
including all FSU, Poland, Sweden, 
Finland, USA, Canada, Brazil,  
China, Thailand, Singapore
• Enhance product portfolio and  
become the leading FMSG distributor 
in Georgia
• Launch beer production  
facility in Georgia
• Ten-year exclusivity with Heineken 
to sell in Georgia, Armenia and 
Azerbaijan (17 million population)
• Achieve 10% market share
STRATEGIC SALE 31 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
GEL 1,348.8mln
21.3%
17.9%
1.9%
1.3%
0.1%
RB CIB BNB
P&C Other BB
GEL 1,472.2mln
1.0%
4.3%
8.9%
30.7%
-0.1%
GHG GGU m2
Teliani Valley Other IB
GEL 405.2mln
12.7%
* Calculation based on GHG stock market price as of 10 February 2017 and BGEO ownership of GHG of 65%.
2010
Total dividends paid for the year
0
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011
9,169
23,618
51,235
71,633
80,411
97,604
2
0.30
0.70
1.50
2.00
2.10
2.40
2.60
Dividend per share
GEL thousands
0
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
2015 2016 2017
19,162 GEL thousands
70,367
8,684
BGEO share buybacks (management trust)
SOLID REGULAR DIVIDEND AND CAPITAL RETURN TRACK RECORD
BGEO CAPITAL ALLOCATION
BANKING BUSINESS
GEL 3,181.2mln
1
INVESTMENT BUSINESS CASH BUFFER
REGULAR DIVIDENDS CAPITAL RETURN
Regular dividends:  GEL 333.7 million cash dividend paid since 2010 
DPS CAGR 10-16: 51.6%
Payout  
Ratio: 10% 15% 30% 36% 33% 34%
2016 regular dividend: At the 2017 Annual General Meeting the Board 
intends to recommend an annual regular dividend for 2016 of GEL 2.6 
per share payable in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate. This is 
in the range of our regular dividend payout ratio target of 25-40% paid 
from the Banking Business profits and represents an 8.3% increase over 
the 2015 dividend. 
Capital return: GEL 98.2 million share buybacks since 2015. In November 
2016, announced US$ 70 million share buyback programme for next two 
years (US$ 50 million to be cancelled, US$ 20 million for management trust)
Crystallised value: BGEO holds GEL 977.0 million worth of GHG shares*
1.  Comprises the sum of the following items: a book value of equity attributable to shareholders of BGEO of GEL 2,166.2 million, GEL 656.8 million market value adjustment  
to GHG’s equity book value and long term borrowing of GEL 358.2 million. 32 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
2014 2015 2016
310.9
428.6
240.8
2014 2015 2016
21.7 22.1
20.6
2014 2015 2016
6.72
7.93
10.4
2014 2015 2016
8.4
11.8
27.8
11.3
16.5
2014 2015 2016
2.1
2.4
2.6
2014 2015 2016
0.6
0.8 0.8
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROFIT (BGEO)  
(GEL million)
428.6
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BGEO)  
(GEL)
10.4
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (BGEO)  
(GEL)
2.6
RETURN ON AVERAGE EQUITY  
(Banking Business) (%)
22.1%
SHARE IN GROUP’S PROFIT 
(Investment Business) (%)
16.5%
DIVIDEND PER SHARE (BGEO)  
(GBP)*
0.8
Profit is calculated in accordance with IFRS  
and represents revenue less operating expenses,  
cost of credit risk, net non-recurring expenses  
and tax expense.
Profit attributable to shareholders divided by weighted 
average number of outstanding shares.
Profit attributable to shareholders divided by monthly 
average total equity attributable to shareholders. Total 
equity attributable to shareholders is made up of share 
capital, additional paid-in capital, treasury shares, 
retained earnings and other reserves.
Profit from Investment Business divided by the Group’s 
total profit.
*  The following GEL/GBP exchange rates are used  
for presenting GBP amounts: 2016: 3.2579 as of 
31 December 2016 (the actual currency conversion 
date: 26 June 2017), 2016 dividends proposed for 
2016 to be approved by shareholders at the 2017 
AGM; 2015: 3.0376/GBP as of 11 July 2016, the 
currency conversion date for the year 2015; 2014: 
3.5110/GBP as of 8 June 2015, the currency 
conversion date for the year 2014.
*  At the 2017 Annual General Meeting the Board 
intends to recommend an annual regular dividend for 
2016 of GEL 2.6 per share payable in British Pounds 
Sterling at the prevailing rate. This is in the range of 
our regular dividend payout ratio target of 25-40% 
paid from the Banking Business profits and represents 
an 8.3% increase over the 2015 dividend. 
A strong performance
Our KPIs for 2016 reflect a continuing strong performance in each of our Banking and Investment Businesses, demonstrating excellent  
customer lending growth with improving margins, balance sheet strength and strong profitability, together with continuing progress  
in our Investment Businesses.
RETURNS KPIs
Diversified revenue sources, a growing loan 
book and efficient cost performance were the 
main drivers of the exceptional results in terms 
of profitability.
The resilience of NIM is a function of our 
distribution capabilities and pricing power.  
The substantial growth of the loan book and 
lower cost of funds during 2016 enabled our 
NIM to withstand downward pressures from 
increase of minimum reserve requirement 
mandated by the National Bank of Georgia  
in the second quarter of 2016 and high excess 
liquidity levels. The resulting robust growth  
in interest income, the further increased 
contribution of non-interest income to our 
revenue, and strong margins translated into 
37.8% growth in profit.
In 2017 and beyond, we will continue to focus 
on profitable earnings growth, to be driven by 
good levels of customer lending growth without 
compromising asset quality, an increase in the 
share of income from fee-generating operations 
and an expansion of our Investment Businesses.
For more information on our financial results,  
see page 53. 33 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
2014 2015 2016
40.5
35.7
37.7
2014 2015 2016
-1.8
16.6
-6.0
2014 2015 2016
28.1
35.3
39.5
2014 2015 2016
22.2
35.3
76.2
2014 2015 2016
1.2
2.72.7
2014 2015 2016
110.6
120.6
132.1
2014 2015 2016
11.1 10.9
10.1
2014 2015 2016
4.7
6.0
6.9
COST TO INCOME RATIO  
(Banking Business) (%)
37.7%
NET RETAIL LOAN BOOK  
(Banking Business) (% growth, y-o-y) 
39.5%
COST OF RISK  
(Banking Business) (%)  
2.7%
TIER I CAPITAL ADEQUACY  
RATIO, BASEL 2/3 (%)
10.1%
OPERATING LEVERAGE 
(Banking Business) (%)
-6.0%
INVESTMENT BUSINESS REVENUE GROWTH  
(Investment Business) (% growth, y-o-y)
76.2%
NPL COVERAGE RATIO ADJUSTED FOR 
DISCOUNTED VALUE OF COLLATERAL 
(Banking Business) (%)
132.1%
LEVERAGE  
(Banking Business) (times)
6.9
Operating expenses divided by revenue.
Net loans to customers and net finance leases receivables 
at the end of the year compared to the last year.
Cost of Risk equals impairment charge for loans to 
customers and finance lease receivables for the period 
divided by monthly average gross loans to customers 
and finance lease receivables over the same period.
NBG, Basel 2/3 Tier I Capital adequacy ratio:  
Tier I Capital divided by risk weighted assets.
Operating leverage is measured as the percentage 
change in revenue less the percentage change in 
operating expenses.
Revenue from Investment Business at the end of the year 
compared to the last year.
NPL coverage ratio adjusted for discounted value  
of collateral equals allowance for impairment of  
loans and finance lease receivables divided by NPLs 
(discounted value of collateral is added back to 
allowance for impairment).
Leverage is calculated as total liabilities divided by 
total equity.
EFFICIENCY KPIs
Express Banking, a technology-intensive 
remote channel banking, is the main driver of 
efficiency strategy for our Banking Business. 
Other measures such as various investments  
in IT aimed at optimisation of workflow processes 
and the cost centre reporting procedures 
represent the cost control measures we continue 
to deploy across the board in order to keep  
a tight grip on costs. 
CAPITAL KPIs
Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5 
million distributed as dividend from the Bank  
to the holding level on 29 December 2016. 
These funds are earmarked for regular 
dividends to be paid from BGEO Group in 
respect of the 2016 financial year and will be 
payable in 2017, subject to shareholder 
approval. Including this payment, NBG (Basel 
2/3) Tier I and Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, 
respectively. The risk weighted assets increased 
by 17.1%, reflecting the increase in interest 
earning assets during the year. In 2017 and 
beyond, we intend to maintain strong capital 
ratios above the regulatory requirements.
GROWTH KPIs
The 24.5% loan book growth was mainly  
driven by our Retail Banking business, which 
posted a 39.5% growth in the loan book in 
2016. Corporate Investment Banking loan book 
grew at 8.3% in 2016. We are targeting at least 
20% growth of our Retail Banking loan book 
over the medium term. 
ASSET QUALITY KPIs
Our asset quality remained robust in 2016 
despite local currency devaluation in the last 
quarter of the year. Retail loan book quality was 
resilient, as a result of our continued prudent 
risk management policies. Cost of Risk stood  
at 2.7%. NPL coverage ratio adjusted for  
the discounted value of collateral stood at  
a comfortable level of 132.1% and NPL to 
gross loans ratio improving slightly to 4.2%, 
from 4.3% a year ago.  34 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
BGEO RISK MANAGEMENT
We identify, evaluate, manage and monitor the risks that we face through an integrated control framework supported by formal policies and procedures, 
clearly delegated authority levels and comprehensive reporting. The Board confirms that our framework has been in place throughout the year under 
review and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and is integrated into both our business planning and viability assessment processes.
OVERVIEW 
Our Board, supported by our Audit and  
Risk Committees and executive management,  
is ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls. 
We believe that in order to have an effective  
risk management framework there needs  
to be a strong risk management culture within 
the Group. We have worked to ensure that 
managing risk is engrained in our everyday 
business activities. We seek to create an 
environment where there is openness and 
transparency in how we make decisions and 
manage risks and where business managers 
are accountable for the risk management and 
internal control processes associated with their 
activities. Our culture also seeks to ensure that 
risk management is responsive, forward-looking 
and consistent.
OUR FRAMEWORK 
The Board’s mandate includes determining the 
Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance as well 
as monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the 
nature and extent of the main risks we face are 
consistent with our overall goals and strategic 
objectives. We develop risk management 
strategies which address the full spectrum of 
risks that the Group faces. We are accountable 
for reviewing the effectiveness of the systems 
and processes of risk management and internal 
control, with the Audit and Risk Committees 
assisting in the discharge of this responsibility. 
We also focus on the resolution of any internal 
control failures that may arise, although no 
significant failures occurred during 2016 and 
the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Group’s risk appetite is the amount and type 
of risk that we are prepared to seek, accept or 
tolerate. Our risk appetite evolves over time to 
reflect new risks and changes in external market 
developments and circumstances.
Our control framework is the foundation for the 
delivery of effective risk management. At the 
Board, Committee and executive management 
levels, we develop formal policies and procedures 
which explain the way in which risks need to be 
systematically identified, assessed, quantified, 
managed and monitored. We clearly delegate 
authority levels and reporting lines throughout 
each level of management. Each business 
participates in the risk management process  
by identifying the key risks applicable to its 
business. Through executive and senior 
management, we ensure that our employees  
are given the appropriate training and 
knowledge to perform their roles in line with  
the framework we have developed.
On a day-to-day basis, management is 
responsible for the implementation of the 
Group’s risk management and other internal 
control policies and procedures. Based on our 
risk culture, managers “own” the risks relevant 
to their respective function. For each risk identified 
at any level of the business, the risk is measured, 
mitigated (if possible) in accordance with our 
policies and procedures and monitored. 
Managers are required to report on identified 
risks and responses to such risks on a consistent 
and frequent basis. Executive and senior 
management regularly review the output from 
the bottom-up process by providing 
independent challenge and assessing the 
implementation of the risk management and 
internal control policies and procedures.
Comprehensive reporting forms an integral  
part of our framework. Our reporting process 
enables key risks to be escalated to the 
appropriate level of authority and provides 
assurance to the Committees and the Board. 
Key developments affecting our principal risks 
and associated mitigating actions are reviewed 
quarterly (or more often if necessary on an  
ad hoc basis if outside of the regular reporting 
process) by the Audit and Risk Committees,  
as appropriate, and the Board. The principal 
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are 
identified through this process. 
A description of these principal risks and 
uncertainties, including to recent trends  
and outlook, as well as mitigation efforts,  
can be found on pages 36 to 39 of the  
Strategic Report.
Since the Bank is the Group’s largest business 
and operates in the complex financial services 
sector, its risk management and internal  
control framework is key to that of the Group. 
A description of the Bank’s risk management  
and internal control framework can be found  
on pages 34 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL
As mentioned above, our Board is responsible 
for reviewing and approving the Group’s  
system of internal control and its adequacy  
and effectiveness. Controls are reviewed to 
ensure effective management of strategic, 
financial, operational and compliance among 
other risks we face. Certain matters, such  
as the approval of major capital expenditure, 
significant acquisitions or disposals and  
major contracts, among others, are reserved 
exclusively for the Board. The full schedule of 
matters specifically reserved for the Board can 
be found on our website, at http://bgeo.com/
page/id/67/schedule-of-matters-reserved-for-
the-board. With respect to other matters, the 
Board is often assisted by both the Audit and  
Risk Committees.
With respect to internal control over financial 
reporting, including over the Group’ s consolidation 
process, our financial procedures include a 
range of system, transactional and management 
oversight controls. Our businesses prepare 
detailed monthly management reports that 
include analyses of their results along with 
comparisons to relevant strategic plans, budgets, 
forecasts and prior results. These are presented 
to and reviewed by Executive management. 
Each quarter, the CFO of the Bank and other 
members of the finance team discuss financial 
reporting and associated internal controls with 
the Audit Committee, which reports significant 
findings to the Board. The Audit Committee 
also reviews the quarterly, half-year and full-year 
financial statements and corresponding press 
releases and provides feedback to the Board. 
The external and internal auditors attend each 
Audit Committee meeting and the Audit 
Committee meets regularly both with and 
without management present.
Our Audit and Risk Committees monitor internal 
control over operating and compliance risk 
through discussions with the Chief Risk Officer 
and Head of Compliance and other executive 
management on a quarterly basis. Any key 
issues identified are escalated to the Board. 
The Board also receives regular presentations 
directly from the head of each business. 
Important risk and internal control issues are 
addressed in such presentations. 
The Group’s internal audit function reviews  
a number of areas of risk pursuant to a programme 
approved by the Audit Committee. Any 
significant issues or risks arising from an 
internal audit review are reported to the Audit 
Committee and appropriate actions are 
undertaken to ensure satisfactory resolution. 
The Head of Internal Audit has a direct 
reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Our systems of internal control are also 
supported by our Whistleblowing Policy,  
which allows employees to report concerns  
on an anonymous basis. The Audit Committee 
approves the Whistleblowing Policy on an 
annual basis and receives quarterly reports 
from the Head of Compliance on any significant 
issues raised.
CREATING A CULTURE OF INTEGRITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 35 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW
Each year, we review the effectiveness of our 
risk management processes and internal 
control systems, with the assistance of the 
Audit and Risk Committees. This review  
covers all material systems, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls. The  
latest review covered the financial year to 
31 December 2016 and the period from 
year-end to the approval of this Annual Report. 
We obtained assurance from management, 
Internal Audit and other external specialists.
The Board is able to conclude with reasonable 
assurance that the appropriate internal controls 
and risk management systems were maintained 
and operated effectively throughout 2016 and 
the period from year-end to the approval of this 
Annual Report. The review did not identify any 
significant weaknesses or failings in the 
systems. We are satisfied that our risk 
management processes and internal control 
systems processes comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the Code) 
and the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)’s 
guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control 
and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Although we did not identify any significant 
weaknesses or failings, we continuously strive 
to improve our framework and focus on further 
mitigating our our key risks, especially as they 
evolve, also we will provide online training 
focused on the importance of risk management 
and internal controls. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS
As noted throughout this discussion, both the 
Audit and Risk Committees play an essential 
role in implementing effective risk management 
and internal control. Each Committee has 
described this work in its Committee report. 
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors are required to assess the prospects of the Company to meet its liabilities by 
taking into account its current position and principal risks. The Board conducted this review over a three-year period beginning 1 January 2017, 
being the first day after the end of the financial year to which this report relates. In determining the appropriate period over which to make their 
assessment, the Directors considered the duration of its strategic plans, financial forecasts, the diverse nature of the Group’s activities, the 
evolving nature of the regulatory environment in which the Group’s businesses operate as well as recent trends relating to Lari volatility. A period 
of three years beyond the balance sheet date was considered appropriate for the Company. 
In order to consider the Group’s viability, the Board considered a number of key factors, including:
• the Group’s financial and operational position, including capital allocation and other key financial ratios;
• the Board’s risk appetite;
• the Group’s business model and strategy as set out on pages 14 to 31;
• the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties, principally those related to adverse economic conditions, the depreciation of the Lari, 
deterioration of loan book creditworthiness IT and/or information security (including cyber-security) control failures, underperformance of our 
Investment Businesses and how these risks and uncertainties are managed, as set out on pages 36 to 39;
• the effectiveness of our risk management framework and internal control processes; and
• stress testing, as described below.
The key factors above have been reviewed in the context of our current position and strategic plan, financial budgets and forecasts assessed 
annually and on a three-year basis.
The viability assessment involved a risk identification process which involved recognition of the principal risks to viability (risks that could impair 
the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity), excluding risks not sufficiently severe over the period of assessment.  
We also identified other risks which, while not necessarily severe in themselves, could escalate when combined with others. For each risk,  
we considered our risk appetite and tolerance as well as risk proximity and momentum.
 
For those risks considered sufficiently severe to affect our viability, we performed stress testing for the assessment period, which involved 
modelling the impact of a combination of severe and plausible adverse scenarios. The stress test scenarios were then reviewed against the 
Group’s current and projected liquidity position (considering current committed funding), capital adequacy and solvency. The stress testing  
also took into account the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact  
or occurrence of the identified underlying risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Directors have also satisfied themselves that they have the evidence necessary to support the statement below in terms of the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management framework and internal control processes in place to mitigate risk. Based on the analysis described above, the 
Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they  
fall due over the three-year period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
GOING CONCERN STATEMENT
The Group’s business activities, objectives and strategy, principal risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives and performance are  
set out on pages 14 to 39. After making enquiries, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that BGEO and the Group,  
as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and therefore the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. 
The Audit Committee Report and Risk Committee 
Report can be found on pages 89 to 93 and 
pages 94 to 96, respectively. 36 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
IDENTIFYING, PRIORITISING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS TO SUPPORT OUR GOALS AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
The Board has performed a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, taking into account the Group’s strategic objectives, 
business model, operations, future performance, solvency and liquidity. All principal risks identified by the Board may have an impact on our 
strategic business objectives. These principal risks are described in the table that follows, together with the relevant strategic business objectives, 
key risk drivers and trends, material controls that have been put in place to mitigate and the mitigation actions we have taken. It is recognised that 
the Group is exposed to risks wider than those listed. We disclose those we believe are likely to have the greatest impact on our business at this 
moment in time and which have been discussed in depth at recent Board, Audit or Risk Committee meetings. It is not possible to fully mitigate all  
of our risks. Any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
CURRENCY AND MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
PRINCIPAL RISK/
UNCERTAINTY
Depreciation of the Lari against the Dollar and macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia may have  
a material impact on our loan book.
KEY DRIVERS/
TRENDS
In 2016, the Lari depreciated against the Dollar by 10%. The Lari was particularly weak in Q4 2016 when it depreciated 
against the Dollar by over 13%. The depreciation has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the quality 
of our loan portfolio as well as increase the cost of credit risk and impairment provisions. This is because our corporate 
and MSME loan book and mortgage portfolio are heavily Dollar-denominated and many of our customers’ earnings are  
in Lari. The creditworthiness of our customers may be adversely by the depreciation, which could result in them having 
difficulty repaying their loans. The depreciation of the Lari may also affect the adversely affect the value of our customers’ 
collateral.
As at 31 December 2016, approximately 83%, 65% and 57% of our corporate, MSME and retail (excluding MSME)  
gross loans, respectively, were denominated in foreign currency (predominantly Dollars), while Dollar income covered 
approximately 26% of total gross loans. Euro-denominated loans comprise only 2% of our foreign currency-denominated 
gross loans.
Our Banking Business cost of credit risk increased by 11.2% from 2015 to 2016, principally due to the depreciation  
of the Lari.
Macroeconomic factors relating to Georgia, such as GDP , inflation and interest rates, may have a material impact on loan 
losses, our margins and customer demand for our products and services. Real GDP growth in Georgia was modest at 
2.7% in 2016, slightly down from 2.9% in 2015, according to Geostat. Despite growth below potential, Georgia’s economy 
has remained resilient despite the external shock related to low world commodity prices, which have affected the economy 
negatively since the end of 2014 through reduced exports and remittances. Inflation has also remained low.
MITIGATION The Asset and Liability Management Committee sets our open currency position limits and the Bank’s proprietary trading 
position limits, which are currently more conservative than those imposed by the National Bank of Georgia (NBG), our 
regulator. The Treasury Department manages our open currency position on a day-to-day basis. The open currency 
position is also monitored by the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk Analytics Department. 
In order to assess the creditworthiness of our customers, we take into account currency volatility when there is a currency 
mismatch between the customer’s loan and revenue. We allocate 75% more capital to the foreign currency loans of clients 
who earn income in Lari and discount real estate collateral values by 20%. The maturities of our foreign currency loans are 
also shorter. 
Our Credit Committees and Credit Risk Management Department set counterparty limits by using a credit risk 
classification and scoring system and approving individual transactions. The credit quality review process is continuous 
and provides early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers, including regular collateral 
revaluations, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce risk, which may include obtaining additional 
collateral in accordance with underlying loan agreements.
Since the beginning of 2016, we have focused on increasing local currency lending. We actively work with IFIs to raise 
long-term Lari funding to increase our Lari-denominated loans to customers. As a result, our Lari-denominated loan book 
increased by 27.8% while our foreign currency-denominated loan book increased by 11.5% in constant currency terms. 
Applicable from the beginning of 2017, the NBG expanded the list of assets that banks are permitted to use as collateral 
for REPO transactions, which provides an additional funding source for our Lari-denominated loan book.  37 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
CORPORATE LOAN PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE
PRINCIPAL RISK/
UNCERTAINTY
Our corporate banking loan portfolio is larger than our target retail/corporate mix and remains concentrated.  
It is also subject to cyclicality of certain economic sectors. This exposes us to increased cost of credit risk and 
impairment charges, if a single large borrower defaults or a material concentration of smaller borrowers default.
KEY DRIVERS/
TRENDS
As at 31 December 2016, corporate loans accounted for 39% of total gross loans and loans to our ten largest borrowers 
represented 11.8% of total gross loans. 
Our corporate loan portfolio is also exposed to certain cyclical economic sectors, such as trade of consumer durables 
(retail trade of cars), construction and real estate development, as well as to certain commodities, such as gold and 
ammonium nitrate.
MITIGATION We are continuing to implement our strategy to reduce the size of and de-concentrate our corporate loan portfolio and will 
continue to do so until our targets are met. At the same time, we are also taking various steps to reduce our credit risk.
Corporate loans accounted for 45% of total gross loans as at 31 December 2015 and reduced to and 39% of total gross 
loans as at 31 December 2016.
Loans to our ten largest borrowers represented 12.7% of total gross loans as at 31 December 2015 and reduced to 
11.8% one year later. We aim to further reduce:
• the share of corporate lending to 35%; and
• the proportion of our loans to our top ten borrowers to 10%.
In order to reduce our credit risk, we:
• reduce our large guarantee exposures in the construction sector; 
• increase our collateral from our top borrowers;
• securitise our corporate loans;
• manage the issuance of Lari-denominated bonds by our large corporate borrowers; and
• maintain well-diversified loan book sector concentration.
Our Credit Committees continuously perform credit quality reviews in order to provide early identification of possible 
changes in the creditworthiness of our customers, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce our risk.
REGIONAL TENSIONS
PRINCIPAL RISK/
UNCERTAINTY
The Georgian economy and our business may be adversely affected by regional tensions.
Georgia shares borders with Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey and has two breakaway territories, Abkhazia and the 
Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia. 
There has been ongoing geopolitical tension, political instability, civil disturbances and military conflict in the region. 
Prolongation or escalation of such conflicts could have a negative effect on the political or economic stability of Georgia.
KEY DRIVERS/
TRENDS
Russia imposed economic sanctions on Georgia in 2006, and conflict between the countries escalated in 2008 when 
Russian forces crossed Georgian borders. Tensions persist as Russian troops continue to occupy Abkhazia and the 
Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia regions after having recognised the independence of these regions. 
The crisis in Ukraine began in late 2013 and is still ongoing, directly and adversely affecting the economies of both Ukraine 
and Russia. Sanctions by the United States against Russia continue and there is uncertainty as to how and when the 
conflict between Russia and Ukraine the countries will be resolved. 
In late 2015, relations between Russia and Turkey quickly deteriorated after an airspace dispute close to the Syria-Turkey 
border. In 2016, the relationship between the two countries began to improve, with Russia partially lifting the economic 
sanctions it had imposed against Turkey and the countries coordinating efforts in the fight against extremist groups in 
Syria. Following the recent use of chemical weapons in Syria, tensions have renewed between the countries. 
Conflict remains unabated between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
MITIGATION One of the most significant changes in the Georgian export market was a shift away from the Russian market after 
Russia’s 2006 embargo. Despite tensions in the breakaway territories, Russia has continued to open its export market  
to Georgian exports since 2013. While lower global commodity prices and macroeconomic factors have affected Georgia’s 
regional trading partners, leading to lower exports within the region, Georgia has benefited from increased exports 
earnings from non-traditional markets such as Switzerland, China, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Singapore. 
It is expected that the IMF will approve a new three-year US$ 285 million economic programme this month, aimed  
at preserving macroeconomic and financial stability and addressing structural weaknesses in the Georgian economy  
to support higher and inclusive growth. 
During 2016, Georgia delivered real GDP growth of 2.7%, whilst inflation decreased from 2015 and remained well 
controlled at 1.8% at the end of 2016. Foreign direct investment continued to be solid and tourist arrivals, a significant 
driver of Dollar inflows for the country, continued to increase. Tax revenues increased 9.7% y-o-y and were above the 
budgeted figure for 2016. The Georgian Government’s fiscal position continues to be strong. 38 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
REGULATORY RISK
PRINCIPAL RISK/
UNCERTAINTY
The Group operates across a wide range of industries, principally banking, but also healthcare services, 
pharma, insurance, real estate, water and energy utility, hydro, wine and beverages. 
Many of these industries are highly regulated. 
The regulatory environment continues to evolve. We, however, cannot predict what additional regulatory changes will be 
introduced in the future or the impact they may have on our operations.
KEY DRIVERS/
TRENDS
Our banking operations must comply with capital adequacy and other regulatory ratios set by our regulator, the NBG, 
including reserve requirements and mandatory financial ratios. Our ability to comply with existing or amended NBG 
requirements may be affected by a number of factors, including those outside of our control, such as our ability to raise 
capital, losses resulting from deterioration in our asset quality as well as weakening of the global and Georgian economies.
Each of our Investment Businesses is subject to different regulators and regulation. Legislation in certain industries such as 
healthcare and energy and utilities are continuously evolving. Different changes, including but not limited to Governmental 
funding, licensing and accreditation requirements and tariff structures may adversely affect our businesses.
MITIGATION Continued investment in our people and processes is enabling us to meet our current regulatory requirements and means 
that we are well placed to respond to any future changes in regulation.
In line with our integrated control framework, we carefully evaluate the impact of legislative and regulatory changes as part 
of our formal risk identification and assessment processes and, to the extent possible, proactively participate in the drafting 
of relevant legislation. As part of this process, we engage in constructive dialogue with regulatory bodies, where possible, 
and seek external advice on potential changes to legislation. We then develop appropriate policies, procedures and 
controls as required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
Our compliance framework, at all levels, is subject to regular review by internal audit and external assurance providers.
CYBER SECURITY, INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND FINANCIAL CRIME
PRINCIPAL RISK/
UNCERTAINTY
We are at risk of experiencing cyber-security breaches, unauthorised access to our systems and financial 
crime, which could disrupt our customer services, result in financial loss, have legal or regulatory implications 
and/or affect our reputation.
We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our risk management, internal controls and systems, including those 
related to IT and information security in order to manage these threats. 
KEY DRIVERS/
TRENDS
Cyber-security threats have increased y-o-y and 2016 saw a number of major organisations subject to cyber-attacks. 
Fortunately, our operations have not been affected. The external threat profile is continuously changing and threats 
continue to increase.
Over the past few years, as our operations have expanded, we have seen an increase in electronic crimes, including fraud, 
although losses have not increased significantly.
Money laundering has also increased globally in recent years.
MITIGATION We have an integrated control framework encompassing operational risk management and control, IT and information 
security and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) compliance, each of which is managed by a separate department.
We identify and assess operational risk categories within our risk management framework and internal control processes, 
identifying critical risk areas or groups of operations with an increased risk level. In response to these risks, we develop 
and implement policies and security procedures to mitigate these risks.
We have security controls in place including policies, procedures and security technologies. We also regularly carry out IT 
and information security checks internally and with the assistance of external consultants. We have sophisticated anti-virus 
protection and firewalls to deny the execution of potentially malicious software. We have increased our internal and 
external penetration testing and have back-up disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place across the Group. 
Access control and password protections have been improved through the implementation of “Privileged Access 
Monitoring” for employees with the highest privileged access to confidential and customer data. We continue to invest  
in technology to enhance our ability to prevent, detect and respond to increasing and evolving threats.
Our Internal Audit function provides assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management, internal 
controls and systems in place. These types of operational risk are on the regular agenda for the Audit Committee and  
are also frequently discussed at the Board level. 39 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
INVESTMENT BUSINESS STRATEGY
PRINCIPAL RISK/
UNCERTAINTY
Our Investment Businesses may underperform and other factors beyond our control may affect our ability  
to divest them in line with our strategy.
Our Investment Businesses have growth and expansion strategies and we face execution risk in implementing these strategies. 
Our Investment Business Strategy is to divest an Investment Business (in full or partially) within six years in order to unlock 
the value for our shareholders. 
In order for an Investment Business to be divestment ready, targets in respect of EBITDA margin, revenue growth, market 
share, IRR and capital return must be achieved and the business must be led by strong management and have a culture 
of good corporate governance among other things.
With respect to future divestments by way of a stock market listing or trade sale, we face potential exit risks, as it may not 
be possible, or desirable, to divest our other investment businesses in line with our strategy due to a number of factors, 
including supportive equity issuance markets, the ability to achieve favourable terms for an IPO or trade sale (as the case 
may be) and/or the political and macroeconomic environment.
KEY DRIVERS/
TRENDS
We have a solid track record of growth. 
The Group’s market capitalisation has grown from GBP 380 million in 2012 when we listed on the London Stock 
Exchange, to over GBP 1.2 billion as at the date of this Annual Report.
We successfully completed the IPO of our healthcare business, GHG, through a premium listing on the London Stock 
Exchange in 2015. GHG has grown its revenue from GEL 119.4 million in 2012 to GEL 426.4 million in 2016. It has also 
doubled its market capitalisation sine listing.
m
2
 Real Estate, our real estate subsidiary and currently the major real estate developer in Georgia, started its first 
residential development in 2010. Since then, m
2
 Real Estate has recorded total sales of US$ 172.9 million and has 
completed six residential projects with 97% of apartments sold and has four ongoing projects, with 35% apartments 
pre-sold.
In July 2016, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 75% equity stake in GGU. Our beverages business,  
Teliani, finished the construction of a beer production facility in 2016 and acquired a ten-year exclusive licence to sell 
Heineken in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Our investment businesses are aiming to deliver solid further growth through organic growth as well as potential acquisitions. 
MITIGATION The Group has a strong track record of growth and has accessed the capital markets on multiple occasions. Our acquisition 
history has also been successful and we have been able to integrate businesses due to strong management with 
integration experience.
For each business, we focus on building a strong management team and have successfully been able to do so thus far. 
Management succession planning is a regular agenda for the Nomination Committee and the Board as whole. 
We closely monitor the implementation of strategy, financial and operational performance, risk management and internal control 
framework and corporate governance structure of our businesses. We hold management accountable for meeting targets.
For each industry in which we operate, we closely monitor industry trends, market conditions and regulatory environment. 
We have also sought and continue to seek advice from experienced global professionals in our industries. 40 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
BANK RISK MANAGEMENT
The banking business is the principal driver of the Group’s revenue and operates in the complex financial services sector – its risk management 
and internal control framework is fundamental to that of the Group.
OVERVIEW
The BGEO Board, supported by our BGEO 
Audit and Risk Committees and management, 
is ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls.
Formal policies and procedures have been 
developed at the BGEO level, with the help of 
senior management, which explain the way in 
which risks need to be systematically identified, 
assessed, quantified, managed and monitored.
Clearly delegated authority levels and reporting 
lines have been established and comprehensive 
reporting forms an integral part of the BGEO 
risk management framework and internal 
control processes.
Each business participates in the risk 
management process by identifying the  
key risks applicable to its business.
A detailed description of the BGEO risk 
management control framework can be found  
on pages 34 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
The work undertaken by the Bank’s risk 
management bodies feeds back directly to  
BGEO and certain banking-related risks have 
been identified in the Group’s Principal Risks  
and Uncertainties, which can be found on  
pages 36 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
Given the significance of the banking business, the 
risk management and internal control framework  
in place at the Bank is described in this section.
THE ROLE OF THE BANK IN THE OVERALL 
RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Management of risk is fundamental to the 
banking business and is an essential element  
of the Group’s operations.
The main risks inherent in the Bank’s operations 
are credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk (including 
currency and foreign exchange rate risks), 
operational risk and legal risk. The following  
is a description of the Bank’s risk management 
policies and procedures in respect to those 
risks. Business risks such as changes in the 
environment, technology and industry are 
monitored through the Group’s strategic 
planning process.
The Bank’s risk management system is  
based on the principle of continually assessing 
risk throughout the life of any operation and 
includes such stages as:
• risk identification
• qualitative and quantitive assessment  
of a particular risk
• determination of an acceptable risk level
• placement of authority limits and creation  
of reserves
• use of collateral
• ongoing monitoring and control allowing 
efficient adjustments in case of any negative 
changes in the conditions on which the 
preliminary risk assessment was made
• analysis of efficiency of the risk management 
system
BANK RISK MANAGEMENT BODIES
The principal risk management bodies of the Bank 
are the: Supervisory Board, Audit Committee, 
Management Board, Risk Committee, Internal 
Audit, Treasury Committee, Credit Committee, 
Asset and Liability Management Committee  
(the “ALCO”), Compliance and the Bank’s Legal 
Department. Each of the Supervisory Board, 
Audit Committee and Risk Committee perform  
similar roles as the BGEO Board, BGEO Audit 
Committee and BGEO Risk Committee, but  
on the Bank level. Please refer to the diagram 
at the bottom of page 41.
Management Board. The Management  
Board has overall responsibility for the Bank’s 
asset, liability and risk management activities, 
policies and procedures. In order to effectively 
implement the risk management system, the 
Management Board delegates individual risk 
management functions to each of the various 
decision-making and execution bodies within 
the Bank.
Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit 
Department is responsible for the regular audit 
of the Bank’s risk management, internal control 
and corporate governance processes, with the 
aim of reducing the levels of operational and 
other risks, auditing the Bank’s internal control 
systems and detecting infringements or errors 
on the part of the Bank’s departments and 
divisions. It examines both the adequacy of and 
the Bank’s compliance with those procedures. 
The Bank’ s Internal Audit Department discusses 
the results of all assessments with management 
and reports its findings and recommendations  
to the Bank’ s Audit Committee.
The Bank’s Internal Audit Department is 
independent of the Bank’s Management  
Board. The Head of the Bank’s Internal Audit 
Department is appointed by the Bank’s 
Supervisory Board and reports directly to the 
Bank’s Audit Committee. The Bank’s Internal 
Audit Department audits all of the Bank’s 
subsidiaries, apart from BNB, which has its 
own internal audit department.
As part of its auditing procedures, the Bank’s 
Internal Audit Department is responsible for  
the following:
• identifying and assessing potential risks 
regarding the Bank’s operations
• reviewing the adequacy of the existing 
controls established in order to ensure 
compliance with the Bank’s policies, plans, 
procedures and business objectives, as  
well as to current legislation and regulation 
and professional norms and ethics
• developing internal auditing standards  
and methodologies
• carrying out planned and random 
inspections of the Bank’s branches and 
subdivisions and auditing its subsidiaries
• analysing the quality of the Bank’s products
• reviewing the reliability of the Bank’s 
information technology systems in 
accordance with a predetermined schedule
• assessing the reliability and security  
of financial information
• monitoring the Bank’s internal controls  
and reporting procedures
• making recommendations to management 
and the Audit Committee on the basis of 
internal audits to improve internal controls
• monitoring the compliance of the Bank  
with the NBG regulations 
• monitoring the implementation of auditors’ 
recommendations
Treasury. Treasury is responsible for managing 
the Bank’s assets and liabilities and its overall 
financial structure and is also primarily responsible 
for managing funding and liquidity risks of  
the Bank.
Credit Committee. The Bank has three credit 
committees (together, the “Credit Committees”), 
each one supervising and managing the Bank’s 
credit risks in respect of loans for retail and 
wealth management clients, corporate loans 
and counterparty loans. These three committees 
are: the Retail Banking Committee, the Corporate 
Banking Credit Committee and the Financial and 
Governmental Counterparty Risk Management 
Committee (FGCRMC). FGCRMC manages, 
monitors and controls counterparty risk of 
financial and Governmental counterparties  
of Bank of Georgia. Each Credit Committee 
approves individual loan transactions.
Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers  
of subcommittees. The FGCRMC comprises 
two tiers of subcommittees. The Committee 
consists of five members – Chief Risk Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer, Head of Quantitative 
Risk Management, Head of Treasury and  
Head of Trade Finance, and a majority of votes 
is enough for approval. If the potential exposure 
exceeds US$ 10.0 million, then the decision  
is deferred to the ALCO. The Credit Committee 
for retail loans comprises four tiers of 
subcommittees. (For risk management 
purposes, loans for wealth management clients 
are classified as retail loans.) The Credit 
Committee for corporate loans comprises three 
tiers of subcommittees. Participation of the 
CEO is required for exposures exceeding  
US$ 10.0 million. All exposures to single group 
borrowers over US$ 25.0 million require 
approval by the Supervisory Board. Lower tier 
subcommittees meet on a daily basis, whereas 
higher tier ones typically meet three to four 
times a week. Each of the subcommittees  
of the credit committees makes its decisions  
by a majority vote of its respective members. 
Since 2016, SME falls within corporate credit 
committee structure, where loans up to  
US$ 1.5 million are approved by credit risk 
managers. Micro loans up to US$ 50,000  
are approved by retail credit underwriting and 
loans from US$ 50,000 to US$ 150,000 by 
credit risk managers. 41 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Credit Committee
Credit risk 
management
Operational risk 
management
Treasury
Anti-money  
laundering
Legal
Quantitive risk 
management and  
risk analytics
Risk Committee
Audit Committee
Internal Audit
Asset and Liability  
Management Committee
Management Board
Supervisory Board  
of Bank of Georgia
The Problem Assets Committee is chaired by 
one of the following: (1st level) the Head of  
the Problem Loan Management Department; 
and (2nd and 3rd level) the Deputy CEO (Chief  
Risk Officer). The Problem Loan Management 
Department manages the Bank’s exposures to 
problem loans and reports to the Deputy CEO 
(Chief Operations Officer).
The Litigation Team Committee is chaired by 
one of the following: (1st level) Deputy Head  
of the Legal Department/Head of the Litigation 
Team; (2nd level) Head of the Legal Department; 
(3rd level) Head of the Credit Risk Management 
Department; and the (4th level) Deputy CEO 
(Chief Risk Officer). This Committee is responsible 
to take decisions on the cases which are 
managed by the Litigation Team and are 
subject of litigation.
The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired 
by the Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer) and  
is responsible for monitoring all of the Bank’s 
exposures to loans that are being managed  
by the Corporate Recovery Department.  
The Corporate Recovery Department reports  
to the Deputy CEO (Corporate Banking).
Asset and Liability Management Committee 
(ALCO). The ALCO is the core risk management 
body that establishes policies and guidelines 
with respect to capital adequacy, market risks 
and respective limits, funding liquidity risk and 
respective limits, interest rate and prepayment 
risks and respective limits, money market general 
terms and credit exposure limits, designs and 
implements respective risk management and 
stress testing models in practice and regularly 
monitors compliance with the pre-set risk limits, 
and approves treasury deals with non-standard 
terms. Specifically, ALCO:
• sets money-market credit exposure/ 
lending limits
• sets open currency position limits with 
respect to overnight and intraday positions
• establishes stop-loss limits for foreign 
currency operations and securities
• monitors compliance with the established 
risk management models for foreign 
exchange risk, interest rate risk and funding 
liquidity risk
• sets ranges of interest rates for different 
maturities at which the Bank may place  
its liquid assets and attracts funding 
• reviews different stress tests and capital 
adequacy models prepared by the Finance 
Department and FGCRMC
The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and sits at 
any time deemed necessary, with decisions 
made by a majority vote of its members.  
ALCO members include the CEO, Deputy  
CEO Finance, Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, 
Deputy CEO Corporate and Investment 
Banking, Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, the 
Head of the Finance Department, the Head  
of the Treasury Department and the Head of  
the Funding Department. The ALCO reviews 
financial reports and indices including the 
Bank’s limits/ratios, balance sheet, statement  
of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, 
currency gap, foreign exchange risk, interest 
rate risk and funding liquidity risk reports,  
total cash flow analyses, customer cash flow 
analysis and concentration risk analysis, for  
the past periods as well as future projections 
and forecasts, other financial analysis and 
further growth projections on a monthly basis.
Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are 
set by the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) and 
are applied to the Bank on a stand-alone basis. 
NBG requires the Bank to maintain a minimum 
Total Capital Adequacy ratio of 10.5% of 
risk-weighted assets and a minimum Tier I 
Capital Adequacy ratio of 8.5% of risk-weighted 
assets, both computed based on the Bank’s 
stand-alone special purpose financial 
statements prepared in accordance with NBG 
regulations and pronouncements.  
RISK MANAGEMENT BODIES OF BANK OF GEORGIA
CREDIT COMMITTEE TIERS OF SUBCOMMITTEES FOR RETAIL AND CORPORATE BANKING LOANS
Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans (US$)
Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 2.0 million for existing and new borrowers
Tier II Deputy CRO/Head of the Credit Risk Department Between US$ 2.0 million and US$ 10 million for existing and  
new borrowers
Tier III CEO/CRO Greater than US$ 10 million for existing and new borrowers
Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans (US$)
Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Management Less than US$ 200,000
Tier II Head of Portfolio Quality Analysis Unit Between US$ 200,000 and US$ 500,000 for retail loans
Tier III Deputy CRO Between US$ 500,000 and US$ 2.0 million
Tier IV CEO/CRO Greater than US$ 2.0 million 42 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
On 30 June 2014, the NBG introduced a new 
regulation aimed at replacing its old regulation, 
which was developed independently from 
international committees and organisations and 
was not based on the Basel Accord. The new 
capital regulation is based on the Basel Accord 
2/3, with material regulatory discretions applied 
by the NBG. Pillar 1 requirements of the new 
regulation came into force on 30 June 2014. 
The period starting 30 June 2014 through 
31 December 2017 was declared as a 
transition period. During the transition period 
the Bank will be required to comply with both 
old and new capital regulations of the NBG.  
No definite plans for introduction of Pillar II  
of the Basel Accord 2/3, which entails 
implementation of the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Process (ICAAP), have yet been communicated 
by NBG. The old regulation will be completely 
phased out by 1 January 2018.
ALCO is the key governing body for capital 
adequacy management as well as for 
respective risks identification and management. 
ALCO establishes limits and reviews actual 
performance over those limits for both NBG  
as well as Basel I capital adequacy regulations.
The Finance Department is in charge of regular 
monthly monitoring of and reporting on NBG 
and Basel I capital adequacy compliance with 
original pronouncements as well as with ALCO 
policies. Capital adequacy management is  
an integral part of the Bank’s monthly reporting 
as well as the Bank’s annual and semi-annual 
budget approval and budget review processes. 
The Finance Department prepares NBG and 
Basel I and Basel II/III capital adequacy actual 
reports as well as their forecasts and budgets, 
as well as different stress scenarios for both 
regulations, while ALCO and the Management 
Board regularly review them, identify risks, issue 
recommendations or propose action plans.
Legal Department. The Legal Department’s 
principal purposes are to ensure that the Bank’s 
activities conform to applicable legislation and 
to minimise losses from the materialisation of 
legal risks. The Legal Department is responsible 
for the application and development of 
mechanisms for identifying legal risks in the 
Bank’s activities in a timely manner, the 
investigation of the Bank’s activities in order  
to identify any legal risks, the planning and 
implementation of all necessary actions for the 
elimination of identified legal risks, participation 
in legal proceedings on behalf of the Bank 
where necessary and the investigation of 
possibilities for increasing the effectiveness  
of the Bank’s legal documentation and its 
implementation in the Bank’s daily activities. 
The Legal Department is also responsible for 
providing legal support to structural units of  
the Bank and/or its subsidiaries.
Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Compliance. 
The Bank’s AML Compliance Department  
is responsible for the implementation of the 
Bank’s AML programme (including the 
development of AML policies and procedures, 
transaction monitoring and reporting and 
employee training) throughout the Bank and  
its subsidiaries. The AML programme is based 
on recommendations and requirements of 
international organisations including FATF and 
OFAC, as well as local regulations. The Bank’s 
Internal Audit Department makes annual 
assessments of the Bank’s AML systems  
and provides independent assurance of  
internal controls.
The Bank has adopted a risk-based approach  
in its policies and procedures aimed at 
preventing money laundering and terrorist 
financing, including a general anti-money 
laundering policy and rules on counteracting 
money laundering and financing of individuals 
and legal entities engaged in terrorist activities, 
as well as procedures for reporting to the 
Financial Monitoring Service of Georgia (FMS), 
a legal entity of public law. The Bank’s 
risk-based approach means that it applies 
enhanced due diligence procedures if it 
determines that there is a significant risk that 
particular customers are engaged in money 
laundering or financing terrorism. 
The Bank is obliged to notify the FMS of all 
transactions that are subject to monitoring. 
These reports are currently filed in electronic 
form in an offline mode by the AML Compliance 
Department. The reporting process is fully 
automated and is supported by a special 
software application.
BODIES IMPLEMENTING THE  
RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The Bank’s risk management system is 
implemented by the Finance Department, 
Quantitative Risk Management and Risk 
Analytics Department, Treasury, Credit Risk 
Management, Operational Risk Management 
and Control, Legal, AML Compliance and 
Security departments and other departments. 
The Reporting and Analysis Unit reports to the 
Head of the Finance Department. The Finance 
Department and the Treasury Department, as 
well as AML Compliance Department report  
to the Deputy CEO (Finance). The Credit  
Risk Management (CB Portfolio Analysis), 
Quantitative Risk Management and Risk 
Analytics Department and Operational Risk 
Management and Control Departments report 
to the Deputy CEO (Chief Risk Officer) and 
Legal Department reports to the Deputy CEO 
(Chief Operating Officer).
The Quantitative Risk Management and  
Risk Analytics Department, in coordination  
with the Treasury, implements the Bank’s 
market risk policies by ensuring compliance 
with established open currency position limits, 
counterparty limits, VAR limits on possible 
losses and the interest rate policy set by  
the ALCO.
The Treasury Department manages foreign 
currency exchange, money market, securities 
portfolio and derivatives operations and 
monitors compliance with the limits set by  
the ALCO for these operations. The Treasury 
Department is also responsible for management 
of short-term liquidity and treasury cash flow 
and monitors the volumes of cash in the Bank’s 
ATMs and at its service centres.
The Credit Risk Management department 
manages credit risks with respect to particular 
borrowers and assesses overall loan portfolio 
risks. It is responsible for ensuring compliance 
with the Bank’s Credit Policies and management 
of the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio.  
The Operational Risk Management and Control 
Department identifies and assesses operational 
risk categories within the Bank’s processes and 
operations. It also detects critical risk areas or 
groups of operations with an increased risk 
level and develops internal control procedures 
to address these risks, through (among other 
things) business-process optimisation 
schemes, including document circulation, 
information streams, distribution of functions, 
permissions and responsibility.
The Legal Department monitors all changes  
in relevant laws and regulations, and ensures 
that those changes are properly reflected in  
the Bank’s procedures, instructions, manuals, 
templates and other relevant documentation.  
It also disseminates information on legislative 
changes to all relevant departments within the 
Bank. The Legal Department also participates 
in drafting laws and regulatory documents upon 
request of legislators and regulators, certain 
associations and other professional bodies.
The Tax Compliance Unit of the Finance 
Department focuses on the Bank’s relationship 
with the tax authorities and provides practical 
advice and monitors tax compliance across  
the Group.
Each of the foregoing departments is provided 
with policies and/or manuals that are approved 
by the Bank Management Board and/or the 
Bank Supervisory Board (as required). The 
manuals and policies include comprehensive 
guidance for each stage of a transaction, 
including, but not limited to, manuals outlining 
asset and liability management policies,  
foreign exchange operations procedures, fixed 
income investment guidelines, Retail Banking 
operations procedures, the deposit policy and 
Credit Policies.
Risk measurement and reporting. The Bank 
measures risk using a method which reflects 
both the expected loss likely to arise in normal 
circumstances and unexpected losses, which 
are an estimate of the ultimate actual loss 
based on different forecasting models. These 
models use probabilities derived from historical 
experience, adjusted from time to time to reflect 
the economic environment. The Bank also runs 
worst case scenarios that could arise in the 
event that extreme events, however unlikely,  
do, in fact, occur.
Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily 
performed based on limits established by the 
Bank. These limits reflect the business strategy 
and market environment of the Bank, as well  
as the level of risk that it is willing to accept, 
with additional emphasis on selected industries. 
The Bank also conducts ongoing monitoring 
and control, allowing efficient adjustments  
in case of any unexpected changes in the 
conditions on which the preliminary risk 
assessment was made. In addition, the Bank 
monitors and measures the overall risk-bearing 
capacity in relation to the aggregate risk 
exposure across all risk types and activities.
The Group maintains a management reporting 
system which requires the Credit Risk Management, 
Finance and Funding Departments to prepare 
certain reports on a daily and monthly basis.  
 
BANK RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 43 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
On a daily basis, a statement of operations, 
balance sheet and treasury report (which 
includes the Bank’s open foreign exchange 
positions, cash flows, limits and balances  
on NOSTRO and LORO correspondent 
accounts) and confirmation that there has  
been compliance with mandatory financial 
ratios must be provided by each department. 
On a monthly basis, a report on the structural 
liquidity gap, a report on interest rate risk, 
monthly financial statements and a Bank 
Supervisory Board quarterly report containing 
analysis of the Bank’s performance against  
its budget are provided.
Information compiled from all the businesses  
is examined and processed in order to analyse, 
control and identify early risks. This information 
is presented and explained to the Management 
Board and the head of each business division. 
The report includes aggregate credit exposure, 
liquidity ratios and risk profile changes. 
Management assesses the appropriateness  
of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly 
basis. The Bank Management Board and 
Supervisory Board receive a comprehensive 
risk report once a quarter which is designed  
to provide all the necessary information to 
assess and draw conclusions on the Bank’s 
risk exposure.
Specifically tailored risk reports are prepared 
and distributed for all levels throughout the 
Bank in order to ensure that all business 
divisions have access to extensive, relevant  
and up-to-date information. A daily briefing  
is given to the Bank Management Board and  
all other relevant employees of the Bank on  
the utilisation of market limits, proprietary 
investments and liquidity, plus any other  
risk developments.
RISK MITIGATION AND EXCESSIVE  
RISK CONCENTRATION
As part of its overall risk management, the  
Bank uses derivatives and other instruments  
to manage exposures resulting from changes  
in interest rates, foreign currencies, credit risks, 
and exposures arising from forward transactions. 
While these derivatives are intended for hedging, 
they do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce its 
credit risks.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations  
of risks, the Bank focuses on maintaining  
a diversified portfolio. Concentrations arise 
when a number of counterparties, or related 
shareholders, are engaged in similar business 
activities, or activities in the same geographic 
region, or have similar economic features that 
would cause their ability to meet contractual 
obligations to be similarly affected by changes 
in economic, political or other conditions. 
Concentrations also involve combined, 
aggregate exposures of large and significant 
credits compared to total outstanding balance 
of the respective financial instrument. 
Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity  
of the Bank’s performance to developments 
affecting a particular industry or geographical 
location. Identified concentrations of credit risks 
are controlled and managed accordingly.
CREDIT RISK 
Definition: Credit risk is the risk that a borrower 
or counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in 
full or in part when due. Credit risk arises mainly 
in the context of the Bank’s lending activities.
Mitigation: The general principles of the Bank’s 
credit policy are outlined in the Credit Policies. 
The Credit Policies also outline credit risk 
control and monitoring procedures and the 
Bank’s credit risk management systems. The 
Credit Policies are reviewed annually or more 
frequently if necessary. As a result of these 
reviews, new loan restructuring tools were 
introduced. The Bank also uses the NBG’s 
provisioning methodology in order to comply 
with NBG requirements.
The Bank manages its credit risk by placing  
limits on the amount of risk accepted with 
respect to individual corporate borrowers  
or groups of related borrowers, liability of 
insurance companies, types of banking 
operations and by complying with the exposure 
limits established by the NBG. The Bank 
monitors the market value of collateral, requests 
additional collateral in accordance with the 
underlying agreement and monitors the market 
value of collateral obtained during its review  
of the adequacy of the allowance for loan 
impairment. The Bank also mitigates its credit 
risk by obtaining collateral and using other 
security arrangements. The exposure to financial 
institutions is managed by limits covering on and 
off-balance sheet exposures and by settlement 
limits with respect to trading transactions such 
as foreign exchange contracts.
The Credit Committees approve individual 
transactions and the Credit Risk Management 
Department establish their credit risk categories 
and provisioning rates, which are set as per 
provisioning methodology. The Deputy CEO 
(Chief Risk Officer) and the Credit Risk 
Management Department reviews the credit 
quality of the portfolio and sets provisioning 
rates, in consultation with the Bank’s CEO and 
Deputy CEO (Finance), on a monthly basis.
The Bank’s credit quality review process 
provides early identification of possible changes 
in the creditworthiness of counterparties, 
including regular collateral revaluations. 
Counterparty limits are established by the use 
of a credit risk classification system, which 
assigns a risk rating to each counterparty.  
Risk ratings are subject to regular revision. The 
credit quality review process allows the Bank  
to assess the potential loss as a result of the 
risks to which it is exposed and take corrective 
action. The Bank makes available to its 
customers guarantees/letters of credit which 
may require that the Bank make payments on 
their behalf. Such payments are collected from 
customers based on the terms of the 
guarantee/letter of credit. They expose the 
Bank to similar risks to loans and these are 
mitigated by the same control processes  
and policies.
LOAN APPROVAL PROCEDURES
The procedures for approving loans, monitoring 
loan quality and for extending, refinancing  
and/or restructuring existing loans are set out  
in the Bank’s Credit Policies that are approved 
by the Supervisory Board of the Bank and/or 
the Management Board of the Bank. The Credit 
Committees approve individual transactions. 
The Bank evaluates Corporate Banking clients 
on the basis of their financial condition, credit 
history, business operations, market position, 
management, level of shareholder support, 
proposed business and financing plan and on 
the quality of the collateral offered. The appropriate 
level of the relevant Credit Committee is 
responsible for making the decision for loan 
approval based on credit memorandum and, 
where appropriate, Credit Risk Manager’s 
report. The loan approval procedures for Retail 
Banking loans depend on the type of retail 
lending product.
Applications for consumer loans, including 
credit cards and auto loans, are treated under 
the “scoring” approval procedure. While certain 
loans of up to GEL 20,000 are approved by  
the scoring system, the appropriate Credit 
Committee will determine the amount, terms 
and conditions of other loans. Applications for 
mortgage loans by Retail Banking clients are 
completed by the mortgage loan officer and 
submitted to the Credit Risk Manager, who 
evaluates the credit risks and determines the 
amount, terms and conditions of the loan, 
which must be approved at the appropriate 
Credit Committee level. In the case of micro 
financing loans, officers evaluate loan 
applications, prepare a project analysis and 
submit proposals to the appropriate Credit 
Committee which makes the final decision. 
Credit Committee members have equal voting 
authority and decisions are approved by  
a simple majority of votes.
COLLATERAL
The Bank typically requires credit support or 
collateral as security for the loans and credit 
facilities that it grants. The main forms of credit 
support are guarantees and rights to claim 
amounts on the borrower’s current account 
with the Bank or other assets. The main forms 
of collateral for corporate lending are charges 
over real estate properties, equipment, inventory 
and trade receivables and the main form of 
collateral for retail lending is a mortgage over 
residential property. In the case of corporate loans, 
the Bank usually requires a personal guarantee 
(surety) from the borrower’ s shareholders. Under 
the Bank’s internal guidelines, collateral should 
be provided (where it is required) to cover 
outstanding liabilities during the entire duration 
of a transaction. As of 31 December 2016, 
85.3% of the Group’s loans to clients were 
collateralised. An evaluation report of the 
proposed collateral is prepared by the Asset 
Appraisal and Disposal Department and 
submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, 
together with the loan application and Credit 
Risk Manager’s report. When evaluating 
collateral, the Bank discounts the market value 
of the assets to reflect the liquidation value  
of the collateral. 44 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
MEASUREMENT
Exposure and limits are subject to annual or 
more frequent review. The Bank’s compliance 
with credit risk exposure limits is monitored  
by the Credit Risk Management Department  
on a continuous basis. The Bank establishes 
provisions for impairment losses of financial 
assets on collective basis and on individual 
basis when there is objective evidence that  
a financial asset or group of financial assets  
is impaired. The Bank creates provisions by 
reference to the particular borrower’s financial 
condition and the number of days the relevant 
loan is overdue. If in a subsequent period the 
amount of the impairment loss decreases  
and the decrease can be related objectively  
to an event occurring after the impairment  
was recognised, the previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed by an adjusted 
provision account. The determination
of provisions for impairment losses is based  
on an analysis of the assets at risk and reflects 
the amount which, in the judgement of the 
Bank’s management, is adequate to provide  
for losses incurred.
Provisions are made against gross loan amounts 
and accrued interest. Under the Bank’s internal 
loan loss allowance methodology, which is 
based upon IFRS requirements, the Bank 
categorises its loan portfolio into significant  
and non-significant loans. Significant loans are 
defined as loans in the amount of US$ 150,000 
or more and non-significant loans are defined 
as loans less than US$ 150,000. The Credit 
Risk Management Department makes an 
individual assessment of all defaulted significant 
loans. Non-defaulted significant loans are given 
a collective assessment rate. For the purposes 
of provisioning all loans are divided into different 
groups (for example, mortgage, consumer, 
microfinancing loans).
Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other 
Georgian banks and with the Credit Information 
Group, a provider of credit information solutions, 
established JSC Credit Info Georgia (CIG)  
that serves a centralised credit bureau in 
Georgia. Since 2009, all the participating 
banks, insurance companies and microfinance 
organisations share and contribute positive and 
negative customer credit information with CIG.
Non-corporate loans which are overdue for 
more than 150 days are written off automatically, 
except for mortgage loans which, since June 
2009, are written-off once overdue for more 
than 365 days. Significant loans may be 
written-off following an assessment by the 
Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Credit 
Risk Management Department, in consultation 
with the Bank’s CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
LIQUIDITY RISK 
Definition: Liquidity risk is the risk that the 
Bank will be unable to meet its payment 
obligations when they fall due under normal  
and stress circumstances.
Monitoring: Liquidity risk is managed through 
the ALCO-approved liquidity framework. Treasury 
manages liquidity on a daily basis. In order to 
manage liquidity risk, it performs daily monitoring 
of future expected cash flows on customers’ and 
banking operations, which is a part of the assets/
liabilities management process. The Finance 
Department prepares and submits monthly 
reports to the ALCO. The ALCO monitors the 
proportion of maturing funds available to meet 
deposit withdrawals and the amounts of 
inter-bank and other borrowing facilities that 
should be in place to cover withdrawals at 
unexpected levels of demand.
The liquidity risk management framework 
models the ability of the Bank to meet its 
payment obligations under both normal 
conditions and during a crisis situation. The 
Bank has developed a model based on the 
Basel III liquidity guidelines. This approach is 
designed to ensure that the funding framework 
is sufficiently flexible to ensure liquidity under  
a wide range of market conditions. The liquidity 
management framework is reviewed from time 
to time to ensure it is appropriate to the Bank’s 
current and planned activities. Such review 
encompasses the funding scenarios modelled, 
the modelling approach, wholesale funding 
capacity, limit determination and minimum 
holdings of liquid assets. The liquidity framework 
is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval  
by the Bank Management Board.
The Finance Department also undertakes  
an annual funding review that outlines the 
current funding strategy for the coming year. 
This review encompasses trends in global debt 
markets, funding alternatives, peer analysis, 
estimation of the Bank’s upcoming funding 
requirements, estimated market funding capacity 
and a funding risk analysis. The annual funding 
plan is reviewed by the Bank Management 
Board and approved by the Bank Supervisory 
Board as part of the annual budget. The 
Funding and Treasury Departments also review, 
from time to time, different funding options and 
assess the refinancing risks of such options.
Mitigation: The Bank’s capability to discharge 
its liabilities is dependent on its ability to realise 
an equivalent amount of assets within the same 
period of time. The Bank maintains a portfolio 
of highly marketable and diverse assets that it 
believes can be easily liquidated in the event of 
an unforeseen interruption of cash flow. It also 
has committed lines of credit that it can access 
to meet its liquidity needs. Such lines of credit 
are available through the NBG’s refinancing 
facility. In addition, the Bank maintains a cash 
deposit (obligatory reserve) with the NBG, the 
amount of which depends on the level of 
customer funds attracted. As of 31 December 
2016, in line with the NBG’s requirements, 20% 
of customer deposits in foreign currencies were 
set aside as minimum reserves. In addition, the 
Bank maintains a minimum average balance of 
7% of its customers’ deposits in Georgian Lari 
at its correspondent account at the NBG.
For wholesale funding, the NBG requires the 
Bank to set aside 20% of its unsubordinated 
foreign currency wholesale funding for 
borrowings with a remaining maturity of less 
than one year, 10% for borrowings with a 
remaining maturity of one to two years and 7% 
of its unsubordinated Georgian Lari wholesale 
funding for borrowings with a remaining 
maturity of less than one year.
Funding: In the Georgian marketplace, the 
majority of working capital loans are short term 
and granted with the expectation of renewal  
at maturity. As such, the ultimate maturity  
of assets may be different from the analysis 
presented elsewhere. In addition, the maturity 
gap analysis does not reflect the historical 
stability of current accounts.
The Bank’s principal sources of liquidity are  
as follows:
• deposits
• borrowings from international  
credit institutions
• inter-bank deposit agreement
• debt issuances
• proceeds from sale of securities
• principal repayments on loans
• interest income 
• fee and commission income
As of 31 December 2016, the Group’s total 
consolidated amounts due to customers was 
GEL 5,382.7 million (US$ 2,033.7 million) (as 
compared to GEL 4,751.4 million and GEL 
3,338.7 million as of 31 December 2015 and 
2014, respectively) and represented 50.9%  
(as compared to 59.1% and 56.2% as of 
31 December 2015 and 2014, respectively)  
of the Group’s total liabilities. In accordance 
with Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged  
to repay such deposits upon demand of a 
depositor. In the case of early withdrawal, the 
interest on the deposit is foregone or reduced. 
As of 31 December 2016, total amounts due  
to credit institutions and debt securities issued 
were GEL 4,725.7 million (US$ 1,785.5 million) 
(as compared to GEL 2,828.9 million and  
GEL 2,265.9 million as of 31 December 2015 
and 2014, respectively) and represented 44.7% 
(as compared to 35.2% and 38.1% as of 
31 December 2015 and 2014, respectively) of 
the Group’s total liabilities. Amounts due to 
credit institutions and debt securities are taken 
from a wide range of counterparties.
The Bank Management Board believes that 
both the Group’s and the Bank’s liquidity is 
sufficient to meet each of their present 
requirements. For information on the Group’s 
liquid assets, liabilities and maturity profile of  
the Group’s financial liabilities as well as further 
information on the liquidity risk of the Group  
see Note 29 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
BANK RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 45 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
MARKET RISK 
Definition: The Bank is exposed to market  
risk (including currency exchange rate risk and 
interest rate risk), which is the risk that the  
fair value or future cash flows of financial 
instruments will fluctuate due to changes in 
market variables. Market risk exposure arises 
from mismatches of maturity and currencies 
between the assets and liabilities, all of which 
are exposed to market fluctuations.
Mitigation: The general principles of the Bank’s 
market risk management policy are set by the 
ALCO. The Bank aims to limit and reduce the 
amount of possible losses on open market 
positions which may be incurred by the Bank 
due to negative changes in currency exchange 
rates and interest rates. The Bank classifies 
exposures to market risk into either trading or 
non-trading positions. Trading and non-trading 
positions are managed and monitored using 
different sensitivity analyses. In order to address 
these risks, the ALCO specifically establishes 
Value at Risk (VAR) limits on possible losses for 
each type of operation (currently the VAR limit  
is set for foreign currency exchange operations 
only) and the Quantitative Risk Management 
and Risk Analytics monitors compliance with 
such limits.
Currency exchange rate risk: Currency 
exchange rate risk is the risk that the  
value of a financial instrument will fluctuate  
due to changes in foreign currency exchange 
rates. The Bank is exposed to the effects  
of fluctuation in the prevailing foreign currency 
exchange rates on its financial position.  
The Bank’s currency risk is calculated  
as an aggregate of open positions and  
is controlled by setting a VAR calculation 
(established by the ALCO) with respect  
to the Bank’s currency basket.
The Bank uses the historical simulation method 
based on 400-business-day statistical data.  
Its open currency positions are managed by  
the Treasury Department on a day-to-day basis 
and are monitored by the Quantitative Risk 
Management and Risk Analytics Department. 
The ALCO sets open currency position limits 
with respect to both overnight and intra-day 
positions and stop-loss limits. Currently, the 
Bank’s proprietary trading position is limited  
by the ALCO to a maximum of 15.0% of the 
Bank’s NBG total regulatory capital. The open 
currency position is also limited by ALCO to  
an annual VAR of GEL 50 million for a one-day 
trading period with a 95.0% “tolerance threshold”. 
The ALCO limits are more conservative than 
NBG’s requirements, which allow banks to keep 
open positions of up to 20.0% of regulatory 
capital. The Bank also applies sensitivity stress 
tests to its open currency positions to estimate 
potential negative impact on its net assets  
and earnings.
Interest rate risk: The Bank has exposure to 
interest rate risk as a result of lending at fixed 
and floating interest rates in amounts and  
for periods which differ from those of term 
borrowings at fixed and floating interest rates. 
Interest margins on assets and liabilities having 
different maturities may increase or decrease  
as a result of changes in market interest rates.
Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority 
of the Bank’s assets and deposits have fixed 
interest rates. In order to minimise interest  
rate risk, the Bank monitors its interest rate 
(repricing) gap and maintains an interest rate 
margin (net interest income before impairment 
of interest-earning assets divided by average 
interest-earning assets) sufficient to cover 
operational expenses and risk premium. Within 
limits approved by the Bank Supervisory Board, 
the ALCO approves ranges of interest rates for 
different maturities at which the Bank may 
place assets and attract liabilities. Compliance 
with the Bank’s interest rate policy is monitored 
by the Quantitative Risk Management and Risk 
Analytics Department.
As of 31 December 2016, the Group’s floating 
rate borrowings accounted for 15.8% of the 
Group’s total liabilities.
The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, 
which is the risk that the Bank will incur  
a financial loss because its customers and 
counterparties repay or request repayment 
earlier than expected, such as fixed rate 
mortgages when interest rates fall. The Group 
reviews the prior history of early repayments by 
calculating the weighted average effective rate 
of early repayments across each credit product, 
individually, applying these historical rates to  
the outstanding carrying amount of each loan 
product as of the reporting date and then 
multiplying the product by the weighted 
average effective annual interest rates for each 
product. This allows the Bank to calculate the 
expected amount of unforeseen losses in the 
case of early repayments.
For further information on the Group’s market 
risk see Note 29 of the Notes to consolidated 
financial statements of this Annual Report.
OPERATIONAL RISK
Definition: Operational risk is the risk of loss 
arising from systems failure, human error,  
fraud or external events. When controls fail to 
perform, operational risks can cause damage to 
reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, 
or lead to financial loss. The Bank cannot 
expect to eliminate all operational risks, but 
through a control framework and by monitoring 
and responding to potential risks, the Bank 
aims to manage the risks. Controls include 
effective segregation of duties, access, 
authorisation and reconciliation procedures, 
staff education and training and assessment 
processes, including the use of internal audit.
Mitigation: The Bank manages its operational 
risks by establishing, monitoring and continuously 
improving its policies and procedures relating  
to the various aspects of the Bank’s cash, 
payments, accounting, trading and core 
processing operations and data back-up and 
disaster recovery arrangements.
The Bank has an integrated control framework 
encompassing operational risk management 
and control, AML compliance, corporate and 
information security and physical security, each 
of which is managed by a separate department.
The Operational Risk Management and Control 
Department is responsible for identification and 
assessment of operational risk categories within 
the Bank’s processes and operations, detecting 
critical risk areas or groups of operations with 
an increased risk level, developing response 
actions and the imposition of restrictions in 
critical risk zones to mitigate identified risk and 
developing business-process optimisation 
schemes, including document circulation, 
information streams, distribution of functions, 
permissions and responsibilities. The 
Operational Risk Management and Control 
Department is also responsible for developing 
and updating policies and procedures and 
ensuring that these policies and procedures 
meet legal and regulatory requirements and 
help to ensure that material operating risks are 
within acceptable levels. It also monitors and 
periodically reviews the Bank’s internal control 
systems to detect errors or infringements by 
the Bank’s departments and divisions. The 
Head of the Operational Risk Management 
Department, who reports to the Deputy CEO 
(Chief Risk Officer), is responsible for the 
oversight of the Bank’s operational risks.
BORROWED FUNDS MATURITY BREAKDOWN (BANKING BUSINESS)
US$ million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Eurobonds – – – – – – 250.0 – –
Senior Loans 162.3 84.8 58.6 32.0 44.1 7.7 5.6 3.6 5.4
Subordinated Loans – 10.0 – – – – 65.0 – 90.0
TOTAL 162.3 94.8 58.6 32.0 44.1 7.7 320.6 3.6 95.4
% OF TOTAL ASSETS 3.8% 2.2% 1.4% 0.8% 1.0% 0.2% 7.5% 0.1% 2.2% 46 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Sustainability lies at the heart of our business
We understand our corporate responsibility, which is embedded in our culture and believe we can make a difference to society.
The concept of sustainability lies at the heart  
of our business and reflects our contribution  
to sustainable development – development  
that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs.
We consider sustainability to be integral to  
the growth of our business. Our sustainability 
agenda allows us to be profitable as well as 
environmentally and socially responsible at the 
same time. By implementing a sustainability 
approach in our activities, we foster long-term 
relationships with our main stakeholders  
by providing high return on investment for 
shareholders, satisfying the financial needs  
of customers, developing employees and 
contributing to the economic and social welfare 
of local communities, while taking into account 
our environmental footprint.
In 2012, in order to effectively manage the 
Group’s direct and indirect impact on society 
and the environment, the Board of Directors 
adopted an Environmental and Social Policy. 
This policy describes the Group’s strategy to 
developing solid management controls to 
conserve natural resources, minimise health 
and safety risks, and provide employees  
with equal development opportunities, fair 
compensation and benefits. We are pioneering 
sustainability practices in our operations and 
are constantly seeking new ways to improve 
our performance. The policy was last updated 
in 2016.
SOCIAL MATTERS
The Group considers the interests of its  
main stakeholders (which include customers, 
shareholders, employees, lenders and wider 
society) when developing the strategy and  
the processes to improve its operations.  
We continually strive to positively contribute  
to society through the entire scope of our 
business activities by developing socially- 
oriented products and services, implementing 
responsible approaches to our business 
operations, carrying out sponsorship and 
charitable activities.
SOCIALLY ORIENTED  
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
CORPORATE BANKING
In order to efficiently manage its indirect 
environmental and social impact, the Bank 
prioritises the integration of sustainable finance 
principles into its credit risk management 
procedures. In 2013, the Bank updated its 
Environmental and Social Risk Management 
(ESRM) Procedures in order to ensure the 
proper application of appropriate, risk-based 
and sector-specific environmental and social 
risk assessment practices to its commercial 
lending activities and in 2014, the Bank actively 
started to put the procedures into practice.  
The Bank defined priority targets and promotes 
environmental and social risk management 
activities accordingly. Since then the Bank 
ensures it has a consistent approach to 
evaluating and managing environmental, human 
health and safety risks of financed projects. 
These procedures are now being integrated 
into the Bank’s credit risk management process 
and soon will be routinely applied to all 
commercial transactions. In all that the Bank 
does, it strives to find sustainable solutions  
that make business sense to the clients  
and minimise its impacts on the social and 
natural environment. 
The main objective of the Environmental and 
Social Policy is to increase the environmental 
and social benefits for our clients. Through the 
ESRM Procedure, the Bank enhances our 
clients’ opportunities to be in compliance with 
national environmental and social regulations 
and adopt international best practices in this 
area. The Environmental and Social Policy and 
Risk Management Procedures comprise the 
core components of the Bank’s Environmental 
and Social Risk Management System (ESMS). 
Under this concept, the Bank endeavours to 
become an environmentally friendly financial 
institution. In 2014 Bank of Georgia won the 
“Green Service” award at the “Georgian Green 
Business Awards” ceremony organised by the 
Ministry of Environmental and Natural 
Resources Protection of Georgia. 
Furthermore, to ensure a more effective 
operation and maintenance of the ESRM Policy, 
the Social and Environmental Risk Unit was 
created in September 2016. Until then, the 
Environmental and Social Risk Coordinator  
was responsible for the implementation of the 
Policy. In 2017, we aim to appoint a Social  
and Environmental Risk Specialist to oversee 
day-to-day implementation of the Bank’s  
ESRM Policy.
We implement the following procedures to 
ensure the operation and maintenance of  
the ESMS:
• We refrain from financing environmentally  
or socially sensitive business activities 
mentioned in the exclusion lists of 
Development Finance Institutions such  
as EBRD, IFC, DEG, FMO and ADB  
among others
• We aim to assess the relative level of 
environmental and social risk associated 
with clients’ businesses. We require certain 
customers to implement specific 
environmental or social action plans to avoid 
or mitigate their environmental and social 
impact and adhere to specific monitoring 
and reporting requirements that we set in 
order to minimise environmental and social 
risk. These requirements are included as 
covenants in agreements between certain  
of our customers and the Bank
• We aim to regularly monitor environmental 
and social risks associated with the Bank’s 
activities, and assessing clients’ compliance 
with the terms of respective agreements
Through ensuring comprehensive environmental 
and social assessment and action plans, as  
a part of the stable due diligence, the Bank 
encourages its customers to fulfil their 
environmental and social obligations and 
established a framework for them to achieve 
good environmental and social standards.  
In many cases, the Bank’s proper and timely 
management of the customers’ environmental 
and social risks has helped them to avoid 
financial and legal sanctions during inspections 
conducted by state enforcement agencies.
 
Environmental and social issues are tracked  
at the project site in cooperation with facility 
staff, providing ongoing advice and guidance 
on good practice and standards and  
monitoring compliance with the requirements. 
For environmental and social due diligence of 
certain high risk projects, the Bank contracts 
independent external experts. As a part of 
monitoring, the Bank requires each of the high 
risk clients to provide the Bank with the annual 
report on their environmental and social 
performance and the implementation  
of applicable Environmental and Social Action 
Plans or each client is visited by the Bank staff 
on a regular basis. During 2016, the Bank held 
extensive Environmental and Social Due 
Diligence (ESDD), monitored relevant clients 
and developed action plans for non-compliant 
clients. Due to the Bank’s efforts, a few clients 
conducted environmental audits and obtained 
the necessary environmental impact permits  
to continue their business operations legally. 
Those clients started to identify, avoid, mitigate 
and manage environmental and social risks  
and impacts on the natural and social 
environment. In addition, as a result of ESDD 
some clients took out loans to enhance their 
companies’ power and ability to reduce 
negative impacts on the environment and 
positively benefit their communities. 
In the Association Agreement between the 
European Union and Georgia, Georgia has 
committed to progressively approximate  
its legislation in the relevant sectors with that  
of the EU and to implement it effectively. 
Through this approximation process, Georgia  
is actively developing and amending its national 
legislation in the relevant sectors. As a result, 
the Bank regularly checks legal developments 
and updates with regard to environmental, 
health and safety and labour issues and places 
great emphasis on the improvement of ESDD 
opportunities. The Bank’s staff are very focused 
on introducing clients to information about 
relevant (existing and new) regulations and laws 
during ESDD with the aim of strengthening the 
clients’ knowledge and capacity in the area of 
environmental and social protection.  47 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Training activities are also an important element 
for enhancing capacity for policy implementation. 
In 2016, the Bank provided opportunities  
for the development and enhancement of the 
capacity of Head of Corporate & SME Credit 
Risk Department and the staff involved in 
environmental and social management process. 
Head of Corporate & SME Credit Risk 
Department participated in the tenth Annual 
Performance Standards Community of Learning 
organised by IFC. The Community of Learning 
is a knowledge-sharing forum aimed at 
strengthening the implementation of environmental 
and social standards by financial institutions  
in emerging markets. The event provided  
a chance to exchange experience, learn  
from investment case studies and engage  
in dialogue among environmental and social  
risk management specialists from all over  
the globe. As mentioned above, Social and 
Environmental Risk Management training  
was held for the staff with a strong focus on 
strengthening of social and environmental due 
diligence and risk management. More generally, 
the Bank has delivered several training sessions 
in this area and consequently more than 100 
employees were trained during the last three 
years. Leading experts and state inspectors 
were invited as trainers. We intend to continue 
these types of training activities. 
Other highlights of the year included the 
development and adoption of a Procedure for 
Addressing External Queries and Concerns. 
The Procedure is intended to provide a means 
for the public to submit queries or concerns 
related to the Bank’s Environmental & Social 
Policy, and have these inquiries responded to 
by the Bank in a timely manner. This process  
of receiving, reviewing and responding to 
communications from external stakeholders  
is managed by the relevant departments of  
the Bank. 
The Bank is committed to respecting the 
principles of sustainable development, 
protecting the environment and is willing  
to improve the level of public health safety  
and protection of human health as an  
essential element for sustainable development 
and economic growth. 
The Bank continues to make progress  
toward its objective and to ensure efficient 
implementation of the Environmental and Social 
Management System. The Bank will continue  
to conduct business with due consideration  
to environmental and social protection and 
contribute to the creation of a sustainable 
society. The Bank will further help increase 
clients benefits through proper and diligent 
implementation of the Environmental and  
Social Policy. 
The Bank also continues to support Georgia’s 
emerging economy by financing industries that 
are strategically important for the development 
of the country. 
Tourism still remains one of the most rapidly 
developing sectors of the Georgian economy. 
The Bank actively provides financing for  
hotel constructions throughout the country. 
Alongside financing the construction of hotels  
in Tbilisi, the Bank has financed the acquisition 
and a renovation of a 34-room hotel in Batumi. 
The hotel is scheduled for launch in 2017 and 
will be operated by local management. It is 
located in the very centre of old Batumi, which 
due to its exclusive location is one of the most 
popular tourist destinations in the city. The hotel 
also provides a variety of international and local 
cuisines, operated by the client. 
In 2016, the Bank financed the upgrade of a 
data centre, specialising in Bitcoin mining, via 
the Georgia Bitcoin Mining Data Centre (BFDC). 
A free industrial zone in Tbilisi hosts the data 
centre and provides a tax-free zone for the 
entities working in the information technology 
industry. The data centre was founded by 
Bitfury, a world leader in Bitcoin mining. The 
total financing required for the upgrade was 
US$ 15.0 million, of which Bank of Georgia 
financed US$ 5.0 million.
In addition, the Bank endeavours to finance 
projects that provide millions of people with 
access to safe drinking water, well-maintained 
urban roads and other projects that provide 
important sustainable development benefits  
to households and enterprises across Georgia. 
RETAIL BANKING
Bank of Georgia continues to innovate and 
generate a wide range of socially oriented 
financial products and services that provide 
additional value to individuals and small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and meet 
their respective needs.
Express Banking. The Georgian banking 
sector still experiences difficulties in overcoming 
economic and geographical barriers in expanding 
its financial services in remote regions and 
among low-income parts of the population.
Our Express Banking service plays an important 
role in addressing this issue: 
• As at 31 December 2016, a network of  
128 Express branches and 2,729 Express 
Pay terminals are located all over the country, 
including in remote mountain regions
• Express financial products such as Express 
card, Express deposit and Express loan  
are uncomplicated, easily accessible and 
affordable to a segment of the population 
that would not have access to banking 
products and services otherwise. By 
31 December 2016, the Bank had attracted 
471,967 clients, of which 46,617 became 
clients of the Bank in 2016 alone
As a part of the Express Banking service,  
we prioritise the development of self-service 
skills of our clients. We plan to expand services 
in Express Pay terminals, develop web-based 
application processing tools and implement  
a new instalment credit product. All of these 
changes will provide a more accessible banking 
service to our clients.
In 2016 we replaced the Student Card with the 
Express Student Card which has all debit card 
functions, as well as special discounts on public 
transportation and free distance banking 
services among other benefits. Students are 
automatically involved in the Express Bonus 
Points Loyalty Scheme. Students who collect a 
minimum of 600 Express Points on a monthly 
basis are awarded with additional 3,000 bonus 
points that can be converted into mobile phone 
top-ups and used to pay public transportation 
and utility bills. This award programme 
encourages the student population to use 
financial services and supports them financially 
during their studies.
Youth support. We have developed a wide 
range of financial products to support young 
people in Georgia. For example, via the special 
conditions of the Child Deposit we provide 
parents with the opportunity to secure their 
children’s future. Starting from a minimal 
amount of GEL 10, a deposit can be opened 
for at least two years at any time from a child’s 
birth until the age of 18. The annual interest rate 
(10.5% for Georgian Lari and 1.5-4.0% for 
foreign currency) is added to the initial deposit. 
In 2016, we opened approximately 5,930 Child 
Deposit accounts.
The Bank also offers special products that  
allow young people to receive higher education. 
Examples of such products are student loans 
with favourable terms that do not require any 
financial guarantees and collateral. Total 
portfolio of student loans stood at GEL 430,449 
by the end of 2016, while GEL 301,081 was 
issued in 2016 alone.
Another example of the Bank’s products aimed 
at supporting young people is a social-educational 
project “sCool Card” – a multifunctional card for 
school children. The main objective of the 
project is to teach the children about financial 
culture and build their knowledge around 
financial services at an early stage. sCool Card 
is available at no cost and all of the transactions 
and services are also free of charge. sCool 
Card provides special benefits for children in 
Georgian public and private schools. The 
benefits include free public transportation in 
Tbilisi (metro, buses), discounts for entertaining 
centres popular among children, bookstores, 
websites of book publishers, school subject 
competitions as well as the accumulation of 
bonuses (sCoola) per each transaction.
In a further effort to help children better understand 
banking products, the Bank opened a sCool 
Card Business School, where experienced staff 
provide free training about topics such as: 
“What is money”, “Banking products”, “Bank 
professions” and “Time management”.
SME support. We continue to provide 
financing to SMEs, a backbone of the Georgian 
economy that helps to ensure the sustainable 
development of Georgia. Apart from our own 
micro-financing and SME loan programmes,  
we also participate in various programmes that 
support entrepreneurs. In 2015, the Bank 
partnered with a non-profit Agricultural Projects 
Management Agency which supports 
agricultural SMEs. Together, we co-financed 
agricultural loans at fixed annual interest rates 
which were significantly lower than previous 
loans SMEs received by other institutions.  
In 2016, the total amount of Bank loans  
issued to SMEs was GEL 1.3 million, of which 
GEL 75 million was issued through the 
Preferential Agriculture Lending Programme.
In 2016 the Bank enhanced financing to 
micro-business owners that were previously 
considered as a non-bankable segment.   48 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
The Bank now has a dedicated staff and 
established processes for its new product 
“micro-express loans” that targets micro-
business segment and offers loans under  
GEL 10,000.
In 2016 the Bank partnered with European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(EBRD) to offer the market a much needed local 
currency funding. Bank of Georgia is committed 
to further extending its financing to SMEs. 
Furthermore, the Bank is keen to develop 
financial products and lending practices, to 
specifically service women-led SMEs, which  
will ultimately increase their involvement in 
developing Georgia’s private sector. The loan 
facility signed with EBRD enables the Bank to 
issue longer-term local currency loans, providing 
essential support for micro, small and medium 
sized enterprises to converge to DCFTA 
requirements, as well as underserved women 
entrepreneurs.
In 2016 the Bank created a “Startup for 
Women” programme under EBRD’s Women in 
Business (WiB). WiB enables the Bank to take 
more risk in financing this segment by offering 
partial first loss coverage. The programme 
started in late November and eight projects 
amounting to GEL 228,600 were already 
financed by the end of 2016.
Combined with supporting SMEs financially,  
the Bank also plans to launch an SME portal  
in the beginning of 2017. The portal will provide 
financial and business-related advice to 
entrepreneurs in order to enhance their finance 
management skills and ensure the sustainable 
development of their businesses. The portal  
will contain information on training, provide 
entrepreneurs with knowledge and skills  
in accounting, legal documents, business 
development, sales and marketing.
Environmental and social risk management 
processes of SME clients are embedded 
throughout the Bank’s activities. By ensuring 
that comprehensive environmental and social 
risk assessment and action plans are undertaken, 
we encourage our SME clients to be in 
compliance with national environmental and 
social legislation in order to achieve good 
environmental and social standards. During site 
visits, we provide advice and guidance on good 
practice and standards in these areas, update 
clients with regards to environmental, health 
and safety as well as labour issues and monitor 
compliance with environmental and social 
legislation. In many cases of non-compliance, 
our proper and timely management of the SME 
clients’ environmental and social risks facilitate 
avoidance of financial and legal sanctions 
during inspections conducted by the state 
enforcement agency.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Currently, the Georgian real estate market is 
vulnerable to various economic and financial 
uncertainties. Numerous construction projects 
remain unfinished for long periods of time while 
there is a strong growing demand for housing 
from the Georgian population. In response to 
this increasing demand, the Group’s real estate 
development business, m
2
 Real Estate was 
established in order to offer affordable housing 
to the emerging middle class in Georgia, 
especially young families. m
2
 Real Estate has 
completed six projects for the development and 
sale of affordable residential apartments.
The company uses an innovative approach  
to design and construction processes so that 
each square metre is distributed efficiently and 
is tailored to the customers’ needs and wishes. 
As few customers can afford to buy large flats 
with an area exceeding 100m
2
, the company 
continuously works to optimise the size of 
apartments to meet the current demand of  
its customers without compromising the 
apartments’ convenience and usability.  
A large segment of the Group’s customers  
are represented by young Georgian families. 
We believe that by continuing to offer affordable 
housing products, we are helping to 
significantly enhance the quality of their lives.
SPONSORSHIP AND CHARITY
As part of our sponsorship and charitable 
activities, the Group continues to focus on 
promoting and enhancing access to education, 
conserving nature and supporting people with 
disabilities and special needs. The Group’s 
Sponsorship and Charity Policy encourages 
partnering with Foundations and Non-
Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to deliver 
sustainable results and bring about positive 
change. Our priority is to help solve the cause, 
not the symptom. The Group chooses to focus 
on three areas bearing the utmost importance 
for Georgian society. Sponsorship and charity 
funds are channelled through the Tree of Life 
Foundation that, in its turn, distributes funding 
via means of grants competitions thus assuring 
a transparent and fair way of financing.
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC (GHG) is the 
largest private healthcare services provider in 
the Georgian market. The company operates  
a network of medical centres and hospitals 
through its healthcare services business.  
It covers more than 75% of the Georgian 
population with clinics located across the 
country providing access to high-quality 
medical services to the population including 
those living in remote mountain regions. 
Accessibility of medical services is ensured by 
scheduling regular visits by specialists to small 
towns and villages and by providing patients 
with transportation to larger clinics in urgent 
cases and in cases when more sophisticated 
treatment is required.
The GHG healthcare services business also 
provides free regular medical examinations  
at various locations throughout the country 
including Batumi, Khulo, Keda, Shuakhevi,  
Poti, Kvareli, Telavi and others. In addition, 
GHG’s specialists deliver free medical services, 
including examinations and treatments for 
socially and economically disadvantaged  
parts of the population. In cooperation with 
other healthcare institutions, GHG arranges  
free blood transportation and donations for  
its patients.
GHG traditionally participates in the state 
Children’s oncology programme under which  
it offers oncology treatment for children in  
Tbilisi Iashvili Paediatric Tertiary Referral 
Hospital, its multi-profile paediatric medical 
establishment. The clinic is a unique provider  
of this service in Georgia, for which about  
GEL 2 million is annually subsidised. In 2016, 
701 young patients received treatment under 
this programme.
Sponsoring medical TV programmes is GHG’s 
way of promoting good health awareness and 
practices, which helps the company reach a 
wide range of the Georgian population. GHG 
has five TV shows: The Doctors, Day Show, 
Impulse, Medical hour and Mechanical 
Ventilation (Khelovnuri Suntkva, a soap opera). 
The shows share their expertise in a simple and 
clear manner on various health and wellness 
issues such as screening programmes, 
allergies, cardiovascular disease, oncology, 
arthritis and others. Sometimes celebrity 
interviews are conducted, health news, healthy 
recipes and helpful tips are also broadcast 
during the shows. As GHG’s medical TV 
programmes proved to be very popular in 
2015, it increased their scale and financing from 
GEL 177,180 in 2015 to GEL 730,841 in 2016.
GGU regularly runs charitable activities for the 
social service agency ’’Child and Environment”, 
international humanitarian network ’’Catharsis” 
in Tbilisi and ’’Retirement Home” in Rustavi. 
GGU covers the annual water supply expenses 
for “Child and Environment” – the agency that 
cares for homeless children and children with 
disabilities. Twice a year GGU sponsors the 
project “Dinner for Everyone” which is organised 
by ’”Catharsis” for approximately 3,000 people.
Promoting and enhancing access to 
education. Bank of Georgia University, 
established in 2014, welcomed its third intake 
of MBA in Finance students in autumn 2016. 
The cost of studies in 2016 were again largely 
subsidised by the Bank – GEL 101,250 in total, 
giving a possibility to up to ten top students to 
study free of charge while the next 20 can enjoy 
a 0% loan and start repaying one year after 
graduation. Besides providing high-quality 
education, Bank of Georgia University offers its 
students hands-on experience by offering them 
the possibility to observe various business 
processes at the Group’s companies.
In 2013, the Bank became the first Georgian 
company to cooperate with one of the most 
prestigious scholarship programmes in the 
world, the Chevening scholarship, in order to 
provide Georgian students with an opportunity 
to pursue education in the UK. The Group 
provided GBP 65,405 in total and funded three 
students in 2016. The partnership with 
Chevening has been extended for the next year 
and the Group is looking forward to selecting 
students who will continue their Master’s 
studies in the UK.
In 2014, the Bank signed a partnership 
agreement with the prestigious US Fulbright 
scholarship scheme. Thanks to the Bank of 
Georgia’s contribution, one student from 
Georgia will be able to enrol in a two-year 
Master’s degree programme at a US university 
in 2017. Funding provided to the student for 
two years amounts to US$ 100,000.
RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED 49 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
2014 13,395
2015 15,955
2016 22,080
3,609
4,241
7,284
9,786
11,714
14,796
For the past four years the Bank has been 
supporting a public speaking competition 
organised by the English Speaking Union, 
Georgia. The competition allows top students 
who are in their senior year at a high school,  
or freshmen year at a university, to prepare a 
speech on a predetermined topic and present  
it in front of a competent jury. The winner is 
granted a fully paid trip to London to attend the 
global public speaking competition. We aim to 
support this competition in 2017 as well.
The Bank has been supporting every single 
TEDxTbilisi conference from when it was first 
organised in 2012. A TEDx conference is a 
locally organised TED format event, where 
communities, organisations and individuals join 
to initiate a conversation and connect with each 
other on different matters which are important 
to the society.
Conserving nature. Another priority of the 
Group’s charitable activities is the preservation 
of wildlife diversity. In 2016, the Bank granted 
US$ 100,000 to the Caucasus Nature Fund 
(CNF) to provide support to the Protected 
Areas of Georgia.
Supporting people with disabilities. Since 
2014, the Bank has focused its efforts on 
supporting people with disabilities, mainly 
children – one of the most vulnerable social 
groups in Georgia. In 2016, the Bank broadened 
the scope to include all people with disabilities 
and donated GEL 101,313 to the Tree of Life 
Foundation for this cause. The Foundation 
distributed the funds through two grant 
competitions – one intended for the relevant 
NGOs that work on the issues of people with 
disabilities and another with the specific aim  
of promoting social entrepreneurship. In order  
to qualify for the competition, proposals had  
to focus on the creation of a small enterprise 
with a social component aimed at improving 
the livelihood of people with disabilities.
In total, the Tree of Life allocated over  
GEL 1 million to support education, nature 
conservation and people with disabilities  
and special needs.
In addition to external projects, the Bank 
continued to focus on the adaptation of its  
own infrastructure. In 2016, an additional  
ten service centres have become available  
for people with disabilities. 
EMPLOYEE MATTERS
A key factor to our success is a cohesive and 
professional team, capable of accomplishing 
the Group’s objectives. We are committed to 
attracting and identifying the best professionals, 
caring and planning for their needs, investing in 
their development and fostering their commitment.
The Human Capital Management (HCM) 
department and the management system it 
implements play a vital role in managing our 
most valuable resources – our employees.  
The HCM department develops Human 
Resource (HR) policies and procedures which 
determine key principles, areas, approaches 
and methods that are crucial for building HCM 
systems for all our businesses.
Examples of some our HR policies and 
procedures include, but are not limited to:
• employee planning and recruiting
• staff administration
• compensation and benefits
• code of conduct
• employee development and training
• human rights
• grievances
• whistleblowing
• retrenchment
• anti-nepotism
The Bank’s HCM department works closely 
with HR managers and executives from our 
subsidiaries in order to ensure proper 
implementation of the main principles and the 
provision of necessary support in all HR-related 
matters.
We recognise the importance of observing 
human rights and are committed to 
implementing socially responsible business 
practices. Our Human Rights Policy establishes 
priorities and puts control procedures in place 
to provide equal opportunities and prevent 
discrimination or harassment on any grounds, 
including disability. Our Human Rights Policy 
applies to all employees (including the disabled) 
and includes the procedures in relation to 
employment processes (including recruitment 
procedures and procedures governing the 
continuity of employment of employees who 
become disabled during the course of their 
employment), training and development.
We are committed to employee engagement. 
We believe that the knowledge of our Group  
is key and we strive to provide our employees 
with a continuous flow of information which 
includes but is not limited to information about 
our corporate culture, the Group’s strategy and 
performance, risks relating to its performance, 
such as financial and economic factors, and 
our policies and procedures. We provide 
information in a number of ways, including via 
managers, presentations, intranet, email and 
regular town hall and off-site meetings. We also 
value the views of our employees. We consult 
with them regularly and have implemented 
feedback systems, such as frequent employee 
satisfaction surveys, which ensure that opinions 
of our employees are taken into account when 
making decisions which are likely to affect their 
interests. Employee feedback also helps to 
improve our customer-focused orientation  
and client servicing approach.
ALL EMPLOYEES
22,080
GENDER DIVERSITY
2014 48
2015 63
2016 76
41
47
60
7
16
16
SENIOR MANAGERS
76
■ Female
■ Male
2014 7
2015 9
2016 7
7
8
6
0
1
1
DIRECTORS
7
■ Female
■ Male
■ Female
■ Male 50 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Bank 5,016
104
2,707
1,633
424
148
m
2
80
1
42
30
7
0
Aldagi289
0
167
89
23
10
GHG12,720
88
3,595
3,133
2,448
3,456
GGU2,379
14
417
494
479
975
Others 1,596
33
790
450
204
119
TALENT ATTRACTION
Sustained development of the Group’s 
businesses requires the strengthening of the 
teams of our subsidiaries both by using the 
Group’s own significant internal resources 
through staff development and rotation and by 
attracting external candidates. Our recruitment 
policy and relevant control procedures ensure 
an unbiased hiring process that provides equal 
opportunities for all candidates.
According to the HR Policy, internal candidates 
have priority when filling vacant positions, 
especially in situations where there are 
vacancies in top and middle management. 
Thus, in 2016, 262 Group employees were 
promoted to managerial positions.
In order to attract young talent, we actively 
partner with leading Georgian business schools 
and universities, participate in job fairs and  
run extensive internship programmes aimed  
at the professional development of young 
professionals and their further employment.  
In 2012, Bank of Georgia established a new 
format for its traditional internship programme 
and continues to implement it. The programme 
attracts promising graduates and provides 
them with the opportunity to participate in a 
major professional training and leadership 
development programme. Interns are directly 
coached by the Bank’s executives to help them 
on their path to gaining their first management 
positions in the near future. In 2016 the 
Company successfully completed a talent 
acquisition project for its Investment Officer 
position. This project has also allowed the 
selection of a number of young and talented 
candidates, who were hired for various 
assignments within BGEO Group. In 2016, the 
number of young professionals (under 30 years 
old) increased by 16% compared to 2015 and 
currently represents 38% of the total headcount.
In 2016, GGU, in collaboration with Georgia’s 
Innovation and Technology Agency, launched  
a project for talented and motivated young 
people with technical academic backgrounds. 
Participants had opportunity to work on  
and introduce technological solutions to real 
challenges that the company is facing in the 
fields of water supply and sewerage systems. 
Approximately 15 authors of the best projects 
were offered a job and they are successfully 
continuing their work and development within 
the company. The project is planned to take 
place annually.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
To manage our employees in a way that  
best supports our business strategy, we seek 
to help our employees contribute to business 
performance through personal and professional 
development.
Following our aspiration to develop strong 
leaders, we have developed an extensive 
programme for leadership development. We 
provide a standard induction training course for 
employees appointed to managerial positions. 
The programme covers a wide range of topics 
including corporate values, strategy and objectives, 
organisational structure, HR management policies, 
history of the Group and specific courses for 
development of communication, presentation, 
management and leadership skills, among 
others. Selected mid-level and senior-level 
employees are given the opportunity to receive 
external training in well-known training 
institutions outside of Georgia. 
The Group’s corporate learning system is 
comprised of a wide range of internal and 
external training sessions specifically designed 
to meet the needs of front and back office 
employees at the Group’s subsidiaries including 
banking, healthcare, insurance and real  
estate development.
In 2014-2015, Bank of Georgia launched a 
Leadership Development Executive Coaching 
programme. It provides an individual approach 
towards developing leadership skills of the 
participants. The programme continued to run 
successfully throughout 2016 and benefited  
its participants with a personally tailored 
development experience. Participants gained  
a greater awareness of their leadership 
strengths and opportunities for further growth.
Based on its experience in 2016, the Bank 
started refining its Leadership Development 
System together with 360 Degree Assessments. 
Updated programmes are planned for launch  
in 2017.
The Bank highly values the talents of its 
employees and provides various talent retention 
activities engaging them through leadership 
development and various professional 
certification programmes. The Company 
creates different development opportunities  
for employees in terms of career and personal 
growth. Internal promotions are part of the 
talent attraction system and also create a basis 
for employee loyalty and retention. The Bank 
also offers competitive remuneration and 
benefits packages for its employees and 
supports work-life balance by providing 
additional paid days off, in addition to those  
in the Labour Code of Georgia. The Bank also 
encourages engagement and dedication of its 
talented employees with awards made to the 
Best Employee and Team of the Year.
Each of the Group’s businesses has developed 
an extensive training programme for front office 
employees in order to provide them with 
relevant skills, such as effective communication 
and building strong and valued client relationships. 
For example, the Bank’s mentoring programme 
is part of a front office training process. Every 
new employee is provided with regular advice, 
guidance and practical instructions from an 
appointed mentor who later participates in the 
new employee’s performance appraisal. 
Through this programme, we aim to provide 
individual support to our employees in 
achieving their professional results and 
improving their personal effectiveness.
GHG’s healthcare services business provides 
additional training to its employees that work in 
the specialised field of healthcare. The company 
TOTAL HEADCOUNT BY AGE CATEGORY
22,080
■ Less than 20 years old 
■ 21-30 years old
■ 31-40 years old
■ 41-50 years old
■ Over 51 years old
RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED 51 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
remains the only healthcare institution in 
Georgia to have in-house training of personnel. 
In 2016 GHG has invested about GEL 2 million 
in training and development for ER, nurses  
and specialists in various medical fields. The 
business operates training and development 
activities via the Evex Learning Centre 
established in 2014.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 
Ensuring the safety of the workplace and 
providing healthy working conditions are among 
the Group’s fundamental HR management 
principles. The Group pays particular attention 
to preventive measures, such as conducting 
regular staff training and medical check-ups, 
certifying workplaces and promoting a  
healthy lifestyle.
In order to enhance the awareness of employees 
and contractors regarding health and safety 
risks associated with the construction process 
the company conducts regular training and 
educational seminars. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, 
the number of health and safety training hours 
amounted to approximately 1,008, 110 and  
70 respectively. In addition, m
2
 Real Estate 
publishes brochures and booklets with 
warnings and special rules to be followed  
when working on sites. Respective control 
procedures include quarterly audits by external 
health and safety consultants and internal 
monthly inspections of m
2
 Real Estate 
worksites. In addition, m
2
 Real Estate has  
a comprehensive reporting procedure for  
health and safety concerns. 
With regard to emergency preparedness and 
response, m
2
 Real Estate follows an Emergency 
Management Plan. This outlines possible 
scenarios during emergency situations and 
determines specific strategies for the company’s 
employees, contractors and visitors on how  
to react when in a crisis situation.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Group recognises that its operations  
have both an indirect and direct impact on the 
environment and therefore seeks to establish 
management approaches which will help  
it become a more environmentally-friendly 
institution. Being the largest financial institution 
in Georgia, the Bank, through the projects it 
finances, produces significant indirect impacts 
on the environmental. In order to properly 
manage this impact, the Bank has implemented 
Environmental and Social Policy and Risk 
Management Procedures, as detailed in the 
“Social matters” section.
As for the direct environmental impact,  
we believe that the impact of the banking  
and insurance businesses is not significant. 
Nevertheless, we undertake a number of 
measures to reduce electricity, paper, water, 
and fuel consumption. For example, in 2013  
we upgraded our lighting system in the Bank’s 
headquarters by installing energy-saving  
bulbs and implemented KNX (EIB) System 
management, which not only helped us 
minimise our environmental impact but also 
reduced our energy costs by GEL 4,000-5,000 
per month. We implemented this system in  
all of the Bank’s branches during 2014. Since 
2015 the Bank has worked towards minimising 
paper waste. “Green Boxes” are placed on 
every floor of the Bank’s headquarters and are 
designated to collect paper for recycling 
purposes. The Group is also in the process of 
automating its operational processes in order  
to reduce the volume of printed documents and 
consequently minimise the overall use of paper. 
The Bank continues to acquire new printers 
which offer double-sided printing by default. In 
2016 the Bank started replacing 80W and 60W 
traditional light bulbs with 20W and 12W LED 
light bulbs in all of its service centres. New 
lighting systems will continue to be introduced 
throughout 2017 and save considerable energy 
resources. Similarly, new air conditioning 
systems were introduced in the Bank’s 
headquarters. The VRV/VRF system was 
installed in air conditioners which enables the 
chillers to reduce energy consumption from 
120KW to 75KW. The Bank installed new 
charging facilities for electric vehicles in 2016 
and once there is a supply of service centres for 
them, the Bank is keen to start replacing its car 
fleet, that runs on petrol, with electric vehicles.
The most significant direct impact on the 
environment within the Group is created  
by our real estate development business, m
2
 
Real Estate. The company addresses industry-
specific environmental issues and undertakes 
appropriate measures to manage them.
Focusing on enhancing the resource efficiency 
of its apartment buildings, m
2
 Real Estate has 
two ongoing development projects with 
financial support from IFC and another two  
in the pipeline. The company has entered the 
hospitality market with an exclusive agreement 
with the Ramada group to develop Ramada 
Encore hotels in Georgia (also financed by IFC). 
The company not only follows high environmental 
standards that IFC imposes on its borrowers 
but is also a participant of the IFC-Canada 
Climate Change Programme
1
 and thus meets 
all mandatory requirements of the programme 
regarding green building construction.
Aiming at increasing the efficient use of energy, 
water and materials, m
2
 Real Estate installs 
energy efficient lighting systems and uses 
double-glazed windows and other modern 
insulation materials thus reducing the U-value  
of constructed buildings to 0.21W/m
2
K. As a 
result, it is expected that utility costs for these 
buildings will be reduced by up to 43% 
compared to an average residential building  
in Georgia.
GHG’s direct environmental impact mainly 
comes from the medical waste generation and 
combustion of fuels, both for stationary use  
and for owned vehicles. GHG’s operations  
also affect the environment by using significant 
amounts of water in hospitals and purchasing 
electricity and paper. Although its overall 
negative impact is relatively low, GHG still aims 
at becoming more resource efficient and 
environmentally-friendly. GHG’s waste 
management procedures are compliant with 
the relevant Georgian legislation which defines 
risk categories and appropriate procedures for 
the treatment of medical waste.
To prevent human and environmental harm, 
GHG clinics collect and dispose of medical and 
biological waste through an outsourced service 
specialising in medical waste disposal. For the 
collection of waste the company uses plastic 
bags that have sufficient strength and are 
secured with staples to safely retain waste. 
Further, steam sterilisation is used to 
decontaminate biological and bio hazardous 
waste. To ensure the reliability of the contractors 
used, GHG examines their certificates and 
monthly reporting as well as imposing penalties 
if necessary. 
In order to light up the hospital premises and  
run the necessary medical equipment, GHG 
annually consumes thousands of kilowatts  
of electricity. In fact, electricity usage accounts 
for about a half of our total greenhouse gas 
generation. To decrease this negative impact 
the company has implemented a number of 
energy saving solutions, such as installation  
of LED lights and energy efficient equipment. 
GHG also works towards minimising its carbon 
footprint by other means. For example, heat 
insulation is being improved in a number  
of hospitals. 
GGU’s major emission sources are caused  
by water supply, wastewater treatment and 
energy generation. GGU is focusing efforts  
on optimising water extraction, treatment and 
distribution with minimal energy inputs. GGU 
strictly follows the standards implemented by 
the Georgian legislation for its waste water 
treatment and hydro power plants. In addition, 
GGU regularly rehabilitates dilapidated 
sewerage network.
GGU is currently developing an Environmental 
and Social Management System (ESMS)  
in accordance with the roadmap schedule 
presented in the Environmental & Social Policy 
Framework, adopted by the company in 2016. 
ESMS will be in compliance with Georgian 
legislation and the IFC performance standards 
(Environmental, Health and safety guidelines for 
Water and Sanitation). The roadmap schedule 
further develops the Environmental and Social 
Action Plan (ESAP) based on the outcomes of 
the current ongoing audit. ESMS will allow GGU 
to gradually implement the ISO14000 standard 
for environmental management and the 
ISO26000 standard for social responsibility. 
METHODOLOGY
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies Act 
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013 (Scope 1 and 2) and 
additionally have reported on those emissions 
under Scope 3 that are applicable to our 
business. All reported sources fall within our 
consolidated financial statements which  
can be found on pages 126 to 213. We do  
not have responsibility for any emission sources 
that are not included in our consolidated 
financial statements.
1 The IFC-Canada Climate Change Programme, established in 2011, is a partnership between the Government of Canada and IFC to promote private sector financing for clean 
energy projects, through the use of concessional funds to catalyse investments in renewable, low-carbon technologies that would not otherwise happen (www.ifc.org). 52 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
In preparing our emissions data, we have used the 
World Resources Institute/World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and 
emissions factors from the UK Government’s 
Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting 2016. For wastewater treatment  
and discharge operations we used conversion 
factors from 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
Our reported data is collected and reported on 
in respect of five of the Group’ s main businesses:
• Banking (represented by the Bank), which 
includes all of its offices and retail branches 
where the Bank has operational control
• Real estate development (represented by  
m
2
 Real Estate), which includes its offices 
and construction sites
• Utility and energy business (represented  
by Georgia Global Utilities) which includes  
all of its offices and operational sites
• P&C insurance (represented by Aldagi), 
which includes all of its offices and retail 
branches where the Company has 
operational control
• Georgia Healthcare Group (represented by 
Evex and Imedi L), which includes its main 
office and hospitals where the Company has 
operational control
Scope 1 (combustion of fuel and operation of 
facilities) includes emissions from:
• Combustion of natural gas, diesel and petrol 
in stationary equipment at owned and 
controlled sites
• Combustion of petrol, diesel and aviation 
fuel in owned transportation devices (cars 
and aeroplane)
Scope 2 (electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for own use) includes emissions 
from:
• Used electricity at owned and controlled 
sites; to calculate the emissions, we used 
the conversion factor for Non-OECD Europe 
and Eurasia (average) conversion from the 
UK Government’ s Greenhouse Gas Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting 2014
• Used heat and steam (only applies to one 
site of Imedi L)
Scope 3 includes emissions from:
• Air business travel (short haul and long haul); 
information on the class of travel is 
unavailable hence we used an “average 
passenger” conversion factor
• Ground transportation, including taxis, 
coaches and car hire
Data on emissions resulting from travel is reported 
for business-related travel only and excludes 
commuting travel. Data from joint ventures, 
investments or sub-leased properties have  
not been included within the reported figures.
The data is provided by on-site delegates, 
invoices and metre readings.
The Group has in place a Code of Ethics, as 
well as policies which relate to environmental 
matters, employees, social matters, our respect 
for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery. 
Copies of these polices can be found on the 
Group’s website: http://bgeo.com/page/id/69/
policies
 
1 Due to the nature of their operations, GHG and GGU contributed to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions in 2016.
Environmental aspect Preventive measures
Dust • Introducing speed limits on unmade roads
• Damping down using water bowsers with spray bars
• Sheeting of construction materials and storage piles
• Using defined moving routes and reductions in vehicle speed limits where required
Spills and leaks during 
refuelling
• Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling areas
• Providing suitable tanks (e.g. double skinned), bunds and impermeable liners at fuel stores and refuelling points
• Using drip trays for static plant (e.g. generators and pumps)
• Training staff in refuelling and pump operations
• Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible
• Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses and valves
• Conducting follow-up procedures for proper and safe refuelling by operators
Air emissions • Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current European Union (EU) emissions standards at the time of purchase
• Implementing a regular maintenance programme to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with relevant EU 
emissions standards
• Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in order to eliminate extra emissions as much as reasonably practicable
• Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise fuel consumption and production of exhaust fumes, and minimise 
dust generation on unpaved surfaces
Water contamination • Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further away from watercourses and aquifers
Fire • Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each item of mobile plant and equipment
Noise • Fitting effective silencers at all plant and machinery, and providing ear defenders and/or plugs on sites
• No idling or revving of plant engines and all vehicles
• Using controlled venting, silenced equipment and absorbing screens
• Working at preferred times of day (daylight hours Monday to Saturday, otherwise communicated to the local 
community and authorities)
Vibration • Operating the equipment within the manufacturer specification limits and limiting any overuse
Depletion of the 
stratospheric ozone layer
• Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances (ODS) such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and hydro-
chlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) or products with known global warming potential are used
TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA FOR THE PERIOD BEGINNING 1 JANUARY 2016 AND ENDED 31 DECEMBER 
2016 (TONNES OF CO
2
E)
1
2014 2015 2016
Scope 1 (emissions fuel combustion and facility operations) 7,614 6,679 10,567
Scope 2 (emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use) 11,034 12,183 30,826
Scope 3 (emissions from air travel and ground transportation) 3,822 4,487 10,266
TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 22,470 23,349 51,660
FTEs 13,395 15,955 21,278
TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PER FTE 1.68 1.46 2.43
RESOURCES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED 53 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS
Executing our strategy
The Group has delivered another strong year of strategic progress and excellent earnings growth, in what remains a challenging and uncertain 
macroeconomic backdrop, both globally and in the Caucasus region. We are confident however in our ability to continue to deliver high returns 
and strong performances in both the Banking Business and the Investment Businesses during 2017 and beyond. 
INCOME STATEMENT 
BGEO Consolidated
GEL thousands unless otherwise noted 2016 2015
Change 
y-o-y
Net banking interest income 549,407 501,390 9.6%
Net fee and commission income 122,913 118,406 3.8%
Net banking foreign currency gain 82,909 76,926 7.8%
Net other banking income 11,773 18,528 -36.5%
Gross insurance profit 33,683 29,907 12.6%
Gross healthcare and pharmacy profit 134,862 80,938 66.6%
Gross real estate profit 19,768 14,688 34.6%
Gross utility profit 38,541 – –
Gross other investment profit 20,926 20,777 0.7%
REVENUE 1,014,782 861,560 17.8%
OPERATING EXPENSES (390,788) (314,732) 24.2%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 623,994 546,828 14.1%
Profit from associates 4,328 4,050 6.9%
Depreciation and amortisation of investment business (28,865) (14,225) 102.9%
Net foreign currency gain (loss) from investment business (9,650) 651 NMF
Interest income from investment business 4,155 2,340 77.6%
Interest expense from investment business (21,429) (10,337) 107.3%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK 572,533 529,307 8.2%
Cost of credit risk (171,089) (155,377) 10.1%
Net non-recurring items (11,524) (14,577) -20.9%
Income tax (expense) benefit 38,656 (48,408) NMF
PROFIT 428,576 310,945 37.8%
EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC) 10.41 7.93 31.3%
EARNINGS PER SHARE (DILUTED) 10.09 7.93 27.2%
BALANCE SHEET
BGEO Consolidated
GEL thousands unless otherwise noted Dec-16 Dec-15
Change 
y-o-y
Liquid assets 3,914,596 3,068,166 27.6%
Cash and cash equivalents 1,573,610 1,432,934 9.8%
Amounts due from credit institutions 1,054,983 731,365 44.2%
Investment securities 1,286,003 903,867 42.3%
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 6,648,482 5,322,117 24.9%
Property and equipment 1,323,870 794,682 66.6%
TOTAL ASSETS 12,989,453 10,115,739 28.4%
Client deposits and notes 5,382,698 4,751,387 13.3%
Amounts due to credit institutions 3,470,091 1,789,062 94.0%
Borrowings from DFI 1,403,120 917,087 53.0%
Short-term loans from NBG 1,085,640 307,200 253.4%
Loans and deposits from commercial banks 981,331 564,775 73.8%
Debt securities issued 1,255,643 1,039,804 20.8%
TOTAL LIABILITIES 10,566,035 8,042,101 31.4%
TOTAL EQUITY 2,423,418 2,073,638 16.9%
During 2016, BGEO Group delivered a strong earnings performance against a challenging macroeconomic backdrop in a number of Georgia’s 
regional trading partner countries which resulted in a year of lower economic growth than expected and a 10.5% depreciation of the Georgian Lari 
compared to the Dollar. The Lari was particularly weak in the last quarter of the year when it devalued by over 13% against the Dollar. Despite these 
challenges, Group revenue in 2016 increased by 17.8% to GEL 1.01 billion, profit increased by 37.8% to GEL 428.6 million, and earnings per share 
increased by 31.3% to GEL 10.41. Book value per share at the end of 2016 was GEL 57.52, up 18.0% y-o-y. The Return on Average Equity in the 
banking business increased from 21.7% in 2015, to 22.1% in 2016.  54 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
RESILIENT GROWTH MOMENTUM 
SUSTAINED ACROSS MAJOR  
BUSINESS LINES
Retail Banking (RB) continues to deliver 
strong franchise growth. Retail Banking 
revenue reached GEL 494.1 million in 2016,  
up 15.6% y-o-y. 
The Retail Banking net loan book reached  
GEL 3,902.3 million as at 31 December 2016, 
up 39.5% y-o-y. The growth on a constant-
currency basis was 31.5% y-o-y, well above our 
strategic target of 20%+. Consequently, our 
share of retail loan book accounted for 60.9% 
of our total gross loan book at the end of 2016, 
5.9ppts up compared to last year.
Retail Banking client deposits increased to  
GEL 2,413.6 million as at 31 December 2016, 
up 28.4% y-o-y. The growth on a constant-
currency basis was 19.2% y-o-y.
The number of Retail Banking clients reached 
2.1 million at the end of 2016, up 7.1% from 
2.0 million a year ago.
Solo – our premium banking brand – 
continues its strong growth. Solo, which 
offers a fundamentally different approach to 
premium banking and targets the mass affluent 
client segment, more than doubled its client 
base since April 2015, when we launched Solo 
in its current format. As of 31 December 2016, 
the number of Solo clients reached 19,267. Our 
goal is to significantly increase our market share 
in the mass affluent segment, which stood 
below 13% at the beginning of 2015.
Our Retail Banking product to client ratio 
reached 2.0 in 2016, up from 1.9 at the end 
of 2015. The start of the transformation of our 
retail banking operations from product-based 
into a client-centric one is expected to positively 
affect the Retail Banking product to client ratio 
in the future. We completed the change in 15 
branches in 2016 and are currently in process 
of converting nine additional branches into  
the new client-centric model. We have seen 
outstanding sales growth in transformed 
branches, with the number of products sold to 
our clients increasing by over 100% compared 
to the base-line figures.
Corporate Investment Banking (CIB) is 
successfully delivering its risk 
deconcentration strategy, having reduced 
the concentration of our top ten CIB clients 
to 11.8% by the end of 2016, down from 
12.7% a year ago. The CIB net loan book 
totalled GEL 2,394.9 million, up 8.3% y-o-y. 
On a constant-currency basis, the loan  
portfolio was largely flat y-o-y. CIB net fee and 
commission income was GEL 28.0 million or 
12.0% of total CIB revenue in 2016 compared 
to GEL 34.3 million or 14.2% a year ago. The 
decline was mainly driven by the decrease in 
commission fee income from guarantees (net 
income from guarantees was GEL 12.6 million 
in 2016, down by GEL 6.2 million or 33.0% 
y-o-y) as we reduced our large guarantee 
exposures (more detailed review on this is 
presented in the Banking business discussion 
below). CIB ROAE was 14.5% in 2016, down 
from 18.5% in 2015, which was primarily a 
result of 1) negative operating leverage, and 2) 
higher cost of risk, largely related to the impact 
of the recent GEL devaluation. We expect to 
further reduce concentration risk in the 
corporate loan portfolio, grow our fee income 
and improve the Bank’s ROAE in this segment.
Investment Management’s Assets Under 
Management (AUM) increased to GEL 
1,592.0 million
1
, up 15.9% y-o-y, reflecting 
higher bond issuance activity by our brokerage 
arm Galt & Taggart, as our clients increasingly 
access these new products.
BANKING BUSINESS BALANCE SHEET 
STRENGTH SUPPORTED BY SOLID 
CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY POSITIONS 
• The net loan book reached a record GEL 
6,681.7 million, up 24.5% y-o-y. The growth 
on a constant-currency basis was 16.1% 
y-o-y
• Customer funds increased to GEL 5,730.4 
million, up 14.8% y-o-y. The growth on a 
constant-currency basis was 6.4% y-o-y
• Net Loans to Customer Funds and DFI ratio 
stood at 95.3% (90.8% at 31 December 
2015)
• Leverage stood at 6.9 times as at 
31 December 2016 compared to 6.0 times 
at the same time last year 
• NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I and Total CAR stood 
at 10.1%
2
 and 15.4%, respectively as at 
31 December 2016
• NBG Liquidity Ratio was 37.7% as at 
31 December 2016, compared to 46.2%  
at the same time last year 
Our Investment Business contributed GEL 
119.1 million, or 27.8% to the Group’s profit  
in 2016, up from GEL 36.7 million a year ago. 
Of this, GEL 91.6 million is attributed to 
shareholders of BGEO and the rest mainly 
belongs to the non-controlling shareholders  
of GHG. 
2016 profit includes material one-offs from 
deferred tax adjustments, gain from the 
purchase of GGU and other net non-recurring 
items. Excluding these one-offs, profit from our 
Investment Business was GEL 60.8 million, or 
16.5% of the Group’s profit. Furthermore, if we 
exclude our publicly listed subsidiary, GHG, 
from this figure, then our Investment Business 
profit was GEL 26.0 million or 7.8% of the 
Group’s profit.
Our healthcare business, Georgia 
Healthcare Group PLC (GHG) continued to 
deliver strong revenue performance across 
all business lines. GHG recorded revenue of 
GEL 426.4 million (up 73.4% y-o-y) in 2016. 
During 2016, GHG achieved further 
diversification of the revenues. The healthcare 
services business revenue accounted for 
around 55%, the pharmacy business revenue 
accounted for c.31% and the medical 
insurance business revenue accounted for 
c.14% of its gross revenues in 4Q16. GHG 
delivered quarterly EBITDA of GEL 24.3 million, 
up 47.0% y-o-y. This growth was primarily 
driven by the healthcare services business 
EBITDA growth of 30.2% y-o-y. Consequently, 
for 2016 EBITDA was GEL 78.0 million (up 
39.0% y-o-y) and profit was GEL 61.3 million 
(up 159.7% y-o-y) (including a tax benefit  
of GEL 24.0 million relating to the deferred  
tax adjustments).
In January 2017, GHG received final approval 
for and completed the purchase of JSC ABC 
Pharmacia (ABC), owner of the Pharmadepot 
chain of pharmacies. This acquisition followed the 
acquisition in mid-2016 of the GPC chain of 
pharmacies, which was GHG’ s entry into the retail 
pharmacy business. These acquisitions have 
resulted in GHG becoming a key player in the 
pharmacy market, as it is in the healthcare 
services and medical insurance markets. Details 
of ABC acquisition are in GHG’s separate press 
release, which is available at www.ghg.com.ge. 
GHG will be consolidating the ABC pharmacy 
business from 1 January 2017.
Our real estate business, m
2
 Real Estate (m
2
) 
continued its strong project execution and 
sales performance in 2016. In 2016, m
2
 
achieved sales of US$ 34.4 million, selling a 
total of 407 apartments, compared to US$ 30.0 
million sales and 346 apartments sold in 2015. 
As a result, m
2
 recognised revenue of GEL 20.9 
million (down 3.2% y-o-y) and net profit of GEL 
12.5 million (up 16.1% y-o-y).
1 Wealth Management client deposits, Galt & Taggart client assets, Aldagi Pension Fund and Wealth Management client assets at Bank of Georgia Custody.
2 Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5mln distributed as dividend from the Bank to the holding level on 29 December 2016. These funds are earmarked for regular dividends to 
be paid from BGEO Group in respect of the 2016 financial year and will be payable in 2017, subject to shareholder approval. Including this payment, NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I and 
Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, respectively.
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 55 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Prior to 1 January 2017, m
2
 followed revenue 
recognition guidance under International 
Accounting Standard (IAS) 18 and recognised 
revenues from sales of residential units upon 
completion and handover of the units to 
customers. Effective 1 January 2017, the 
Group, inclusive of m
2
, is early adopting the 
new revenue recognition standard, IFRS 15, 
which allows revenue recognition according to 
the percentage of completion method. As a 
result, m
2
 Real Estate expects that out of its 
total deferred revenue of US$ 30.6 million (net 
of US$ 5.5 million VAT) at 31 December 2016, 
US$ 17.1 million will be recognised as revenue 
gradually in the upcoming years, while  
US$ 13.5 million will be recognised through 
equity on 1 January 2017.
Our utility and energy business, Georgia 
Global Utilities (GGU), delivered strong 
revenue and cost-efficiency performance  
in 2016 and achieved revenue of GEL 127.4 
million (up 7.7% y-o-y), EBITDA of GEL 
68.1million (up 10.3% y-o-y) and profit of 
GEL 35.7million (up 134.5% y-o-y) for 2016. 
As BGEO owned 25% of GGU until July 2016, 
we reported our share of GGU’s profits in the 
line item “profit from associates”. In July 2016, 
we completed the acquisition of the remaining 
75% equity stake in GGU and we started 
consolidating GGU financial results from 21 July 
2016 as part of our Investment Business and 
included it in the segment results discussion as 
a separate business.
Our beverages business, Teliani, reached  
a major milestone in 2016 and finished the 
construction of the beer brewery. Teliani will 
brew Heineken under the ten-year exclusive 
licence agreement to sell Heineken in 
Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
In May 2016, the Parliament of Georgia 
approved a change in the current corporate 
taxation model, with changes applicable from 
1 January 2017 for all entities apart from certain 
financial institutions, including banks and 
insurance businesses (changes are applicable 
to financial institutions, including banks and 
insurance businesses from 1 January 2019). 
The changed model implies a zero corporate 
tax rate on retained earnings and a 15% 
corporate tax rate on distributed earnings, 
compared to the previous model of a 15% tax 
rate charged to the company’s profit before tax, 
regardless of the retention or distribution status. 
The change has had an immediate impact on 
deferred tax asset and deferred tax liability 
balances (“deferred taxes”) attributable to 
previously recognised temporary differences 
arising from prior periods. The Group 
considered the new regime as substantively 
enacted effective June 2016 and thus has 
re-measured its deferred tax assets and 
liabilities as at 30 June 2016. Subsequently, 
deferred tax assets and liabilities were 
re-measured again at 31 December 2016. The 
Group has calculated the portion of deferred 
taxes that it utilised before 1 January 2017 for 
our non-financial businesses and the portion  
of deferred taxes it expects to utilise before 
1 January 2019 for financial businesses and 
has fully released the un-utilisable portion of 
deferred tax assets and liabilities (“Deferred  
tax adjustments”) as of 31 December 2016. 
The deferred tax liabilities that were reversed 
significantly exceeded the deferred tax assets 
written off. The net amount was recognised  
as an income tax benefit for the Group and 
amounted to GEL 63.8 million for full-year 
2016, of which GEL 39.4 million and GEL 24.4 
million impacts the Group’s Banking Business 
and Investment Business profit after tax, 
respectively. The amounts are reflected in the 
“income tax (expense) benefit” line of the 
income statement.
The Group has also incurred a GEL 43.9 million 
charge for accounting losses arising from the 
buyback of the Bank’s Eurobond, which took 
place in July 2016. 
During July 2016, the Group completed the 
acquisition of the remaining equity interests  
in Georgia Global Utilities Limited (“GGU”),  
its utility and energy business and gained full 
control of GGU. As a result of this acquisition, 
the Group recorded a GEL 31.8 million gain 
from negative goodwill. The gain resulted from 
the fair value of the net identifiable assets 
acquired (totalling GEL 255.9 million) which 
exceeded the fair value of the total 
consideration paid by the Group (totalling  
GEL 224.1 million). This gain is reflected in the 
“net non-recurring items” line of the income 
statement. The Group started consolidating 
GGU results on 21 July 2016. Prior to this, the 
Group reported the results of GGU’s operations 
under “profit from associates”.
Full-year 2016 profit was also positively affected 
by a GEL 16.4 million one-off gain from the sale 
of Class C shares and Class B shares of Visa 
Inc. and MasterCard, respectively. This gain 
was partially offset by one-off employee costs 
related to termination benefits, inclusive of the 
Bank’s former CEO. These items are also 
reflected in the “net non-recurring items” line  
of the income statement.
3 Significant deferred tax liabilities that were reversed arose from the recognition timing differences between the IFRS and the tax accounting rules and were related to accumulated 
depreciation, allowance for impairment of loans, property and equipment, investment properties, intangible assets, accruals of certain provisions, and various other items. 56 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Discussion of Banking Business Results
The Group’s Banking Business is comprised of several components. Retail Banking operations in Georgia principally provides consumer loans, 
mortgage loans, overdrafts, credit cards and other credit facilities, funds transfer and settlement services and handling customers’ deposits for 
both individuals as well as legal entities. The business targets the emerging retail, mass retail and mass affluent segments, together with small and 
medium enterprises and micro businesses.
Corporate Investment Banking comprises Corporate Banking and Investment Management operations in Georgia. Corporate Banking principally 
provides loans and other credit facilities, funds transfers and settlement services, trade finance services, documentary operations support and 
handles saving and term deposits for corporate and institutional customers. The Investment Management business principally provides private 
banking services to high net worth clients. Property and Casualty (P&C) principally provides property and casualty insurance services to corporate 
clients and insured individuals in Georgia. BNB, comprising JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank, principally provides retail and corporate banking services 
in Belarus. The following discussion refers to the Banking Business only.
REVENUE
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015
Change, 
y-o-y
Banking interest income 933,715 872,299 7.0%
Banking interest expense (376,987) (359,372) 4.9%
NET BANKING INTEREST INCOME 556,728 512,927 8.5%
Fee and commission income 172,715 161,891 6.7%
Fee and commission expense (47,766) (40,302) 18.5%
NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 124,949 121,589 2.8%
Net banking foreign currency gain 82,909 76,926 7.8%
Net other banking income 12,767 19,837 -35.6%
Net insurance premiums earned 42,959 40,161 7.0%
Net insurance claims incurred (17,858) (20,114) -11.2%
GROSS INSURANCE PROFIT 25,101 20,047 25.2%
REVENUE 802,454 751,326 6.8%
Net Interest Margin (NIM) 7.5% 7.7%
Average interest earning assets 7,447,665 6,667,220 11.7%
Average interest bearing liabilities 7,961,933 7,069,269 12.6%
Average net loans and finance lease receivables, currency blended 5,640,611 5,200,650 8.5%
Average net loans and finance lease receivables, GEL 1,592,987 1,527,852 4.3%
Average net loans and finance lease receivables, FC 4,047,624 3,672,798 10.2%
Average client deposits and notes, currency blended 5,017,993 4,379,707 14.6%
Average client deposits and notes, GEL 1,221,469 1,203,167 1.5%
Average client deposits and notes, FC 3,796,524 3,176,540 19.5%
Average liquid assets, currency blended 3,106,676 2,540,310 22.3%
Average liquid assets, GEL 1,210,935 1,153,425 5.0%
Average liquid assets, FC 1,895,741 1,386,885 36.7%
Excess liquidity (NBG) 418,016 789,311 -47.0%
Liquid assets yield, currency blended 3.2% 3.2%
Liquid assets yield, GEL 7.4% 6.5%
Liquid assets yield, FC 0.5% 0.5%
Loan yield, currency blended 14.2% 14.8%
Loan yield, GEL 23.3% 22.6%
Loan yield, FC 10.6% 11.4%
Cost of Funds, currency blended 4.7% 5.1%
Cost of Funds, GEL 6.4% 5.5%
Cost of Funds, FC 4.2% 4.9%
In the Banking Business, 2016 was 
characterised by the expected strong growth in 
the retail bank, and a repositioning of the 
corporate bank to reduce concentration risk. 
Banking Business revenue: We recorded 
revenue of GEL 802.5 million in 2016 (up 
6.8% y-o-y). For 2016 overall, our revenue was 
primarily driven by net interest income resulting 
from the growth in our loan book, together with 
a smaller increase in net fee and commission 
income, gain on foreign currency and strong 
performance of our P&C insurance business.
Net banking interest income. Our net banking 
interest income was up 8.5% for 2016 y-o-y. 
Net banking interest income was primarily 
driven by a strong performance in our Retail 
Banking operations, offset by a slight decline in 
CIB net interest income.
Our NIM stood comfortably within our target 
range of 7.25-7.75%. NIM stood at 7.5% for 
2016, 20bps lower compared to 2015 primarily 
due to high levels of excess liquidity held during 
the first half of 2016. Excess liquidity, which was 
a drag to NIM in previous quarters, started to be 
deployed in our loan portfolio in 4Q16 and 
consequently decreased by 47.0% y-o-y and 
23.4% q-o-q. Reflecting this, NIM rebounded in 
4Q16 compared to 3Q16. At the same time, cost 
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 57 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
of funds improved, reflecting lower cost on 
deposits compared to the previous year as well 
as the lower cost of our Eurobond funding. These 
factors influenced NIM’s increase by 30bps in 
4Q16 to 7.6%. 
Loan yields. Loan yield grew by 30bps in 
4Q16 compared to 3Q16, which partially 
reflected a shift in our loan book toward higher 
yielding local currency-denominated loans. 
Average local currency-denominated loans 
grew faster than foreign currency-denominated 
loans compared to the previous quarter. 
Similarly, our liquid asset yield also increased 
reflecting growth in average liquid assets in 
local currency compared to a reduction in 
foreign currency-denominated liquid assets. 
Y-o-y decrease of 60bps in loan yields was 
attributable to decline in the market interest 
rates during 2016.
Dollarisation. Dollarisation of our loan book 
decreased since last year as local currency-
denominated loans increased faster than 
foreign currency-denominated loans during  
the year. On the other hand, the dollarisation  
of our average liquid assets increased slightly  
to 61% in 2016, up from 54.6% in 2015 –  
this is primarily due to a higher level of Dollar 
liquidity mobilised at the beginning of the 2016 
in connection with the liability management 
exercise of the Bank’s outstanding Eurobonds, 
which was completed during the third quarter.  
In addition, a change in the minimum reserve 
requirement for foreign currency deposits 
resulted in a further increase of dollarisation  
of liquid assets
4
.
Net Loans to Customer Funds and DFI ratio. 
At year-end 2016, customer funds (client 
deposits and notes) increased 14.8% y-o-y to 
GEL 5,730.4 million primarily driven by strong 
deposit generation in our Retail Banking 
operations where client deposits grew by 28.4% 
y-o-y to GEL 2,413.6 million. We also increased our 
borrowings from DFIs by 39.8% y-o-y to GEL 
1,281.8 million, particularly to support local currency 
lending. Consequently , our Net Loans to Customer 
Funds and DFI ratio, which is closely monitored by 
management, stood at 95.3% (90.8% at 
31 December 2015).
Net fee and commission income. Net fee  
and commission income performance is mainly 
driven by the strong performance in our settlement 
operations supported by the success of our 
Express banking franchise. This was partially 
offset by a decline in our fees from guarantees, 
driven by the deconcentration efforts in the CIB 
segment which resulted in decreased large 
guarantee exposures in the Bank. Excluding the 
impact of guarantees, net fee and commission 
income was GEL 112.3 million for 2016, up 
9.3% y-o-y. 
Net banking foreign currency gain. On  
the back of continued volatility in the GEL 
exchange rate, the banking foreign exchange 
gain was up 7.8% for the year. Both Retail 
Banking and CIB contributed to the foreign 
currency gain.
Net other banking income. The decrease  
in net other banking income by 35.6% y-o-y 
was caused by the difference between an 
insignificant loss from revaluation of investment 
property in 2016 compared to the substantial 
gain of GEL 6.4 million recorded in 2015. 
Gross insurance profit. Gross insurance profit 
showed its strong growth throughout 2016.  
Net insurance premiums earned increased by 
7.0% y-o-y and net insurance claims incurred 
decreased by 11.2% y-o-y, driving y-o-y growth 
in gross insurance profit of 25.2%. This strong 
performance is mainly driven by the improved 
quality of the insurance portfolio that resulted 
from the termination of relationships with 
loss-making clients. The improvement in 2016 
also results from a base effect, as claims in 
2015 were high with GEL 1.3 million of expense 
recognised related to floods in Tbilisi. 
Operating expenses increased to GEL 302.2 
million in 2016 (up 12.8% y-o-y). Growth  
in operating expenses outpaced growth in 
revenue, and consequently operating leverage 
was negative in 4Q16 at 6.8 percentage points 
and also negative in 2016 at 6.0 percentage 
points, both on a y-o-y basis. Both 4Q16 and  
full year 2016 operating expenses were  
driven by:
• An increase in salaries and employee 
benefits, which mainly reflects the organic 
growth of our Retail Banking Business 
• Growth in year-to-date administrative 
expenses which was driven by rent, 
marketing expenses and operating taxes 
compared with the same period last year. 
The increase in operating taxes is due to 
change in the Georgian Tax code from 
January 2016 as a result of which the Group 
pays property taxes on investment 
properties owned
Cost of Risk and Cost of Risk ratio. The 
y-o-y increase in Banking Business cost of 
credit risk is mainly attributable to the GEL 
devaluation, and the Group’s subsequent 
review of its performing and non-performing 
Dollar-denominated portfolios, which resulted in 
an increase in impairment of c.GEL 32 million in 
4Q16. As a result, we recorded a cost of credit 
risk of GEL 168.6 million in 2016, up 11.2% 
y-o-y (compared to 24.5% growth in loan 
book), and Cost of Risk ratio of 2.7%, flat y-o-y. 
Despite more than 13% GEL devaluation during 
the 4Q16, the quality of the Bank’s loan book 
remains solid: 
• NPLs. NPLs were GEL 294.8 million, up 
22.2% y-o-y. The increase reflects the 
growth in the net loan book and the effect of 
the local currency devaluation
• NPLs to gross loans. NPLs to gross loans 
were 4.2% as of 31 December 2016, down 
10bps y-o-y. Our Retail Banking NPLs to 
gross loans stood at 1.4%, down from 1.5% 
a year ago. CIB NPLs to gross loans were 
8.0%, compared to 7.3% a year ago 
• The NPL coverage ratio. The NPL 
coverage ratio stood at 86.7% as of 
31 December 2016, compared to 83.4% as 
of 31 December 2015. Our NPL coverage 
ratio adjusted for the discounted value of 
collateral was 132.1% as of 31 December 
2016, compared to 120.6% as of 
31 December 2015 
• Past due rates. Our 15 days past due rate 
for retail loans stood at 1.2% as of 
31 December 2016 compared to 0.9% as of 
31 December 2015. 15 days past due rate 
for our mortgage loans stood at 0.6% as of 
31 December 2016 compared to 0.4% as of 
31 December 2015
Net non-recurring items and Income tax 
expense (benefit). For a discussion of the 
factors affecting these two items and their 
impact, see page 55 above.
As a result of the foregoing, the Banking 
Business profit was GEL 309.4 million in 
2016 (up 12.8% y-o-y). This resulted in an 
ROAE of 22.1% in 2016 (up 40bps y-o-y).
BNB – the banking subsidiary in Belarus – 
generated a profit of GEL 2.7 million in 2016 
(down 84.6% y-o-y)
5
; The earnings were 
negatively impacted by higher cost of risk 
due to the difficult economic environment in 
Belarus, a GEL 1.4 million impairment 
charge on PPE, and a GEL 1.2 million loss 
from revaluation of investment property. The 
BNB loan book reached GEL 362.1 million, up 
13.1% y-o-y, mostly consisting of an increase in 
SME loans. BNB client deposits were to GEL 
233.5 million, down 15.9% y-o-y. BNB remains 
well capitalised, with Capital Adequacy Ratios 
well above the requirements of its regulating 
Central Bank. As at 31 December 2016, Total 
CAR was 15.5%, above 10% minimum 
requirement by the National Bank of the 
Republic of Belarus (NBRB) and Tier I CAR was 
9.5%, above the 6% minimum requirement by 
NBRB. Return on Average Equity (ROAE) for 
BNB was 2.6% compared to 22.3% in 2015.
4 Effective 17 May 2016, the National Bank of Georgia changed its minimum reserve requirements, with the goal to incentivise local currency lending. The minimum reserve 
requirement for local currency was reduced from 10% to 7% and the minimum reserve requirement for foreign currency has increased from 15% to 20%.
5 BNB 2016 profit reflects the deferred tax adjustment attributable to BNB. Before this adjustment, BNB profit was GEL 6.2mln in 2016. 58 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
BANKING BUSINESS BALANCE SHEET HIGHLIGHTS
   
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted Dec-16 Dec-15 Change y-o-y
Liquid assets 3,712,489 3,006,991 23.5%
Liquid assets, GEL 1,455,296 1,191,353 22.2%
Liquid assets, FC 2,257,193 1,815,638 24.3%
Net loans and finance lease receivables 6,681,672 5,366,764 24.5%
Net loans and finance lease receivables, GEL 1,920,422 1,502,888 27.8%
Net loans and finance lease receivables, FC 4,761,250 3,863,876 23.2%
Client deposits and notes 5,730,419 4,993,681 14.8%
Amounts due to credit institutions 3,067,651 1,692,557 81.2%
Borrowings from DFIs 1,281,798 917,087 39.8%
Short-term loans from central banks 1,085,640 307,200 253.4%
Loans and deposits from commercial banks 700,213 468,270 49.5%
Debt securities issued 858,037 961,944 -10.8%
LIQUIDITY AND CAR RATIOS
Net loans/client deposits and notes 116.6% 107.5%
Net loans/client deposits and notes + DFIs 95.3% 90.8%
Liquid assets as percent of total assets 33.0% 32.8%
Liquid assets as percent of total liabilities 37.8% 38.3%
NBG liquidity ratio 37.7% 46.2%
Excess liquidity (NBG) 418,016 789,311 -47.0%
New NBG (Basel II) Tier I Capital Adequacy Ratio
6
 10.1% 10.9%
New NBG (Basel II) Total Capital Adequacy Ratio
6
15.4% 16.7%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS; COST OF CREDIT RISK; PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Salaries and other employee benefits (176,280) (155,744) 13.2%
Administrative expenses (83,792) (74,381) 12.7%
Banking depreciation and amortisation (37,981) (34,199) 11.1%
Other operating expenses (4,174) (3,535) 18.1%
OPERATING EXPENSES (302,227) (267,859) 12.8%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK 500,227 483,467 3.5%
Impairment charge on loans to customers (158,892) (142,819) 11.3%
Impairment charge on finance lease receivables (777) (1,958) -60.3%
Impairment charge on other assets and provisions (8,892) (6,740) 31.9%
COST OF CREDIT RISK (168,561) (151,517) 11.2%
NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 331,666 331,950 -0.1%
Net non-recurring items (45,351) (13,046) NMF
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 286,315 318,904 -10.2%
Income tax (expense) benefit 23,126 (44,647) NMF
PROFIT 309,441 274,257 12.8%
6 Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5mln distributed as dividend from the Bank to the holding level on 29 December 2016. These funds are earmarked for regular dividends  
to be paid from BGEO Group in respect of the 2016 financial year and will be payable in 2017, subject to shareholder approval. Including this payment, NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I and 
Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, respectively.
Our Banking Business balance sheet 
remained highly liquid (NBG Liquidity ratio  
of 37.7%) and well-capitalised (Tier I Capital 
Adequacy Ratio, NBG Basel 2/3 of 10.1%
6
) 
with a well-diversified funding base  
(Client Deposits and notes to Total  
Liabilities of 58.4%).
Liquidity. The NBG liquidity ratio stood at 
37.7% as of 31 December 2016 compared to 
46.2% a year ago, and against a regulatory 
minimum requirement of 30.0%. Liquid assets 
increased to GEL 3,712.5 million, up 23.5% 
y-o-y which was primarily due to an increase  
in obligatory reserves mandated by the change 
in NBG regulation. Increase in local currency 
corporate bonds, which the Bank uses as 
collateral for short-term borrowing from  
NBG, was another contributor to growth  
in liquid assets.
Diversified funding base. Short-term 
borrowings from NBG grew 253.4% y-o-y due 
to increase in local currency sourcing from 
International Financial Institutions whose 
GEL-denominated bonds were used as 
collateral for NBG loans. The increase in loans 
and deposits from commercial banks was 
partially a result of the GEL devaluation as 
these loans and deposits are primarily 
Dollar-denominated. Net Loans to Customer 
Funds and DFIs ratio, a ratio closely observed 
by management, stood at 95.3%, up from 
90.8% as of 31 December 2015.
Loan book. Our net loan book and financial 
lease receivables reached a record GEL 
6,681.7million, up 24.5% y-o-y. Both, local  
and foreign currency portfolios recorded strong 
growth with our focus to increase share of local 
currency loans in our portfolio.
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 59 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
RETAIL BANKING (RB)
Retail Banking provides consumer loans, mortgage loans, overdrafts, credit card facilities and other credit facilities as well as funds transfer and 
settlement services and the handling of customer deposits for both individuals and legal entities, encompassing the emerging mass retail segment 
(through our Express brand), retail mass market segment and SME and micro businesses (through our Bank of Georgia brand) and the mass affluent 
segment (through our Solo brand).
INCOME STATEMENT HIGHLIGHTS
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Net banking interest income 374,022 322,879 15.8%
Net fee and commission income 90,193 78,218 15.3%
Net banking foreign currency gain 26,086 17,108 52.5%
Net other banking income 3,833 9,159 -58.2%
REVENUE 494,134 427,364 15.6%
Salaries and other employee benefits (106,396) (92,091) 15.5%
Administrative expenses (57,743) (50,398) 14.6%
Banking depreciation and amortisation (30,943) (27,714) 11.7%
Other operating expenses (2,545) (2,093) 21.6%
OPERATING EXPENSES (197,627) (172,296) 14.7%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK 296,507 255,068 16.2%
Cost of credit risk (75,690) (75,407) 0.4%
Net non-recurring items (32,002) (8,945) NMF
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 188,815 170,716 10.6%
Income tax (expense) benefit 20,475 (23,994) NMF
PROFIT 209,290 146,722 42.6%
BALANCE SHEET HIGHLIGHTS
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Net loans, currency blended 3,902,306 2,796,479 39.5%
Net loans, GEL 1,530,661 1,279,286 19.6%
Net loans, FC 2,371,645 1,517,193 56.3%
Client deposits, currency blended 2,413,569 1,880,018 28.4%
Client deposits, GEL 603,149 486,806 23.9%
Client deposits, FC 1,810,420 1,393,212 29.9%
of which:
Time deposits, currency blended 1,437,644 1,156,382 24.3%
Time deposits, GEL 228,047 192,178 18.7%
Time deposits, FC 1,209,597 964,204 25.5%
Current accounts and demand deposits, currency blended 975,925 723,636 34.9%
Current accounts and demand deposits, GEL 375,102 294,628 27.3%
Current accounts and demand deposits, FC 600,823 429,008 40.0%
Discussion of segment results
The segment results discussion is presented for Retail Banking (RB), Corporate Investment Banking (CIB), Utility & Energy Business (GGU), 
Healthcare Business (GHG) and Real Estate Business (m
2
 Real Estate). 
BANKING BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULT DISCUSSION 60 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
KEY RATIOS
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015
ROAE Retail Banking 30.5% 24.6%
Net interest margin, currency blended 9.2% 9.6%
Cost of risk 2.3% 2.6%
Cost of funds, currency blended 5.7% 6.4%
Loan yield, currency blended 16.8% 17.6%
Loan yield, GEL 25.4% 24.2%
Loan yield, FC 10.2% 10.6%
Cost of deposits, currency blended 3.3% 3.9%
Cost of deposits, GEL 4.5% 4.7%
Cost of deposits, FC 2.9% 3.5%
Cost of time deposits, currency blended 4.9% 5.5%
Cost of time deposits, GEL 9.3% 8.7%
Cost of time deposits, FC 4.0% 4.7%
Current accounts and demand deposits, currency blended 0.9% 1.2%
Current accounts and demand deposits, GEL 1.2% 1.5%
Current accounts and demand deposits, FC 0.6% 0.9%
Cost/income ratio 40.0% 40.3%
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Retail Banking has continued its strong 
performance across all major business lines 
and recorded revenue of GEL 494.1 million 
(up 15.6% y-o-y) in 2016.
Net banking interest income is growing on the 
back of the strong growth in the loan book and 
also reflects growth in the local currency loan 
portfolio which picked up in 4Q16. However, 
our foreign currency-denominated loan book 
growth still outpaced the growth of the local 
currency-denominated loan book. Dollarisation 
of the loan book increased y-o-y from 54.3%  
as at 31 December 2015 to 60.8% as at 
31 December 2016, with net loans in foreign 
currency increasing 56.3% y-o-y.
The Retail Banking net loan book reached  
a record level of GEL 3,902.3 million, up 
39.5% y-o-y. Foreign currency-denominated 
loans grew to GEL 2,371.6 million (up 56.3% y-o-y) 
compared to local currency loans that increased 
to GEL 1,530.7 million (up 19.6% y-o-y).
 
The loan book growth was a result of 
accelerated loan origination delivered across  
all Retail Banking segments:
• Consumer loan originations totalled GEL 
1,019.0 million in 2016, resulting in 
consumer loans outstanding of GEL 886.6 
million as of 31 December 2016, up 41.4% 
y-o-y
• Micro loan originations totalled GEL 800.3 
million in 2016, resulting in micro loans 
outstanding of GEL 856.7 million as of 
31 December 2016, up 56.7% y-o-y
• SME loan originations totalled GEL 509.4 
million in 2016, resulting in SME loans 
outstanding of GEL 489.6 million as of 
31 December 2016, up 37.1% y-o-y
• Mortgage loan originations totalled GEL 
717.7 million in 2016, resulting in mortgage 
loans outstanding of GEL 1,227.6 million as  
of 31 December 2016, up 51.7% y-o-y
• Originations of loans disbursed at merchant 
locations totalled GEL 220.9 million in 2016, 
resulting in loans disbursed at merchant 
locations outstanding of GEL 121.2 million 
as of 31 December 2016, up 1.5% y-o-y 
Retail Banking client deposits increased  
to GEL 2,413.6 million, up 28.4% y-o-y, 
notwithstanding a decrease of 60bps y-o-y  
in the cost of deposits. The dollarisation of  
our deposits has increased slightly to 75.0% 
from 74.1% a year ago. Foreign currency-
denominated deposits grew to GEL 1,810.4 
million (up 29.9% y-o-y) compared to local 
currency-denominated deposits that grew  
to GEL 603.1 million (up 23.9% y-o-y)
Retail Banking NIM was 9.2% in 2016, down 
40bps y-o-y. The increasing dollarisation of our 
loan book had an important impact on the retail 
NIM. Our focus going forward continues to be 
the growth in local currency lending, which will 
be supported by the new lines of longer term 
local currency funding that we have been 
sourcing since the beginning of 2016.
The number of Retail Banking clients totalled 
2.1 million, up 7.1% y-o-y and the number of 
cards totalled 2,056,258, up 5.0% y-o-y.
Our express banking franchise, the major 
driver of fee and commission income, added 
46,617 Express Banking customers during 
2016, accumulating a total of 471,967 clients 
by the end of 2016. The growth in client base 
has triggered a significant increase in the 
volume of banking transactions, up 55% y-o-y. 
The growth of transactions was achieved largely 
through more cost-effective remote channels. 
The strong client growth has supported an 
organic increase in our Retail Banking net fee 
and commission income to GEL 90.2 million, 
up 15.3% y-o-y. See below for more 
information on the development of our Express 
Banking franchise.
Our Express Banking business continues  
to deliver strong growth as we continue  
to develop our mass market Retail  
Banking strategy:
• In order to better serve the different  
needs of our Express Banking customers, 
we have expanded our payment services 
through various distance channels including 
ATMs, Express Pay terminals, internet and 
mobile banking and the provision of simple 
and clear products and services to our 
existing customers as well as the emerging 
bankable population
• As of 31 December 2016, 1,279,113 
Express cards were outstanding, 
compared to 1,045,433 cards 
outstanding on the same date last year.  
A total of 566,394 Express cards issued in 
2016, up 20.5% on 2015
• We have increased number of Express 
Pay terminals to 2,729, from 2,589 a year 
ago. Express Pay terminals are an 
alternative to tellers, placed at bank 
branches as well as various other venues 
(groceries, shopping centres, bus stops, 
etc.), and are used for bank transactions 
such as credit card and consumer loan 
payments, utility bill payments and mobile 
telephone top-ups
• The utilisation of Express Pay terminals 
continued to grow in 2016. The volume of 
transactions reached GEL 3.2 billion, up 
45.4% y-o-y and the number of transactions 
was 117.5 million, up 3.9% y-o-y. Slower 
growth in the number of transactions was a 
result of the management decision to 
introduce transaction fees on non-banking 
transactions processed through Express 
Pay terminals in 4Q16. This introduction, 
however, had a positive impact on the 
Bank’s fees and commission income
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 61 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
• Increased Point of Sales (POS) footprint 
to 8,516 desks and 4,514 contracted 
merchants as of 31 December 2016, up 
from 6,632 desks and 3,335 contracted 
merchants as of 31 December 2015
• The number of POS terminals reached 
10,357, up 27.8% from 8,103 a year ago
• The volume of transactions for 2016  
through the Bank’s POS terminals grew  
to GEL 926.3 million, up 30.4% y-o-y
• The number of transactions via Internet 
banking reached 5.8 million, up from  
4.4 million a year ago, with volume of 
transaction reaching GEL 1,290.6 million,  
up 68.7% y-o-y
• The number of transactions via mobile 
banking reached 2.6 million, up from 1.7 
million a year ago, with volume reaching  
GEL 246.3 million, up 90.5% y-o-y
The number of Solo clients reached 19,267 
at the end of 2016, up 132.6% since its 
re-launch in April 2015. We have now 
launched 11 Solo lounges, of which eight are 
located in Tbilisi, the capital city and three in 
major regional cities in Georgia. In 2016, profit 
per Solo client was GEL 1,692 compared to a 
profit of GEL 77 and GEL 65 per Express and 
mass retail clients, respectively. Product to client 
ratio for Solo segment was 6.9, compared to  
3.1 and 1.7 for Express and mass retail clients. 
While the Solo clients currently represent 
c.0.9% of our total retail client base, they 
contributed 21.7% to our retail loan book, 
36.5% to our retail deposits, 9.5% to our net 
interest income and 10.9% to our net fee and 
commission income. Our goal is to significantly 
increase our market share in this segment, 
which stood below 13% at the beginning  
of 2015 when we launched Solo in its current 
format. See below for more information  
on Solo.
With Solo we target the mass affluent retail 
segment and aim to build brand loyalty 
through exclusive experiences offered 
through the new Solo Lifestyle. In our Solo 
lounges, Solo clients are offered, at cost, a 
selection of luxury products and accessories 
that are currently not available in the country. 
Solo clients enjoy tailor-made solutions 
including new financial products such as 
bonds, which pay a significantly higher yield 
compared to deposits, and other financial 
products developed by Galt & Taggart, the 
Group’s Investment Banking arm. Through Solo 
Lifestyle, our Solo clients are given access to 
exclusive products and the finest lounge-style 
environment at our Solo lounges and are 
provided with new lifestyle opportunities, such 
as exclusive events, offering live concerts with 
world-famous artists and other entertainments 
for solo clientele exclusively, as well as 
handpicked lifestyle products. In 2016 Solo 
organised a number of concerts with the 
world-famous artists, which were met with 
strong demand and were regarded highly by 
Solo clients. All these events were held in Tbilisi.
RB cost to income ratio remained well-
controlled and improved to 40.0% down by 
30bps y-o-y. Retail Banking Cost to Income 
ratio continued the improving trend of 2016 into 
the 4Q16 and stood at 38.8% in 4Q16, 
compared to 38.7% in 3Q16, 39.9% in 2Q16 
and 43.3% in 1Q16. This is a result of increasing 
utilisation of our newly launched Solo lounges 
combined with the increasing number of clients 
and growth of Express Banking which is the 
most cost efficient among the three Retail 
Banking segments.
The cost of credit risk was GEL 19.3 million (up 
25.4% y-o-y) and GEL 75.7 million (up 0.4% 
y-o-y) for 4Q16 and 2016, respectively. Cost of 
Risk ratio was 2.0% in 4Q16 down from 2.1% 
in 4Q15 and down from 2.4% in 3Q16, ending 
2016 with Cost of Risk of 2.3%, down from 
2.6% a year ago.
As a result, Retail Banking profit reached  
GEL 209.3 million (up 42.6% y-o-y) for 2016.  
Retail Banking continued to deliver an 
outstanding ROAE, which stood at 30.5%  
for 2016 compared to 24.6% a year ago.
CORPORATE INVESTMENT BANKING (CIB)
CIB comprises: (1) loans and other credit 
facilities to the country’s large corporate clients 
as well as other legal entities, excluding SME 
and micro businesses. The services include 
fund transfers and settlements services, 
currency conversion operations, trade finance 
services and documentary operations as well 
as handling savings and term deposits for 
corporate and institutional customers. The 
Corporate Banking Business also includes 
finance lease facilities provided by the Bank’s 
leasing operations (the Georgian Leasing 
Company); and (2) Wealth Management and 
the brokerage arm of the Bank, Galt & Taggart. 
Bank of Georgia Wealth Management provides 
private banking services to high-net worth 
individuals and offers investment management 
products internationally through representative 
offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel 
Aviv. Galt & Taggart brings under one brand 
corporate advisory, private equity and brokerage 
services. In its brokerage business, Galt & T aggart 
serves regional and international markets, 
including hard-to-reach frontier economies. 62 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
INCOME STATEMENT HIGHLIGHTS
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Net banking interest income 147,108 156,068 -5.7%
Net fee and commission income 27,963 34,335 -18.6%
Net banking foreign currency gain 48,643 41,763 16.5%
Net other banking income 10,170 10,112 0.6%
REVENUE 233,884 242,278 -3.5%
Salaries and other employee benefits (47,731) (43,333) 10.1%
Administrative expenses (15,214) (14,574) 4.4%
Banking depreciation and amortisation (5,124) (4,612) 11.1%
Other operating expenses (1,031) (839) 22.9%
OPERATING EXPENSES (69,100) (63,358) 9.1%
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK 164,784 178,920 -7.9%
Cost of credit risk (76,266) (56,158) 35.8%
Net non-recurring items (11,934) (4,877) 144.7%
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 76,584 117,885 -35.0%
Income tax (expense) benefit 11,698 (17,255) NMF
PROFIT 88,282 100,630 -12.3%
BALANCE SHEET HIGHLIGHTS
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Letters of credit and guarantees, stand-alone
7
511,615 511,399 0.0%
Net loans and finance lease receivables, currency blended 2,394,876 2,210,964 8.3%
Net loans and finance lease receivables, GEL 400,395 220,306 81.7%
Net loans and finance lease receivables, FC 1,994,481 1,990,658 0.2%
Client deposits, currency blended 3,059,150 2,871,323 6.5%
Client deposits, GEL 772,253 797,238 -3.1%
Client deposits, FC 2,286,897 2,074,085 10.3%
Time deposits, currency blended 1,230,627 1,248,720 -1.4%
Time deposits, GEL 135,002 187,437 -28.0%
Time deposits, FC 1,095,625 1,061,283 3.2%
Current accounts and demand deposits, currency blended 1,828,523 1,622,603 12.7%
Current accounts and demand deposits, GEL 637,251 609,801 4.5%
Current accounts and demand deposits, FC 1,191,272 1,012,802 17.6%
Assets under management 1,591,963 1,373,112 15.9%
RATIOS
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015
ROAE, Corporate Investment Banking 14.5% 18.5%
Net interest margin, currency blended 3.6% 3.9%
Cost of Risk 3.1% 2.2%
Cost of funds, currency blended 4.7% 4.6%
Loan yield, currency blended 10.4% 10.7%
Loan yield, GEL 13.2% 12.6%
Loan yield, FC 10.1% 10.4%
Cost of deposits, currency blended 3.9% 4.1%
Cost of deposits, GEL 6.3% 5.2%
Cost of deposits, FC 3.1% 3.6%
Cost of time deposits, currency blended 5.9% 6.3%
Cost of time deposits, GEL 9.5% 8.0%
Cost of time deposits, FC 5.3% 5.8%
Current accounts and demand deposits, currency blended 2.6% 2.1%
Current accounts and demand deposits, GEL 5.4% 4.0%
Current accounts and demand deposits, FC 0.9% 1.1%
Cost/Income ratio 29.5% 26.2%
Concentration of top ten clients 11.8% 12.7%
7 Off-balance sheet item.
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 63 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
A key focus of Corporate Investment Banking 
business is to increase ROAE and we are doing 
this by deconcentrating our loan book and 
decreasing the credit losses, while focusing on 
further building our fee business through the 
investment management and the trade finance 
franchise, which we believe is the strongest in 
the region:
• CIB is successfully following a 
deconcentration strategy, reducing the 
concentration of our top ten Corporate 
Investment Banking clients to 11.8% by the 
end of 2016, down from 12.7% a year ago
• CIB net banking interest income reflects our 
continuous efforts towards CIB loan portfolio 
de-concentration. Y-o-y decrease in CIB net 
banking interest income was impacted by 
the drop in the currency blended loan yields. 
4Q16 showed a healthy 13.7% rebound 
from 3Q16 as a result of (1) the higher GEL 
interest income from FX denominated loans 
and (2) increase of local currency-
denominated loans; which bear higher 
interest rates than FX denominated loans,  
in the total CIB portfolio
• CIB net fee and commission income 
represented GEL 28.0 million or 12.0%  
of total CIB revenue in 2016 compared to 
GEL 34.3 million or 14.2% a year ago. The 
decline was mainly driven by the decrease  
in commission fee income from guarantees 
(income from guarantees was GEL 12.6 
million in 2016, down by GEL 6.2 million  
or 33.0% y-o-y), which is a result of our 
de-concentration efforts as we reduced our 
large guarantee exposures (as mentioned in 
the Banking Business discussion above) 
• Cost of credit risk was GEL 76.3 million for 
2016 (up 35.8% y-o-y). Of this amount GEL 
42.2 million was recorded in 4Q16 (more 
than triple the 4Q15 charge). The level of the 
4Q16 CIB cost of credit risk is mainly 
attributable to the GEL devaluation, and the 
Group’s subsequent portfolio review, which 
led to an increase in impairment provisioning 
of c. GEL 31 million in the fourth quarter of 
2016. As a result, we recorded Cost of Risk 
at 6.6% in 4Q16, ending 2016 at 3.1%,  
up 90bps y-o-y
• As a result of the foregoing, CIB ROAE has 
declined to 14.5% in 2016, compared to 
18.5% a year ago
The loan book de-dollarisation continued in 
2016 with the share of Dollar-denominated 
loans reaching 83.3%, compared to 90.0% a 
year ago. This trend also reflects the increased 
volatility and depreciation of the local currency 
against the Dollar during 2016, as Georgian 
corporates chose to increasingly borrow or 
convert existing borrowings into the local 
currency. This trend stood notwithstanding 
increasing loan yields for local currency-
denominated loans (13.2% for 2016, up 60bps 
y-o-y) on the back of decreasing loan yields for 
foreign currency-denominated loans (10.1% for 
2016, down 30bps y-o-y).
On the other hand, dollarisation of our CIB 
deposits increased to 74.8% from 72.2% a year 
ago, which reflects a similar driver as for the 
de-dollarisation of the loan book. Dollarisation  
of our deposits increased notwithstanding 
increase in local currency deposit rates and 
decrease in foreign currency deposit rates. 
During 2016, we continued to decrease our 
cost of deposits in local currency from 8.0% in 
1Q16 to 5.0% in 4Q16, alongside the reduction 
in the NBG policy rate. Cost of deposits in 
foreign currency remained in the range of 
3.0-3.2% throughout the whole year. In 2016, 
cost of deposits in local currency stood at 
6.3%, up 110bps y-o-y, while cost of deposits 
in foreign currency decreased by 50bps y-o-y 
reaching 3.1%. Subsequently, total deposits 
reached GEL 3,059.2, up 6.5% y-o-y at the 
end of 2016.
Corporate Investment Banking recorded 
NIM of 3.6%, down 30bps y-o-y.
Our foreign currency operations were strong 
and as a result, our net banking foreign 
currency gain increased to GEL 48.6 million  
in 2016 (up 16.5% y-o-y). 
CIB cost to income ratio increased as a result 
of the deconcentration efforts, which led to 
higher reduction in revenues with less impact 
on the operating costs. 
As a result, Corporate Investment Banking 
2016 profit reached GEL 88.3 million, down 
12.3% y-o-y from GEL 100.6 million a year ago.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS OF WEALTH 
MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS
The AUM of the Investment Management 
segment increased to GEL 1,592.0 million  
at the end of 2016, up 15.9% y-o-y. This 
includes deposits of Wealth Management 
clients and assets held at Bank of Georgia 
Custody, Galt & Taggart brokerage client assets 
and Aldagi pension scheme assets.
Wealth Management deposits were GEL 
1,101.9 million, up 7.7% y-o-y, growing at  
a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 
19.4% over the last five-year period. Growth 
continued in the face of a 30bps decline in the 
Cost of Client Deposits to 4.5% in 4Q16 y-o-y 
and the impact of Wealth Management clients 
switching from deposits to bonds, as a number 
of bond issuances, yielding higher rates than 
deposits were offered by Galt & Taggart to 
Wealth Management clients.
We served 1,383 Wealth Management clients 
from 68 countries as of 31 December 2016.
Galt & Taggart continued to develop local 
capital markets in 2016. Galt & Taggart 
acted as: 
• A sole placement agent for the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(EBRD) offering of the five-year, GEL-
denominated bond in the amount of GEL 
220 million (June)
• A sole placement agent for Black Sea Trade 
and Development Bank (BSTDB) offering of 
the five-year, GEL-denominated bond in the 
amount of GEL 60 million (August) 
• A sole book runner and Placement agent  
for Nikora Trade LLC’s US$ 5 million bond 
offering. Nikora Trade LLC is a leading 
Georgian Fast Moving Consumer Goods 
(FMCG) company, which successfully 
completed its maiden bond offering (March). 
It is planned that the bonds will be listed  
on the Georgian Stock Exchange in the  
near future
• an agent for the Group’s wholly-owned real 
estate subsidiary m
2
 Real Estate facilitating  
a US$ 25 million three-year bond placement 
into the local market (October) 
• A joint placement agent for the Group’s 
wholly-owned utility and energy subsidiary 
Georgia Global Utilities and placed a GEL 30 
million five-year local currency bond for its 
water utility business unit into the local 
market (December) 
• Galt & Taggart launched Regional Fixed 
Income Market Watch on 19 September 
2016. The report is released monthly and 
covers the debt markets of Georgia, 
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan 
and Ukraine. Regional Fixed Income Market 
Watch provides market data for both locally 
and internationally listed debt issuances 
from these countries. Furthermore, the 
report includes country-level macro 
indicators, such as sovereign ratings, 
monetary policy rates, economic growth, 
fiscal and current account balances
• Galt & Taggart Research continues to 
provide weekly economic (including 
economies of Georgia and Azerbaijan) 
and sectoral coverage. Galt & Taggart 
reports are available at www.galtandtaggart.
com. Other research since Galt & Taggart’s 
launch in 2012 included: coverage of/notes 
on the Georgian retail and office real estate 
market; the Georgian wine, agricultural, 
electricity, healthcare and tourism sectors; 
fixed income issuances, including Georgian 
Oil and Gas Corporation and Georgian 
Railway; and the Georgian State Budget 64 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
UTILITY & ENERGY BUSINESS (GEORGIA 
GLOBAL UTILITIES – GGU)
ABOUT GGU
Natural monopoly in the water business, 
with upside in electricity generation and 
sales. Our utility and energy business is 
operated through the Group’s wholly-owned 
subsidiary Georgia Global Utilities (GGU). GGU 
has two main business lines – water utility and 
electric power generation – and it is a major 
player in both markets. In its water utility business, 
GGU is a natural monopoly that supplies water 
and provides a wastewater service to 1.4 million 
people (more than one-third of Georgia’ s population) 
in three cities: Tbilisi, Mtskheta and Rustavi.
GGU is self-sufficient in power for water 
transportation and it benefits from additional 
revenue from third-party electricity sales. 
GGU owns and operates three hydropower 
generation facilities (and manages an additional 
facility) with a total capacity of 149.1MW. It is 
also investing in additional capacity for 
electricity generation through the development 
of hydro power plants, as well as solar and 
wind power sources. Average annual production 
varies between 380GWh and 560GWh, depending 
on rainfall during the year. Its average annual 
electricity consumption for its own account varies 
between 270GWh and 300GWh, which means 
GGU is self-sufficient in power for water 
transportation and it benefits from additional 
revenue from third-party electricity sales. During 
the last few years the company has achieved 
certain efficiencies in terms of its own energy 
consumption. The involvement in hydro power 
also provides revenue diversification.
Room for efficiencies in water business  
from improving the worn-out infrastructure. 
The Georgian water pipeline infrastructure is 
dilapidated due to legacy underinvestment. The 
poor condition of the infrastructure is the main 
reason for leaks and accidents, causing on 
average 50% water loss annually. An additional 
20% loss of water is caused by unregistered 
customers. The current high level of water 
losses is significantly worse than the peer 
average and represents a strong efficiency 
upside for the business. GGU owns and 
operates a water supply network of around 
2,700km and about 1,700km of wastewater 
pipelines. It also has 45 pumping stations,  
84 service reservoirs with a total capacity of 
320,000 m
3
 and one water treatment plant. 
Around 520,000,000 m
3
 of potable water is 
supplied from water production/treatment 
facilities annually. By improving the pipeline 
infrastructure and as a result reducing the  
water supplied to its utility customers, GGU 
expects to free-up water supply for additional 
electricity generation, which in turn can be sold 
to third parties.
Water tariff and regulation. The current  
water tariff for residential customers stands  
at GEL 3.15 (per month, per capita) for 
non-metered customers and at GEL 0.27  
per m3 for metered customers. All of GGU’s 
commercial customers are metered and the 
tariff stands at GEL 4.40 per m3. The tariff  
is set per cubic metre of water supplied to 
customers. Georgian National Energy and 
Water Supply Regulatory Commission (GNERC) 
regulates GGU’s water tariffs. GNERC is an 
independent regulatory body, not subject to 
direct supervision from any other state authority, 
but accountable to parliament. It is funded 
predominantly from the fees paid by market 
participants (0.3% of total revenues).
Strong cash flow generation is expected  
to enable GGU to sponsor stable dividend 
payouts to shareholders starting from 2018. 
GWP , a wholly-owned subsidiary of GGU, 
which operates the water business, has a credit 
rating of BB- with stable outlook from Fitch.
STAND-ALONE RESULTS
BGEO Group owns 100% of GGU, which it 
acquired in two transactions. In December 
2014, BGEO acquired a 25% shareholding in 
GGU for c.GEL 49.4 million (US$ 26.25 million). 
In July 2016, BGEO announced the acquisition 
of the remaining 75% equity stake for the cash 
consideration of c.GEL 164.2 million (US$ 70.0 
million). The Group started consolidating 
GGU results on 21 July 2016. Prior to this, 
the Group reported results of GGU’s 
operations under “profit from associates”. 
The results below refer to GGU’s stand-alone 
numbers. GGU’s stand-alone results, including 
the related comparative information, reflect  
the energy & utility business performance as  
a separate legal entity. The Group started 
consolidating GGU’s results since 21 July 2016, 
which is when the Group obtained control over 
the company.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULT DISCUSSION
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 65 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
INCOME STATEMENT
GEL thousands; unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Revenue from water supply to legal entities 78,187  74,587 4.8%
Revenue from water supply to individuals 31,503  30,170 4.4%
Revenue from electric power sales 10,112  9,182 10.1%
Revenue from technical support 4,166  3,683 13.1%
Other income 3,458  647 NMF
REVENUE 127,426  118,269 7.7%
Provisions for doubtful trade receivables (2,198) (432) NMF
Salaries and benefits (17,181) (20,920) -17.9%
Electricity and transmission costs (17,383) (11,554) 50.5%
Raw materials, fuel and other consumables  (2,845) (5,253) -45.8%
Infrastructure assets maintenance expenditure  (2,402) (4,251) -43.5%
General and administrative expenses (3,036) (2,950) 2.9%
Taxes other than income tax (3,518) (3,398) 3.5%
Professional fees (2,350) (2,475) -5.1%
Insurance expense (793) (317) 150.2%
Other operating expenses (7,632) (5,001) 52.6%
OPERATING EXPENSES (59,338) (56,551) 4.9%
EBITDA 68,088  61,718 10.3%
EBITDA Margin 53% 52%
Depreciation and amortisation (16,595) (17,919) -7.4%
EBIT 51,493  43,799 17.6%
EBIT Margin 40% 37%
Net interest expense (10,764) (7,480) 43.9%
Foreign exchange gains (losses) (476) (14,158) -96.6%
EBT 40,253  22,161 81.6%
Income tax (expense) benefit (4,579) (6,948) -34.1%
PROFIT 35,674  15,213 134.5%
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
GGU recorded revenue of GEL 127.4 million 
(up 7.7% y-o-y) in 2016. For the full year of 
2016, revenue grew across all business lines, 
particularly in electricity sales which is a major 
focus area for the company, as well as technical 
support, which includes new connections 
performed on behalf of our clients and indicates 
an increased revenue stream in future. Revenue 
from water sales represented 86.1% of total 
revenue in 2016.
Water consumption is characterised by 
seasonality as GGU generally expects sales  
in the second half of the year to exceed  
sales in the first half of the year, with the  
sales in third quarter being the highest.
During the fourth quarter of 2016, GGU 
increased the number of individual customers 
billed, as a result of the verification completed 
through a number of methodologies, including 
reconciliation of the customer database with 
that of the civil registry. This one off effect was 
the primary driver of a GEL 0.9 million increase 
in revenue from water supply to individuals in 
4Q16, compared to 3Q16:
• Unregistered customers are one of the 
major reasons for unrecovered revenue. 
GGU regularly under-recovers its water 
revenue from residential consumers due to 
discrepancies between customers formally 
registered with the provider and actual 
customers. Currently there are 1.17 million 
people living in Tbilisi while GGU only has 
1.04 million registered customers. Some 
water is also being supplied, but is not billed 
for, resulting from the challenges associated 
with accurate accounting for water 
consumption. GGU is dealing with these 
issues by aligning its own customer 
databases with the state registry to identify 
the unregistered customers and improving 
metering. The company also expects to 
recover some of its past due revenues.
The fourth quarter was a major driver of the 10.1% 
increase in electricity sales for the full year 2016. 
Revenue from electricity sales grew significantly in 
4Q16 and reached GEL 3.6 million. This is a result 
of the higher selling price (49% up compared to 
last year) and higher volume sold (up 81%) in 4Q16 
compared to the same period last year. 
GGU continues to deliver a good performance 
on cost efficiencies. Salaries and benefits  
have been further reduced by 17.9% in 2016 
compared to last year’s results. GGU invests  
in the rehabilitation of its infrastructure with  
a focus on improving efficiency in the medium 
to long term. More prudent rehabilitation works 
enabled GGU to reduce infrastructure asset 
maintenance expenditure – which was down 
43.5% y-o-y while at the same time reducing 
the number of accidents on the infrastructure.
Professional fees have overall decreased y-o-y  
as GGU spent 5.1% less in 2016, compared to 
last year. This expense was related to a research 
on its existing infrastructure to identify further 
efficiency opportunities as well as areas for 
additional hydro power station development.
However, overall operating expenses are up  
for 2016 by 4.9% y-o-y, primarily due to the 
increase in electricity and transmission cost due 
to a tariff increase (GGU pays transmission cost 
with regard to its own electricity consumption, 
no transmission costs are paid for electricity 
sold to third parties). The main other items  
that contributed to the increase in operating 
expenses were the y-o-y increase in provisions 
for doubtful trade receivables, resulting from the 
clean-up of legacy accounts, and the increase  
in other operating expenses due to small one-off 
items. Excluding the electricity and transmission 
costs, which was an unusual change, operating 
expenses decreased by 6.8% y-o-y.
Consequently, GGU reported EBITDA  
of GEL 68.1 million in 2016.
With the goal to eliminate foreign currency 
exchange rate risk exposure, GGU focused  
on converting its foreign currency-denominated 
loans into local currency during 2016. This 
strategy significantly reduced GGU’s exposure 
to foreign exchange rate volatility risk. Therefore, 
in aggregate net interest expense and foreign 
exchange losses were almost halved, as the 
reduction in foreign exchange losses outweighed 
the increase in the cost of funding as local 
currency borrowings are more expensive 
compared to foreign currency borrowings.
GGU will benefit from the change in the 
corporate income tax legislation in Georgia, 
which is effective for the company from 
1 January 2017. As a result, GGU adjusted its 
deferred income tax assets and liabilities and 
recorded a gain of GEL 29.4 million in 2016, of 
which, GEL 27.5 million was recorded directly 
in equity as an increase in the revaluation 
reserve balance and GEL 1.9 million was 
recognised in the income statement as 
reduction to the income tax expense.
As a result, GGU more than doubled last 
year’s profit in 2016 to GEL 35.7 million. 66 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
GGU has good receivables collection rates 
within the 95-98% range. During 2016, the 
collection rate for legal entities was 95%, while 
for households it stood at 94%. As a result, 
GGU had GEL 6.7 million of overdue 
receivables. The Georgian water utility sector 
has historically had a low receivables collection 
rates. The latest available countrywide data 
relate to 2005 and indicate an average 
collection rate of 65% in major cities. This is 
because water utility companies are not 
allowed to cut water supply to residential 
customers for missed payments. GGU’s 
collection rate has improved significantly from 
2011, when a new arrangement with electricity 
suppliers was set up based on the amendment 
to Georgian Law on Electricity and Natural Gas. 
Consequently, Tbilisi’s electricity suppliers assist 
in improving GGU’s receivables collection rates 
through disconnecting non-paying water 
customers from the electricity network.  
In return, electricity suppliers receive flat 
monetary compensation from GGU (c.GEL 1.3 
million both in 2015 and 2016). As a result, 
GGU’s collection rates improved very quickly 
and have remained at around 96% since then.
The increase of amounts paid to suppliers in 
2016 is due to the increase in the cost of 
electricity transmission and professional fees.
GGU spent GEL 22.4 million on maintenance 
capex during 2016, which is 67.1% higher  
than what it spent for the same period last year 
reflecting the acceleration of the infrastructure 
maintenance programme to improve the 
operational efficiencies. Consequently, the 
operating cash flow, after deducting 
maintenance capex, was GEL 29.5 million.
A GEL 13.1 million dividend was paid in 2016 
to GGU’s shareholders (including BGEO Group 
PLC) before BGEO completed its acquisition of 
the remaining 75% shareholding in GGU. This 
dividend was distributed on a pro rata basis to 
the then existing shareholders of the company.
Proceeds from the borrowings include the loans 
obtained for: (a) dividend payout of GEL 13.0 
million (from Bank Republic Société Générale), 
(b) Saguramo HPP (4.4 MW capacity) 
construction of GEL 4.8 million (from TBC 
Bank) and (c) investment in various efficiency 
and development projects of GEL 30 million 
(local currency-denominated bonds issued  
in Georgia).
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
GEL thousands; unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Cash receipt from customers 139,886  137,952 1.4%
Cash paid to suppliers (45,858) (35,002) 31.0%
Cash paid to employees (18,520) (21,317) -13.1%
Interest received 216  (541) NMF
Interest paid (10,388) (7,391) 40.5%
Taxes paid (11,087) (21,334) -48.0%
Restricted cash in Bank (2,355) – –
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 51,895  52,367 -0.9%
Maintenance capex (22,432) (13,428) 67.1%
OPERATING CASH FLOW AFTER MAINTENANCE CAPEX 29,463  38,939 -24.3%
Purchase of PPE and intangible assets (31,341) (21,921) 43.0%
TOTAL CASH FLOW USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (31,341) (21,921) 43.0%
Proceeds from borrowings 45,447  2,090 2074.5%
Repayment of borrowings (14,032) (20,152) -30.4%
Dividends paid out (13,008) (241) NMF
TOTAL CASH FLOW USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 18,407  (18,303) NMF
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash equivalents (652) (320) 103.9%
TOTAL CASH INFLOW/(OUTFLOW) 15,876  (1,605) NMF
CASH BALANCE
Cash, beginning balance 11,634  13,239 -12.1%
Cash, ending balance 27,511  11,634 136.5%
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 67 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
BALANCE SHEET
GEL thousands; unless otherwise noted Dec-16 Dec-15 Change y-o-y
Cash and cash equivalents 27,511  11,634 136.5%
Trade and other receivables 29,499  23,452 25.8%
Inventories 3,048  3,249 -6.2%
Current income tax prepayments 735  1,340 -45.1%
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 60,793  39,675 53.2%
Property, plant and equipment 329,997  287,638 14.7%
Investment property 18,728  19,436 -3.6%
Intangible assets 1,186  1,466 -19.1%
Restructured trade receivables 307  307 0.0%
Restricted cash 5,094  2,545 100.2%
Other non-current assets 1,246  1,354 -7.9%
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 356,558  312,745 14.0%
TOTAL ASSETS 417,351  352,420 18.4%
Current borrowings 22,617  28,354 -20.2%
Trade and other payables 24,997 19,204 30.2%
Provisions for liabilities and charges 706 1,318 -46.4%
Other taxes payable 7,135 689 935.5%
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 55,455 49,565 11.9%
Long-term borrowings 83,651 45,689 83.1%
Deferred income tax liability 1 28,434 -100.0%
TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 83,652 74,123 12.9%
TOTAL LIABILITIES 139,106 123,688 12.5%
Share capital 2  2 0.0%
Retained earnings 96,782  74,774 29.4%
Revaluation reserve 181,461  153,956 17.9%
TOTAL EQUITY 278,245 228,732 21.6%
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 417,351 352,420 18.4%
The GGU balance sheet is characterised by 
low leverage and modest foreign exchange 
risk exposure.
During 2015 and 2016, GGU made significant 
progress towards reducing its foreign-exchange 
exposure. In particular, the company refinanced 
a large part of its Dollar-denominated debt with 
Lari-denominated debt. 
Currently 99.7% of GGU’s borrowings are 
denominated in local currency. The plan is to 
further reduce foreign currency-denominated 
borrowings.
The increase in property, plant and equipment 
is primarily due to additional investment into the 
company’s infrastructure carried out during 
2016.
The revaluation reserve balance increased y-o-y 
primarily due to the deferred tax adjustment, 
discussed above. 68 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
HEALTHCARE BUSINESS (GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP – GHG) 
STAND-ALONE RESULTS
The business of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC (GHG) includes three different business lines: healthcare services, pharmacy and medical insurance. 
BGEO Group owns 65% of GHG, with the balance of the shares being held by the public (largely institutional investors). GHG’s results are fully 
consolidated in BGEO Group’s results. GHG’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The results below refer to GHG stand-alone 
numbers and are based on GHG’s reported results, which are published independently and available on GHG’s web-site: www.ghg.com.ge.
INCOME STATEMENT
GEL thousands; unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
REVENUE, GROSS 426,439 245,969 73.4%
Corrections and rebates (2,686) (3,608) -25.6%
REVENUE, NET 423,753 242,361 74.8%
Revenue from healthcare services 243,453 191,424 27.2%
Revenue from pharma 133,002 – –
Net insurance premiums earned 61,494 58,552 5.0%
Eliminations (14,196) (7,615) 86.4%
COSTS OF SERVICES (277,735) (149,232) 86.1%
Cost of healthcare services (130,369) (107,291) 21.5%
Cost of pharma (105,472) – –
Cost of insurance services (55,772) (49,372) 13.0%
Eliminations 13,878 7,431 86.8%
GROSS PROFIT 146,018 93,129 56.8%
Salaries and other employee benefits (39,750) (26,515) 49.9%
General and administrative expenses (27,853) (10,517) 164.8%
Impairment of healthcare services, insurance premiums and other receivables (2,332) (3,448) -32.4%
Other operating income 1,944 3,490 -44.3%
EBITDA 78,027 56,139 39.0%
Depreciation and amortisation (19,577) (12,666) 54.6%
Net interest expense (13,736) (20,282) -32.3%
Net gains/(losses) from foreign currencies (5,657) 2,098 NMF
Net non-recurring income/(expense) 1,118 (1,682) NMF
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 40,175 23,608 70.2%
Income tax benefit 21,156 9 NMF
of which: Deferred tax adjustments 23,992 – –
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 61,331 23,617 159.7%
Attributable to: 
 – shareholders of the Company 50,202 19,651 155.5%
 – non-controlling interests 11,129 3,966 180.6%
of which: deferred tax adjustments 4,541 – –
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 69 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
GHG delivered record full year 2016 revenue 
of GEL 426.4 million (up 73.4% y-o-y). This 
growth was driven by all business lines. 
Revenue growth was primarily affected by the 
consolidation of the pharmacy business since 
the acquisition of GPC in May 2016. The 
healthcare services business was the next 
biggest contributor to revenue growth, with a 
strong organic growth (16.3% in 2016) as a 
result of investments in new services to close 
the service gaps, primarily in hospitals, further 
strengthening its market position, as well as the 
roll-out of ambulatory clinics to tap a highly 
fragmented outpatient services segment (no 
single competitor has more than 1% market 
share by revenues). Growth of net insurance 
premiums earned contributed slightly to GHG’s 
revenue growth, while achieving higher referrals 
within GHG’s healthcare facilities, which is 
reflected in the increase in the retention of 
medical insurance claims within GHG by 7.2% 
y-o-y in 2016.
In 2016, GHG achieved a well-diversified 
revenue mix, tapping all three segments of the 
Georgian healthcare ecosystem. 55% of its 
revenues came from the healthcare services 
business, 31% from the pharmacy business 
(GPC was consolidated in May 2016 and ABC, 
the second pharmacy acquisition will be 
consolidated starting on 1 January 2017) and 
the remaining 14% from medical insurance 
business.
In 2016, GHG continued to focus on 
extracting operating efficiencies and 
synergies, achieving stronger gross profit 
margins in its healthcare and pharmacy 
businesses, while the medical insurance 
business continued implementing initiatives 
to achieve targeted levels of loss ratio. The 
stronger gross profit in the healthcare services 
business is primarily a result of the increases in 
both the scale of GHG’s business and utilisation 
of its healthcare facilities, each of which drives 
more revenue while fixed costs grow at a 
slower pace. GHG expects this trend to be 
supported next year by some of the healthcare 
facilities that were launched in 2016 and which 
are still in the ramp-up phase. On the other 
hand, some pressure on margins may result 
from the launch in 2017 of two large hospitals 
in Tbilisi which GHG is currently renovating. 
Another factor favourably affecting gross profit 
in healthcare services is that GHG has started 
to realise synergies in its medical disposables 
procurement as a result of entering into the 
pharmacy business. This process will be 
ongoing and the results of the cost savings are 
expected to be reflected in the coming year  
as well. As to gross profit in the pharmacy 
business itself, since the acquisition of GPC, 
GHG has been focused on implementing 
initiatives, such as renegotiating pricing with 
manufacturers and engaging in more profitable 
sales initiatives, and, at the same time, 
cancelling some other initiatives which were not 
bringing additional business or which diluted 
margins. The acquisition of the ABC chain will 
allow us to continue these efforts in 2017.
GHG reported record EBITDA of GEL 78.0 
million (up 39.0% y-o-y) and 2016. EBITDA 
margin for the healthcare services was 30.2% 
in 2016, compared to 27.4% in 2015. 
Healthcare services was the main contributor to 
this increase, with strong gross margin and low 
single digit growth in administrative payroll for 
healthcare services resulting in strong positive 
operating leverage in the healthcare business  
at 17.5 percentage points in 2016. The addition 
of the GPC pharmacy business from May 2016 
brought GEL 5.7 million EBITDA to the Group  
in 2016.
GHG’s profit was GEL 61.3 million for 2016. 
The healthcare services business was the main 
driver of GHG’s profit in 2016, and contributed 
GEL 64.5 million, up 195.1% y-o-y, followed by 
the GPC pharmacy business which contributed 
GEL 1.9 million to GHG’s profit. The Group’s 
profit was partially offset by the loss of GEL 4.9 
million reported by the medical insurance 
business. The loss was driven by GHG’s 
loss-making medical insurance contract with 
the Ministry of Defense, which was not renewed 
in 2017. Thus, within medical insurance 
business, GHG expects improved loss ratio in 
corporate sales and increased efficiencies in 
2017. Due to the changes in the corporate tax 
legislation in Georgia, GHG recognised one-off 
gains during the year. GHG’s profit, adjusted for 
the impact of deferred tax and adjusted for the 
one-off foreign currency translation loss, was 
GEL 39.6 million for 2016 (up 117.8% y-o-y).
GHG continued sizeable development projects 
throughout the year and actively invested in 
healthcare facilities, which is reflected in the y-o-y 
growth of the depreciation and amortisation 
expenses for 2016 (up 54.6% y-o-y).
GHG reduced its borrowings in line with our 
strategy of deleveraging following the IPO. 
Additionally, GHG repaid a large part of the 
borrowings from local commercial banks and 
instead sourced longer-term and less expensive 
funding from DFIs. Subsequently, these efforts 
resulted in a net interest expense decrease by 
32.3% y-o-y in 2016.
GHG’s foreign currency exposure is a result  
of a Dollar short position arising from foreign 
currency-denominated borrowings from DFIs 
and trade accounts payable of the pharmacy 
business. GHG hedges its major open currency 
positions through typical foreign currency 
forwards (swaps) bought from local commercial 
banks. During 3Q16 and 4Q16 respectively, 
GHG hedged US$ 27.0 million and US$ 4.0 
million of its short position. This helped to 
significantly reduce the open currency position, 
however, during 4Q16, GHG still had a short 
currency position of US$ 9.0 million, which 
resulted in increased foreign currency losses  
at the end of 4Q16, as the Georgian Lari 
continued to devalue. By the end of December 
2016, GHG’s entire foreign currency position, 
other than foreign suppliers to the pharmacy 
business had been closed fully. The cost of the 
foreign currency hedging is included in net 
interest expense in the income statement.
GHG’s balance sheet increased substantially 
over the last 12 months, as a result of the 
recent acquisitions (mostly GPC), reaching GEL 
912.6 million as of 31 December 2016. The 
growth of total assets by 20.3% y-o-y was 
largely driven by the 29.3% (GEL 130.3 million) 
increase in property and equipment reflecting 
investments in the renovation of hospitals, 
roll-out of ambulatory clinics and the acquisition 
of the pharmacy business in 2016. The high 
level of cash and bank deposits at the end of 
2015 reflected the receipt of IPO proceeds, and 
during 2016 a large part of those proceeds 
were deployed for development capex as well 
as for the acquisition of GPC. The increase in 
accounts receivable is primarily due to the 
growth in revenues of healthcare services by 
26.2% y-o-y. The pharmacy business 
consolidation primarily affected inventories and 
goodwill. Out of the GEL 54.9 million inventory 
balance at the year-end, GEL 40.0 million  
was attributable to the pharmacy business. 
Borrowed funds have increased y-o-y as a 
result of obtaining new cheaper funding from 
DFIs, replacing part of the local funding 
previously repaid through IPO proceeds. GHG 
has simultaneously introduced the practice of 
hedging the foreign currency risk associated 
with these borrowings from DFIs that are 
denominated in a foreign currency. We describe 
the swap agreements with local commercial 
banks above. A currency swap asset of  
GEL 6.3 million as of 31 December 2016 is 
recognised on the balance sheet, included in 
other assets. It is accounted at fair value and its 
carrying amount decreased GHG’s net debt 
insofar as the instrument is attached to these 
borrowings.
GHG’s revenue cash conversion ratio, on a 
consolidated basis, reached 91.2% in 2016 
compared to 89.6% in 2015. This translated 
into an EBITDA cash conversion ratio of 68% 
on a consolidated adjusted basis for the same 
period. 70 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
During 2016, GHG spent a total of GEL 111.0 
million on capital expenditure, an increase of 
56.0% y-o-y. Of this, maintenance capex was 
GEL 9.4 million. Capital expenditure included 
the following:
• Renovation of Sunstone (c.334 beds, initially 
scheduled to be launched in May 2017) 
which is two months ahead of schedule and 
the full and complete opening is currently 
planned for March 2017
• The renovation of Deka (c.320 beds) is 
largely in line with the initial schedule. In 
August 2016, GHG opened Deka’s 
diagnostic centre, which is one of the largest 
in Tbilisi. The opening of the diagnostic 
centre was the first step toward developing 
Deka into a flagship multi-profile hospital in 
Georgia. GHG expects the full launch of 
Deka to be delayed by up to two months 
compared to the initial expectation. The 
delay was caused by a required State 
authorisation to remove a few trees in the 
hospital yard. GHG is in the final stage of 
obtaining this permission
GHG acquired the fourth largest retail and 
wholesale pharmacy chain in Georgia (ABC). 
Following the receipt of regulatory approval and 
completion in January 2017, GHG is currently 
merging ABC with its existing pharmacy 
business, GPC. GHG now owns a 67% equity 
stake in the combined pharmaceutical business 
and the remaining 33% minority stake is owned 
by ABC’s former principal shareholders, 
Mr Enriko Beridze and Mr Mikheil Abramidze. 
This transaction underpins GHG’s expansion 
strategy and further consolidates GHG’s 
position as a leading integrated player in the 
Georgian healthcare ecosystem of GEL 3.4 
billion aggregate value. It strengthens  
GHG’s position as a major purchaser of 
pharmaceutical products in Georgia, and 
provides a platform which offers significant cost 
and revenue synergy potential. The combined 
pharmacy business will be the largest retailer  
in the country, with over two million customer 
interactions per month through over 240 
pharmacies. Details on this acquisition are  
in GHG’s separate press release, which is 
available at www.ghg.com.ge.
GHG has completed implementation of Exact, 
a new enterprise resource planning system 
(ERP) sourced from a Dutch supplier. It fully 
covers all finance functions (integrated internet 
banking, general ledger, receivables, payables, 
fixed assets, intangibles, shareholder’s equity, 
etc.) as well as all key operating functions 
(requesting, ordering, procurement, warehouse 
management, sale and resale, cost accounting, 
stock item management, rents, depreciations, 
etc.). The ERP enhances our capabilities to 
identify and extract further efficiencies in our 
operations. The system has 150 advanced 
users and over 1,000 basic users and it covers 
all entities within GHG. Following this 
implementation, GHG now uses one platform 
company-wide, excluding the pharmacy 
business. GHG has also completed 
implementation of Vabaco, a software package 
that includes a full and complete billing system, 
fully integrated human resource management 
software (HRMS) and fully integrated payroll 
module for the healthcare services business. 
Vabaco has been further fully integrated with 
Exact in real time. This way GHG currently runs 
fully integrated ERP , Billing, HRMS and payroll 
systems. Vabaco is fully integrated with all 
external payment channels. It covers Universal 
Healthcare Programme services as well as 
private services for insured individuals and 
out-of-pocket coverage. The system has more 
than 2,000 advanced users. Vabaco is up and 
successfully running in all healthcare facilities 
except for three, where implementation is 
ongoing. As a result of implementing Vabaco, 
GHG has replaced all different billing systems, 
which were outdated, with limited capabilities 
and integration capacities, and currently the 
healthcare services business runs on one 
unified platform with substantially increased 
functionality, capacity and speed.
As of 31 December 2016, GHG’s healthcare 
services business operated 15 referral hospitals, 
20 community hospitals and ten ambulatory 
clusters (consisting of 13 district ambulatory 
clinics and 28 express ambulatory clinics).
As of 31 December 2016, total beds operated 
were 2,557 (down from 2,670 from 
31 December 2015), of which 2,092 beds were 
at referral hospitals (down from 2,209 since 
FY15) and 465 beds (almost flat, at 461 at 
FY15) were at community hospitals. The 
change in total number of beds is primarily due 
to: 1) disposal of the 82-bed Tbilisi Maternity 
Hospital “New Life”, in exchange for the 33.3% 
minority shareholding in Iashvili Referral Hospital 
that GHG acquired in February 2016; and 2) the 
temporary reduction in the number of operating 
beds, which is due to renovations at the Deka 
and Sunstone Hospitals.
GHG’s healthcare services market share by 
number of beds was 23.4% as of 31 December 
2016. The change in market share by number 
of beds, from 26.7% a year ago to 23.4% at 
year-end 2016 is due to the reduced number  
of referral hospital beds as explained above and 
the increase in total number of beds in the 
market throughout the year.
GHG’s hospital bed occupancy rate was 55.7% 
in 2016 (51.7% in FY15):
• GHG’s referral hospital bed occupancy rate 
was 63.0% in 2016 (59.3% in FY15)
The average length of stay was 5.0 days in 
2016 (4.6 days in FY15):
• The average length of stay at referral 
hospitals was 5.2 days in 2016 (4.9 in FY15)
GHG expanded the number of specialties 
offered in our residency programme in line  
with our strategy to develop a new generation 
of doctors. We obtained accreditation in an 
additional seven specialties bringing the total 
number of specialties to 20. This increased  
the number of slots for admission to the 
programme up 65 and the total number of  
slots for admission to 231 residents. GHG  
is currently expecting accreditation in four 
additional specialties. Since the launch of 
residency programmes at the end of 2015,  
we have 58 residents involved in 12 specialties.
For the period of May-December 2016, GHG’s 
pharmacy business had (does not include  
ABC figures, which will be consolidated from 
1 January 2017):
• C.1 million retail customer interactions  
per month
• C.0.5 million loyalty card members.
• Average transaction size of GEL 13.7  
in GHG’s retail pharmacies
• C.15% market share measured by sales 
(expected to be c.29.0% after the 
consolidation of ABC)
• Total number of bills issued was 7.9 million
In GHG’s medical insurance business: 
• The number of insured clients was 211,000 
as of 31 December 2016
• Our medical insurance market share was 
35.1% based on net insurance premium 
revenue, as of 30 September 2016
• Our insurance renewal rate was 73.4%  
in 2016
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 71 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
REAL ESTATE BUSINESS (m
2
 REAL ESTATE)
STAND-ALONE RESULTS
Our Real Estate business is operated through the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiary m
2
 Real Estate, which develops residential property in Georgia. 
m
2
 Real Estate outsources the construction and architecture works whilst itself focusing on project management and sales. The Bank’s Real Estate 
business serves to meet the unsatisfied demand in Tbilisi for housing through its well-established branch network and sales force, while stimulating 
the Bank’s mortgage lending business. The business has also recently begun hotel development in the under-developed mid-price sector. The results 
below refer to m
2
 Real Estate segment, which are m
2
 Real Estate stand-alone results adjusted for Group consolidation purposes. 
INCOME STATEMENT
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted 2016 2015 Change y-o-y
Revenue from sale of apartments 96,373 44,917 114.6%
Cost of sale of apartments (80,870) (39,721) 103.6%
NET REVENUE FROM SALE OF APARTMENTS 15,503 5,196 198.4%
Revenue from operating leases 2,912 1,852 57.2%
Cost of operating leases (228) – -86.5%
NET REVENUE FROM OPERATING LEASES 2,684 1,852 44.9%
Revaluation of commercial property 959 7,083 -86.5%
GROSS REAL ESTATE PROFIT 19,146 14,131 35.5%
Gross other investment profit 1,798 7,502 -76.0%
REVENUE 20,944 21,633 -3.2%
Salaries and other employee benefits (1,069) (1,150) -7.0%
Administrative expenses (4,755) (4,710) 1.0%
OPERATING EXPENSES (5,824) (5,860) -0.6%
EBITDA 15,120 15,773 -4.1%
Depreciation and amortisation (243) (191) 27.2%
Net foreign currency gain (loss) 792 (1,534) NMF
Interest income 698 386 80.8%
Interest expense (1,633) (1,566) 4.3%
NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 14,734 12,868 14.5%
Net non-recurring items (533) (137) NMF
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 14,201 12,731 11.5%
Income tax benefit/(expense) (1,717) (1,974) -13.0%
PROFIT 12,484 10,757 16.1%
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
m
2
 Real Estate revenue performance 
throughout 2016 reflects the success  
of m
2
 Real Estate’s strategy of developing 
residential properties on its existing  
land plots, and increasing its portfolio of 
yielding assets. As a result, m
2
 Real Estate 
recorded very strong revenue across all 
business lines.
Net revenue from the sale of apartments in 
2016 almost tripled and reflects the strong 
sales and project completion performance  
of the business.
Net revenue from operating leases increased  
by 44.9%, reflecting m
2
’s increasing commercial 
real estate portfolio which reached GEL 44.8 
million at the end of 2016 (up 39.3% y-o-y)  
and which now represents 12.1% of the total 
assets of m
2
 Real Estate, compared to 11.7% 
last year.
Gross other investment profit is down in 2016 
reflecting the large gain from the revaluation of 
an investment property recorded in 2015.
Consequently, m
2
 recognised revenue of GEL 
20.9 million (down 3.2% y-o-y) and net profit  
of GEL 12.5 million (up 16.1% y-o-y).
m
2
 Real Estate’s gross real estate revenue and 
profit are by their nature choppy, given both 
uneven real estate project cycles and the 
revenue recognition method under accounting 
rules (IAS 18) that the company followed until 
2017. Pursuant to IAS 18 apartment sale 
revenues were recognised upon handover of 
the apartment to its clients, following 
completion of the projects. IFRS 15, adopted 
by m
2
 Real Estate and the Group from 2017 
onwards, requires revenue recognition 
according to the percentage of completion 
method. As a result, it is expected that out of 
the current accrued deferred revenue, which at 
the end of 2016 stood at US$ 30.6 million (net 
of US$ 5.5 million VAT), of which, US$ 17.1 
million will be recognised into revenues 
gradually during 2017-2019 in line with the 
project completion progress, while US$ 13.5 
million will be recorded through equity on 
1 January 2017.
Effective 1 October 2016, m
2
 Real Estate 
switched its selection of functional currency 
from GEL to Dollar. The change was warranted 
by m
2
 Real Estate’s increased dollarisation 
levels of its balance sheet, revenues and 
expenses. As a result of the change, foreign 
exchange gains or losses arising from long or 
short Dollar positions are now recorded through 
equity rather than through the income 
statement. The change did not have a material 
impact on the company’s financial statements.
In 2016, m
2
 Real Estate sold a total of 407 
apartments with the sales value of US$ 34.4 
million, compared to 346 apartments sold 
with sales value of US$ 30.0 million during 
the same period last year. 72 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
m
2
 Real Estate has started ten projects 
since its establishment in 2010, of which  
six have already been completed, and 
construction of four is ongoing. m
2
 Real 
Estate has completed all of its projects on 
or ahead of time and within the budget.  
Two of the ongoing projects are expected to be 
completed in 2017 and the other two in 2018. 
Currently, a total of 827 units are available for 
sale out of total of 2,874 apartments developed 
or under development. 
Of the four ongoing m
2
 Real Estate projects:
• One is the largest ever carried out by m
2
 
Real Estate, with a total of 819 apartments 
in a central location in Tbilisi, out of which 
289 have already been sold
• The second is a new type of project for m
2
 
Real Estate, representing a luxury residential 
building in Old Tbilisi neighbourhood with 
few apartments (19 in total) and with almost 
double the price charged at other m
2
 Real 
Estate buildings
• The third is a mixed-use development, with 
302 residential apartments and a hotel with 
a capacity of 152 rooms. This mixed-use 
development started in June 2016, with 
sales of 96 apartments to date
• The fourth is the latest project by m
2
 Real 
Estate, located in a central location of Tbilisi 
with a total of 62 apartments, out of which 
28 have already been sold
At its six projects which have already been 
completed with a total of 1,672 apartments, m
2
 
Real Estate currently has a stock of only 47 
unsold apartments. At its four ongoing projects 
with a total capacity of 1,202 apartments, 422 
apartments or 35% are already sold.
m
2
 Real Estate has unlocked total land value of 
US$ 16.4 million from the six completed 
projects and an additional US$ 16.5 million in 
land value is expected to be unlocked from the 
four ongoing projects.
The number of apartments financed with  
BOG mortgages in all m
2
 Real Estate projects 
was 946, with an aggregate amount of  
GEL 110.7 million.
OPERATING DATA 
FOR COMPLETED AND ONGOING PROJECTS, AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016
Project name
Number of 
apartments
Number of 
apartments 
sold
Number of 
apartments 
sold as % of 
total
Number of 
apartments 
available  
for sale
Start date 
(construction)
Planned 
Completion 
date 
(construction)
Actual 
Completion 
date 
(construction)
Construction 
completed %
COMPLETED PROJECTS 1,672 1,625 97% 47 100%
1 Chubinashvili Street 123 123 100% – Sep-10 Aug-12 Aug-12 100%
2 Tamarashvili Street 525 523 99% 2 May-12 Sep-14 Jun-14 100%
3 Kazbegi Street 295 295 100% – Dec-13 Feb-16 Feb-16 100%
4 Nutsubidze Street 221 221 100% – Dec-13 Nov-15 Sep-15 100%
5 Tamarashvili Street II 270 262 97% 8 Jul-14 Sep-16 Jun-16 100%
6 Moscow Avenue 238 201 85% 37 Sep-14 Jul-16 Jun-16 100%
ONGOING PROJECTS 1,202 422 35% 780   30%
7 Kartozia Street 819 289 35% 530 Nov-15 Sep-18 – 29%
8 Skyline 19 9 47% 10 Dec-15 Mar-17 – 69%
9 Kazbegi Street II 302 96 32% 206 Jun-16 Nov-18 – 18%
10 50 Chavchavadze Ave. 62 28 45% 34 Oct-16 Dec-17 – 3%
TOTAL 2,874 2,047 71% 827   
FINANCIAL DATA 
FOR COMPLETED AND ONGOING PROJECTS, AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2016
Project name
Total Sales 
(US$mln)
Recognised 
as revenue 
(US$mln)
Deferred revenue 
(US$mln)
Deferred revenue 
expected to be 
recognised as 
revenue in 2017
Land value 
unlocked 
(US$mln)
Realised & 
Expected IRR
COMPLETED PROJECTS 136.9 136.7 0.2 0.2 16.4
1 Chubinashvili Street 9.9 9.9 – – 0.9 47%
2 Tamarashvili Street 48.5 48.5 – – 5.4 46%
3 Kazbegi Street 27.2 27.2 – – 3.6 165%
4 Nutsubidze Street 17.4 17.4 – – 2.2 58%
5 Tamarashvili Street II 23.9 23.7 0.1 0.1 2.7 71%
6 Moscow Avenue 10.0 9.9 0.1 0.1 1.6 31%
ONGOING PROJECTS 35.9 – 35.9 30.4 16.5
7 Kartozia Street 21.0 – 21.0 18.3 5.8 60%
8 Skyline 4.1 – 4.1 4.1 3.1 329%
9 Kazbegi Street II 7.8 – 7.8 5.1 4.3 51%
10 50 Chavchavadze Ave. 3.0 – 3.0 3.0 3.3 75%
TOTAL 172.8 136.7 36.1 30.6 32.9
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS CONTINUED 73 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
BALANCE SHEET
GEL thousands, unless otherwise noted Dec-16 Dec-15 Change y-o-y
Cash and cash equivalents 93,278 28,015 233.0%
Investment securities 1,145 1,145 0.0%
Accounts receivable 1,016 757 34.2%
Prepayments 20,823 26,581 -21.7%
Inventories 112,669 95,314 18.2%
Investment property, of which: 116,058 108,753 6.7%
Land bank 71,214 76,558 -7.0%
Commercial real estate 44,844 32,195 39.3%
Property and equipment 5,368 1,259 326.4%
Other assets 20,975 13,852 51.4%
TOTAL ASSETS 371,332 275,676 34.7%
Amounts due to credit institutions 42,342 3,282 1190.1%
Debt securities issued 104,410 48,937 113.4%
Accruals and deferred income 82,398 109,024 -24.4%
Other liabilities 5,232 6,646 -21.3%
TOTAL LIABILITIES 234,382 167,889 39.6%
Additional paid-in capital 4,382 4,382 0.0%
Other reserves 12,880 (3,575) NMF
Retained earnings 119,688 106,980 11.9%
TOTAL EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS OF THE GROUP 136,950 107,787 27.1%
TOTAL EQUITY 136,950 107,787 27.1%
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 371,332 275,676 34.7%
m
2
 Real Estate has a solid and well managed 
balance sheet. As of 31 December 2016, total 
assets were GEL 371.3 million (up 34.7% y-o-y), 
constituting 25% cash, 6% prepayments, 30% 
inventories (apartments in development), 31% 
investment property (land bank and commercial 
real estate) and 7% other assets. 
Borrowings, which consist of debt raised from 
Development Financial Institutions (DFIs)  
and debt securities issued in the local market, 
constitute 40% of the total balance sheet. 
Accruals and deferred income, constituting 
22% of the balance sheet, represents 
prepayments for the presold apartments. 
m
2
 Real Estate currently has a land bank on  
its balance sheet with a total value of GEL 71.2 
million. We do not expect the land bank to grow, 
as m
2
 Real Estate strategy is to utilise its existing 
land plots within three to four years and, in 
parallel, start developing third-party land. 74 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Dear Shareholders
Our aim is to be at the forefront of best practice in corporate 
governance. The strength of our corporate governance has helped 
ensure the successful execution of our strategy and the achievement of 
our objectives. It is the Board of Directors that imbeds the importance of 
strong corporate governance throughout the Group by its leadership and 
culture – success within the Group is only possible through transparency, 
honesty, fairness and collaboration. Our culture creates an inclusive 
environment that helps us attract, retain and develop the best talent.  
We are appreciative of management’s unity as a cohesive team 
dedicated to delivery of the Board’s strategy and best practise corporate 
governance. Our culture is also reflected in the Group’s commitment to 
its customers and clients by acting ethically and responsibly in all of its 
business dealings. 
The Board leads through a framework (described in this section of the 
Report) that provides for the development, review, implementation and 
continued oversight of a system of controls, policies and procedures  
that uphold our high governance standards. This established framework 
allows us to put the human and financial resources in place that we 
believe will optimise the Group’s ability to meet its strategic objectives  
to increase shareholder value. 
In this part of the Annual Report, we explain our governance policies and 
practices and the measures that we have taken to ensure that the Group 
continues to apply our high standards of corporate governance. The key 
themes of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the “Code”) form 
the framework for discussing our corporate governance structure.  
Given the importance of the work of the Nomination, Audit, Risk and 
Remuneration Committees, each Committee presents a separate report, 
which can be found within this section.
Among the key corporate governance actions taken during the year, we 
would like to highlight the following:
• We supported management to advance its Retail Banking and 
Investment Business strategy.
• We continued our focus on Board succession planning and 
appointed Jonathan Muir as an advisor to the Board and member  
of the Audit Committee. 
• We pursued our management succession plan by strengthening 
management at each of our Investment Businesses. 
• We expanded our talent development programmes (coaching, 
mentoring and leadership) to enhance the skills of executive 
management as well as create an internal talent pipeline of individuals 
with the skills and capabilities to be become our future leaders.
• We continued our focus on our systems of risk management and 
internal control throughout the Group, assisted by our Audit and Risk 
Committees. Our systems were optimised to manage identified risks 
(e.g., we strengthened our IT security to add additional protection 
against financial crime and cyber-security breaches).
• We approved a new Remuneration Policy, now fully compliant with 
the Code, which will be subject to shareholder approval at our 
upcoming AGM.
• Our Board and management continued to engage extensively with 
our investors, reflecting our commitment to transparent reporting  
and dialogue. The Directors and management met with over 300 
institutional investors in 2016.
• We received detailed training on and revised our policies and 
procedures to address the implementation of the EU Market  
Abuse Regulation and changes introduced by EU Audit Reform,  
the latest edition of the Code and the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules.
As corporate governance continues to evolve, we commit to challenge 
ourselves to develop and maintain the highest standards possible for  
the Group.
Neil Janin  David Morrison
Non-Executive   Senior Independent 
Chairman   Non-Executive Director
13 April 2017
NEIL JANIN
NON-EXECUTIVE 
CHAIRMAN 
DAVID MORRISON
SENIOR INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, we applied the Main Principles and complied with the Provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code except as set out below. Please note that the 2014 Remuneration Policy states that shares granted as discretionary 
compensation will vest over a two-year period starting in January of the second year following the work year earned. This vesting period does not 
comply with Code provision D.1.1, which requires a vesting period of three years. To address this, the service agreement of our sole Executive 
Director has been varied. We agreed to extend the vesting period for discretionary shares to three years (vesting starts in January of the second 
year following the work year earned) which complies with Code provision D.1.1. It was further agreed that the amended vesting period will apply 
to the 2016 work year, which is reflected in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 107 and in our new Directors' Remuneration Policy, 
which is set out on pages 100 to 106.
The Code and associated guidance is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available at www.frc.org.uk.
Set out on our website at http://bgeo.com/page/id/62/our-governance is the Board’s assessment of its application of the Main Principles of the 
Code, as required by LR 9.8.6.
DIRECTORS’ GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance
 “ We see robust corporate governance as fundamental 
to the effective management of our business and  
a principal contributor to the long-term success of  
the Group, creating trust and engagement between  
the Group and our stakeholders.”
NEIL JANIN
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 75 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience
NEIL JANIN
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 
Neil Janin was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman on 24 October 2011 and has been 
re-elected by shareholders at each AGM 
thereafter. Mr Janin serves as Chairman of 
BGEO’s Nomination Committee as well as a 
member of BGEO’s Remuneration Committee. 
Mr Janin also serves as a member of the 
Supervisory Board of the Bank, having stepped 
down as Chairman in July 2015, a position he 
had held since 2010. Mr Janin continues to 
serve as a member of the Bank’s Remuneration 
Committee, a position he has held since 2010. 
Mr Janin also serves as a Non-Executive 
Director of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC  
and a member of the Supervisory Board of  
JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
Skills and experience:
Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both 
for-profit and non-profit organisations and 
continues to provide consulting services to 
McKinsey & Company. Prior to joining the  
Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director of 
McKinsey & Company, based in its Paris office, 
for over 27 years, from 1982 until his retirement. 
At McKinsey & Company, he conducted 
engagements in the retail, asset management 
and corporate banking sectors, and was actively 
involved in every aspect of organisational 
practice, including design, leadership, 
governance, performance enhancement and 
transformation. In 2009, while serving as a 
member of the French Institute of Directors, 
Mr Janin authored a position paper on the 
responsibilities of the board of directors with 
regard to the design and implementation of  
a company’s strategy. Before joining McKinsey 
& Company, Mr Janin worked for Chase 
Manhattan Bank (now JP Morgan Chase) in 
New York and Paris, and Procter & Gamble in 
Toronto. Mr Janin has practised in Europe, Asia 
and North America. Mr Janin is also a Director 
of Neil Janin Limited, a company through which 
he provides consulting services.
Education:
Mr Janin holds an MBA from York University, 
Toronto, and a joint honours degree in 
Economics and Accounting from McGill 
University, Montreal.
IRAKLI GILAURI
CEO
Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive 
Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and has 
been re-elected by shareholders at each AGM 
thereafter. Mr Gilauri has served as CEO of 
BGEO since his appointment in 2011, and was 
appointed Chairman of the Bank in September 
2015, having previously served as CEO of the 
Bank since May 2006. Mr Gilauri also serves as 
CEO of JSC BGEO Group, JSC BGEO 
Investment Group and JSC BG Financial 
Group. He is currently Chairman of the Board of 
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and Chairman 
of the Supervisory Board for the following 
subsidiaries: JSC Georgia Healthcare Group, 
m
2
 Real Estate, Georgian Renewable Power 
Company and Teliani Valley. He is also a 
member of the Supervisory Board of Georgia 
Global Utilities and Agron Group.
Skills and experience:
Before his employment with the Bank, 
Mr Gilauri was a banker at the EBRD’s Tbilisi 
and London offices for five years, where he 
worked on transactions involving debt and private 
equity investments in Georgian companies.
Education:
Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree in 
Business Studies, Economics and Finance from 
the University of Limerick, Ireland, in 1998. He 
was later awarded the Chevening Scholarship, 
granted by the British Council, to study at the 
CASS Business School of City University, 
London, where he obtained his MSc in Banking 
and International Finance.
DAVID MORRISON
SENIOR INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
David Morrison was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO  
on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected  
by shareholders at each AGM thereafter. 
Mr Morrison assumed the role of Chairman  
of BGEO’s Audit Committee in December 2013, 
prior to which he served as a member of  
the Committee. 
Mr Morrison is also a member of BGEO’s 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and 
serves on the Bank’s Supervisory Board and as a 
member of the Bank’s Audit and Remuneration 
Committees, positions he has held since 2010. 
Mr Morrison is a Non-Executive Director of 
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and a member  
of the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia 
Healthcare Group.
Skills and experience:
Mr Morrison is a member of the New York bar 
and worked for 28 years at Sullivan & Cromwell 
LLP until he withdrew from the firm in 2007 to 
pursue other interests. At Sullivan & Cromwell,  
he served as Managing Partner of the firm’s 
Continental European offices. His practice 
focused on advising public companies in a 
transactional context, including capital raisings, 
IPOs and mergers and acquisitions. Key clients 
included investment banks and a wide range  
of commercial and industrial companies. He 
advised on a number of the largest privatisations 
in Europe, and was advisor to Germany’s 
development bank, Kreditanstalt für 
Wiederaufbau (KfW) for over 20 years (serving  
on the Board of Directors of KfW’s finance 
subsidiary). Mr Morrison is the author of several 
publications on securities law-related topics,  
and has been recognised as a leading lawyer  
in Germany and France.
In 2008, Mr Morrison turned his attention to 
nature protection financing. He became the 
Founding CEO of the Caucasus Nature Fund 
(CNF), a charitable trust fund dedicated to nature 
conservation in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan. 
He resigned as CEO in March 2016 and now 
serves on the Board of Directors of CNF as well 
as on the boards of two new conservation trusts 
he helped to create in 2015 and 2016.
Education:
Mr Morrison received his undergraduate degree 
from Yale College, received his law degree from 
the University of California, Los Angeles, and was 
a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt. 76 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience (continued)
ALASDAIR (AL) BREACH
INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Al Breach was appointed as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 24 October 
2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders 
at each AGM thereafter. Mr Breach serves as 
Chairman of BGEO’s Remuneration Committee 
and serves as a member of BGEO’s Risk and 
Nomination Committees. Mr Breach also serves 
as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board 
and Chairman of the Bank’s Remuneration 
Committee, positions he has held since 2010, 
and has also been a member of the Bank’s Risk 
Committee since December 2014.
Skills and experience:
In 2013, Mr Breach co-founded Gemsstock 
Limited, a UK FCA-regulated fund manager, 
where he also serves as an Executive Director. 
In 2010, Mr Breach founded Furka Advisors 
AG, a Swiss-based asset management firm, 
and served as an Executive Director until 
founding Gemsstock Limited, which manages 
the Gemsstock Fund, which was previously 
called the Gemsstock Growth Fund and 
managed by Mr Breach at Furka Advisors AG. 
His previous career was in research in 
investment banks, principally in Russia. In 
January 2003, Mr Breach joined Brunswick 
UBS (later UBS Russia) as Chief Economist, 
and later was appointed Head of Research and 
Managing Director until October 2007. From 
1998 to 2002, Mr Breach was a Russia and 
Former Soviet Union (FSU) economist at 
Goldman Sachs, based in Moscow. Mr Breach 
is also the co-founder of The Browser.com,  
a web-based curator of current affairs writing, 
established in 2008.
Mr Breach serves as a Director of Gemsstock 
Limited, the Gemsstock Fund, The Browser 
and Furka Holdings AG, all of which are private 
entities. He is also an advisor to East Capital.
Education:
Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics from 
the London School of Economics and an 
undergraduate degree in Mathematics and 
Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
KIM BRADLEY
INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Kim Bradley was appointed as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 
19 December 2013 and has been re-elected by 
shareholders at each AGM thereafter. Mr Bradley 
serves as Chairman of the BGEO Risk 
Committee and a member of BGEO’s Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Mr Bradley was also 
appointed to the Bank’s Supervisory Board in 
December 2013 and serves as Chairman of the 
Bank’s Risk Committee and as a member the 
Bank’s Audit Committee.
Skills and experience:
Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in early 
2013, following 15 years as a professional in 
the Real Estate Principal Investments and 
Realty Management divisions, where he 
focused on investment in both European real 
estate and distressed debt.
In addition to his investment activities, 
Mr Bradley led Goldman’s asset management 
affiliates in France, Italy and Germany, where he 
was involved in financial and tax audits as well 
as management of internal audit activities. He 
has also served as President of Societa 
Gestione Crediti, a member of the Board of 
Directors of Capitalia Service Joint Venture in 
Italy and Chairman of the Shareholders Board 
at Archon Capital Bank Deutschland in 
Germany. Prior to Goldman Sachs, he served 
as a Senior Executive at GE Capital for seven 
years in both the United States and Europe, 
where his activities included real estate 
workouts and restructuring, as well as 
acquisitions. Prior to GE Capital, Mr Bradley 
held senior executive positions at 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust (now part of JP 
Morgan) and Dollar Dry Dock Bank. He has 
also served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as 
a consultant with the US Agency for 
International Development in Cameroon. 
Mr Bradley serves as a director of a mental 
health charity. 
Education:
Mr Bradley holds an MA in International Affairs 
from the Columbia University School of 
International Affairs and an undergraduate 
degree in English Literature from the University 
of Arizona.
TAMAZ GEORGADZE
INDEPENDENT  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO 
Group on 19 December 2013 and has been 
re-elected by shareholders at each AGM 
thereafter. Mr Georgadze serves as a member 
of BGEO’s Risk and Nomination Committees 
and was appointed as a member of BGEO’s 
Audit Committee in September 2016. 
Mr Georgadze was also appointed to the 
Bank’s Supervisory Board in December 2013 
and serves as a member of the Bank’s Risk 
Committee and Audit Committee.
Skills and experience:
In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded Raisin GmbH 
(formerly SavingGlobal GmbH) a company 
which launched the first global deposit 
intermediation in Europe and he continues to 
serve as its Executive Director. Prior to founding 
this company, Mr Georgadze had a ten-year 
career at McKinsey & Company in Berlin,  
where he served as a Partner from 2009 to 
2013. At McKinsey & Company, he conducted 
engagements with banks in Germany, 
Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam, 
focusing on strategy, risk identification and 
management, deposit and investment products, 
operations and sales. Prior to joining McKinsey 
& Company, Mr Georgadze worked as an aide 
to the President of Georgia in the Foreign 
Relations Department from 1994 to 1995.  
Save for his role at SavingGlobal GmbH, 
Mr Georgadze does not hold any other 
directorships.
Education:
Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in 
Economics from Tbilisi State University and  
the other in Agricultural Economics from 
Justus-Liebig University Gießen, Germany. 
Mr Georgadze also studied Law at Justus-
Liebig Universität Gießen and graduated  
with honours.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED 77 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
HANNA LOIKKANEN
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Hanna Loikkanen was appointed as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director of BGEO by the Board  
in June 2015 and was elected by shareholders  
at the 2016 AGM. Ms Loikkanen is also a member 
of BGEO’s Nomination Committee and was 
appointed to BGEO’s Audit Committee in March 
2016. Ms Loikkanen was also appointed to the 
Bank’s Supervisory Board in August 2015.
Ms Loikkanen previously served as a Non-Executive 
Director of BGEO from 2011 until 2013 and  
as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board 
from 2010 until 2013.
Skills and experience:
Ms Loikkanen has over 20 years of experience 
working with financial institutions in Russia and 
Eastern Europe. She currently serves as an advisor  
to East Capital Private Equity AB. Prior to this,  
she served from 2010 until 2012 as the Chief 
Representative and Head of the Private Equity team 
at East Capital, a Swedish asset management 
company in Moscow, with a special focus on financial 
institutions. Prior to joining East Capital, Ms Loikkanen 
held the position of Country Manager and Chief 
Executive Officer at FIM Group in Russia, a Finnish 
investment bank, where she was responsible for 
setting up and running FIM Group’ s brokerage and 
corporate finance operations in Russia. During her 
tenure at FIM Group, the company advised several 
large foreign companies in their M&A activities in 
Russia. Earlier in her career , Ms Loikkanen worked  
for Nordea Finance in various management positions 
in Poland, the Baltic States and Scandinavia with  
a focus on business development, strategy and 
business integration; for SEB in Moscow where she 
was responsible for the restructuring of SEB’ s debt 
capital market operations in Russia; and for 
MeritaNordbanken in St Petersburg where she 
focused on trade finance and correspondent banking.
In addition to her directorships at BGEO Group and 
the Bank, Ms Loikkanen serves as a Non-Executive 
Director and a member of the Audit and Risk 
Committee of Locko Bank, an SME-focused Russian 
bank and as a Non-Executive Director of Locko 
Invest, Locko Bank’ s investment banking subsidiary. 
She is also a Non-Executive Director of AKI Bank  
in Tatarstan. Since 2014, she has acted as 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of T&B 
Capital, an independent regulated wealth 
management company based in Helsinki.
Education:
Ms Loikkanen holds a Master’s degree in 
Economics and Business Administration from 
the Helsinki School of Economics, and was  
a Helsinki School of Economics scholar at the 
University of New South Wales.
JONATHAN MUIR
BOARD ADVISOR 
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBER
Jonathan Muir was appointed as an advisor  
to the Board and as a member of the Audit 
Committee in December 2016. 
Skills and experience:
Mr Muir has over 30 years’ experience working 
as a professional in accounting and finance.  
He is an executive director (CEO) of LetterOne 
Holdings SA and is CEO of LetterOne 
Investment Holdings. LetterOne is an 
international investment business consisting  
of two groups which target investments in the 
healthcare, energy, telecoms and technology, 
and retail sectors. Prior to joining LetterOne, 
Mr Muir was CFO (2008-2013) and Vice 
President of Finance and Control (2003-2008) 
of TNK-BP , which he joined after serving as 
CFO of SIDANCO, one of TNK-BP’s heritage 
companies. Prior to this, he was a partner at 
the global audit and consulting company Ernst 
& Young (1985-2000). 
Education:
Mr Muir graduated with first class honours from 
St. Andrews University in the UK. He is a British 
qualified Chartered Accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
England and Wales. 
KAHA KIKNAVELIDZE
Kaha Kiknavelidze stepped down from the 
Board on 6 September 2016 and assumed the 
role of CEO of the Bank. Please see page 79 
for his biography.
BOZIDAR DJELIC
Bozidar Djelic stepped down from the Board on 
15 December 2016, having served as a 
member of the Nomination Committee and Risk 
Committee. We thank him for his contribution 
to the Group. 78 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
BGEO Group Executive Management
Experienced leadership who deliver our strategy
IRAKLI GILAURI
GROUP CEO
Please see page 75 for his biography.
LEVAN KULIJANISHVILI
GROUP CFO
Mr Kulijanishvili was appointed as Group CFO 
in February 2016, prior to which he served as 
Deputy CEO (Finance) of Bank of Georgia 
where he continues his services to this date. He 
has been with the Bank since 1997. During his 
19 years of service, Mr Kulijanishvili has held 
various senior positions, including Head of 
Compliance and Internal Control from 2009 
until his appointment as Deputy CEO (Finance), 
Head of the Internal Audit department (2000 to 
2009), Manager of the Financial Monitoring, 
Strategy and Planning department (1999 to 
2000) and Head of the Financial Analysis 
division (1997-1999). He received his 
undergraduate degree in Economics and 
Commerce from Tbilisi State University and 
received his MBA from Grenoble Graduate 
School of Business.
AVTO NAMICHEISHVILI
GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL 
Mr Namicheishvili was appointed as General 
Counsel of JSC BGEO Group in September 
2015. He previously served as Deputy CEO 
(Legal) of the Bank since July 2008, prior to 
which he served as the Bank’s General Counsel 
from March 2007. Before joining the Bank, 
Mr Namicheishvili was a partner at Begiashvili  
& Co. Limited, a leading Georgian law firm, 
where he acted as external legal advisor for 
Bank of Georgia from 2004. He received his 
undergraduate degrees in Law and International 
Economic Relations from Tbilisi State University 
and a graduate degree (LLM) in International 
Business Law from Central European 
University, Hungary.
EKATERINA SHAVGULIDZE
GROUP HEAD OF INVESTOR RELATIONS 
AND FUNDING
Ms Shavgulidze was appointed as Group Head 
of Investor Relations and Funding in January 
2015. Ms Shavgulidze joined the Group in 2011 
and was a Supervisory Board member of the 
Group’s insurance and healthcare subsidiaries 
and served as the CEO of the healthcare 
services business, and later was a Supervisory 
Board Member of the Group’s insurance and 
healthcare subsidiaries (2011-2013). Before her 
employment with the Group, Ms Shavgulidze 
was an Associate Finance Director at 
AstraZeneca, UK for two years, where she 
worked on finance projects in Eastern Europe, 
including an assignment as CFO for 
AstraZeneca Kazakhstan. She also co-lead  
the reorganisation of AstraZeneca's Central 
Asian business. Ms Shavgulidze received  
her undergraduate degree in Business 
Administration from the European School of 
Management in Georgia and received her MBA 
from Wharton Business School, majoring in 
Finance and Entrepreneurship.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 79 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
JSC Bank of Georgia Executive Management
KAKHABER (KAHA) KIKNAVELIDZE
CEO, BANK OF GEORGIA
Mr Kiknavelidze was appointed as CEO of the 
Bank in September 2016. Immediately prior to 
his appointment, Mr Kiknavelidze served as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO 
Group since October 2011, which included 
positions on BGEO’s Audit, Risk and 
Nomination Committees and he also served as 
a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board and 
Audit Committee, positions he held since 2008. 
While serving as a Director and Supervisory 
Board member, he took a very active role in 
mentoring many of the current members of the 
Bank’s management team. Kaha has over 15 
years of experience in the financial services, 
including a number of roles at UBS and Troika 
Dialog. He is the founder and Managing Partner 
of Rioni Capital Partners LLP , a London-based 
investment management company, the role  
he stepped down from at the end of 2016. 
Mr Kiknavelidze received his undergraduate 
degree in Economics with honours from the 
Georgian Agrarian University in Tbilisi, Georgia, 
and received his MBA from Emory University.
MIKHEIL GOMARTELI
DEPUTY CEO, RETAIL BANKING 
(EXPRESS BANKING AND BRAND 
OPERATIONS)
Following the split of retail banking into two 
segments in February 2017 due to significant 
growth in the retail banking business, 
Mr Gomarteli assumed the role of Deputy CEO 
responsible for Express Banking and Brand 
Operations. Prior to this, Mr Gomarteli had 
served as the sole Deputy CEO of Retail 
Banking since February 2009. He has been 
with the Bank since December 1997. During his 
18 years of service with the Bank, Mr Gomarteli 
has held various senior positions, including 
Co-Head of Retail Banking (March 2007 to 
February 2009), Head of Business 
Development (March 2005 to July 2005), Head  
of Strategy and Planning (2004 to 2005), Head 
of Branch Management and Sales Coordination 
(2003 to 2004), Head of Branch Management 
and Marketing (2002 to 2003) and Head of 
Banking Products and Marketing (2000 to 
2002). Mr Gomarteli received an undergraduate 
degree in Economics from Tbilisi State University.
DAVID TSIKLAURI
DEPUTY CEO, CORPORATE  
INVESTMENT BANKING
Mr Tsiklauri was appointed as Deputy CEO 
(Corporate Investment Banking) in February 
2017. Prior to joining the Bank, Mr Tsiklauri 
served as Deputy CEO in charge of Corporate 
Banking at TBC Bank, a position he held since 
2014. Before TBC Bank, Mr Tsiklauri served as 
the Vice President of the Capital Markets and 
Treasury Solutions team at Deutsche Bank 
since 2011, where he started as an associate in 
the Debt Capital Markets Department in 2008. 
Mr Tsiklauri received his MBA from London 
Business School. 80 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
JSC Bank of Georgia Executive Management (continued)
RAMAZ KUKULADZE
DEPUTY CEO, MSME AND PREMIUM 
RETAIL BUSINESS
Mr Kukuladze was appointed as Deputy CEO, 
MSME and Premium Retail Banking in February 
2017. Prior to his current role, Mr Kukuladze 
held the joint role of Chief Commercial Officer 
and Deputy CEO at Bank Republic since 2013, 
having previously served as the Chief 
Commercial Officer since 2011. Before working 
at Bank Republic, Societe Generale Group,  
Mr Kukuladze spent two years working for 
Silknet as Deputy CEO, in charge of 
commercial business. Mr Kukuladze first joined 
the Bank in 2006 and served as a Deputy CEO, 
Corporate Banking until 2009. Before first 
joining the Bank, Mr Kukuladze served as CEO 
of BCI Insurance Company, a company 
founded by him 1998, which later was acquired 
by the Group. Mr Kukuladze received his MBA 
from IE Business School.
GEORGE CHILADZE
DEPUTY CEO (CHIEF RISK OFFICER)
Mr Chiladze was appointed as Deputy CEO 
(Chief Risk Officer) in September 2013. He 
re-joined the Bank having already served as 
Deputy CEO (Finance) from 2008 to 2011. 
From 2011 to 2013, Mr Chiladze was deputy 
CEO at the Partnership Fund, and he served as 
general director of BTA Bank (Georgia) from 
2005 to 2011. Prior to joining BTA Bank, he 
was an executive member of the Supervisory 
Board of JSC Europace Insurance Company 
and a founding partner of the management 
consulting firm, Altergroup Ltd. Mr Chiladze had 
previously worked in the US at the Programme 
Trading Desk at Bear Stearns in New York City, 
prior to returning to Georgia in 2003. 
Mr Chiladze received a PhD in Physics from 
Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, 
Maryland and an undergraduate degree in 
Physics from Tbilisi State University.
TORNIKE GOGICHAISHVILI
DEPUTY CEO, OPERATIONS
Mr Gogichaishvili was appointed as Deputy 
CEO, Operations of Bank of Georgia in January 
2016. Prior to this, Tornike served as Director  
of operations’ department at Bank of Georgia 
from June 2010. Before that he served as  
head of international banking, coordinating the 
activities of the Group’s Ukraine and Belarus 
subsidiaries. From 2006 to 2008, he served  
as CEO of Aldagi. Prior to joining the bank,  
he served as chief financial officer of UEDC PA 
consulting and held various managerial 
positions at BCI Insurance Company from 1998 
to 2004. Mr Gogichaishvili graduated from the 
Faculty of Law at Tbilisi State University and 
holds an MBA from Caucasus School of 
Business and an executive diploma from Said 
Business School, Oxford.
ALEXANDER KATSMAN
DEPUTY CEO, HUMAN RESOURCES 
MANAGEMENT AND BRANDING
Mr Katsman was appointed as Deputy CEO 
(Human Resources and Branding) at the Bank 
in January 2016. Prior to this appointment, 
Mr Katsman served as Chief Branding Officer  
at the Bank. Before joining the Bank in 2010,  
in 2004-2009 Mr Katsman was a partner at 
Sarke, the largest communications’ group in 
Georgia where he held a position of the Director 
of Client Service and Strategy. Mr Katsman 
received his undergraduate degree in law  
from Tbilisi State University and his EMBA from 
the Berlin School of Creative Leadership. 
Mr Katsman also holds a PhD in jurisprudence 
from Tbilisi State University.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Experienced leadership who deliver our strategy (continued) 81 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Investment Business Executive Management
NIKOLOZ GAMKRELIDZE
CEO, GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP
Mr Gamkrelidze was appointed as CEO of 
Georgia Healthcare Group in December 2014, 
having previously served as Deputy CEO 
(Finance) at Bank of Georgia since October 
2012, prior to which he was CEO of Aldagi. 
Before joining Aldagi, Mr Gamkrelidze served as 
CEO of joint stock company My Family Clinic 
from October 2005 to October 2007. Prior to 
that, he served as a consultant at Primary 
Healthcare Development Project (a World Bank 
Project) and worked on the development of 
pharmaceutical policy and regulation in 
Georgia. Prior to joining Primary Healthcare 
Development Project, he served at BCI 
Insurance Company as Head of the Personal 
Risks Insurance Department from 2002 to 
2003. Mr Gamkrelidze started his career at the 
State Medical Insurance Company in 1998, 
where he worked for two years. He graduated 
from the Faculty of General Medicine of Tbilisi 
with distinctions, and holds an MA in 
International Healthcare Management from  
the Tanaka Business School of Imperial  
College London.
ARCHIL GACHECHILADZE
CEO, GEORGIA GLOBAL UTILITIES
Mr Gachechiladze was appointed CEO of 
Georgian Global Utilities in January 2017.  
He served as Deputy CEO (Corporate and 
Investment Banking) from February 2016 until 
his recent appointment. Mr Gachechiladze also 
served as Group CFO (2015-2016) and Deputy 
CEO (Investment Management) since 2013.  
He joined the Bank in 2009 as Deputy CEO 
(Corporate Banking). Prior to this, 
Mr Gachechiladze served as Deputy Director in 
charge of Corporate Recovery at TBC Bank, 
Georgia, a position he took up in August 2008. 
From 2006 to 2008, he was an Associate at 
Lehman Brothers Private Equity (currently 
Trilantic Capital Partners) in London. From 1998 
to 2004, Mr Gachechiladze served as a Senior 
Associate at Salford Equity Partners, a Senior 
Analyst at EBRD in Tbilisi and London, a Senior 
Financial Analyst at KPMG Barents in Tbilisi and 
as a Team Leader for the World Bank’s CERMA 
Project in Tbilisi. Mr Gachechiladze received his 
undergraduate degree in Economics and Law 
from Tbilisi State University and his MBA with 
distinction from Cornell University. He is also 
CFA Charterholder and a member of the CFA 
Society in the United Kingdom.
IRAKLI BURDILADZE
CEO, m
2
 REAL ESTATE
Mr Burdiladze was appointed as CEO of JSC 
m
2
 Real Estate in September 2015 having 
previously served as deputy CEO (Affordable 
Housing) of JSC Bank of Georgia from 2010. 
Prior to this, he served as the bank’s chief 
operating officer from March 2007 to June 
2010 after having spent a year as CFO. Prior to 
joining the bank, he served as CFO of the GMT 
Group, a leading real estate developer and 
operator in Georgia. As CFO, Mr Burdiladze 
was responsible for the group’s capital-raising 
efforts and transaction structuring. He has a 
graduate degree in International Economics 
and International Relations from the Johns 
Hopkins University School of Advanced 
International Studies and an undergraduate 
degree in International Relations from Tbilisi 
State University.
SHOTA KOBELIA
CEO, TEILANI VALLEY
Mr Kobelia was appointed as CEO of Teliani 
Valley in January 2010, having previously 
served as Chief Commercial officer in Pernod 
Ricard Georgia. Prior to joining Pernod Ricard, 
Mr Kobelia worked as Head of Sales 
Department in several beverage businesses  
in the United States. He received his Bachelor 
degrees in agriculture product sales and 
marketing from Georgian National Agrarian 
University and holds a Masters degree in 
international sales marketing from Bordeaux 
Business School, France. 82 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
BGEO GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering 
sustainable value through the management of the Group’s businesses. The Board: establishes the Group’s core values and leads by example; 
sets and oversees the execution of the Group’s strategy within a framework of strong and effective risk management and internal controls; and 
upholds best practice corporate governance, among many other responsibilities. 
The Board is composed of seven Directors, six of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors. Each of the Chairman, CEO and 
Non-Executive Directors has clearly defined roles within our Board structure. A description of these roles can be found on our website,  
at http://bgeo.com/page/id/66/roles-and-responsibilities.
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
RISK 
COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
It assists the Board to ensure 
that the Board continues to  
have the right balance of skills, 
experience, independence and 
Group knowledge necessary to 
discharge its responsibilities in 
accordance with the highest 
standards of governance, the 
strategic direction of the Group 
and the diversity aspirations of 
the Board. It is responsible for 
both Director and management 
succession planning. 
Committee m embership Neil Janin (Chairman)
David Morrison
Al Breach
Kim Bradley
Tamaz Georgadze
Hanna Loikkanen
It assists the Board in relation  
to the oversight of the Group’s 
financial and reporting 
processes. It monitors the 
integrity of the financial 
statements and is responsible 
for governance around both  
the internal audit function and 
external auditor, reporting back 
to the Board. It reviews the 
effectiveness of the policies, 
procedures and systems in 
place related to, among other 
operational risks, compliance,  
IT and information security 
(including cyber-security) and 
works closely with the Risk 
Committee in connection with 
assessing the effectiveness  
of the risk management and 
internal control framework. 
Committee m embership David Morrison (Chairman)
Kim Bradley
Hanna Loikkanen
Tamaz Georgadze
Jonathan Muir
It assists the Board in relation to 
the oversight of risk. It reviews 
the Group’s risk appetite in line 
with strategy, identifies and 
monitors risk exposure and the 
risk management infrastructure, 
oversees the implementation  
of strategy to address risk,  
and in conjunction with the  
Audit Committee, assesses  
the strength and effectiveness of 
the risk management and 
internal control framework.
Committee m embership Kim Bradley (Chairman)
Al Breach
Tamaz Georgadze
Hanna Loikkanen
It reviews and recommends  
to the Board the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy to ensure 
that remuneration is designed  
to promote the long-term 
success of BGEO (and to  
see that management is 
appropriately rewarded for their 
contribution to the Group’s 
performance in the context of 
wider market conditions and 
shareholder views). It determines 
the remuneration packages  
of the Executive Directors, 
Chairman and executive 
management along with their 
terms of employment and 
assesses the performance  
of executive management 
against KPIs. 
 
It is also responsible for 
designing and overseeing  
the administration of Group 
employee share schemes.
Committee m embership Al Breach (Chairman)
Neil Janin
David Morrison
See pages 89 to 93 for the  
Audit Committee Report.
See pages 94 to 96 for the  
Risk Committee Report.
See pages 86 to 88 for the 
Nomination Committee Report.
See pages 98 to 113 for the 
Remuneration Committee Report.  83 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term success  
of the Group by directing management in creating and delivering 
sustainable shareholder value. We do this by setting the Group’s strategy 
and overseeing its implementation by management and are accountable 
to shareholders for the financial performance of the Group. 
We believe that the success of the Group’s implementation of strategy 
requires the alignment of strategy with the Group’s internal governance 
framework. We view a strong systems of risk management and internal 
controls as essential to governance which allows us to pursue our 
strategy in a way that risk appetite can be set and risks robustly 
identified, assessed, managed and reported effectively. You can read 
more about our risk management on pages 34 to 35.
By setting the tone at the top, establishing the core values of the Group 
and demonstrating our leadership, management are able to implement 
key policies and procedures we have created in a manner that clearly 
sets an expectation that every employee acts ethically and transparently  
in all of his or her dealings. 
We also monitor management’s execution of strategy and financial 
performance. While our ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group 
also needs to deliver on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure 
that management strikes the right balance between the two.
We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the impact  
our decisions will have on the Group’s various stakeholders, such  
as our employees, our shareholders, our customers and clients, the 
environment and our community as a whole. You can read more  
about our sustainability initiatives on pages 46 to 52.
In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific key 
decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board. A full formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board can be found on 
our website, at http://bgeo.com/page/id/67/schedule-of-matters-
reserved-for-the-board.
OPERATION OF THE BOARD
We schedule in person Board meetings at least four times a year in Georgia, 
for a period of two to three days each time. We also hold meetings at our 
London offices, with Directors either attending in person or via teleconference. 
Matters which require decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt with 
through additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls. In addition, in 2016, 
all Directors except one attended our annual investor day. In total, we met 
formally as a Board 11 times during the year. The Board also passed written 
resolutions on 14 separate occasions.
At each regularly scheduled meeting, we receive reports from the Group 
Chairman, BGEO CEO, CFO of JSC BGEO Group and the Bank, and the 
Bank CEO on the performance and results of the Group. The CEOs of our 
principal subsidiaries and the Deputy CEOs of the Bank regularly update 
the Board on the performance, strategic developments and initiatives in 
their respective segment throughout the year. The Bank’s Chief Risk Officer, 
Group General Counsel and Group Head of Investor Relations also regularly 
present to the full Board. The Board also receives updates from Group 
operating functions on internal control and risk management, compliance, 
internal audit, human resources and corporate responsibility matters.
Many of our Non-Executive Directors will also make site visits several times 
a year. Examples include visits to newly open branches, real estate sites 
under construction and GHG hospitals, among other visits.
At the end of each day of regularly scheduled meetings, there is an informal 
dinner. One of the dinners always bring the Directors and executive 
management together, and the other is typically just the Directors among 
themselves. 
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all 
matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate 
point in the financial and regulatory cycle. These include the budget, 
quarterly, half-yearly and full year results, the Annual Report and Accounts, 
approval of the final dividend and the Notice of AGM, among others. 
At each regularly scheduled meeting, the following topics are discussed:
• Updates from each Committee Chairman as to matters discussed at 
the respective Committee meeting held the day before.
• Strategy, including progress against strategy.
• Financial performance.
• Business segment performance and developments.
• Macroeconomics.
• Principal risks and risk management.
• Board and/or management succession planning, management 
performance and talent management.
• Regulatory, legislative and other corporate governance updates.
A comprehensive assessment of the risk management framework and 
system of internal controls is performed at least annually and optimised  
as needed. Board meetings are, however, flexible to ensure that pressing 
matters, when they arise, are addressed as quickly as possible.
The Chairman and BGEO CEO seek input from the Non-Executive 
Directors ahead of each Board meeting. The Senior Independent Director 
helps to ensure that any particular matters raised by Non-Executive 
Directors are on the agenda to be discussed at the meeting. In addition, the 
Chairman meets with the CEO after each meeting to agree the follow-up 
actions and to discuss how effective the meeting was. 
The Senior Independent Director also serves as a sounding Board  
to the Chairman and the CEO.
The Chairman and CEO also maintain frequent contact (in person or 
otherwise) with each other and the other Board members throughout the 
year outside of the formal meetings.
BOARD COMMITTEES
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there is 
independent oversight of financial, audit, internal control and risk issues, 
review of remuneration as well as oversight and review of Board and 
executive succession planning, the Board has delegated certain 
responsibilities to Board Committees. The Audit Committee oversees 
and challenges BGEO in relation to its internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to the financial reporting process. Full 
details of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to 
the financial reporting process are given within the Audit Committee 
Report on pages 89 to 93.
 
In 2016, the Board had four Committees, comprised solely of 
Independent Non-Executive Directors: the Nomination Committee,  
the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee. Each Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are 
approved by each Committee and the Board and reviewed annually. 
Each Committee’s Terms of Reference can be found on  
our website at http://bgeo.com/page/id/70/terms-of-reference.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board on the matters 
discussed at Committee meetings. Later in this section, there are reports 
from the Chairman of each Committee which describe the Committee’s 
operation, activities in 2016 and priorities for 2017.
In addition, each Committee provides a standing invitation for any 
Non-Executive Director to attend Committee meetings (rather than just 
limiting attendance to Committee members). It is not uncommon for the 
full Board to sit in on a Risk Committee meeting.
Read the Nomination Committee Report on pages 86 to 88.
Read the Audit Committee Report on pages 89 to 93.
Read the Risk Committee Report on pages 94 to 96.
Read the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 98 to 113. 84 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE
Details of Board meeting attendance in 2016 are as follows:
Board attendance
Number of 
meetings attended
% of meetings 
attended
Neil Janin (Chairman) 91%
Irakli Gilauri (Executive Director) 100%
David Morrison 100%
Alasdair Breach 91%
Kim Bradley 100%
Tamaz Georgadze 100%
Hanna Loikkanen 100%
Kaha Kiknavelidze
1
88%
Bozidar Djelic
2
100%
1 Retired 6 September 2016.
2 Retired 15 December 2016.
Please further note that the Non‑Executive Members of the Board of BGEO are identical to the Members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Details of the individual Directors and their 
biographies are set out on pages 75 and 77.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED
BOARD SIZE, COMPOSITION, TENURE AND INDEPENDENCE
We consider that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, 
experience, outlook and approach, geographic location, nationalities and 
gender is important to effectively govern the business.
The Board and its Nomination Committee work to ensure that the Board 
continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, independence 
and Group knowledge necessary to discharge its responsibilities in 
accordance with the highest standards of governance.
We believe our overall size and composition to be appropriate, having 
regard in particular to the independence of character and integrity of all 
of the Directors. Each of our Non-Executive Directors occupies, and/or 
has previously occupied, senior positions in a broad range of relevant 
associated industries, bringing valuable external perspective to the 
Board’s deliberations through their experience and insight from other 
sectors enabling them to contribute significantly to decision-making. No 
individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision-making 
process and no undue reliance is placed on any individual. 
The average tenure of our Non-Executive Directors is four years.  
We value diversity in all forms. Currently, six different nationalities are 
represented on our Board of seven Directors. More information on our 
approach to diversity can be found on page 87. 
We have assessed the independence of each of the six Non-Executive 
Directors and are of the opinion that each acts in an independent and 
objective manner and therefore, under the Code, is independent and  
free from any relationship that could affect their judgement. Each 
Non-Executive Director has an ongoing obligation to inform the Board  
of any circumstances which could impair his or her independence. 
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND BOARD APPOINTMENTS
We believe that effective succession planning mitigates the risks 
associated with the departure or absence of well-qualified and 
experienced individuals. We recognise this, and our aim is to ensure  
that the Board and management are always well resourced with the  
right people in terms of skills and experience, in order to effectively  
and successfully deliver our strategy. We also recognise that continued 
tenure brings a depth of Group-specific knowledge that is important  
to retain. 
The Board Nomination Committee is responsible for both Director and 
executive management succession planning. There is a formal, rigorous 
and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the 
Board. 
Read more detail on this in the  
Nomination Committee Report  
on pages 86 to 88. 85 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
EVALUATION OF BOARD PERFORMANCE
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises 
that its annual evaluation process is an important tool in reaching that 
goal. We are in year three of our three-year performance evaluation
cycle. For the 2014 and 2015 evaluations, we engaged Lintstock, an 
external effectiveness evaluation specialist, to conduct comprehensive 
evaluations of the full Board, each of our Committees and individual 
Directors. The 2016 evaluation of the Board, Committees and Chairman 
was an internal process. Our Chairman conducted an evaluation of the 
Board, which included an assessment of the progress made against the 
objectives set for 2016. Our Group Company Secretary conducted 
evaluations of our Committees and the performance review of the 
Chairman was conducted by the Senior Independent Director who 
consulted with all members of the Board beforehand.
The outcomes of the evaluations are discussed in detail at Board 
meetings and the Board will set its priorities for the following year.
The 2016 evaluation confirmed that Board and its Committees  
continue to perform effectively. 
Overall, the Board is considered strong, bringing a good balance and  
mix of expertise and experience and offering real diversity of view  
and perspective.
Progress was felt to have been made against the objectives we set for 
2016. In particular:
• We closely monitored our Investment Business strategy and were 
pleased with the progress made. 
• We dedicated more time to discuss risk management and internal 
control and we were satisfied with how these systems were 
improved. 
• We were very pleased with the results of our management 
succession plans Group-wide. 
We did not succeed in appointing an additional female Board member 
despite interviewing female candidates for the auditing and/or 
accounting expertise appointment.
Based on the results of the evaluations and continued discussions,  
the Board has set the following objectives for 2017: 
• Continuous review of overall strategy for the Group. 
• Monitor the Bank’s implementation of its strategy and  
financial performance. 
• Monitor our shareholding at GHG and consider a potential further 
reduction in our shareholding if opportune.
• Monitor progress at our other Investment Businesses, including 
strategy implementation and financial performance.
• Oversee improvements to risk management and internal controls  
at our Investment Businesses, as needed.
• Continue succession planning, with regard to gender diversity,  
at the Board and executive management.
Our three-year performance evaluation cycle begins again for 2017 with 
our external evaluator, Lintstock, engaged to perform a comprehensive 
evaluation of our Board, Committees and Directors. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ TERMS OF APPOINTMENT
On appointment, our Non-Executive Directors are given a letter of 
appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, 
including the fees payable and the expected time commitment. Each 
Non-Executive Director is expected to commit approximately 25-35 days 
per year to the role. An additional time commitment is required to fulfil 
their roles as Board Committee members and/or Board Committee 
Chairmen, as applicable. We are confident that all Non-Executive 
Directors dedicate the amount of time necessary to contribute to the 
effectiveness of the Board. The Letters of Appointment for our 
Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at our registered 
office during normal business hours.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
Any external appointment or other significant commitment of the 
Non-Executive Director requires prior approval of the Board. Our 
Non-Executive Directors hold external directorships or other external 
positions but the Board believes they still have sufficient time to devote 
to their duties as a Director and that the other external directorships/
positions held provide with valuable expertise which is then contributed 
to our Board. 
BOARD INDUCTION, ONGOING TRAINING AND 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
On appointment, each Director takes part in an induction programme, 
during which he or she meets members of executive management below 
the Board level, receives information about the role of the Board and 
individual Directors, each Board Committee and the powers delegated  
to these Committees. He is also advised of the legal and other duties 
and obligations of a Director of a premium listed company. 
We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors in 
order that they may build on their expertise and develop an ever-more 
detailed understanding of the business, markets and regulatory 
environment in which Group companies operate and our evolving 
corporate governance framework. 
All of our Directors participated in ongoing training and professional 
development throughout 2016, which included briefings, site visits, 
development sessions and presentations by our Group Company 
Secretary, members of management, external speakers and our 
professional advisors. We note that we received detailed training on  
and revised our policies and procedures to address the implementation 
of the EU Market Abuse Regulation and changes introduced by EU Audit 
Reform, the latest edition of the Code and the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules.
INFORMATION SUPPORT
We also ensure that all of our Directors have access to advice of the 
Group Company Secretary as well as independent professional advice, 
at the Company’s expense, on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
In line with the Code’s recommendations, all of our Directors seek 
re-election every year and accordingly all Directors will stand for 
re-election in June 2017. The Board has set out in its Notice of Annual 
General Meeting the qualifications of each Director and support for 
re-election. 86 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
In 2016, we continued to focus on succession planning and talent 
development programmes. We believe that the skills, experience, 
knowledge and attributes of the members of our Board and executive 
management are the fundamental drivers of successful delivery of 
strategic and financial objectives. 
In last year’s Annual Report, we identified the addition of someone  
with accounting and/or auditing experience and increased female 
representation as our Board succession planning priorities. We also 
highlighted the importance of increasing the strength of management at 
the executive level and directly below in order to have a highly capable 
team to successfully execute our strategy as our Group continues to 
grow and diversify. We discuss our progress against these priorities in 
the pages that follow.
We also stepped up mentoring, coaching and leadership programmes 
for talent development in 2016 and expanded the programmes to certain 
levels of middle management. Our pipeline of future leaders continues  
to increase and team building is very strong.
In 2016, we also reviewed the time commitment and length of service  
of the Non-Executive Directors, recommended to the Board the 
re-appointments of all Non-Executive Directors, carried out our annual 
review of the Board Diversity Policy and facilitated the evaluations of the 
Board and our Committees.
I conducted an internal evaluation of the Board and our Group Company 
Secretary evaluated each Committee. The results confirmed that the 
Board and Committees are effective and dedicated to best practise 
corporate governance.
I invite you to read more about our work in the following report.
Neil Janin
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
13 April 2017
THE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in ensuring that the 
Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the 
responsibilities of Directors, having regard to the highest standards of 
governance, the strategic direction of the Group and diversity aspirations 
of the Board. We also help to ensure that the Group appoints excellent 
executive managers capable of successfully executing the Group’s 
strategic objectives. 
In summary, the Nomination Committee is responsible for:
• Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees to 
ensure they are appropriately constituted and balanced in terms of 
size, skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
• Identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board based 
on clearly set criteria which takes into account the skills, experience 
and diversity required by the Board, and the attributes required  
of Directors.
• Developing succession plans for the Chairman, CEO, Non-Executive 
Directors and key executive managerial roles.
• Evaluating the suitability of Directors standing for election and 
re-election at the AGM.
• Evaluating the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and time 
required from Non-Executive Directors.
• Organising the process for the annual Board and Committee 
effectiveness reviews and implementing any plan required to address 
issues identified.
• Preparing the report by the Nomination Committee to be included in 
the Annual Report.
The Nomination Committee’s full Terms of Reference are available on our 
website, http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/nomination-committee-terms-
of-reference-2.pdf.
NEIL JANIN
CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
Planning for our future in the best interests of our shareholders 87 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
COMPOSITION AND MEMBERS’ MEETING ATTENDANCE
The members’ attendance during 2016 is provided below.
Member Attendance
Number of 
meetings attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Neil Janin 100%
David Morrison 100%
Al Breach 100%
Kim Bradley 100%
Tamaz Georgadze 100%
Hanna Loikkanen 100%
Kaha Kiknavelidze
1
67%
Bozidar Djelic
2
100%
1 Retired 6 September 2016.
2 Retired 15 December 2016.
The biographies of the members of the 
Nomination Committee are set out on  
pages 75 to 77.
In order to get the right balance of skills and knowledge on our Board, 
the Nomination Committee keeps Board composition under review 
throughout the year. Each year, we ask our Board members to provide 
feedback on the skills, expertise and performance of the other Board 
members as well as re-evaluate their own skills. For each Non-Executive 
Director the Nomination Committee reviews the time commitment 
required by him or her, taking into account any external directorships, 
length of service as well as independence of character and integrity. It 
then recommends to the Board whether each Non-Executive should be 
re-appointed. The Nomination Committee reported to the Board that it 
believes the overall size and composition of the Board to be appropriate 
and recommended that each Non-Executive Director be re-appointed. 
BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY
Our Board embraces diversity in all its forms. Diversity of skills, 
background, experience, knowledge, outlook, approach, gender, 
nationality and ethnicity, amongst other factors, will be taken into 
consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board. 
Diversity is not always an easily measured characteristic, such as gender. 
Diversity of outlook and approach is hard to measure but may be equally 
as important. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Board appointment will 
always be made based on merit. 
We have noted the recommendation in Lord Davies’ final report on 
women on boards that a target of 33% female board representation be 
achieved by FTSE 350 companies by 2021. The Board aims to increase 
the number of women on the Board to two by mid-2018 and further 
increase this number thereafter.
BOARD RECRUITMENT AND APPOINTMENT PROCESS
The Board has formal, thorough and transparent procedures in place for 
Board recruitment and appointment. As mentioned above, our goal is to 
ensure that the Board is well balanced and appropriate for the needs of 
the business. The Nomination Committee has regard to the Board’s 
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity. 
In identifying suitable candidates, we typically first seek recommendations 
from trusted advisors but may also use open advertising or external search 
services to facilitate the recruitment. We carefully assess each candidate, 
taking into account our Board Diversity Policy, and take care that 
appointees have enough time available to devote to the position.
Shortlisted candidates are generally seen first by the Chairman, the 
BGEO CEO and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. If the 
selection process progresses further, each potential candidate is invited 
to meet other members of the Nomination Committee as well as 
members of management. We then decide whether to recommend  
the candidate be appointed as an advisor to the Board. It is our usual 
practise to appoint a Board candidate as an advisor prior to offering  
an appointment to the Board. While an advisor to the Board, he or she  
may be recommended for a Committee appointment. The Nomination 
Committee will agree whether to recommend the advisor for 
appointment to the Board. The Board will ultimately resolve whether  
to make the suggested appointment.
SUCCESSION PLANNING
In 2016, we actively recruited a Board member with accounting and/or 
auditing experience in order to complement the skills identified as 
necessary for the Board and Audit Committee. 
Last year, we received the names of various candidates from our trusted 
advisors and shortlisted various candidates with accounting and/or 
auditing experience as well as other complementary skills to our Board.  
The shortlisted candidates were seen by Neil Janin, Irakli Gilauri and 
David Morrison in London in October 2016 and the preferred candidate, 
Jonathan Muir, was invited to speak with/meet other members of the 
Nomination Committee as well as members of management. We then 
decided to recommend Mr Muir as an advisor to the Board and as a 
member of the Audit Committee in line with our appointment policy,  
with a view to decide whether to recommend him for a Non-Executive 
Directorship in 2017. The Committee and the Board were confident in 
the selection of Mr Muir for the role and did not need to use advertising 
or an external search agency to assist with the recruitment.
The Nomination Committee is always mindful of its Diversity Policy when 
recruiting. We considered female candidates for the role, but ultimately 
determined that Mr Muir was the best candidate for the role based on merit.
With respect to management succession planning, we further 
strengthened our executive management team across the Group in 2016  
in line with our evolving business and strategic objectives. 
In September 2016, Kaha Kiknavelidze stepped down from the Board to 
accept the appointment as CEO of the Bank, replacing Murtaz Kikoria. 
Mr Kikoria resigned from the Bank to pursue a position within the 
Government. In addition to his Company Board and Committee roles 
prior to becoming the Bank's CEO, Mr Kiknavelidze served on the 
Supervisory Board and Audit Committee of the Bank since 2008. His 
financial experience and knowledge of Bank strategy and operations 
combined with his strong relationships with Bank management, made 
Mr Kiknavelidze the ideal choice to take over from Mr Kikoria.  88 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
In order to complement the strategy of splitting our Retail Banking 
business into two different directions (mass retail/emerging retail and 
MSME/Solo) due to significant y-o-y growth, we implemented the 
following changes: 
• David Tsiklauri was appointed Deputy CEO (Corporate and 
Investment Banking).
• Mikheil Gomarteli was appointed as Deputy CEO of Express Bank 
(emerging retail segment) and Bank of Georgia brand operations 
(mass retail segment); Mr Gomarteli served as Deputy CEO (Retail 
Banking) prior to this appointment.
• Ramaz Kukuladze was appointed Deputy CEO of MSME and 
Premium Retail Banking (Solo).
In 2016, we also strengthened our executive management structure in 
each Investment Business. 
We made the following key appointments:
• Archil Gachechiladze was appointed as the CEO of Georgia Global 
Utilities (GGU), the utility and energy business of the Group; 
Mr Gachechiladze served as Deputy CEO (Corporate and Investment 
Banking) prior to the GGU appointment. 
• New executive management were hired for each of GHG's 
ambulatory and pharma businesses.
• New CFOs were appointed for each of m
2
 Real Estate and  
Teliani Valley. 
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
We are committed to talent development programmes and initiatives 
within the Group. We increase the skills of our existing executive 
managers and develop a pipeline of new executive, senior and middle 
managers through coaching, mentoring and leadership programmes.  
We continue to expand our programme y-o-y to include management at 
lower levels. Career progression is tangible if s/he has the right mindset 
and work ethic. The Board also met with members of middle 
management throughout the year.
Our talent development programmes have also been embedded in our 
culture, which is characterised by:
• Transparency
• Viewing oneself as part of a team of leaders
• Helping each other to succeed
• Honest feedback 
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW
It is the Nomination Committee’s responsibility to organise the Board, 
Committee and individual Director performance reviews. Our three-year 
performance evaluation cycle is now well established and operates 
effectively in assessing the performance of the Board and its Committees 
as well as individual Directors. As we are in the third year of our three-year 
performance evaluation cycle, the 2016 performance evaluation was an 
internal process led by me and our Group Company Secretary. We start 
our cycle again this year which means that comprehensive external reviews 
will be performed in respect of 2017 and 2018.
This year's Nomination Committee review by our Group Company 
Secretary principally addressed how effectively the Nomination 
Committee reviews the composition of the Board and the Board 
Committees as well as how the Nomination Committee develops and 
implements succession plans for both the Board and executive 
management. The evaluation concluded that the Nomination Committee 
continues to operate and perform effectively. 
Our priorities for 2017 are:
• Continue to develop Board and management succession plans in line 
with the Group's mid and long-term strategic objectives
• Continue to actively recruit in accordance with our Diversity Policy
• Keep Board composition under review as strategy evolves
• Further enhance access to talent management programmes
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 89 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
During the year, the Committee continued to support the Board in its 
assessment of the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting. The 
establishment of the Group Technical Accounting Team (our IFRS desk) 
in 2016 was a key achievement for the Group, further strengthening our 
financial reporting internal controls.
The Committee also devoted significant time assessing our risk management 
framework and internal controls to comply with the latest edition of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code effective 1 January 2017. The effectiveness 
of our IT and information security controls remained a principal area of focus, 
particularly in respect of evolving cyber-security risks.
Provisions for loan losses an accounting for complex and one-off 
transactions continued to occupy a significant portion of our time.
As the regulatory environment applicable to Audit Committees continued to 
evolve in 2016, we received continuing education in relation to the changes 
introduced by EU Audit Reform, the latest edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules. 
We revised our Non-Audit Services Policy at the end of the year and 
carefully assessed the effectiveness of our external auditor. 
The composition of the Audit Committee has been refreshed with three 
new appointees and one retirement.
I invite you to read about the operations and other main activities of the 
Committee in the pages that follow.
David Morrison
Chairman of the Audit Committee
13 April 2017
COMPOSITION AND OPERATIONS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
As mentioned in my letter, membership in the Audit Committee has been 
refreshed since last year. In 2016:
• Hanna Loikkanen was appointed in March
• Kaha Kiknavelidze resigned in September upon his appointment  
as CEO of the Bank
• Tamaz Georgadze was appointed later in September
At the end of 2016, the Audit Committee comprised four independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
The members’ attendance during 2016 is provided on the next page.
Effective 1 January 2017, the Board appointed Jonathan Muir to serve 
as an advisor to the Board and member of the Committee. Since his 
appointment, Mr Muir has participated in meetings and actions of the 
Committee, including the finalisation of the Annual Report and Accounts, 
and has assisted the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities. 
Each member has recent and relevant financial experience and Mr Muir, 
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and 
Wales, also has accounting and auditing experience. The members of 
the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial 
and commercial experience needed for the Committee to fulfil its duties 
and the Committee is well placed to continue its oversight and 
governance role in the year ahead.
The biographies of the members of the Audit 
Committee are set out on pages 75 to 77.
The Audit Committee works to a planned programme of activities 
focused on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and 
standing items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference 
(updated on 15 December 2016), but also reacts to business 
developments. Our meetings are regularly attended by the CFO of JSC 
BGEO Group and the Bank, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Internal 
Control, Security and AML Compliance and Risk departments, Chief  
Risk Officer of the Bank and occasionally by Irakli Gilauri, (BGEO and 
JSC BGEO Group CEO), and Bank CEOs. The external auditor also 
attends the regularly scheduled Audit Committee meetings. Separately, 
we had regular private sessions with the heads of Internal Audit and 
Internal Control, Security and AML Compliance departments and  
the external auditor. These sessions, which are not attended by 
management, allow us to discuss any issues of concern in more detail 
and directly with the audit teams. From time to time, other members of 
management are invited to attend meetings in order to provide a deeper 
level of insight into key issues and developments.
DAVID MORRISON
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Upholding integrity, transparency and accountability 90 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
Member attendance
Number of 
meetings attended
% of meetings 
attended
David Morrison 100%
Kim Bradley 100%
Hanna Loikkanen 100%
Tamaz Georgadze 100%
Kaha Kiknavelidze
1
88%
1 Retired 6 September 2016.
Meetings of the Audit Committee take place prior to the Board meeting 
in order for the Audit Committee to report its activities and matters of 
particular relevance to the Board.
Mr Morrison attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions 
that may be raised on the Audit Committee’s activities.
KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee safeguards high standards 
of integrity and oversees conduct in financial reporting, internal control 
and risk management (together with the Risk Committee) and internal 
audit. It also supervises the work of our external auditor. The Audit 
Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities 
and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which have been 
accepted during the year.
The primary roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include:
FINANCIAL REPORTING
• Monitoring the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any 
formal announcements relating to the Company’s performance before 
recommending them for approval by the Board
• Reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies  
and practices
• Evaluating material areas in which estimates and judgements have 
been applied and reviewing the appropriateness of the financial 
reporting judgements made
• Monitoring significant issues that have been discussed with the 
external auditor and any significant adjustments resulting from  
the audit
• Assessing the clarity, consistency and completeness of disclosure, 
including compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant 
financial and governance requirements 
• Reviewing and challenging the going concern assumption and the 
viability statement 
• Informing the Board of the outcome of the Group’s external audit and 
explaining its contribution to the integrity of financial reporting
Narrative reporting
• At the Board’s request, reviewing the content of the Annual Report 
and Accounts and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, 
it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy 
• At the Board’s request, assisting in relation to the Board’s assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group and the prospects of the  
Group for the purposes of disclosures required in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 
Internal financial controls
• Ensuring that there are clearly defined lines of accountability and 
delegation of authority
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial controls, 
including the policies and overall process for assessing established 
systems of internal financial control and timeliness and effectiveness 
of corrective action taken by management
Compliance
• Assisting the Board to review the permissibility of and monitor 
conflicts of interests
• Overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and controls for:
 – Preventing bribery and corruption
 – Identifying money laundering
 – Safeguarding the Group’s arrangements for whistleblowing
Operational risk
• Monitoring various areas of operational risk, including overseeing the 
Group’s policies, procedures and controls and investigating control 
weaknesses and management’s response to such findings in  
respect of:
 – IT and information security (including cyber-security)
 – Corporate security and similar areas of operational risk 
 – Internal and external fraud or misconduct
Internal audit
• Monitoring and reviewing the role, effectiveness and independence of 
the Group’s internal audit function in the context of the Group’s overall 
financial risk management system 
External audit
• Overseeing the relationship with the Group’s external auditor, 
including reporting to the Board each year whether it considers the 
audit contract should be put out to tender, adhering to any legal 
requirements for tendering or rotation of the audit services contract 
as appropriate
• Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor's objectivity and 
independence; agreeing the external auditor’s scope of work and fees 
paid for the audit
• Assessing the effectiveness of the audit process
• Agreeing the policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services
The 2016 Audit Committee’s full Terms of Reference (updated 
15 December 2017) are available on our website at http://bgeo.com/
uploads/pages/bgeo-audit-committee-terms-of-reference-
december-2016-82.pdf. 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
A principal responsibility of the Audit Committee is to consider the 
significant areas of complexity, management judgement and estimation 
that have been applied in the preparation of the financial statements. 
The Committee received detailed reporting from the external auditor in 
respect of key areas of audit focus during the year. The Committee and 
the external auditor, without management present, discussed the key 
areas of audit focus, the suitability of the accounting policies which have 
been adopted and whether management’s key reporting estimates and 
judgements were appropriate. Taking into account the external auditor’s 
assessment of risk, but also using our own independent knowledge  
of the Group, we reviewed and challenged where necessary, the  
actions, estimates and judgements of management in relation to the 
financial statements.  91 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
The significant financial judgements considered by the Audit Committee 
in relation to the financial statements are addressed below.
APPROPRIATENESS OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
In 2016, we continued to scrutinise the appropriateness of the allowance 
for loan losses. As mentioned in last year’s Annual Report, the Bank 
introduced a new loan loss provisioning methodology on 1 January 
2014, which was developed in consultation with Deloitte. This 
provisioning methodology, which the Bank continued to use in 2016, is 
based on a statistical assessment of probability of default and loss given 
default. The Bank uses a loan loss provisioning methodology based on  
a combination of collective provisioning and individual provisioning based 
on discounted cash flow analyses. 
In 2016, the depreciation of the Lari led to a modest increase in our 
Banking Business credit risk. In response, provisioning levels were 
increased to account mainly for the increased post-devaluation risk. The 
main judgements in respect of the appropriateness of the allowance for 
loan losses involved the timing of the recognition of any given impairment 
and the size of the loan loss. Throughout the year, management reported 
on the Bank’s principal borrowers as well as on the largest impaired  
and non-performing loans. Management also reported to us on the 
methodologies used for identifying assets at risk, categorising the loan 
portfolio and determining provisioning rates, as well as the key assumptions 
applied in calculating the provisions for loan losses. In connection with 
these reports, we challenged the underlying assumptions made by 
management with respect to individually and collectively impaired loans 
and the system of controls to prevent and detect errors in the estimation 
for loan losses. 
In conclusion, we were satisfied that the impairment provisions were 
appropriate. The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set  
out in Note 29 of the consolidated financial statements.
VALUATION OF OWN PREMISES AND INVESTMENT 
PROPERTIES, HOSPITALS AND CLINICS
We received reports from management on the assumptions to be used 
in valuing the Group’s premises and investment properties. The Group 
engaged Colliers International Georgia (Colliers), an independent external 
valuer, to value the top five largest items across land and buildings and 
investment properties, covering approximately 28% of our portfolio as 
well as to provide detailed market overview reports describing price 
developments in residential, development land, office, hotel and retail 
property markets in 2016 compared to 2015 in key locations (Tbilisi, 
Batumi, Kutaisi, etc.), covering approximately 85% of our portfolio. With 
respect to land and buildings, the valuation confirmed that any change  
in value was insignificant. In 2016, our subsidiary, Georgia Healthcare 
Group engaged an independent external valuer to appraise 45 of its 
hospitals and clinics as well as land and office buildings. Management 
presented the results of the external valuation to the Committee. In 
respect of its hospitals and clinics, the appraisal value was approximately 
GEL 20 million higher than historical value. We discussed the results  
of the reports and EY findings, who tested the valuation reports as part 
of their audit.
We scrutinised and challenged management’s assumptions and 
judgements and were satisfied with the conclusions reached by 
management. The disclosures relating to the valuation of own premises 
and investment properties are set out in Note 30 of the consolidated 
financial statements.
In addition to the significant financial judgements discussed above, we 
also discussed accounting and financial reporting matters relating to: 
• Accounting for one-off and complex transactions including business 
combinations (GGU and GPC acquisitions) and the accounting for the 
restructuring of the Group's exposure to its largest borrower
• Revenue recognition in our healthcare and pharmaceutical businesses
• The change in functional currency of m
2
 Real Estate from Lari to Dollar
• The classification of non-recurring income and expenses 
• Changes in tax treatment of profit distributed as dividends and profit 
which is undistributed and reinvested
• The implementation timetables of IFRS 9, 15 and 16
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Audit Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, to oversee 
the Internal Audit department, which serves as the Group’s independent 
assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems and 
processes of risk management and control across the Group. 
The Audit Committee monitors the scope, extent and effectiveness of 
the Group’s Internal Audit function. We review and approve the Internal 
Audit Policy and oversee the Internal Audit Plan, which is designed  
using a risk-based approach which is aligned with the overall strategy  
of the Group.
In 2016, Internal Audit assignments covered a wide range of financial 
reporting and operational controls, IT and IS systems and risk 
management processes. Internal audits of the Group risk management 
framework, including compliance processes, materially significant 
transactions, reliability of information for decision-making and retail 
banking activities were identified as the highest priority. Throughout the 
year, we received regular reports from Internal Audit on its audit activities 
and significant findings as well as the corrective measures recommended 
to management. We also reviewed and monitored management’s 
responsiveness to the corrective measures through follow-up reports 
provided by Internal Audit. 
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee  
and the opportunity to discuss matters with the Audit Committee without 
other members of management present. We also monitor the staffing  
of the Internal Audit department as well as the relevant qualifications  
and experience of the team – in 2016, we approved an increase in 
budget to ensure that senior staffing needs were met and provide best 
practice continuing education and training.
We reviewed Internal Audit’s self-assessment of its performance and 
independently formed our own view of the Internal Audit department by 
considering the progress of internal audit against the agreed plan, taking 
into account the need to respond to changes in the Group’s business 
and the external environment. We also considered the quality of the 
reporting by Internal Audit to the Audit Committee and the ability of 
Internal Audit to address unsatisfactory results. On this basis, we 
concluded that the Internal Audit function is effective and respected by 
management and conforms to the standards set by the Institute of 
Internal Auditors. 
EXTERNAL AUDIT
With respect to our responsibilities for the external audit process on 
behalf of the Board, we:
• Approve the annual audit plan, which includes setting the areas  
of responsibility, scope of the audit and key risks identified
• Oversee the audit engagement, including the degree to which the 
external auditor was able to assess key accounting and audit judgement
• Review the findings of the external audit with the external auditor, 
including the level of errors identified during the audit
• Monitor management’s responsiveness to the external auditor’s 
findings and recommendations 
• Review the content of the management letter issued by the  
external auditor
• Review the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditor
• Monitor the external auditor’s independence, objectivity and 
compliance with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements
• Review audit fees and the cost effectiveness of the audit 
• Monitor the rotation of key partners in accordance with applicable 
legislation 
• Recommend the appointment, re-appointment or removal,  
as applicable, of the external auditor 92 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
AUDIT TENDER AND LEAD AUDIT PARTNER ROTATION
EY was appointed as our Group statutory auditor by shareholders at our 
2012 AGM, following a competitive tender process. The Group will be 
required to put the external audit contract out to tender no later than 2022. 
We continue to review the auditor appointment and consider the 
opportune time to tender the audit. The Committee confirms compliance 
with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the year ended 
31 December 2016. 
Following the retirement of Andrew McIntyre upon completion of the 
2015 audit, EY appointed John Headley as our lead audit partner.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation 
and monitoring of the policies and procedures on the use of the external 
auditor for non-audit services, which help to ensure that the external 
auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity. 
In 2016, we revised our policy on the use of the external auditor to 
provide non-audit services, in accordance with applicable laws and 
taking into account the relevant ethical guidance for auditors. Any 
non-audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor now requires 
authorisation by Audit Committee upon recommendation by the Group 
Chief Financial Officer except in very narrow circumstances. The policy 
on non-audit services also requires that fees incurred, or to be incurred, 
for non-audit services both individually and in aggregate, do not exceed 
any limits in applicable law and take into account the relevant ethical 
guidance for auditors. The Group’s current Policy on Non-Audit Services 
was revised and approved in December 2016 and can be found on our 
website at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/bgeo-policy-on-nonaudit-
services-22.pdf.
The Audit Committee has formally assessed the independence of EY , which 
included review of: (i) a report from EY describing their arrangements to 
identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and their policies and 
procedures for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with 
relevant requirements; and (ii) the value of non-audit services provided by 
EY. EY has also confirmed its independence throughout the year, within the 
meaning of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their 
professional standards. The total fees paid to EY for the year ended 
31 December 2016 were GEL 4.73 million of which GEL 680,000 related to 
work other than the audit or review of the interim accounts. Approximately 
81% of the these services provided in 2016 were related to the issuance  
of Eurobonds by JSC BGEO Group, with the remainder relating to the 
provision of comfort letters for creditor covenants, preparation of a transfer 
pricing report, agreed upon procedures related to the BNB share 
acquisition and estimation methodology in respect of greenhouse gas 
emissions. Both EY and the Audit Committee do not consider that this 
work compromises the independence of the external auditor.
EFFECTIVENESS
We have an established framework for assessing the effectiveness of the 
external audit process. This includes:
• A review of the audit plan, including the materiality level set by the 
auditor and the process they have adopted to identify financial 
statement risks and key areas of audit focus
• Regular communications between the external auditor and both the 
Committee and management, including discussion of regular papers 
prepared by EY
• Regular discussions with EY (without management present) and 
management (without EY present) in order to discuss the external 
audit process
• A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor 
judgement and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached
• A review of EY’s 2016 Transparency Report and the annual FRC  
Audit Quality Inspection Report of EY
• A formal questionnaire issued to all Committee members and 
executive management of the Group who are involved in the audit 
(including internal audit) which covers among other items the quality 
of the audit and audit team, the audit planning approach and 
execution, the presence and capabilities of the lead audit partner, the 
audit team’s communication with the Committee and management 
and the auditor’s independence and objectivity
Following our assessment of the external auditor, we formed our own 
judgement (which was consistent with management’s view) and reported 
to the Board that:
• The audit team was sound and reliable, providing high-quality 
execution and service
• The quality of the audit work was of a high standard
• EY’s independence and objectivity were affirmed 
• EY was in a position to challenge management on its approach to 
key judgements
• Appropriate discussions were held with the Audit Committee during 
the audit planning process
We have sought assurance and are comfortable that no undue pressure 
has been asserted on the level of audit fees so as to ensure that there is 
no risk to audit work being conducted effectively.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that EY be reappointed 
under the current external audit contract. EY has expressed its 
willingness to continue as auditor of the Group. Separate resolutions 
proposing its re-appointment and determination of its remuneration by 
the Audit Committee will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
WHISTLEBLOWING, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND ANTI-
BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
The Audit Committee ensures that there are effective procedures relating 
to whistleblowing. In particular, we have developed a Whistleblowing 
Policy which allows staff to confidentially raise any concerns about 
business practices. We keep this policy under review and receive regular 
updates from management as to any issues raised by employees. At the 
end of 2016, the Group acquired a license for Whistle B, an advanced 
independent whistleblowing reporting channel and case management 
tool, to replace its existing whistleblowing platform. Roll-out of Whistle B 
will be completed in Q2 2017.
We have also developed a Conflicts Authorisation Policy through which 
we assess actual and potential conflicts of interest and assist the Board 
in its review of the permissibility of such conflicts.
The Audit Committee also keeps under review the Group’s Anti-Bribery 
and Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures and receives reports from 
management on a regular basis in relation to any actual or potential 
wrong-doing. There were no significant findings in 2016.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Although the Board assumes the ultimate responsibility for the Group’s 
risk management and internal control framework, its work is supported 
by both our Committee and the Risk Committee. 
Since the Bank is the Group’s largest business and operates in the 
complex financial services sector, its risk management framework and 
internal control processes are key to that of the Group. 
See pages 40 to 45 for a discussion on Bank Risk Management. 
In relation to risk management and internal financial control, the Audit 
Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the controls over financial reporting and 
certain types of operational risk: IT and information security (including 
cyber-security), corporate security and similar areas of operational risk 
and internal and external fraud or misconduct. The Committee also 
monitors the Group’s compliance with the corporate governance policies 
and procedures related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, conflicts of 
interest and whistleblowing.
The Audit Committee is supported by a number of sources of internal 
assurance within the Group in order to discharge its responsibilities. This 
includes reports from and regular discussions with the Group executives 
with whom it regularly meets. We receive Internal Audit’s reports on the 
control environment and, as mentioned later in this report, we approve 
the Internal Audit Plan which is risk-based and aligned with the Group’s 
strategy. For 2016, the Internal Audit Plan included a thorough risk 
management and internal control assessment, including compliance with 
corporate governance policies and procedures. During 2016 and up to  93 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, Internal Audit did not find 
any significant weaknesses in risk management or internal controls.  
We challenged the reports by management and Internal Audit and 
requested data regarding the application of controls for various types  
of transactions affecting the relevant account balances in the financial 
statements as well as compliance with key policies and procedures 
related to operational risk. 
With respect to external assurance, the Audit Committee reviews the 
external auditor's reports to the Audit Committee, which include the 
external auditor's observations on risk management and internal financial 
controls identified as part of its audit. Without management present, the 
Committee and EY discussed the key areas of audit focus, the suitability  
of the accounting policies which have been adopted and whether 
management’s key reporting estimates and judgements were appropriate.
In 2016, our risk management and internal control processes continued 
to evolve in line with the strategy of the Group. Set out below are a few 
examples of changes made in 2016.
Finance
The finance department established an IFRS desk (Group Technical 
Accounting team), staffed by newly recruited experienced auditors from 
the big four accounting firms. In addition to involvement in an analysis  
of the appropriate accounting treatment for various complex or one-off 
transactions, the IFRS desk is in the process of implementing a new 
financial reporting control framework for the Group focused on: (i) risk 
identification, evaluation, treatment and reporting; (ii) the application  
of consistent accounting standards across the Group; and (iii) the 
establishment of materiality thresholds for transaction pre-approval and 
improved reporting. In respect of the treatment of complex and one-off 
transactions at the Bank, EY remarked that the procedures implemented 
represent a significant improvement in the risk management and internal 
control framework.
IT and information security systems
In respect of our IT and information security systems, the Group has 
increased its internal and external penetration testing, and added  
a whitelisting solution, in order to deny the execution of potentially 
malicious software and implemented “Privileged Access Monitoring”  
for employees with the highest privileged access to confidential and 
customer data. 
Regulatory compliance
Our Group compliance function was expanded in 2016 and new internal 
controls added. A Compliance Committee was established at the 
Georgian holding company level composed of the Group General 
Council, Group CFO, Head of PLC Legal and Compliance/Group 
Company Secretary, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Compliance Officer with 
the remit to standardise risk management and internal controls as well as 
provide additional oversight in relation to legal and regulatory compliance 
with various policies and procedures such as the Code of Conduct and 
Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Whistleblowing Policy 
across the Group’s material subsidiaries. An advanced independent 
whistleblowing reporting channel and case management tool, Whistle B, 
was purchased at the end of 2016 will be implemented in Q2 2017.  
In addition, development of a Group-wide online training platform began 
in 2016. Online training will cover the policies mentioned above as well 
as other topic such as conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering and 
personal data protections, risk management, among others. 
The Audit Committee has also considered and confirmed to the Board 
that its work is performed in accordance with the provisions in the Code 
and the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) associated Guidance on  
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting. Based on the above, we are satisfied that our overall internal 
control framework is effective. 
CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee received presentations and 
training from the PLC Legal and Compliance/Company Secretariat 
department in respect of recent EU Audit Reforms, amendments to the 
Companies Act 2006, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and 
UK Corporate Governance Code as well as revised FRC publications. 
Discussions principally focused on changes applicable to the Committee 
and its accountability and addressed: (i) Committee competence and 
composition; (ii) key judgments; (iii) risk management and internal control 
systems; (iv) internal audit; (v) non-audit services; and (vi) appointment  
of the external auditor and retendering. 
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with the Code, the Directors are required to assess the 
viability of the Group. In collaboration with the Risk Committee, we spent 
time considering the timeframe over which the viability statement should 
be made as well as an assessment underlying the period of coverage, 
which we agreed should be three years, which aligns with the the 
Group’s strategy and financial forecasts. In particular, we looked closely 
at: the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties, including those that will 
threaten its business model, future performance and solvency or liquidity; 
the current financial position of the Group, including future cash flows, 
allocated capital expenditure and funding requirements; future prospects; 
and downside stress testing. We discussed our analysis with the Risk 
Committee, management and full Board. 
The viability statement is set out on page 35.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING
Having been tasked by the Board to advise it, we examined the 2016 
Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether they are fair, balanced 
and understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model  
and strategy.
We did this by satisfying ourselves that there was a robust process of 
review and challenge at different levels within the Group to ensure 
balance and consistency. We reviewed several drafts of the 2016 Annual 
Report and Accounts and directly reviewed the overall messages and 
tone of the Annual Report with the CEOs and CFO. We also considered 
other information regarding the Group’s performance and business 
presented to the Board during the period, both from management and 
the external auditor. After consideration of all of this information, we are 
satisfied that, when taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts 
is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW 
An internal review was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.  
The evaluation principally addressed the composition of the Committee, 
internal financial reporting controls and the quality of financial reporting, 
the review and testing of the work of the internal and external auditors  
as well as the assessment of internal controls and risk management 
within the scope of Audit Committee responsibilities. The effectiveness 
evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate and 
perform effectively. 
Our priorities for 2017 include among others continued focus on:
• Areas of management judgment
• Complex and one-off transactions
• IT and information security
We will also be closely monitoring implementation progress of IFRS 9 
and its implications for our financial results and reporting. 94 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
KIM BRADLEY
CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE
Safeguarding shareholder value
RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Group’s Risk Committee Report. As our 
Group continues to grow, we continue to strengthen our risk management 
framework and internal controls. Effective risk management is critical to 
the achievement of our strategic objectives and the long-term success  
of the Group.
In 2016, we continued to assist the Board in setting the Group’s risk 
appetite and exposure in line with the Group’s strategic objectives and  
in making any necessary modifications as strategy evolves and when the 
risk environment changes. We also monitored the Group’s risk exposure 
and actions to address risk, which included oversight and support of our 
executive management risk team. 
We continued to work closely with the Audit Committee to ensure that 
our risk management framework and systems of internal control operate 
effectively and in compliance with the Code and FRC guidance. We also 
work through the processes supporting the assessment of the Group’s 
longer-term solvency and liquidity which underlie the viability statement.
As you will read in the following report, we followed through with each of 
the priorities we set for 2016. We continued to focus heavily on our loan 
portfolio and strategy to mitigate risks associated with the dollarisation  
of our loan book, the depreciation of the Lari and the concentration  
of borrowers.
I invite you to read more about our work in the following report.
Kim Bradley
Chairman of the Risk Committee
13 April 2017
KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
responsibilities in relation to the oversight of risk and to provide advice  
in relation to current and potential future risk exposures. This includes 
reviewing the Group’s risk appetite and risk profile and assessing  
the effectiveness of the risk management framework and systems  
of internal control. 
The key responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to: 
• Support the Board to ensure that risk appetite and exposure are 
addressed as part of strategy 
• Oversee the risk management infrastructure and process and  
its effectiveness
• Support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and the 
implementation of our strategy to address risk
• Oversee, support and evaluate the risk management roles of our 
executive management risk team 
• Encourage and ensure open and broad discussion on perceived risk 
concerns and responsive efforts to mitigate when necessary
• Assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management function in 
conjunction with the Audit Committee and the effectiveness of risk 
reporting within the Group
The principal risk categories overseen by the Risk Committee include 
reputational, geopolitical, macro-economic and market, liquidity and 
capital, credit and certain operational risks (other than those overseen  
by the Audit Committee) within the Group. As to credit risk, our focus  
is principally on forward-looking matters.
The Risk Committee’s full Terms of Reference are available on our 
website at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/risk-committee-terms-of-
reference2-48.pdf.  95 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
COMPOSITION OF THE RISK COMMITTEE AND MEETINGS
Our Risk Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non‑Executive 
Directors.
Membership of the Risk Committee was refreshed during 2016: Hanna 
Loikkanen was appointed to the Committee on 22 September 2016 
following the resignation of Kaha Kiknavelidze on 6 September 2016  
upon his appointment as CEO of the Bank. Bozidar Djelic retired from the 
Committee and the Board on 15 December 2016. At the end of 2016,  
the Risk Committee comprised four independent Non‑Executive Directors.
The members’ attendance during 2016 is provided below.
Member attendance
Number of  
meetings attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Kim Bradley 100%
Al Breach 100%
Tamaz Georgadze 100%
Hanna Loikkanen
1
100%
Kaha Kiknavelidze
2
50%
Bozidar Djeclic
3
100%
1 Appointed 22 September 2016. 
2 Retired 6 September 2016.
3 Retired 15 December 2016.
The biographies of the members of the Risk Committee are 
set out on pages 75 to 77.
Our meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, BGEO and JSC BGEO Group CEO, 
Bank CEO, JSC BGEO Group and Bank CFO, Chief Risk Officer and 
occasionally by our head of Internal Audit and our external auditor.  
From time to time, other members of management are invited to attend 
meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues and 
developments. 
In addition, non‑Committee Board members are also invited to attend.  
At several meetings, most members of the Board were present. Although 
not appointed until September, Ms Loikkanen attended every Committee 
meeting in 2016. 
At each meeting, the Risk Committee receives detailed reporting which 
provides an analysis of: the Group’s overall risk profile using both 
quantitative models and risk analytics, loan portfolio dynamics, key risk 
exposures and management actions, performance against risk appetite, 
the emerging and potential risks the Group may face, the drivers of risk 
throughout the Group as well as analyses of down‑side stress testing 
scenarios. The underlying assumptions, methodology applied and results 
of such stress testing are challenged by the Risk Committee. Early in 
2016, we requested management to implement several changes to its 
loan portfolio dynamics reporting, which was done quickly.
Meetings of the Risk Committee take place prior to the Board meeting  
in order for the Risk Committee to report its activities and matters of 
particular relevance to the Board.
RISK COMMITTEE FOCUS DURING 2016
We continued to focus on our remit as set out above. As mentioned  
in last year’s Annual Report, our 2016 priorities were to closely monitor 
our strategy to reduce both our corporate loan book exposure and 
operational risks in our Investment Business as well as continue to focus 
on loan quality in relation to our Dollar‑denominated loan book. We 
monitored the risks associated with each of these priorities and adapted 
our risk management strategies as macro‑economic conditions changed 
due the depreciation of the Lari.
OUR LOAN BOOK
Macroeconomic conditions in Georgia during the year were affected by 
low economic growth within the region, commodity price fluctuations 
and the depreciation of the Lari, particularly in Q4 and against the Dollar. 
The Group saw an increase in NPLs and changes in debt‑service 
coverage ratios with respect to Dollar‑denominated loans covered by Lari 
income as a result of these conditions, which in turn increased our cost 
of credit risk. We monitored this very closely and on several occasions 
conducted credit‑specific reviews on the top 20 corporate exposures, 
both in formal Committee meetings as well as on informal interim calls 
with management. We worked closely with management throughout  
the year to formulate strategies to mitigate risk which included the 
continued drive to increase local currency loans. In 2016, Retail Banking 
successfully increased its local currency loans by nearly 20% between 
2015 and 2016. 
Despite approximately 83.3% of our corporate loan book being 
denominated in Dollars, more than 47.5% of customers with Dollar loans 
have income in Dollars. The vast majority of our corporate customers 
were able to continue servicing their loans although one our largest 
corporate borrowers experienced financial difficultly in the second half of 
the year due to concurrent weakening of product sales prices combined 
with a decline in commodity prices, resulting in the full restructuring of 
the debt and continuous monitoring of the status of the borrower’s 
business. The borrower is currently operating profitably leading to no 
additional provisioning of our loan receivable.
We closely monitored NPL levels and management actions to assure 
adequate coverage of our loan loss exposure. Our NPL coverage ratio 
was successfully increased from 83.4% as of 31 December 2015 to 
86.7% as of 31 December. 
Throughout the year, we also monitored managements’ implementation 
of the corporate loan book risk de‑concentration strategy and we were 
pleased that management continued to deliver on this strategy by 
reducing the concentration of our top ten Corporate and Investment 
Business clients to 11.8% at the end of 2016, down from 12.7% at the 
end of 2015. On the overall balance sheet level, the risk de‑concentration 
strategy involves a focus on retail versus corporate credit growth as well 
as our previously communicates steps to increase overall NPL coverage 
ratio. On the specific corporate level, our de‑concentration measures 
include reducing our corporate guaranty exposure to certain sectors and 
focus on further developing out corporate credit syndication activities. 
This strategy takes time and corporate credit risk reduction will remain 
one of our risk priorities in 2017. 96 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
RISK MANAGEMENT
As our strategy evolves and our businesses grow, we need to continue 
evaluating the design, completeness and effectiveness of the risk 
management framework and systems of internal controls to support 
managements’ implementation of new changes and continued 
enhancements to ensure that the needs of our businesses are covered 
through a robust framework, which complies with the Code and FRC 
guidance in respect of risk management and internal controls. 
During the year, we prioritised review of the frameworks and controls  
in place in our Investment Business. At our meeting in September, we 
were presented with a comprehensive review of the risk management 
framework and systems of internal control of Georgia Global Utilities 
Limited (GGU), our utility and energy business. We had acquired the 
remaining equity interests of GGU in July. Both the CEO and CFO of 
GGU presented us with an in-depth look into the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the GGU business, the key drivers of those risks, 
current controls in place to identify, assess and report the risks as well  
as future plans to amend and enhance the current framework.  
GGU management also gave us insight into expected risk exposure over 
the short to medium term. We and the Board will continue to support 
and oversee GGU managements’ changes to the framework in line with 
best practise going forward.
We continued to assist formulating the Group viability statement in 
conjunction with the Audit Committee and management. The viability 
statement can be found on page 35.
We also carefully reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties disclosure 
and other relevant risk management disclosures for inclusion in this 
Annual Report. 
An overview of our risk management framework is set out on 
pages 34 to 35. 
A description of these principal risks and uncertainties, in addition to 
recent trends and outlook, as well as mitigation efforts can be found on 
pages 36 to 39. 
An overview of the Bank risk management framework is set out on 
pages 40 to 45.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW 
An internal review was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.  
The evaluation principally addressed questions on whether the Risk 
Committee’s coverage was aligned with both the Group’s strategy and 
current economic conditions as well as oversight effectiveness with 
regards to the Group’s risks teams and management.
The effectiveness evaluation concluded that the Committee continues  
to operate and perform effectively. 
Our priorities for 2017 include a continued focus on reducing our overall 
corporate credit exposure and Dollar-denominated loan book, and 
insuring that our risk teams within the Bank as well as our Investment 
Business execute on their objectives. On the macro-economic front,  
we are focusing on various interest rate and currency scenarios given  
the strengthening Dollar and expected interest rate increases by the 
Federal Reserve. In addition to our regional geo-political discussions,  
we are also monitoring any policy shifts towards the region following the 
2016 US elections. 
RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 97 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The Company has a comprehensive shareholder engagement 
programme and maintains an open and transparent dialogue with 
existing and potential shareholders, a responsibility that the Company 
takes very seriously. 
The Board’s primary contact with institutional shareholders is through  
the Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Directors, CEO and Head of 
Investor Relations, each of whom provide a standing invitation  
to shareholders to meet and discuss any matters they wish to raise.  
Our Committee Chairmen also make themselves available to answer 
questions from investors.
We formally communicate with our shareholders via our AGM, Annual 
Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and Interim Management 
Statements. These are supported by a combination of presentations  
and telephone briefings. Over the course of the year, we met with over 
300 institutional investors, and participated in more than 20 investor 
conferences and road shows around the world. Throughout the year,  
our Directors and management met with shareholders in the United 
Kingdom, Europe, the United States and South Africa. 
In November 2016, BGEO hosted an investor day in Tbilisi, which  
was open to all investors and analysts. This investor day provided the 
opportunity for investors to receive an update from the Board and 
executive management on strategy and performance as well as meet 
informally with Board members and raise matters of interest. BGEO  
was pleased to host 50 investors and analysts at our investor day.
In addition to our shareholders, we meet and present to analysts 
throughout the year, hold regular meetings with the Group’s existing 
lenders and actively engage with potential lenders to discuss our  
funding strategy. Our Group Company Secretary also has ongoing 
communication with the shareholders’ advisory groups.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Board 
understands the views of major stakeholders. The full Board is regularly 
kept informed of these views by the Chairman as well as executive 
management and the Investor Relations team and, to the extent deemed 
appropriate, issues raised at these meetings have been adopted by the 
Group. Informal feedback from analysts and the Group’s corporate 
advisors is also shared with the Board.
Our website, www.bgeo.com, provides our stakeholders with access the 
Group’s results, press releases, investor presentations, analyst reports, 
details on our corporate governance and corporate and social 
responsibility framework, our leadership, as well as other information 
relevant to our stakeholders. We also ensure that shareholders can 
access details of the Group’s results and other news releases through 
the London Stock Exchange’s Regulatory News Service.
Fostering open and honest communication 98 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and on behalf of the 
Board, I am pleased to present our Directors’ Remuneration Report for 
2016 comprising this statement, our Remuneration Policy that will be 
presented to our shareholders for approval at our AGM and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration. 
In 2016 and early 2017, the Remuneration Committee devoted 
considerable time to a review of our Policy, which included a pay review 
for our Non-Executive Directors. Because we aim to ensure that the 
entire executive management team is focused on the long-term and 
remunerated in a way that aligns directly with the shareholders, the 
structure of the Policy as it applies to our Executive Directors will apply 
equally to executive management below the Board level, even though 
outside of the scope of the Policy. I should also say that throughout our 
process we have engaged with our major shareholders and are pleased 
to report that we expect the 2017 Policy to be strongly supported.
The Committee also made its annual determination of the discretionary 
remuneration for our CEO, Irakli Gilauri, and the other executive 
management in respect of 2016. 
The priorities set for 2017 were also advanced by the Committee. With 
respect to executive management below the Board, we helped to set 
expanded self-development and mentoring KPIs and enhanced the 
scope of management performance evaluation.
REMUNERATION POLICY 
BACKGROUND
Our Policy was originally designed and implemented in Georgia in 2010, 
during the period immediately after the financial crisis when many of  
the remuneration practises and traditions in banking were being heavily 
criticised. Among these practices were significant cash bonuses for 
executives, which unfortunately too often rewarded short-term results 
and promoted excessive risk-taking at stakeholder expense. In 2010,  
the Bank was already the market leader in Georgia but had barely 
reached its potential. In order to deliver increased shareholder return,  
the Bank needed to grow organically as well as capture new growth 
opportunities. In order to recruit new management as well as retain  
both existing and new talent, the structure provided the opportunity  
to offer more competitive remuneration over the long-term to those  
who believed in the business and its potential, and wanted to be part  
of the growth story.
The Policy was defined by two key principles:
1. When our shareholders realise value over the long-term, so should 
our Executives.
2. Our business is built on human capital – it will only reach its potential 
if we attract and retain the best talent available.
An executive’s remuneration package pursuant to the Policy (later 
approved by shareholders in 2014) comprises: 
Salary 
• Payable predominantly in the form of long-term deferred shares  
(five years), complemented by a modest cash sum
• Amounts are fixed in a three-year contract and paid annually
Performance-based remuneration
• Solely in deferred shares and dependent on Group performance and 
the executive achieving KPIs for the year
• No LTIP
Pension and benefit
• Provided but form a very small part of a remuneration package
• No cash bonuses
Vesting conditions apply to all deferred shares. Both long-term deferred 
salary shares and deferred discretionary shares may cease to vest in 
certain circumstances such a dismissal or resignation when the Executive 
does not depart on good terms with the Group. 
2017 REMUNERATION POLICY 
At the beginning of the Policy review process, the Committee first set its 
objectives for the Policy, which are:
• Attract and retain the best talent available to execute our strategy and 
meet our business objectives
• Incentivise executives to focus on the Group’s sustainable, long-term 
performance and genuine value creation for our shareholders
• Support our corporate culture which focuses executives on team 
performance which creates value (for both shareholders and the 
executives) when the whole enterprise thrives long-term
• Keep it simple and transparent
“ Our Policy was and continues to be innovative and 
unique – remuneration is dominated by deferred 
shares. By heavily weighting remuneration in the form 
of deferred shares, executives are incentivised to 
create value over the long-term. The use of deferred 
shares also guards against executives taking risks 
that endanger the long-term stability of the business.”
AL BREACH
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Annual Statement  99 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
The Committee then carefully analysed the 2014 Policy against its 
objectives. The Committee also reviewed the historical executive and 
Group performance outcomes to assess whether the Policy had 
supported achievement of strategy and business objectives.
As a result of this process, the Remuneration Committee is reaffirming its 
commitment to the principal tenets of our 2014 Policy, with the following 
three changes:
1. The vesting period for discretionary shares has been increased from 
two to three years.
2. For Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity has been fixed at 75% of total 
salary (an increase from 50% under the 2014 Policy). 
3. An Executive Director may work for any of our principal subsidiaries, 
reflecting our investment platform strategy.
We propose to lift the ceiling on Mr Gilauri’s maximum opportunity from 
50% to 75% of total salary to allow for additional headroom in the event 
of exceptional performance, although we continue to restrict Mr Gilauri’s 
maximum opportunity to less (as a proportion of salary) than that of other 
Executive Directors and members of executive management below the 
Board level.
We are convinced that the Policy has worked well and has contributed  
to the strong total shareholder return the Group has delivered in recent 
years. Our shareholders also agree. Since listing in 2012, the market 
capitalisation of BGEO has more than tripled, BGEO shares have been 
among the FTSE 250’s best performing shares and the Group’s business 
has expanded in both size and scope. Since the introduction of dividends 
in 2010, the Group has increased its annual dividend per share by  
51.6% CAGR.
The Policy naturally aligns the interests of our management with those  
of our shareholders, since our executives are all long-term shareholders 
whose shares vest over a multi-year period. The heavy weighting of 
remuneration in the form of deferred shares means that day-to-day 
actions are thus geared to the Group’s long-term performance and 
interests and to executing the Group’s strategy with those interests in 
mind. At the maximum and minimum levels, 91% and 84% of Mr Gilauri’s 
2017 remuneration, respectively, will be in the form of deferred shares.
Share focused remuneration also supports our culture of hard work, 
teamwork and loyalty as everyone benefits when the Group performs 
well over the long-term. We are also attached to the simplicity and 
transparency of our structure. We are pleased to have avoided  
the now out of favour LTIPs and stand by our system – which rewards  
(or penalises) our executives when the shareholder is rewarded  
(or penalised). 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEE REVIEW
As to remuneration of our Non-Executive Directors, our new Policy 
moderately increases the fees (solely cash) payable commensurate  
with the increased volume of work and time commitment required in 
respect of the growing and diversified business. Fees for Non-Executive 
Directors have remained static since listing in 2012 and we view it 
appropriate to increase the fees to reflect the size of the Group and  
in line with similar companies.
DISCRETIONARY REMUNERATION FOR IRAKLI GILAURI
Despite the depreciation of the Lari, 2016 was another record year  
for the Group. It was a strong year of strategic progress and excellent 
earnings growth. Mr Gilauri met or exceeded expectations in respect  
of his KPIs. The Committee and the Board rated Mr Gilauri’s overall 
performance in 2016 as exceptional and the Committee strongly felt  
that he deserved the maximum bonus that we awarded him. 
Al Breach
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
13 April 2017
WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT? 
This Remuneration Report is split into two sections:
• A Directors’ Remuneration Policy that, if approved, will apply to Executive and Non-Executive Directors from the date of the 2017 AGM
• The Annual Report on Remuneration, which relates to the Remuneration Policy approved at our 2014 Annual General Meeting
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy (set out on pages 100 to 106) will be subject to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM. The Annual Report on 
Remuneration (set out on pages 107 to 113), which includes the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (set out  
on pages 98 to 99), will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
This Remuneration Report complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and  
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Where information in this Remuneration Report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP it has been clearly indicated.  
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements  
of the UKLA Listing Rules.  100 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders in 2014 (the “2014 Policy”) has been in place for three years, the maximum period 
permissible. We will be presenting our new Remuneration Policy applicable to Directors (the “Policy”), described in this section, to our shareholders 
for a binding vote at the AGM to be held on 1 June 2017.
As mentioned in the Chairman’s Statement, the principles of our Policy as it applies to Executive Directors are: (i) heavily weighting salary to long-term 
deferred share remuneration rather than cash; and (ii) paying performance-based remuneration in the form of deferred shares only and no cash. 
Pension and benefits are only a very small part of the remuneration package (less than 5%). 
These key principles have remained the same since 2010. Our simple and strategically aligned remuneration structure means that Executive 
Directors are completely focused on delivering shareholder value. 
Mr Gilauri continues to be BGEO’s sole Executive Director. Mr Gilauri entered into a new three-year service agreement with JSC Bank of Georgia  
(the “Bank”) on 24 August 2015 which became effective 1 May 2016, consistent with the terms of the 2014 Policy. In connection with the Board 
adopting the new Policy, Mr Gilauri agreed to amend this service agreement to extend the reflected vesting period for discretionary shares to three 
years after award, which he has also voluntarily agreed to apply to the 2016 work year and is reflected in an amendment to his Service Agreement. 
Mr Gilauri's salary, which has remained the same since 2013, will not increase under the Policy.
As mentioned in the Chairman's Statement, the Policy introduces the following changes:
• The vesting period for discretionary shares increases from two to three years.
• For Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity has been fixed at 75% of total salary (an increase from 50% under the 2014 Policy).
• An Executive Director may work for any of our principal subsidiaries, reflecting our investment platform strategy.
As to remuneration of our Non-Executive Directors, our Policy moderately increases the fees (solely cash) payable commensurate with the increased 
volume of work and time commitment required in respect of the growing business, now diversified in various sectors. Fees for Non-Executive 
Directors have remained static since listing in 2012 while the business has tripled in size and expanded into different industries through our 
Investment Business.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from the date of the 2017 AGM and is intended to apply until the earlier of Mr Gilauri 
entering into a new service agreement with any principal subsidiary of BGEO, the terms of which differ from the Policy, or the 2020 AGM, at which 
time we will seek shareholder approval.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY
The Policy provides for an Executive Director’s remuneration package to be comprised of the elements set forth below. 
d
SALARY IN THE FORM OF CASH AND LONG-TERM DEFERRED SHARES 
PURPOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY 
• To reflect the role and required 
duties, skills, experience and 
individual contribution to the 
Group
• To recruit and retain talent
• To promote long-term value 
creation and share price growth
• To encourage long-term 
commitment to the Group
• To closely align the Executive 
Director and shareholders’ 
interests
• The level of base salary for an Executive Director is  
fixed in his or her service agreement. The level of salary  
is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee when  
a service agreement is up for renewal.
• Salary is comprised principally of long-term deferred 
shares (deferred share salary), complemented by  
a modest cash sum, which when combined with the 
remainder of the components of the remuneration 
package, is competitive enough to attract, retain and 
develop high-calibre talent who buy into a remuneration 
structure that supports reward over the long-term.
• Deferred share salary is awarded in the form of nil-cost 
options awarded at the beginning of the year following 
the calendar year when the Executive worked to earn 
such salary (the “work year”).
• Deferred share salary in respect of a work year will vest 
as follows: 20% in each of the second, third and fourth 
years following the work year, and 40% in the fifth year 
following the work year. At vesting (upon exercise of the 
nil-cost options), the Executive Director receives (in 
addition to the vested shares) cash payments equal to 
the dividends paid on the underlying shares between the 
date the award was made and the vesting date. 
• No malus or clawback provisions apply to base salary, 
because “natural” malus and clawback are built into the 
structure as described in the notes to the Policy table. 
• There is no set maximum monetary value 
for the salary for Executive Directors. 
However, the maximum level  
of salary set for an Executive Director  
will be no more than the Remuneration 
Committee considers reasonable based 
on his duties, skills and experience, 
provided that his salary will not exceed the 
salary currently awarded to Executives at 
the equivalent level of seniority. 
• The salary of our sole Executive  
Director, CEO of BGEO, can be found  
on page 107 of the Annual Report  
on Remuneration. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 101 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
PERFORMANCE-BASED REMUNERATION – DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARES
PURPOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY 
• To motivate and reward an 
Executive Director that meets 
or exceeds the KPIs set for him 
or her.
• Performance-based 
remuneration solely in the form 
of deferred shares (no cash):
 – Closely aligns the interests 
of an Executive Director with 
shareholders
 – Minimises risk taking for 
short-term gain
 – Encourages long-term 
commitment to the Group
• Performance-based remuneration is awarded entirely in 
the form of nil-cost options over BGEO shares which are 
deferred (no cash bonus).
• Deferred shares in respect of a work year vest 33.33% in 
each of the second, third and fourth years following the 
work year. At vesting (upon exercise of the nil-cost 
options), the Executive Director receives (in addition to 
the vested shares) cash payments equal to the dividends 
paid on the underlying shares between the date the 
award was made and the vesting date. 
• KPIs for the Executive Director are set at the start of each 
work year and reflect the Executive Director’s targeted 
contribution to the Group’s overall key strategic and 
financial objectives for the work year. KPIs may also 
include non-tangible factors such as self-development, 
mentoring and social responsibility. 
• Early in the year following the work year, the 
Remuneration Committee will determine whether an 
award is merited based on the Executive Director’s 
achievement of the KPIs set for the work year and the 
performance of the Group during the work year. In 
appropriate cases where a strategic change or change  
in business circumstances has made one or more KPIs 
an inaccurate gauge of performance, the Remuneration 
Committee may base its assessment on alternative 
measures. The outcome of the Executive Director’s 
performance and the Committee’s determination will be 
reported in the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the 
work year in consideration.
• There is no contractual right to discretionary remuneration 
and the Remuneration Committee reserves the right  
to award no discretionary deferred share remuneration  
if the Group’s performance is unsatisfactory.
• Malus applies under the circumstances as set out in the 
notes to this Policy table.
• For an Executive Director (other than 
Mr Gilauri), maximum opportunity in 
respect of the previous work year is 
125% of total salary.
• For Mr Gilauri, maximum opportunity in 
respect of the previous work year is fixed 
at 75% of total salary (US$ 2,044,650).
• However, for an Executive Director (other 
than Mr Gilauri) whose performance has 
resulted in outstanding benefits for 
shareholders, the Remuneration 
Committee has reserved the right to 
increase the maximum opportunity in 
respect of the previous work year to 
150% of total salary.
PENSION 
PURPOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY 
The provision of a retirement 
benefit helps to attract and retain 
high-calibre talent. 
Pension contributions not exceeding a percentage of the 
Executive Director’s gross monthly cash salary are payable 
into a defined contribution scheme. 
Additional contributions of the Executive 
Director will be matched in a proportion of 
0.2 to one, but only up to a maximum of 1% 
of gross monthly salary where the Executive 
Director makes additional contributions of up 
to 5% of gross monthly salary.
BENEFITS 
PURPOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY 
Non-cash benefits are in line with 
Georgian market practice and are 
designed to be sufficient to attract 
and retain high-calibre talent.
• Benefits consist of: life insurance; health insurance; 
incapacity/disability insurance; Directors’ and officers’ 
liability insurance; physical examinations; tax gross-ups; 
company car and driver; mobile phone (including 
agreement charges and costs of calls made during 
business trips abroad); personal security arrangements  
(if requested by the Executive Director); and assistance 
with completing tax returns (where required). 
• A tax equalisation payment may be paid to an Executive 
Director if any part of his remuneration becomes subject 
to double taxation.
The Remuneration Committee determines 
the maximum amount payable. The 
maximum amount payable depends on  
the cost of providing such benefits to an 
employee in the location at which the 
Executive Director is based. Shareholders 
should note that the cost of providing 
comparable benefits in different jurisdictions 
may vary widely. Disclosure of amounts paid 
will be provided in the implementation report 
and will be explained where the cost of 
benefits is significant.
NOTES TO THE NEW POLICY – EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
(1) Salary 
Deferred share salary is the most important element of the Executive Director’s fixed annual remuneration and is commensurate with his role within 
the Group. By heavily weighting salary to deferred share remuneration that vests over five years rather than cash, the Executive Director’s day-to-day 
actions are geared towards achievement of the Group’s strategic goals and sustained Group performance over the long-term. The deferred share  102 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
salary component is neither a bonus nor an LTIP: it is salary fixed at the outset of each three-year service agreement and is therefore not subject to 
performance targets or measures. That salary (40% of which vests a full five years after the work year) increases or declines in value depending on 
Group performance over the five-year vesting period, aligning the Executive Director’s interests directly and naturally with those of shareholders.
Specific malus and clawback are not applied to salary. Natural clawback and malus are built in to the structure, given that shares are deferred over a 
long period and are subject to a number of vesting conditions which, if breached, would result in the Executive Director’s salary shares fully lapsing, 
unless the Board otherwise agrees. An Executive Director’s service agreement may be terminated for “cause”, a definition which is broadly defined and 
extends beyond standard malus and clawback triggers to include, for example, gross and wilful misconduct having a material adverse effect on the 
Group, fraud, material repeated failure to perform his duties, breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony. An Executive Director’s unvested shares 
may also lapse if he terminates his service agreement early (in the absence of repeated material wrongdoing by the company). By way of example, an 
Executive Director terminated by the Board for “cause” in 2017 would normally give up (because his shares would fail to vest): his entire deferred share 
salary for 2017 and 2016 and 80%, 60% and 40% of his deferred share salary for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As a result, an Executive Director 
is motivated to perform to the best of his ability and to act in the long-term interest of – and remain with – the Group to ensure that salary shares vest.
(2) Performance-based remuneration 
The Group does not operate an LTIP because it believes there is sufficient long-term incentive built into its deferred share salary and discretionary 
deferred share remuneration. No cash bonuses are paid to Executive Directors. Instead, individual and Group performance is rewarded through an 
award of discretionary deferred share remuneration that vests over three years beginning in the second year following the work year. As discretionary 
deferred share remuneration is awarded to reward past performance over the work year, it is not subject to any performance measures over the 
period from award to vesting.
After the end of each work year, the Remuneration Committee will determine the aggregate number of shares (based on the share price at the time 
of the award), if any, available to award in respect of discretionary deferred share remuneration for all members of executive management, including 
Executive Directors, in relation to the defined maximum opportunity and based on the Group’s performance and the individual’s KPIs. 
The Remuneration Committee does not utilise strict weighting of performance measures to ensure that flexibility is encouraged if, for example, 
strategic objectives evolve as the Group does or business circumstances change during the year. The Remuneration Committee believes that this 
flexibility ensures that the Board can work with an Executive Director so that he does not take excessive risk to achieve KPIs when, for example, 
markets have turned. Even in a “good” year for an Executive Director (e.g. achievement of most of his KPIs), if this coincides with a “bad” year for the 
Group (e.g. poor financial performance by it), the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award little or no discretionary remuneration to the 
Executive Director. 
If at any time after awarding discretionary deferred share remuneration, it has been determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial 
results for the work year in respect of which the award was formally granted, the Board has the right to cause some or all of the Executive’s unvested 
discretionary deferred shares at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse. Similar to deferred share salary, natural clawback and malus 
are built in to the structure. Discretionary deferred share are also subject to vesting conditions which, if breached, would result in the Executive 
Director’s salary shares fully lapsing, unless the Board otherwise agrees. 
(3) Discretion
The Committee retains certain discretion in relation to discretionary share remuneration. This includes:
• The determination of the award, if any
• Selection of KPIs, which may vary from year to year in order to align with strategy and financial objectives
• Any adjustments required to an Executive Director’s KPIs during the work year when, for example, there has been a change in strategy  
or business circumstances which results in one or more of KPIs becoming an inaccurate gauge of performance
EQUITY COMPENSATION TRUST AND DILUTION LIMITS
An equity compensation trust (“Trust”), was established for the purposes of satisfying deferred share remuneration awarded to Executive Directors 
and members of executive management. In 2016, the Board approved funding of approximately US$ 30 million to enable Sanne Fiduciary Services 
Limited (“Sanne”), acting as trustee of the Trust, to purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards in respect of the 2015 and 2016 work years. 
Since listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2012, a total of 1,138,283 shares have been purchased in the market for the Trust. We intend for 
Sanne to continue purchasing additional shares in the market, but may need to issue new shares, in order to ensure that there are a sufficient 
number of shares committed to the Trust in order to satisfy awards. The Group continues to commit to shareholders that new shares issued in 
satisfaction of deferred share remuneration from the time of the Company’s listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE will not exceed 10% of 
BGEO’s ordinary share capital over any ten-year period. 
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS
It is a provision of this Policy that the Group will honour all pre-existing obligations and commitments that were entered into prior to this Policy taking 
effect. The terms of those pre-existing obligations and commitments may differ from the terms of the Policy and may include (without limitation) 
obligations and commitments under service agreements, deferred share remuneration schemes and pension and benefit plans. 
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received on our remuneration structure each year as well as guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies, as we view shareholder input as key when shaping remuneration policy. In 2014, 2015, 2016 and early 2017, we met with a number 
of our significant shareholders to discuss our remuneration structure and engaged directly with several shareholder advisory groups. The feedback we 
received was positive and our shareholders were widely supportive of our executive remuneration structure, understanding that although it varies from a 
typical UK remuneration structure in that we do not operate an LTIP or give cash bonuses, the absence of cash bonuses and the dominance of deferred 
share remuneration in the overall remuneration package creates a direct and natural alignment of shareholder and executive management interests. 
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP 
When determining an Executive Director's remuneration, the Remuneration Committee considers: (i) the pay and employment conditions of 
executive management (other than Directors); (ii) any changes in pay and employment conditions across the Group as a whole; (iii) whether 
employees across the Group are personally satisfied with the way they are remunerated; and (iv) any feedback received during the year from  
the Human Resources department, executive management and other employees on the executive remuneration structure.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 103 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
We frequently benchmark remuneration at all levels within the Group in order to ensure that our remuneration is competitive in order to attract the 
right candidates and remain competitive in order to motivate, satisfy and retain our talent. 
The remuneration of employees in the Group, other than Executive Directors and executive management, is benchmarked against the Georgian 
labour market as this is the most relevant comparator. Each year, the Bank participates in the largest salary survey in Georgia. Survey results are 
used to offer competitive remuneration packages when recruiting as well as benchmark the salaries of the Group's employees on an annual basis  
in order for the Group to upwardly adjust the remuneration of current employees in order to remain competitive. Our employees' remuneration 
packages are comprised of cash salary, bonus opportunity, benefits as well as the opportunity to participate in the pension scheme on the same 
terms as applicable to Mr Gilauri and executive management. 
For a FTSE 250 company of our size and depth, our Executive Directors and executive management must have the skills, experience, work ethic 
and attitude required to successfully execute our strategy, meet our objectives and create value for shareholders over the long-term. In order to 
recruit and retain this talent, we must benchmark the value of remuneration against other FTSE companies of similar size and sector in the UK.  
Our executives are not paid cash bonuses and therefore remuneration in the form of deferred shares will comprise nearly all of total remuneration. 
As it is not possible for a direct comparison to be made between executive remuneration and remuneration of other employees in the Group,  
the most important consideration for us is whether other employees are satisfied with their remuneration packages. In 2015 and 2016, employee 
surveys were conducted by the Human Resources department, targeted at a large number of employees with varying skill, seniority, department, 
among other factors. The results confirmed that employees consulted were satisfied with the manner in which they were compensated. Our retention 
rate of employees is high.
 
COMPARISON WITH REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EMPLOYEES GENERALLY 
As mentioned above, the components of the remuneration package for Executive Directors (as provided for by the Policy) are broadly the same  
as those for non-Board members of the executive management team. Members of senior management below the executive management level and 
middle management receive their entire salary in cash and do not receive a deferred share salary. Their bonuses may be either in the form of cash 
and/or shares which vest over a three-year period following the award. All other employees within the Group receive a cash salary and may be 
eligible to receive cash bonuses, portions of which may be deferred until the publication of the audited annual results for the work year and/or based 
on continuous employment with the Group. The deferred portion of the cash bonus may also be reduced if it is revealed, upon completion of the 
annual audit, that the annual results published by the department where the employee works were incorrect in any material respect. Natural 
clawback, including normal lapse of shares upon termination for “cause” also applies. All employees receive a competitive benefit package in line 
with Georgian market practice and are entitled to participate in the pension scheme on the same terms as applicable to Executive Directors. 
TOTAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY FOR OUR SOLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
The chart below shows the remuneration which Mr Gilauri, our sole Executive Director, could receive in respect of 2017 under the Policy at three 
different performance levels. It should be noted that, at the maximum level, 91% of Mr Gilauri’s 2017 remuneration will be in the form of deferred 
shares for which the average vesting period exceeds four years. At the minimum level, 84% of Mr Gilauri’s 2017 remuneration will be in the form  
of deferred shares.
Maximum
Target
Minimum
US$ 4,770,850
US$ 4,157,455
US$ 2,726,200
Discretionary deferred shares compensation Fixed share salary Fixed cash salary
9% 48% 43%
11% 55% 34%
16% 84%
 
Notes:
1 Salary is comprised of cash and deferred share salary. Mr Gilauri’s total cash salary in 2017 in respect of his service agreements with the Group 
will be US$ 437,450. The value of the deferred share salary payable is US$ 2,288,700, calculated by reference to the share price as at the date 
Mr Gilauri’s most recent service agreement with the Group was signed on 24 August 2015, being US$ 25.43 per share (the official share price of 
GBP 16.16 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5738, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England 
on the same date). The price is the value at which the shares were committed to the Trust and underlies the determination of remuneration 
expense in the Group’s accounts. Deferred share salary in respect of 2017 will be formally granted in 2018 and will vest in January 2019, 2020, 
2021 and 2022. For the purposes of this graph, we have added the value of pension and benefits (only about 0.1% of total salary) to cash salary. 
The value used is the same as 2016 as we assume pension and benefits in 2017 will be substantially the same. 
2 The means of determining the number of shares underlying the discretionary deferred share remuneration and terms and conditions applicable to 
this remuneration are described in the Policy table. Discretionary deferred shares in respect of 2017 will be formally granted in 2018 and will vest 
in January 2019, 2020 and 2021. 
3 Minimum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives only fixed remuneration which is salary (cash and deferred shares), pension 
contributions and benefits and the Remuneration Committee considers that the Group’s and/or Mr Gilauri's performance in 2017 does not 
warrant any award of discretionary deferred shares.
4 On-target opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives fixed remuneration (as described in iii above) and discretionary deferred shares 
with a value of US$ 1,431,255, being 70% of the maximum opportunity (as described in 5 below). In this scenario, the Remuneration Committee 
considers that the Group's and Mr Gilauri's performance in 2017 is in line with the Group’s expectation, which is excellent performance.
5 Maximum opportunity reflects a scenario whereby Mr Gilauri receives fixed remuneration (as described in iii above) and discretionary deferred 
shares with a value of US$ 2,044,650, being 75% of total salary. In this scenario, the Remuneration Committee considers that the Group’s and 
Mr Gilauril’s performance in 2017 warrant the highest possible level of discretionary deferred share remuneration.
6 The value of deferred shares does not take into account any increase or decrease in share price over the vesting period or any dividend 
equivalents payable on vesting (upon exercise of the nil-cost options). 104 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are currently the same as when BGEO listed in February 2012. Since listing, the market capitalisation of BGEO 
has more than tripled and the Group’s business has expanded in both size and scope. Each Non-Executive Director also serves as a member of the 
Supervisory Board of the Bank and since 2016, each has devoted an increasing amount of time to the Investment Business arm through JSC BGEO 
Group. This Policy reflects a moderate increase in fees to reflect the volume of work and time commitment required for the complexity of our Group. 
Our 2014 Policy provided for fee review in 2017. It is proposed that, if the Policy is approved, the Non-Executive Director fees stated below will apply 
in each year that the Policy operates from the date of approval of the Policy. Further, the Non Executive Directors will receive in the second half of 
2017 a top up payment to allow the Non Executive Directors to reach the level of fees indicated for the 2017 financial year.
PURPOSE AND  
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY 
• To attract and retain high 
performing Non-Executive 
Directors with the requisite 
skills, knowledge, experience, 
independence and other 
attributes to add value to  
the Group.
• To reflect the time commitment 
dedicated by Non-Executive 
Directors.
• All fees are paid in cash.
• Fees will be reviewed the year we propose a new  
policy to shareholders, taking into account the time 
commitment, responsibilities and the technical skills 
required to make a valuable contribution to the Board, 
and by reference to comparators, benchmarking,  
results of the annual review and other guidance.
• Additional fees are payable to compensate for the skill 
provided and time spent discharging JSC BGEO Group, 
Bank Supervisory Board and Committee duties.
• There is no remuneration in the form of deferred share 
salary or discretionary deferred share remuneration, 
pensions, benefits or any variable or performance-linked 
remuneration or incentives.
• Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable 
business expenses, including travel and accommodation, 
which are incurred in the course of carrying out duties 
under their letters of appointment, on provision of valid 
receipts. The maximum amount payable depends on the 
cost of providing such expenses in the location at which 
the Non-Executive Director is based. Shareholders 
should note that the cost of providing comparable 
expenses in different jurisdictions may vary widely.
• Aggregate (BGEO and subsidiaries) base 
fees for Non-Executive Directors 
(excluding the Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director) are US$ 109,500.
• The Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director receive higher base fees which 
reflect increased responsibilities and time 
commitment. The Chairman will receive 
an aggregate flat fee of US$ 313,900  
and our Senior Independent Director  
will receive an aggregate base fee of  
US$ 146,000. 
• Committee fees range from US$ 6,570  
to US$ 17,520.
POLICY ON THE APPOINTMENT OF EXTERNAL HIRES AND INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Policy provides for a new Executive Director’s remuneration package to be comprised of the elements set out below.
ELEMENT POLICY AND OPERATION
Overall • The Committee intends that the components of remuneration set out in the above Policy tables, and the approach to those 
components as set out in the Policy tables, will (subject to the remainder of this recruitment policy) be equally applicable to the 
annual package provided to new recruits. Any new Executive Director would be paid no more than the Committee considers 
reasonably necessary to attract a candidate with the relevant skills and experience, taking into account (where appropriate) 
either the annual total monetary value or the total number of shares awarded to executives at an equivalent level of seniority.
• Relocation benefits and buy-out awards may also be required to recruit the right candidate, subject to the conditions 
and restrictions outlined below.
• For internal promotions, any commitments made prior to the appointment may continue to be honoured as the 
executive is transitioned to new remuneration arrangements. Any pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may 
either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate, within the parameters 
set out in the Policy tables.
• The rationale for the compensation package offered will be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration published 
after commencement of the appointment.
Base salary In accordance with the Policy and the Overall summary above. 
Discretionary 
deferred shares
• In accordance with the Policy and the Overall summary above.
• Malus and/or clawback would operate in respect of discretionary share remuneration.
Pension Pension provision would be in line with normal policy and the Overall summary above.
Benefits • In accordance with the Policy and the Overall summary above.
• Relocation support for an incoming Executive Director and, where relevant, his or her family may be provided depending 
on the individual’s circumstances. BGEO has not set a maximum aggregate amount that may be paid in respect of any 
individual’s relocation support, but it will aim to provide support of an appropriate level and quality on the best terms that 
can reasonably be obtained.
• The Group may make a contribution towards legal fees in connection with agreeing employment terms. The Group may 
also agree to pay certain expenses and taxes should an executive director be asked to relocate to a different country, 
such that the executive director pays no more than would have been required in the home location.
Buy-out awards • In addition to other elements of remuneration described above, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited 
through an individual leaving their current employer.
• If a buy-out award is required, the Committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing and value of awards forgone in any 
replacement awards.
• Awards will only take the form of deferred shares. The value of these deferred shares would be capped to be no higher, 
on recruitment, than the awards which the individual had to surrender in order to be recruited and the vesting period of 
such deferred shares would be a similar timeframe to the awards being bought out. The application of performance 
conditions and/or clawback provisions may also be considered, where appropriate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 105 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE FOR OUR DIRECTORS 
The following paragraphs (1) to (3) summarise the termination and payments for loss of office provisions pursuant to Mr Gilauri’s service agreements 
with BGEO and the Bank. In 2016, and as of the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauri remained the sole Executive Director on the BGEO Board.
The termination provisions of Non-Executive Director letters of appointment is described in paragraph (4) below and our approach to termination and 
payments for loss of office for future Executive Directors is described in paragraph (5). The Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment 
are kept for inspection by shareholders at BGEO’s registered office.
(1) Termination of BGEO service agreement dated 15 December 2011
Mr Gilauri’s service agreement with BGEO is for an indefinite term (subject to annual re-election at the AGM) and is terminable by either party on four 
months’ written notice. Where the service agreement is terminated on notice, BGEO may put Mr Gilauri on garden leave for some or all of the notice 
period and continue to pay his cash salary under the BGEO service agreement, provided that any accrued and unused holiday entitlement shall be 
deemed to be taken during the garden leave period.
BGEO may terminate Mr Gilauri’s employment early with immediate effect and without notice and pay in lieu of notice in the case of, among other 
circumstances, his dishonesty, gross misconduct, conviction of an offence (other than traffic-related) or becoming of unsound mind. BGEO may also 
terminate the agreement with immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice, in which case the payment in lieu of notice shall be solely in respect of 
cash salary due under the BGEO service agreement as at the date of termination of employment. 
(2) Termination of Previous service agreement with the Bank dated 19 February 2013
This service agreement was subject to variations on 26 February 2014 and 24 August 2015. The latter variation was in connection with Mr Gilauri’s 
change of role to Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank. The termination provisions in this service agreement are broadly on the same 
terms as the service agreement described in paragraph (3) below.
(3) Termination of Bank service agreement dated 24 August 2015
Mr Gilauri’s service agreement with the Bank is for an initial term of three years expiring on 1 May 2019 and was amended on 16 March 2017  
to extend the vesting period of discretionary deferred shares to three years, which shall be applicable in respect of the 2016 work year. 
The service agreement may be renewed by agreement between the parties or terminated prior to the expiry of the term by either Mr Gilauri or the 
Bank. The Bank may terminate the service agreement immediately without notice (subject to the terms set out below), whereas Mr Gilauri may 
terminate the agreement upon three months’ written notice or such shorter period as is agreed with the Supervisory Board of the Bank and CEO  
of the Bank. 
SEPARATION PAYMENTS
(i) Mr Gilauri will be entitled to only: accrued and unpaid cash salary; holiday pay; reimbursement of business expenses; accrued but not yet paid 
dividend equivalents; and benefits upon termination of the service agreement in the following circumstances: 
 – by the Bank for “cause” (cause being defined as gross and wilful misconduct in the course of his duties having a material adverse effect  
on the Group, fraud, material repeated failure to perform his duties or breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony, among other 
circumstances); by reason of death or disability (in which case he receives life or disability insurance benefits); or
 – by Mr Gilauri other than for “good reason”.
See the discussion below for the treatment of unvested share awards in the above circumstances. 
 
“Good reason” is defined as an uncorrected material breach of a material provision of the service agreement by the Bank which is not cured within 
45 days upon Mr Gilauri serving notice of breach, or material and unremedied illegal or unethical behaviour by Bank employees which has been 
notified to the Board by Mr Gilauri and the Board fails to react and cooperate with Mr Gilauri in addressing the behaviour.
(ii) Mr Gilauri will be entitled to: a separation payment of 12 months’ cash salary; accrued and unpaid cash salary; holiday pay; and reimbursement 
of business expenses upon termination of the service agreement in the following circumstances:
 – By Mr Gilauri for “good reason”
 – By the Bank for any other reason excluding: (a) voluntary termination by Mr Gilauri; (b) termination for cause; or (c) death or permanent 
disability (fully covered by insurance)
 – If the service agreement is not renewed on substantially similar terms on expiry
If the service agreement is terminated for any of the reasons set out in (ii) directly above, the Bank may assign Mr Gilauri garden leave for a period of 
up to four months following the termination of his employment during which the Bank will compensate him only in the form of his regular cash salary 
with all other benefits, bonuses, incentive or reimbursements excluded. Mr Gilauri will be required to adhere to non-compete and non-solicitation 
restrictions for a period of six months following termination. In addition, the Bank may impose a two-year non-compete period, subject to a 
materiality threshold, in exchange for accelerated vesting of his deferred share remuneration (as described on the next page). 
DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION ON TERMINATION 
Mr Gilauri will be entitled to an award of his deferred share salary in respect of any incomplete calendar year which he has worked. He may also be 
awarded discretionary deferred share remuneration if: 
• His service agreement expires and is not renewed upon substantially similar terms 
• He does not accept a new service agreement, but continues as a member of the BGEO Board and/or becomes a member of the JSC BGEO 
Group Board, as the case may be
• His service agreement is terminated before its expiry date but he continues as a member of the BGEO Board and/or becomes a member of the 
JSC BGEO Group Board, as the case may be
Mr Gilauri will not be entitled to any deferred share salary for calendar years covered by the agreement period during which he has not worked. 106 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
VESTING AND LAPSE OF EXISTING AWARDS 
Unvested deferred share remuneration granted in respect of the 2015 work year and all prior work years
Unvested deferred share remuneration granted in respect of the 2015 work year and all prior work years will vest upon termination of the service 
agreement, save for in the following circumstances: 
• If Mr Gilauri’s service agreement is terminated for cause, unless otherwise agreed with the Board, his unvested deferred share remuneration  
will lapse
• if Mr Gilauri terminates his service agreement for any reason other than good reason, unless otherwise agreed with the Board in favour of 
Mr Gilauri, 50% of his unvested deferred share remuneration will vest immediately and the remaining 50% will, at his discretion, either continue to 
vest as normal or he may acquire some or all of his unvested deferred share remuneration at the price per share recorded in the IFRS accounts 
on the respective grant dates plus a 10% annual increase from the respective grant date until the date of purchase (if any) by Mr Gilauri 
Unvested deferred share remuneration granted in respect of the 2016 work year and beyond
Any unvested deferred share remuneration will, unless otherwise agreed with the Board, lapse on the termination date if Mr Gilauri’s services 
agreement by:
• The Bank for cause
• Mr Gilauri for any reason other than for good reason
Any unvested deferred share remuneration will vest immediately if:
• The Bank terminates the service agreement other than for cause 
• Mr Gilauri terminates the service agreement for good reason 
• The service agreement expires and neither a renewed agreement on substantially similar terms is offered nor BGEO and/or JSC BGEO Group 
Board membership continues 
• Mr Gilauri ceases to be an Executive Director by reason of death, disability, injury, redundancy or retirement at normal retirement age; or
• There is a change of control of the Bank, BGEO or any intermediary holding company of the Bank (as appropriate) 
If Mr Gilauri’s service agreement expires and he refuses to continue as a member of the BGEO and/or JSC BGEO Group Board, 50% of his 
unvested deferred share remuneration will vest immediately and the remaining 50% will, at his discretion, either continue to vest as normal or he may 
acquire some or all of the underlying shares for a he may acquire some or all of his unvested deferred share remuneration at the price per share 
recorded in the IFRS accounts on the respective grant dates plus a 10% annual increase from the respective grant date until the date of purchase (if 
any) by Mr Gilauri. In consideration for this vesting treatment, Mr Gilauri will be bound by a two-year non-compete period during which he may not 
be employed by, provide consultancy services to or otherwise found or be a partner or associate of a commercial bank in Georgia (save that he may 
hold less than 5% of shares of a publicly listed bank). 
If Mr Gilauri’s service agreement expires and: (i) is not renewed upon substantially similar terms, or (ii) he does not accept a new service agreement, 
but he is continues as a member of the BGEO and/or JSC BGEO Group Board, 50% of his unvested shares vest immediately and the remaining 
50% shall continue to vest as normal. If he subsequently ceases to be a member of the Bank and/or BGEO Board, at Mr Gilauri’s discretion, 
unvested shares either continue to vest as normal or he may acquire some or all of the underlying shares for the specified price as described above.
MALUS
If at any time after awarding discretionary deferred share remuneration, it has been determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial 
results for work year in respect of which the award was formally granted, the Board has the right to cause some or all of the Executive’s unvested 
discretionary deferred shares at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse.
(4) Termination of Non-Executive Directors’ appointments
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors provide for a one-month notice period although BGEO may terminate the appointment with 
immediate effect without notice or pay in lieu of notice if the Non-Executive Director has committed any serious breach or non-observance of his or 
her obligations to BGEO, is guilty of fraud or dishonesty, brings BGEO or him/herself into disrepute or is disqualified as acting as a Non-Executive 
Director, among other circumstances. Upon termination, the only remuneration a Non-Executive Director is entitled to is accrued fees as at the date 
of termination together with reimbursement of properly incurred expenses incurred prior to the termination date.
(5) Approach to termination and payments for loss of office for new Executive Directors
Any payment upon termination of a new Executive Director’s service agreement would not exceed 12 months’ cash salary under the relevant service 
agreement, plus any accrued and unpaid cash salary, benefits and holiday pay and reimbursement of any business expenses. The Group may 
assign the Executive Director garden leave for a period of up to four months following the termination of his employment during which he will 
compensates only in the form of his regular cash salary with all other benefits, bonuses, incentive or reimbursements excluded. The Executive 
Director may also be required to adhere to non-compete and non-solicitation restrictions for a period of six months following termination. 
It is expected that the vesting provisions listed below will apply to deferred share remuneration in the case of termination of a new Executive 
Director’s service agreement.
• Unvested deferred share remuneration would lapse upon termination of the service agreement by BGEO or material subsidiary of BGEO for 
cause or if the Executive Director terminates his employment for any other reason than good reason. 
• Unvested deferred share remuneration would continue to vest in the normal way during the respective vesting period(s) upon termination by 
BGEO or material subsidiary of BGEO without cause; if the Executive Director’s service agreement expires and he is not offered a new service 
agreement on substantially similar terms on expiration; or if the Executive Director ceases to be an Executive Director by reason of injury, 
disability, redundancy or retirement (at normal retirement age). 
• Unvested deferred share remuneration would vest immediately upon death of the Executive Director; termination of the service agreement by the 
Executive Director for good reason; or a change of control. 
Notwithstanding the above vesting terms for current and future Executive Directors, the Board reserves the right to permit unvested deferred share 
remuneration to vest irrespective of the Executive Director’s departure when such Executive Director departs on good terms with the Group. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 107 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is principally responsible to the Board for establishing the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman 
and designated executive management that rewards them fairly and responsibly, and is designed to promote the long-term success of the Group. 
The Remuneration Committee’s full Terms of Reference were last updated in March 2016 and are available on our website at  
http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-committee-terms-of-reference-29.pdf.
SHAREHOLDER CONTEXT 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy applicable to this section of Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 
28 May 2014 (the "2014 Policy”). The Directors’ Remuneration Policy received the following votes from shareholders: 
Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 26,121,743 91.91 2,300,144 8.09 28,421,887 128,908
Set out below are the shareholder voting figures for the Directors’ Remuneration Report (including the Annual Statement of the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee) presented at our 2014, 2015 and 2016 AGMs. 
Date of AGM Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld
28 May 2014 25,901,873 93.59 1,773,857 6.41 27,675,730 875,065
21 May 2015 28,081,250 93.98 1,799,042 6.02 29,880,292 87,002
26 May 2016 28,335,277 91.35 2,683,660 8.65 31,018,937 82,265
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR THE SOLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR (AUDITED)
The table below sets out the remuneration received by BGEO’s sole Executive Director, Irakli Gilauri, for 2016 and 2015 in respect of his employment 
with the Group. Mr Gilauri receives no additional remuneration for any role at a subsidiary or affiliate within the Group.
Mr Gilauri’s current service agreements provide for salary in the form of cash and deferred shares. In addition, Mr Gilauri is eligible to receive 
discretionary deferred share remuneration up to a maximum of 50% of total salary (cash and deferred shares). 
Approximately 81% of Mr Gilauri’s remuneration for 2016 set forth in the table below is in the form of deferred shares, for which the average vesting 
period exceeds four years.
Cash 
salary 
(US$)
1
 
Deferred share 
salary 
(US$)
2
Total 
salary 
(US$)
Discretionary 
deferred share 
remuneration 
(US$)
3
 
Taxable 
benefits 
(US$)
4
 
Pension 
benefits 
(US$)
5
 
Dividend 
equivalents
(US$)
6
Total 
(US$)
2016 437,500 2,177,342 2,614,842 1,307,313 1,239 1,698 389,793 4,314,885
2015 437,500 1,954,157 2,391,657 1,099,473 1,252 1,801 196,459 3,690,642
Notes:
1 Expressed in Dollars but paid in British Pounds and Lari, as applicable, converted into the respective currency as at the date of payment. Accordingly, there may be variations in 
the numbers above and those provided in the accounts.
2 Deferred share salary. The figures show the value of the BGEO shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of the relevant year. For both 2016 and 2015, the award was 
90,000 BGEO shares. In 2016, a new service agreement that Mr Gilauri signed on 24 August 2015 came into effect on 1 May 2016. For 2016, the value of the deferred share 
salary payable is calculated as follows: (a) from 1 January 2016 until 1 May 2016 (when the prior service agreement was in effect), the share price used is the date the prior service 
agreement was signed, being US$ 21.71 per share (based on the official share price of GBP 14.06 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5443, being the 
official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date); and (b) from 1 May 2016 until 31 December 2016 (when the new service agreement was in effect), the 
share price used is the date the new service agreement was signed, being US$ 25.43 per share (the official share price of GBP 24.90 per share as at 24 August 2015 converted 
into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5738, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). For 2015, the value of the deferred share 
salary payable is calculated by reference to the share price set out in (a) above. Under the deferred share programme, the option awards in respect of deferred share salary are 
formally granted in January of the year following the year to which the award relates (the “work year”) even though the number of deferred salary shares is fixed in the contract.  
The terms and conditions applying to deferred share salary are described in section 1(a) of the 2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf 
and consistent with the Policy table on page 100 and Note 1 to the Policy table on pages 101 to 102.
3  Discretionary deferred share remuneration. The figures show the value of BGEO shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of bonus awards in the relevant year. For 
2016, options were awarded over 37,450 BGEO shares. The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 28 February 2017 which was US$ 34.91(based on the official 
share price of GBP 28.05 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.2445, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). 
For 2015, options were awarded over 47,000 BGEO shares. The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 12 February 2016 which was US$ 23.39 (based on the 
official share price of GBP 16.16 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4458, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the 
same date). The discretionary remuneration in respect of 2016 is deferred and vests over three years in equal amounts, beginning in January of the second year following the work 
year as amended in Mr Gilauri's Service Agreement whereas the vesting period in respect of 2015 discretionary remuneration is over two years in equal amounts, also beginning in 
January of the second year following the work year. Both the 2015 and 2016 awards are subject to the leaver provisions described on pages 105 to 106 and in section 3 of the 
2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf. The means of determining the number of shares underlying this remuneration and the terms 
and conditions are described in section 1(b) of the 2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf and consistent with the Policy table on 
page 101 and Note 2 to the Policy table on page 102. The basis for determining Mr Gilauri’s 2016 discretionary award is described on the next two pages.
4 Benefits. The figures show the gross taxable value of health, life and personal accident insurance. 
5 Pensions. The figures show the aggregate employer contributions for the relevant years into the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme. Under the Group’s defined 
contribution pension scheme, normal retirement age is 65. 
6 Dividend equivalents. The figure shows the dividend value paid in respect of nil-cost options exercised in the relevant years.
7 Mr Gilauri was reimbursed for reasonable business expenses, on provision of valid receipts.
8 No money or other assets are received or receivable by Mr Gilauri in respect of a period of more than one financial year, where final vesting is determined by reference to 
achievement of performance measures or targets relating to the relevant period.  108 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
The following table sets out details of total remuneration for Mr Gilauri for the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2016 and his 
discretionary remuneration as a percentage of maximum opportunity. The Company does not have a LTIP and therefore the table does not include 
long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Single figure of total remuneration (US$) 2,002,386 3,488,463 3,142,021 3,690,642 4,314,885
Discretionary remuneration as a percentage of maximum 
opportunity (%) 94.9% 83.2% 54.7% 91.9% 100%
Notes:
1 Single figure of total remuneration for 2015 and 2016 has been calculated in accordance with the table on the previous page. In 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, the maximum 
opportunity for Mr Gilauri was 50% of salary.
2 For 2014, 2013 and 2012, Mr Gilauri’s cash salary was US$ 437,500.
3 In 2014 and 2013, the value of the Mr Gilauri's deferred salary shares was calculated by reference to the share price of US$ 21.71 (an amount calculated as described in Note 2  
to the table on the previous page). In 2012, the value of the salary deferred shares was calculated by reference to the global depositary receipt (GDR) price on 25 May 2010 of  
US$ 10.20 per GDR. 
4 For 2014, options were awarded on 19 March 2015 over 25,000 BGEO Shares. For 2013, options were awarded on 25 February 2014 over 25,000 BGEO shares. The share price 
on 19 March 2015 was US$ 26.17 (based on the official share price of GBP 17.77 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4727, being the official exchange 
rate published by the Bank of England on the same date; and the share price on 25 February 2014 was US$ 39.79 (based on the official share price of GBP 23.85 per share 
converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.6682, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). The award of discretionary deferred 
shares was 30,000 BGEO shares in respect of 2012. The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 15 February 2013 which was US$ 21.49 per share (based on the 
official share price of GBP 13.84 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5525, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the 
same date). The maximum opportunity in 2012 was less than 50% of Mr Gilauri’s total remuneration. 
BASIS FOR DETERMINING MR GILAURI’S DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION IN RESPECT OF 2016
Mr Gilauri’s KPIs include both objective and non-tangible components. The objective elements largely track the Group’s KPIs as he is expected to 
deliver on the Group’s strategy, but the KPIs also include non-tangible factors such as leadership, strategy development and implementation as well 
as corporate and social responsibility. Strict weighting is not imposed on the KPIs below for the reasons mentioned in section 1(b) of the 2014 Policy 
available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf which is consistent with Note 2 of the Policy table on page 102. 
The following table sets out the objective KPIs set for Mr Gilauri in respect of 2016 as well as Mr Gilauri’s performance against them. 
KEY PERFORMANCE  
INDICATOR
2016 
TARGET
2016 
PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE EVALUATION
BANKING BUSINESS
Return on Average Equity 
(ROAE)
20% 22% Target met, driven by the strong retail banking segment.
Retail loan book growth 20% 39.5% Target exceeded, driven by loan origination across all Retail Banking 
segments.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS
Value of our Investment 
Business
y-o-y growth Exceeded 
expectations
All businesses showed growth throughout 2016. Combined revenue and net 
profit (normalised) increased 76% and 60% y-o-y, respectively. The share 
price of GHG more than doubled and GGU EBITDA grew by over 10%. 
Investment Business 
management teams
Continued 
enhancement
Exceeded 
expectations
Management was significantly strengthened at our Investment Businesses. 
Key executive management appointments were: (i) Archil Gachechiladze as 
CEO of GGU; (ii) new executive management for each of GHG's ambulatory 
and pharma businesses; and (iii) new CFOs for each of m
2
 Real Estate and 
Teliani Valley. The level of management below executive management was 
also strengthened at each investment business.
GROUP-WIDE 
Management team Coaching 
and 
mentoring 
Met expectations Mr Gilauri intensified his focus on coaching and mentoring of the management 
team. In 2016, two leadership development programmes were developed and 
two Group coaching sessions were held. Mr Gilauri provided personal 
guidance to members of management who engaged with the coaching 
process or otherwise showed a high level of motivation and strong 
performance. Promotions were awarded in appropriate cases. 
Self-development Continued 
self-
development
Met expectations Mr Gilauri continued to prioritise self-development, principally through analysis 
of his own management style. He has made substantial progress in 
addressing the weaknesses identified in earlier periods. His increased 
self-awareness has resulted in him improving his own leadership skills and 
has had a very positive effect on the wider management culture.
In terms of objective KPIs, Mr Gilauri met or exceeded all KPIs, as described on the previous page. In addition to the pre-set KPIs, Mr Gilauri's 
accomplishments in 2016 include the provision of strategic direction to the CEOs of each of the Bank, GHG, GGU, m
2
 and Teliani Valley; oversight 
and support of significant corporate transactions and changes to business lines; management succession planning; and philanthropy.
2016 business highlights include:
• JSC BGEO Group PLC issuance of a US$ 350 million Eurobond
• GHG acquisition of two pharma companies
• Group acquisition of the remaining 75% stake in GGU 
• Teliani Valley construction of a brewery and acquisition of an exclusive ten-year license with Heineken;
• Launch of the Retail Banking client-centric model
• Separation of Solo and MSME from mass market Retail Banking 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 109 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Mr Gilauri's succession planning for Bank and GGU executive management in 2016 significantly enhanced Group leadership. At the Bank, Kaha 
Kiknavelidze became CEO, followed by the appointments of David Tsiklauri as Deputy CEO (Investment Banking) and Ramaz Kukuladze as Deputy 
CEO (MSME and Premium Retail Banking). At the same time, Archil Gachechiladze, a highly experienced member of executive management at the 
Bank, became the CEO of GGU.
In 2016, Mr Gilauri also continued to expand the Group’s social and environmental agenda, which is described on pages 46 to 52. Notably, the 
Bank: (i) implemented strict requirements for customers to adhere to internationally recognised environmental and social sustainability standards;  
(ii) offered finance opportunities to female entrepreneurs on favourable terms otherwise unavailable in the market; and (iii) created new debit card 
products for students with benefits such as discounted/free transportation, loyalty points and discounts at bookstores. Funding to programmes 
Mr Gilauri initiated in previous years to enhance access to education – the Bank of Georgia University MBA programme as well as Chevening and 
Fulbright scholarships – increased in 2016.
For 2016, the Committee found that Mr Gilauri’s overall performance was exceptional. As a result, the Committee determined that Mr Gilauri should 
be awarded discretionary deferred share remuneration at maximum opportunity. The Committee agreed to award Mr Gilauri 37,450 shares. 
MR GILAURI’S 2017 KPIS – DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION 
For 2017, in respect of objective KPIs, we plan to continue measuring Mr Gilauri’s performance against KPIs which reflect the separation of our
Banking and Investment Businesses as well as the strategy of the Group as a whole.
Banking Business
• ROAE of 20%
• Retail loan book growth of 20%
Investment Business
• Y-o-y growth of the value of our investment businesses as targeted
• Continued enhancement of our investment business management teams
Group-wide
• Continued coaching and mentoring of the management team
• Continued self-development
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF CEO
The following table sets out details of the percentage change in the remuneration awarded to the CEO between 2015 and 2016, compared with the 
average percentage change in the per capita remuneration awarded to the Group’s employees as a whole between 2015 and 2016. See the Single 
Total Figure Remuneration Table on page 107 for an explanation of cash salary, deferred share salary, taxable benefits and discretionary deferred 
remuneration of Mr Gilauri. 
Percentage change for the CEO 
between 2015 and 2016
Average percentage change for the Group’s employees as a 
whole (excluding Mr Gilauri) between 2015 and 2016
Total cash salary 0% 14%
Total deferred share salary 11% 13%
Taxable benefits -1% 29%
Total bonus (discretionary deferred share remuneration,  
in the case of Mr Gilauri, and deferred discretionary share 
remuneration plus cash bonus, in the case of other 
employees of the Group)
19% 32.2%
FURTHER DETAILS OF FIXED AND DISCRETIONARY CONTINGENT DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION GRANTED DURING 2016 (AUDITED)
The following table sets out details of the nil-cost options over BGEO shares which have been granted to Mr Gilauri in 2016 in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2015. Please note that the information presented in this section is for the 2015 financial year. 
Deferred share salary Discretionary deferred share remuneration
Number of underlying shares 
and basis on which award 
was made
90,000 granted on the basis described in the table in 
section 1(a) of the 2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.
com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf.
47,000 granted on the basis described in section 1(b) of 
the 2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/
pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf.
Type of interest Nil-cost option Nil-cost option
Cost to Group (as reflected  
in accounts)
US$ 1,954,157
1
US$ 1,099,473
2
Face value US$ 1,954,157
1
Cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the 
underlying shares will be made upon vesting.
US$ 1,099,473
2
Cash payments equal to the dividends paid on the 
underlying shares will be made upon vesting.
Percentage of award 
receivable if minimum 
performance achieved
100% of the award will be receivable, since the award is 
part of the executive’s salary set out in the 2013 contract 
and accordingly is not subject to performance measures 
or targets over the vesting period.
100% of the award will be receivable, since the award is 
based on 2015 performance (and is not a LTIP award) 
and accordingly is not subject to performance measures 
or targets over the vesting period.
Exercise price Nil. The options form part of the Executive Director’s 
salary under the policy and so no payment is required 
upon exercise.
Nil. The options make up the entirety of the Executive 
Director’s performance-based remuneration and so no 
payment is required upon exercise. 
Vesting period 20% in each of 2017, 2018 and 2019 and 40% in 2020. 50% in each of 2017 and 2018. 
Performance measures None. See section 1(a) of the 2014 Policy available at http://
bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf.
See section 1(b) of the 2014 Policy available at http://
bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf. 110 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Notes:
1 Deferred share salary. The figures show the value of the BGEO shares underlying nil-cost options granted in respect of 2015. The award was 90,000 BGEO shares and the value 
of the deferred share salary is calculated using the share price as at the date the prior service agreement was signed, being US$ 21.71 per share (based on the official share price 
of GBP 14.06 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.5443, being the official exchange rate published by the Bank of England on the same date). The terms 
and conditions applying to deferred share salary are described in section 1(a) of the 2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf.
2  Discretionary deferred share remuneration. For 2015, options were awarded over 47,000 BGEO shares. The value is calculated by reference to the share price on 12 February 
2016 which was US$ 23.39 (based on the official share price of GBP 16.18 per share converted into Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.4458, being the official exchange rate 
published by the Bank of England on the same date). The means of determining the number of shares underlying this award and the terms and conditions are described in section 
1(b) of the 2014 Policy available at http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/remuneration-policy-86.pdf. 
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED) 
The table below sets out the remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director in 2016 and 2015. 
BGEO fees (US$) Bank fees (US$) Total fees (US$)
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Neil Janin (Chairman)
1
107,500 107,500 107,500 107,500 215,000 215,000
David Morrison
2
83,500 83,500 72,500 72,500 156,000 156,000
Al Breach 67,000 67,000 56,000 56,000 123,000 123,000
Kim Bradley 70,500 70,500 59,500 59,500 130,000 130,000
Tamaz Georgadze 59,046 56,000 47,531 45,000 106,577 101,000
Hanna Loikkanen
3
56,077 20,714 37,500 12,500 93,577 33,214
Kaha Kiknavelidze
4
46,102 67,000 52,238 56,000 98,340 123,000
Bozidar Djelic
5
53,703 56,000 45,000 45,000 98,703 101,000
TOTAL 543,428 528,214 477,769 454,000 1,021,197 983,214
Notes:
1 On 4 September 2015, Mr Janin was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of GHG PLC. He also serves as Chairman of both the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees and was most recently appointed to the Critical Quality and Safety Committee in February 2017. In 2016 and 2015, Neil Janin received remuneration of US$ 111,000 
and US$ 89,706, respectively from GHG PLC in respect of his services. Mr Janin has no entitlement to fees in respect of his position on the Supervisory Board of JSC Georgia 
Healthcare Group.
2  On 4 September 2015, Mr Morrison was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of GHG PLC. He also serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member  
of both the Nomination Committee. He stepped down from the Critical Quality and Safety Committee in February 2017. In 2016 and 2015, Mr Morrison received remuneration of 
US$ 156,000 and US$ 102,664, respectively from GHG PLC in respect of his services. Mr Morrison has no entitlement to fees in respect of his position on the Supervisory Board 
of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
3  Ms Loikkanen was appointed to the Board of BGEO and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 12 June 2015 and 27 August 2015, respectively, and therefore the fees reflected  
in respect of 2015 have been pro-rated from the date of appointment until 31 December 2015. 
4 Kaha Kiknavelidze resigned from the Board of BGEO and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 6 September 2016.
5 Bozidar Djelic resigned from the Board of BGEO and the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 15 December 2016.
6 The maximum amount for BGEO base fees, including the Chairman, as provided for in BGEO’s Articles of Association, is GBP 750,000.
In 2016, no payments were made to past Directors, nor were payments made for loss of office.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
BGEO GROUP PLC TSR VS. THE FTSE INDICES TSR
The following graph compares the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of BGEO Group PLC with the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index and 
FTSE 100 Index for the period since BGEO’s listing on the Premium Segment of the LSE on 28 February 2012 until 31 March 2017. BGEO Group 
PLC has been a member of the FTSE 250 since 15 June 2012. For further context and comparison, our TSR performance is also compared to that 
of the FTSE 100 index as it has consistently outperformed the FTSE 100 over the past four years.
Feb 12 Feb 17 Feb 16 Aug 15 Aug 16 Feb 15 Aug 14 Feb 14 Aug 13 Feb 13 Aug 12
150
100
50
200
250
300
350
BGEO FTSE 100 FTSE 250
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The following table shows the difference in remuneration paid to all employees of the Group between 2015 and 2016 as well as the difference in 
value of distributions paid to shareholders by way of dividends between 2015 and 2016.
Remuneration paid to all employees of 
the Group
Distributions to shareholders by way of 
dividends 
Year ended 31 December 2015 (US$) (dividend for year 2014) 77,384,819 33,575,932
Year ended 31 December 2016 (US$) (dividend for year 2015) 83,805,260 36,876,228
Percentage change 8.3% 9.8%
 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 111 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES (AUDITED)
The following table sets forth the respective holdings of BGEO shares of each Director as at 31 December 2015 and 2016. 
As at 31 December 2015 As at 31 December 2016
Number of  
BGEO shares 
held directly
Number of vested 
but unexercised 
BGEO shares held 
under option 
through deferred 
share salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
remuneration (all 
nil-cost options 
with no 
performance 
conditions)
Number of 
unvested and 
unexercised BGEO 
shares held under 
option through 
deferred share 
salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
remuneration (all 
nil-cost options 
with no 
performance 
conditions)
Total number of 
interests in BGEO 
shares
Number of  
BGEO shares 
held directly
Number of vested 
but unexercised 
BGEO shares 
held under option 
through deferred 
share salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
remuneration (all 
nil-cost options 
with no 
performance 
conditions)
Number of 
unvested and 
unexercised 
BGEO shares 
held under option 
through deferred 
share salary and 
discretionary 
deferred share 
remuneration (all 
nil-cost options 
with no 
performance 
condition)
Total number of 
interests in BGEO 
shares
Irakli Gilauri
1
250,319 – 289,500 539,819 202,315 – 439,000 641,315
Neil Janin
2
35,729 N/A N/A 35,729 35,729 N/A N/A 35,729
David Morrison 26,357 N/A N/A 26,357 26,357 N/A N/A 26,357
Al Breach
3
16,400 N/A N/A 16,400 16,400 N/A N/A 16,400
Kim Bradley 1,250 N/A N/A 1,250 1,250 N/A N/A 1,250
Tamaz Georgadze – N/A N/A – – N/A N/A –
Bozidar Djelic – N/A N/A – – N/A N/A –
Notes:
1 Mr Gilauri’s unvested and unexercised shares include all options granted in respect of the 2016 work year. In March 2017, Mr Gilauri exercised options in respect of 126,000 
BGEO shares, of which 25,200 BGEO shares were withheld to satisfy tax liabilities. After the exercise Mr Gilauri held 303,115 vested BGEO shares. 
2  At year-end 2016, NeilCo Limited, a company wholly-owned by Mr Janin, held 10,000 BGEO shares. In March 2017, Mr Janin purchased 3,500 BGEO shares is his  
personal capacity.
3 At year-end 2016, Gemsstock Growth Fund, which Mr Breach manages, held 20,000 BGEO shares. 
Save for Mr Gilauri’s exercise of options as set out in Note 1 above and Mr Janin’s purchase of shares as set out in Note 2 above, there have been 
no further changes in the interests of each Director listed above since 31 December 2016 and the date of this Annual Report.
The Remuneration Policy is heavily weighted towards remuneration in deferred salary shares and deferred discretionary shares. In respect of 2016, 
81% of Mr Gilauri's compensation was in the form of deferred shares. The long vesting periods, particularly for deferred salary shares (five years), 
result in executive management having large holdings of shares. Accordingly, the Group does not apply a shareholding guideline or impose a holding 
period on Mr Gilauri’s shares. The Policy naturally results in our executives holding a significant number of unvested shares and achieves a delay 
between performance and vesting. We believe these results are consistent with the principles of the Investment Management Association.
As at the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauri’s vested and unvested shareholding is 616,115 BGEO shares, representing approximately 1.56% of 
the share capital of BGEO. The vesting period for the majority of unvested shares exceeds three years.
None of Mr Gilauri’s connected persons have interests in any BGEO shares.
The Group does not require Non-Executive Directors to hold a specified number of shares in BGEO. Notwithstanding this, some Non-Executive 
Directors have chosen to become shareholders. 
Several of our Directors chose to subscribe for shares in the GHG IPO in 12 November 2015. The following table sets forth the respective holdings 
of GHG shares of each Director as at 31 December 2016. 
As at 31 December 2016
Number of GHG 
shares held 
directly
Irakli Gilauri 411,700
Neil Janin 88,000
David Morrison 116,600
Al Breach 30,000
Kim Bradley 19,000
MR GILAURI’S INTERESTS IN GROUP DEBT SECURITIES AND REAL ESTATE
Directors and executive management of the Group from time-to-time will purchase securities or real estate from Group entities on an arms-length 
basis. In the interest of transparency, such transactions entered into by our sole Executive Director, Mr Gilauri, are described below.
Mr Gilauri participated in the US$ 25 million three-year bond offering by m
2
 Real Estate and the US$ 15 million two-year bond offering by Evex. Both 
bonds are listed on the Georgian Stock Exchange. As at the date of this Annual Report, Mr Gilauri holds US$ 41,240 worth of m
2
 Real Estate bonds 
and US$ 312,780 worth of Evex bonds. Mr Gilauri also purchased US$ 3,372 worth of Teliani Valley shares.
On 24 December 2015 and 3 October 2016, Mr Gilauri purchased an apartment in the m
2
 Real Estate Skyline Project in the amount of US$ 519,220 
and US$ 416,239, respectively. Mr Gilauri purchased these apartments on an arms-length basis. 
DETAILS OF NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ TERMS OF APPOINTMENT 
Letters of appointment are entered into by BGEO with each Non Executive Director, generally for a three-year term and subject to our succession 
plan which permits service for a six-year period. However, at the discretion of the Board, if the Non-Executive’s continued membership is in the best 
interests of the Group, he may be re-offered membership to the Board pursuant to a letter of appointment for an additional one-year term, which  112 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
may be renewed no more than two times. All Non Executive Directors are proposed for annual re-election at the AGM. The letters of appointment 
require Non Executive Directors to provide one month’s notice prior to termination. If our Directors’ Remuneration Policy is approved at the 2017 
AGM, new letters of appointment will be prepared, reflecting the new fees, revised corporate structure and enhanced responsibilities in respect of 
the Investment Business. 
The table below shows each Non-Executive Director’s date of appointment to the Board of BGEO. 
Date of appointment 
Neil Janin December 2011
David Morrison December 2011 
Al Breach December 2011
Kim Bradley December 2013
Tamaz Georgadze December 2013 
Hanna Loikkanen June 2015
SHAREHOLDINGS OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 
Similar to Executive Directors, the remuneration of executive management is characterised by heavily weighted salary in the form of long-term 
deferred share remuneration rather than cash and performance-based remuneration in the form of deferred shares only and no cash. 
The following table sets forth the respective holdings of BGEO shares of several members of executive management as at 31 December 2016 and 
2015, which reflects the predominance of unvested shares. 
As at 31 December 2016 As at 31 December 2015
Number of vested 
BGEO shares 
Number of 
unvested BGEO 
shares 
Total vested and 
unvested BGEO 
shares
Number of vested 
BGEO shares 
Number of 
unvested BGEO 
shares
Total vested and 
unvested BGEO 
shares
Kaha Kiknavelidze 26,337 11,667 38,004 26,337 – 26,337
Levan Kulijanishvili 1,100 64,641 65,741 9 25,918 25,927
Avto Namichieshvili 18,095 154,750 172,845 58,139 108,750 166,889
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze – 116,500 116,500 – 95,250 95,250
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION FOR 2017
The only changes in the way the Policy will be implemented in 2017 compared to how it was implemented in 2016 are an increase in maximum 
opportunity for Mr Gilauri (capped at 75% of total salary) and a moderate increase in Non-Executive Director fees.
Details of how the Policy will be implemented for the 2017 financial year are set out below.
FOR IRAKLI GILAURI 
FIXED PAY
Total cash salary (combined BGEO and Bank) US$ 437,500 
Total deferred share salary (Bank) US$ 2,288,700
Pension and other benefits No change from the stated Policy; Value is expected to be substantially  
to 2016
There are circumstances in which unvested deferred shares may lapse and narrow circumstances in which such shares may vest immediately are 
set out in the Policy.
2017 DISCRETIONARY DEFERRED SHARE REMUNERATION
Opportunity Maximum is 75% of total salary (total cash salary and total deferred share salary as listed in the table above) 
Deferral terms Early in 2018, the Committee will determine whether an award is merited based on the Executive Director’s achievement 
of the KPIs set for the work year and the performance of the Group during the work year. If Mr Gilauri is awarded 
discretionary deferred shares, the award will vest 33.33% in each of 2019, 2020 and 2021. 
 
At vesting (upon exercise of the nil-cost options), Mr Gilauri will receive (in addition to the vested shares) cash payments 
equal to the dividends paid (if any) on the underlying shares between the date the award was made and the vesting date.
Performance measures  
and targets
For 2017, the Committee has determined that the performance measures for will be based on the KPIs, subject to the 
terms of the Policy.  
Banking Business
• ROAE of 20%
• Retail loan book growth of 20%
Investment Business
• Year-on-year growth of the value of our Investment Business as targeted
• Continued enhancement of our Investment Business management teams
Group-wide
• Continued coaching and mentoring of the management team
• Continued self-development
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 113 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Natural clawback and further malus are built in to the structure of Mr Gilauri’s remuneration above, given that both salary shares and discretionary 
shares are deferred and are subject to a number of vesting conditions which, if breached, would result in Mr Gilauri’s salary shares fully lapsing, 
unless the Board otherwise agrees. His service agreement may be terminated for “cause”, a definition which is broadly defined and extends beyond 
standard malus and clawback triggers to include, for example, gross and wilful misconduct having a material adverse effect on the Group, fraud, 
material repeated failure to perform his duties, breach of his obligations or conviction of a felony. His unvested shares may also lapse if he terminates 
his service agreement early (in the absence of repeated material wrongdoing by the company). Further malus applies to discretionary deferred shares 
if it is determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial results. In this case, the Board has the right to cause some or all of the 
award for that financial year or for any subsequent financial year that is unvested at the time of its determination, not to vest and to lapse, as set out 
in the Policy. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
The table below shows the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors for 2017. 
All fees to Non-Executive Directors are paid in cash and reflect work performed for BGEO, JSC BGEO Group and the Bank Supervisory Board and 
its subsidiaries. Fees were moderately increased in 2017 to reflect the additional duties in respect of the Investment Business.
Role 2017 fees
Chairman (aggregate all-inclusive fee) US$ 313,900
Senior Independent Director base fee (aggregate) US$ 146,000
Non-Executive Director (excluding Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director) base fee (aggregate)
US$ 109,500
Additional Committee fees Range from US$ 6,570 to US$ 17,520, depending on whether the 
Non-Executive serves as Chairman or Member of a Committee 
Notes 
1 The term aggregate refers to work in respect of BGEO JSC BGEO Group and the Bank. 
2 The allocation of base fees to BGEO does not and will not exceed the maximum amount of GBP 750,000 as set out in our Articles.
COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND ADVISORS
The Committee is comprised of three members: our Chairman, Al Breach, an independent Non-Executive Director; David Morrison, our Senior 
Independent Director; and Neil Janin, who was independent on appointment.
The members’ attendance during 2016 is provided below.
Member Attendance
Number of 
meetings attended
% of 
meetings 
attended
Al Breach 80%
David Morrison 100%
Neil Janin 100%
In addition to the formal meetings held during the year, the Committee participated in various discussions by telephone outside of these meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings who provided advice or assistance to the Committee on remuneration matters from time to time included 
the CEO, Bank CEO, the other Board members, General Counsel and Group Company Secretary. Attendees at Committee meetings do not 
participate in discussions or decisions related to their own remuneration.
The Committee received advice from Baker & McKenzie LLP , its legal advisors, on compliance and best practice. 
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW 
An internal review was conducted by the Group Company Secretary. The evaluation principally addressed the composition of the Committee, the 
structure and effectiveness of the 2014 Policy, the design of the new Policy and the performance evaluation process. The effectiveness evaluation 
concluded that the Committee continues to operate and perform effectively. 
Our priorities for 2017 include: vigilant review of Executive Director and executive management performance as well as focus on senior and mid-level 
remuneration, motivation and development.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Al Breach
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
13 April 2017 114 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
consolidated and stand-alone financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires us to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. As required, we have prepared the accompanying 
consolidated and separate statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union 
and applicable law.
We must not approve the accompanying consolidated and stand-alone 
financial statements unless we are satisfied that they give a true and  
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing the accompanying consolidated and separate financial 
statements, we are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent 
• State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements 
• Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business
We are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s and the Group’s 
transactions, to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group, and to enable us to 
ensure that the consolidated and stand-alone financial statements and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the consolidated and stand-alone financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have further responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
We are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’ s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• The consolidated and stand-alone financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole
• The Strategic Report and Directors' Report contained in this Annual 
Report includes a fair review of the development and performance  
of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties  
that it faces
We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole,  
is fair, balanced and understandable and gives shareholders the 
information needed to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Neil Janin  Irakli Gilauri
Chairman   CEO
13 April 2017  13 April 2017 115 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 73 was approved by the Board  
of Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on its behalf by Irakli Gilauri, 
Chief Executive Officer.
MANAGEMENT REPORT
This Directors’ Report together with the Strategic Report on pages 1  
to 73 form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.5 R.
INFORMATION CONTAINED ELSEWHERE IN THE ANNUAL REPORT 
Information required to be part of this Directors’ Report can be found 
elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is 
incorporated into this report by reference: 
Information Location in Annual Report
Future developments Pages 2 to 73
BGEO risk management Pages 34 to 35
Going concern statement Page 35
Viability statement Page 35
Bank risk management Pages 40 to 45
Principal risks and uncertainties Pages 36 to 39
Directors’ Governance Overview Page 74
The Board of Directors Pages 75 to 77
Nomination Committee Report Pages 86 to 88
Audit Committee Report Pages 89 to 93
Risk Committee Report Pages 94 to 96
Greenhouse gas emissions Page 52
Employee matters Page 49
Environmental matters Pages 51 and 52
Share capital Note 20 on page 187
Information on the Group’s financial risk 
management objectives and policies,  
and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, 
interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and 
financial instruments
Note 29 on pages  
193 to 202
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR
We confirm that, so far as we are aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and we
have taken all steps that we reasonably should have taken as
Directors in order to make ourselves aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s statutory auditors
are aware of such information.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
BGEO’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. The process for the 
appointment and removal of Directors is included in our Articles of 
Association. The BGEO Articles of Association are available on BGEO’s 
website: http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/bgeo-group-plc-articles-of-
association-91.pdf.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO THE SHARES
Details of the movements in share capital during the year are provided  
in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements on page 187.
As at the date of this Annual Report, there was a single class of 
39,469,320 ordinary shares of one pence each in issue, each with one 
vote. The rights and obligations attaching to BGEO’s ordinary shares  
are set out in its Articles of Association. Holders of ordinary shares  
are entitled, subject to any applicable law and BGEO’s Articles of 
Association, to:
• Have shareholder documents made available to them including the 
notice of any general meeting
• Attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either  
in person or by proxy
• Participate in any distribution of income or capital
In accordance with a request issued by BGEO, Sanne Fiduciary Services 
Limited, acting as trustee of the Trust, has waived its right to receive any 
dividends. This waiver will remain in place indefinitely, unless otherwise 
instructed by BGEO.
BGEO is permitted to make market purchases of its own shares 
provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and 
subject to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 
2006. Such authority was given at the 2016 AGM. 
The Company's share buyback and cancellation programme is 
described on the next page.
In 2016, the Board approved funding of approximately US$ 30 million  
to enable Sanne, our Trustee, to purchase shares in the market to satisfy 
awards in respect of the 2015 and 2016 work years. Since listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in 2012 until 31 December 2016, a total of 
1,138,283 shares have been purchased in the market for the Trust.
The Group previously committed that new shares issued in satisfaction 
of deferred share compensation from the time of the Company’s listing 
on the Premium Segment of the LSE will not exceed 10% of BGEO’s 
ordinary share capital over any ten-year period. 
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of BGEO. 
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than:
• Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws 
or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing
• Pursuant to the Group Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors 
and designated employees require approval to deal in BGEO’s shares
• Where a person with an interest in BGEO’s shares has been served 
with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide BGEO with 
information concerning interests in those shares
All employees (including Directors) that are deemed by BGEO to be 
insiders have complied with the Group’s Share Dealing Code. There are 
no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in situations where BGEO 
is legally entitled to impose such a restriction (for example, under the 
Articles of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after 
request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to BGEO). 
BGEO is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The Group made a profit before taxation of GEL 389.9 million (year 
ended 31 December 2015: GEL 359.4 million). The Group’s profit after 
taxation for the year was GEL 428.6 million (year ended 31 December 
2015: GEL 310.9 million).
BGEO may by ordinary resolution declare dividends provided that  
no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by BGEO’s 
Directors. The Directors may also pay interim dividends as appear  
to be justified by the profits of BGEO available for distribution. 
As BGEO is a holding company, BGEO relies primarily on dividends and 
other statutorily (if any) and contractually permissible payments from its 
subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations and 
pay dividend to its shareholders. 
As a result of the Bank’s strong financial performance and condition,  
the BGEO Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.6 
payable in British Pounds Sterling, which is subject to shareholders’ 
approval at the 2017 AGM. If approved, the dividend will be paid on  
7 July 2017 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close 
of business in the UK (6:00 pm London time) on 23 June 2017. 116 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
POWERS OF DIRECTORS
The Directors may exercise all powers of BGEO subject to applicable 
legislation and regulation and BGEO’s Articles of Association.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have 
adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation (if 
appropriate) of conflicts of interest, and these have been followed during 
2016. BGEO’s Articles of Association also contain provisions to allow the 
Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is 
not in breach of his duty under company law.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ fees are determined by the Board from time to time. The 
remuneration of our Directors’ must be in accordance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders. Fees for Non-
Executive Directors (as distinct from any salary, remuneration or other 
amount payable to a Director pursuant to other provisions of the Articles 
of Association or otherwise) may not exceed GBP 750,000 per annum  
in aggregate or such higher amounts as may from time to time be 
determined by ordinary resolution of BGEO. The fees paid to the 
Non-Executive Directors in 2016 pursuant to their letters of appointment 
are shown on page 100. The fees paid to our sole Executive Director in 
2016 pursuant to his service agreements with BGEO and the Bank are 
shown on page 107. 
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors’ beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGEO as at 
31 December 2016 are shown on page 110.
INDEMNITY
Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or 
other officer of BGEO (other than any person engaged by the Company 
as auditor) shall be indemnified by BGEO against any liability in relation  
to BGEO, other than (broadly) any liability to BGEO or a member of the 
Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
Details of related party disclosures are set out in Note 32 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 211.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS
On 23 October 2015, BGEO entered into a Relationship Agreement with 
GHG and JSC BGEO Investments which regulates the degree of control 
that BGEO and its associates may exercise over the management and 
business of GHG. The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement 
is to ensure that GHG and its subsidiaries are capable at all times of 
carrying on their business independently of BGEO and its associates. 
The Relationship Agreement took effect on 12 November 2015 and will 
continue until the earlier of: (i) GHG shares ceasing to be admitted to 
listing on the Official List; and (ii) BGEO, together with its associates, 
ceasing to own or control (directly or indirectly) 20% or more of the 
voting share capital of GHG. If BGEO ceases to be a controlling 
shareholder (within the meaning of LR 6.1.2A of the Listing Rules),  
it may terminate the Relationship Agreement by giving one month’s 
written notice to GHG.
Under the Relationship Agreement, for so long as BGEO and its 
associates together hold 20% or more of the voting share capital of 
GHG, BGEO and its associates shall amongst other things:
• Conduct all transactions, agreements or arrangements entered into 
between: (i) BGEO and its associates, and (ii) GHG or any of its 
subsidiaries on an arm’s length basis and on normal commercial 
terms and in accordance with the related party transaction rules set 
out in the Listing Rules;
• Not take any action that has or would have the effect of preventing 
GHG or any of its subsidiaries from complying with their obligations 
under the Listing Rules;
• Not propose or procure the proposal of any resolution of the 
shareholders (or any class thereof) which is intended, or appears to 
be intended, to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules; 
and/or
• Abstain from voting on any resolution required by LR 11.1.7R(3)  
of the Listing Rules to approve a transaction with a related party 
involving BGEO.
The Relationship Agreement entitles BGEO to appoint one person  
to be a Non-Executive Director of GHG for so long as it (together with  
its associates) holds at least 20% of the voting share capital of GHG.
The Relationship Agreement also provides that (subject to permitted 
exceptions) neither BGEO nor its associates shall compete with the 
business of GHG nor use any names associated with GHG and that 
GHG shall not use any names associated with BGEO or its associates.
A copy of the Relationship Agreement is available to view at the 
Company’s registered office. 
At no time during 2016 did any Director hold a material interest in any 
contracts of significance with BGEO or any subsidiary of the Group. 
BGEO is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, 
alter or terminate following a change of control of BGEO.
There are no agreements between the Company and any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or loss  
of employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
However, under the terms of Mr Gilauri's service agreements (as described 
in further detail in the Directors' Remuneration Report), unvested shares will 
vest on a change of control of the Company, the Bank or or any 
intermediary holding company of the Bank (as appropriate).
PRESENCE OUTSIDE OF GEORGIA
We have representative offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv. 
See pages 4 and 61.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS
We value our suppliers and acknowledge the importance of paying 
invoices in an orderly and timely manner. It is the Group’s practice to 
agree terms on an individual basis when entering into contracts and 
meet obligations accordingly. The Group does not follow any specific 
published code or standard on payment practice.
EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURES
Our disclosures relating to the number of women in senior management, 
employee engagement and policies as well as human rights, including 
employment of the disabled, are included in “Employee matters” on 
pages 49 to 51.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Group did not make any political donations or expenditures  
during 2016. 
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS
The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to the lawful and 
ethical conduct of the business, supported by the Group’s core values. 
The Code of Conduct has been communicated to all Directors and 
employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards of 
integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and regulators  
in the communities in which the Group operates. Our Code of Conduct 
is available on our website: http://bgeo.com/uploads/pages/code-of-
conduct-and-ethics-58.pdf.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of BGEO will be 
put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED 117 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES 
The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of more than 3%  
as of 31 December 2016. A description of changes in voting rights which 
have been notified to BGEO for the period 1 January 2017 up to and 
including 31 March 2017 are disclosed below the table.
As of 31 December 2016
Shareholder
Number of 
voting rights
% of 
voting rights
Harding Loevner LP 3,805,270 9.63%
Schroder Investment Management 2,118,956 5.36%
Artemis Investment Management 1,765,639 4.47%
Sanne Fiduciary Services 1,566,224 3.97%
Westwood International Advisors 1,377,615 3.49%
JP Morgan Asset Management 1,101,754 2.79%
Source: Georgeson, Computershare
Notes:
On 21 February 2017, Sanne's voting rights decreased slightly to 1,571,007, or 3.97%.
On 23 January 2017 Shroder's voting rights decreased slightly to 1,928,526, or 4.88%
On 9 January 2017, Shroder's voting rights decreased slightly to 1,961,920, or 4.97%.
The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are available on the 
BGEO website: http://bgeo.com/regulatoryannouncements and the 
London Stock Exchange website: www.londonstockexchange.com/
news/news/finance.htm.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
BGEO SHARE BUYBACK AND CANCELLATION PROGRAMME
As a result of the Group’s strong capital position, in November 2016  
the Board approved a US$ 50 million share buyback and cancellation 
programme to be completed over a two-year period. BGEO entered into 
an agreement with Numis Securities Limited (Numis) on 7 March 2017 to 
enable Numis to use the maximum consideration of US$ 50 million over 
a two-year period expiring 6 March 2019 to purchase shares in 
accordance with the terms of the general authority to make market 
purchases of up to 3,950,032 of its shares granted to BGEO by its 
shareholders at the 2016 AGM and subject to its shareholders’ approval 
of a similar buyback resolution at BGEO’s 2017 AGM in respect of any 
purchases to be made after the date of that meeting. 
On behalf of the Company, Numis Securities Ltd purchased a total of 
31,000 BGEO Group PLC ordinary shares of GBP 0.01 (total nominal 
value purchased: GBP 310 at each between 17 March 2017 and 
22 March 2017. The net cost for the purchased shares was GBP 
940,701.33. The 31,000 shares purchased represent 0.78% of the 
issued share capital as at the date of this Annual Report. Any shares 
repurchased will be immediately cancelled. 
Pursuant to the Company's agreement with Numis, Numis must carry 
out purchases on the London Stock Exchange and executed in 
accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014, Chapter  
12 of the Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules and the rules of the 
London Stock Exchange. 
ESOP FUNDING
In March 2017, the Group provided additional funding of US$ 6 million to 
enable Sane to purchase more shares in the market to satisfy upcoming 
awards. 
JSC ABC PHARMACIA ACQUISITION
On 6 January 2017, Georgia Healthcare Group, through ones of its 
subsidiaries, acquired 67% of the shares of JSC ABC Pharmacy, a 
pharmaceuticals company operating in Georgia from individual investors. 
Consideration comprised GEL 72,341, which consists of a cash 
payment of GEL 32,554, a holdback amount with a fair value of GEL 
30,041 and non-cash consideration of GEL 9,746 comprising 33%  
of GPC shares. 
DE-DOLLARISATION PROGRAMME
On 11 January 2017, the Government of Georgia approved a “de-dollarisation” 
programme. The purpose of the programme is to increase the disposable 
income of individuals, reduce their dependency on foreign exchange rate 
fluctuations and promote financial stability in Georgia. Under the 
programme rules, all Georgian commercial banks were, at the request of 
a client, convert eligible Dollar-denominated loans into Lari, at a discount 
compensated by the Government until 25 March 2017. Effective from 
15 January 2017, the NBG introduced a new regulation whereby 
borrowings that are less than GEL 100,000 will be issued in Lari effective 
from 15 January 2017.
By order of the Board
Kate Bennett Rea
on behalf of Sirius Compliance Solutions
Group Company Secretary
13 April 2017 118 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
• BGEO Group plc’s Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view  
of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied  
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
BGEO Group plc’s financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 comprise:
Group Company financial statements
• the consolidated statement of financial position • the separate statement of financial position
• the consolidated income statement • the separate statement of changes in equity
• the consolidated statement of comprehensive income • the separate statement of cash flows
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity • the related Notes 1 to 34 to the Company financial statements
• the consolidated statement of cash flows
• the related Notes 1 to 34 to the consolidated financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Risks of material misstatement having  
greatest impact on audit scope
• Monitoring of credit quality and appropriateness of allowance for loan losses.
• Risk of fraud in recognition of healthcare revenue and pharmaceutical revenue.
• Valuation of land and office buildings, hospitals and clinics and investment properties.
• Accounting for one-off and complex transactions including business combinations.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components and audit 
procedures on specific balances for a further three components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 95%  
of Profit before non-recurring items and tax, 91% of Revenue and 95% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of GEL 20 million which represents 5% of pre-tax profit adjusted for 
non-recurring items.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF BGEO GROUP PLC 119 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which 
were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee
MONITORING OF CREDIT QUALITY  
AND APPROPRIATENESS OF 
ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES 
LOAN LOSS ALLOWANCE GEL 252.8 
million, (2015: GEL 198.9 million)
JSC Bank of Georgia is the largest credit 
institution in Georgia. The allowance for loan 
losses is highly judgmental and changes  
in assumptions could have a material impact 
on reported profits. 
The allowance for loan losses is calculated 
using a combination of a collective 
provisioning model and specific loan 
provisions based on discounted cash flow 
analyses. Both collective and specific 
provisions depend on a number of 
assumptions and judgments, the most 
important of which are management’s 
assessment of credit risk, estimates of future 
cashflows and valuations of collateral.
As a consequence of the judgment involved 
in establishing the allowance, there is a 
greater risk of misstatement in this balance, 
either by fraud or error, including through the 
potential override of controls by management.
As described in the principal risks and 
uncertainties on page 36, the risk has 
increased in the current year as a result of 
the depreciation of the Lari.
• We performed a walkthrough of the loan loss allowance 
process and assessed the design and operating 
effectiveness of key controls.
• We tested key controls over the collective loan loss 
provision, which included controls over the identification  
of loans to be included in the collective assessment and 
management’s review of key assumptions.
• We tested key controls over specific loan loss provisions, 
which addressed aspects such as the classification of 
borrowers into their respective risk grades, calculation  
of days past due and the recalculation of the loan loss 
allowance, including the valuation of collateral.
• For specific loan loss provisions, we assessed the 
recoverability of loan exposures on a sample basis and 
ensured the appropriateness of the provision as at the 
balance sheet date, including reviewing the Group’s 
documented credit assessment of the borrowers, 
challenging assumptions relating to future cash flow 
projections and the valuation of collateral held. 
• For the collective loan loss provision, we critically  
assessed the appropriateness of the collective provisioning 
methodology as well as the assumptions and data inputs 
into the model with reference to our understanding of the 
business, relevant accounting standards and market 
practices, recalculated the collective loan loss provision 
and analysed the sensitivity of provisions to changes  
in key model inputs.
• We reviewed a sample of restructured loans and reviewed 
the Group’s documented assessment to provide assurance 
that any loans that have been subject to forbearance have 
been appropriately classified and reported.
• During the year the Group’s largest borrower experienced 
financial difficulties and its business was restructured. 
Management’s assessment of the loan loss allowance is 
based on projected cashflows of the restructured business. 
We considered whether key assumptions underlying these 
projections were consistent with our knowledge of the 
business and independent projections of expected prices 
for the business’s key products.
Although the loan loss 
allowance is by nature  
highly judgmental, based  
on the results of our audit 
procedures, we concluded 
that the loan loss allowance  
is within a reasonable range 
as at 31 December 2016.
We consider that the 
allowance in respect of the 
loan to the Group’s largest 
borrower is based on 
assumptions in respect of the 
underlying business of the 
borrower that are reasonable.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report 
(page 91); accounting policies (page 
150); and Note 10 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 120 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee
RISK OF FRAUD IN RECOGNITION 
OF HEALTHCARE REVENUE AND 
PHARMACEUTICAL REVENUE
REVENUE GEL 363 million  
(2015: GEL 184 million)
GHG is one of the largest healthcare 
providers and pharmacy distributors in 
Georgia. Following the IPO of GHG in 2015, 
there is a heightened risk that GHG 
management may be under pressure to 
report strong financial performance in order 
to meet the expectations of internal and 
external stakeholders. As a consequence, 
there is a greater risk of misstatement in 
these balances, either by fraud or error, 
including through the potential override of 
controls by management.
The risk has increased in the current year  
as a result of the acquisition of GPC,  
which exposed the Group to new streams  
of revenue, including retail sales of 
pharmaceutical products, a customer loyalty 
programme and exchange transactions with 
other pharmaceutical companies. Judgment 
is required to be exercised by management 
in determining amounts recorded as revenue 
in respect of loyalty schemes and exchange 
transactions.
• We gained an understanding of the healthcare and 
pharmaceutical revenue processes and assessed the 
design and operating effectiveness of key controls.
• We performed substantive testing of healthcare and 
pharmaceutical revenue including key items testing, 
representative sampling, testing manual and topside 
adjustments and cut-off testing (by selecting a sample  
of transactions either side of year-end).
• We performed procedures on contractual documentation 
for the sampled transactions to determine whether revenue 
had been recognised in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policies and IFRSs, particularly in respect of 
pharmaceutical exchange transactions and the issuing and 
redemption of points under customer loyalty programmes.
• We performed analytical procedures for healthcare and 
pharmaceutical revenue at legal entity level to consider 
unusual trends that could indicate material misstatements, 
including monthly fluctuations analysis and analysis of 
changes in key drivers of healthcare revenue, such as bed 
occupancy, number of patients and number of beds.
• We performed journal entry testing in order to identify and 
test the risk of misstatement arising from management 
override of controls.
• We considered whether the presentation and disclosure  
of revenue in the financial statements is in accordance with 
relevant accounting standards.
Based on the results of our audit 
procedures, we concluded that 
healthcare and pharmaceutical 
revenue for the year ended 
31 December 2016 has been 
recognised in accordance with 
IFRSs. In particular, exchange 
transactions and customer 
loyalty schemes have been 
accounted for in accordance 
with IAS18 “Revenue” and 
IFRIC 13 “Customer Loyalty 
Programmes”, respectively.
Refer to the Accounting policies  
(page 156); and Note 24 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED 121 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee
VALUATION OF LAND AND OFFICE 
BUILDINGS, HOSPITALS AND CLINICS 
AND INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
GEL 1,029 million, (2015: GEL 475 million)
The Group applies the revaluation model  
for the measurement of its office buildings 
and service centres (including related land) 
and the fair value model for investment 
properties. During the year, the Group 
extended the revaluation model to the 
hospitals and clinics in GHG.
Valuations of office buildings and service 
centres are performed once in every three 
years, unless there is a sign of material 
change in fair values in the market; the  
last such valuation was performed at 
31 December 2015.
The GHG hospitals and clinics were revalued 
as at July 2016.
To assess whether there had been a material 
change in fair values in the market, 
management appointed an independent 
valuer to assess the fair value of the top five 
land and buildings and investment properties 
by value, covering approximately 28%  
of the Group’s property portfolio as at 
31 December 2016. The valuer was also 
engaged to provide a detailed analysis of the 
property markets for relevant sectors in the 
key locations where the Group’s properties 
are located.
Based on the these reports, management 
concluded that there were no material 
variances between the carrying value and 
the fair value of the Group’s properties as at 
the balance sheet date. 
Separate independent external valuers were 
appointed by GHG management to perform 
the valuation of the hospitals and clinics as at 
July 2016.
Real estate valuations are inherently 
uncertain and subject to an estimation 
process. Furthermore, the Group’s real 
estate properties are located primarily in 
Georgia, where the secondary market is 
relatively illiquid, particularly in respect of 
hospitals and clinics. Although the valuations 
are performed by, appropriately qualified 
valuers, there remains a risk that individual 
assets might be inappropriately valued. 
The risk has increased in the current year as 
a result of the extension of the revaluation 
model to the GHG hospitals and clinics.
 
We engaged our Real Estate specialists to evaluate the 
appropriateness of the Group’s valuations of office buildings 
and service centres, investment properties and hospitals and 
clinics, including the following:
• We evaluated the competence, professional qualifications 
and objectivity of the external valuers engaged by the Group;
• Through reading the valuation reports and discussion with 
management and the valuers, we obtained an 
understanding of the objectives and scope of the valuers’ 
work, the methods and assumptions that they had used 
and the conclusions that they had reached;
• We challenged the methods and assumptions used in the 
valuation reports, including consideration as to whether 
there was contrary market intelligence that had not been 
taken into account in the valuers’ analyses; and
• For the hospitals and clinics and 5 properties for which 
specific valuations were performed, we assessed the data, 
application of the methods and logic and reasoning applied 
by the valuers. To the extent possible we compared this 
information to norms and benchmarks in the Georgian 
market, although we noted that there is limited availability 
of transaction information against which to make such 
comparisons. 
We ensured the appropriate recognition of the results  
of the valuations in accordance with IAS 16 ‘Property,  
Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 40 ‘Investment Property’.
Based on the results of  
our audit procedures,  
we concluded that the 
independent valuation reports 
obtained by management 
supported their assessment 
that there were no material 
differences between the 
carrying value and fair value  
of the Group’s properties at 
the balance sheet date. 
For the hospitals and clinics 
revalued as at July 2016, we 
concluded that the valuation 
of the total pool of assets was 
within a reasonable range of 
market values.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 91); 
Accounting policies (pages 152 and 153);  
and Notes 11 and 12 of the Consolidated  
Financial Statements. 122 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated  
to the Audit Committee
ACCOUNTING FOR COMPLEX  
OR ONE-OFF TRANSACTIONS
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
In July 2016, the Group acquired the 
remaining 75% of GGU that it did not hold 
previously, and in May 2016 GHG acquired 
JSC GPC, a top-three pharmaceutical 
retailer in Georgia. During the year GHG  
also acquired certain other smaller entities  
in addition to finalising the acquisition 
accounting for businesses acquired in 2015.
There is a risk of error in the reporting  
for the acquisitions, particularly due to the 
judgment involved in determining the fair 
values of the identifiable net assets acquired, 
assessing the fair value of the consideration, 
identifying the acquired intangibles and 
determining the resultant goodwill or gain  
on bargain purchase.
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
During the year the Group has entered into  
a number of complex or one-off transactions 
including the sale of Visa and Mastercard 
shares, the early redemption of Eurobonds 
and additional investments in associates.
In our audit opinion in 2015 we stated that 
we considered that the Group needed to 
improve its internal controls to match the 
growth in the business, particularly in relation 
to complex and one-off transactions.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
• We tested the methodology and assumptions behind the 
significant judgments involved in the determination of the 
fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired. We used 
our valuation specialists to assess the methodology and 
assumptions used by management to value infrastructure 
assets in GGU.
• We considered whether management’s assessment of the 
nature and value of separately identifiable intangible assets 
acquired was consistent with the requirements of IFRSs 
and market practice for similar transactions.
• We tested on a sample basis the existence of acquired 
subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities, including obtaining 
evidence of legal title to land and buildings and 
underground assets.
• We performed procedures to test that management had 
identified and fair valued liabilities and contingent liabilities 
at the dates of acquisition.
• We reviewed the presentation and disclosures in the 
financial statements.
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
• We inspected significant one-off transactions and  
critically challenged the assumptions and judgments  
made by management in determining the appropriate 
accounting treatment in accordance with applicable IFRSs, 
and we assessed whether the conclusions reached by 
management were consistent with the underlying 
agreements and commercial factors applicable to each  
of the transactions.
Based on the results of our 
audit procedures, we 
concluded that the accounting 
for acquisitions during the year 
was appropriate. 
We consider that one-off  
and complex transactions 
have been accounted for  
in accordance with relevant  
IFRS requirements.
We considered the actions 
taken by management  
in response to our 
recommendations regarding 
the control environment. 
During the year, the Group 
established an IFRS 
accounting and control desk 
and we consider that this  
has remediated the weakness 
in internal control identified  
in our 2015 audit opinion.
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to IT general and automated controls over financial reporting. 
In the current year, the results of our audit procedures with respect to this matter provided us with sufficient audit evidence to enable us to place 
reliance on the IT applications and relevant controls identified as having a material impact on the financial reporting process. We have not included 
this risk above as it was no longer a risk that had a significant effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the 
direction of the efforts of the audit team.
 
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT 
TAILORING THE SCOPE
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity 
within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size, risk profile, 
the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent 
Internal Audit findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant 
accounts in the financial statements, we selected components covering entities within the UK and Georgia, which represent the principal business 
units within the Group.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report 
(page 91 and 93); Accounting policies 
(page 147); and Notes 5 and 13 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED 123 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work we performed:
2016 2015
No. Revenue Profit
4
Total assets No. Revenue Profit
4
Total assets
Full scope
1
3 85% 86% 88% 2 84% 88% 90%
Specific scope
2
3 6% 9% 7% 4 7% 6% 6%
Full and specific scope coverage 6 91% 95% 95% 6 91% 94% 96%
Remaining components
3
21 9% 5% 5% 22 9% 6% 4%
Total reporting components 27 100% 100% 100% 28 100% 100% 100%
1 We audited the complete financial information.
2 We audited specific accounts within these components. The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but will 
have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
3 We performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material 
misstatement to the Group financial statements.
4 Profit before non-recurring items and tax.
The components for which we performed full or specific scope procedures are set out below:
Component Scope Location/Team
BGEO Group plc Full London/primary team
JSC Bank of Georgia Full Georgia/primary team
Georgia Healthcare Group plc (consolidated) Full London and Georgia/component team
Georgian Global Utilities limited Specific Georgia/component team
JSC m
2
 Real Estate Specific Georgia/component team
JSC BGEO Group Specific Georgia/primary team
INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components  
by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.  
Of the three full scope components, audit procedures were performed on two of these directly by the primary audit team. For the specific scope 
components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine 
that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor 
visits the principal components of the Group. The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK, but since Group management and operations reside 
in Georgia, the Group audit team operates as an integrated primary team including members from the UK, Georgia and Russia. The Senior Statutory 
Auditor visited Georgia four times during the current year’s audit and there was regular interaction between team members in each jurisdiction. 
During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior Statutory Auditor and other members of the primary audit team to the 
component teams in Georgia.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component teams and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local 
management. In addition, the primary team participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected audit working papers. The primary 
team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and 
direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion 
on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in 
forming our audit opinion. 
MATERIALITY
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be GEL 20 million (2015: GEL 18 million), which is 5% (2015: 5%) of profit before tax and non-recurring 
items. We consider that this adjusted profit figure best represents the results of the underlying operations of the Group and as such provides us with 
an appropriate basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material 
misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. 
 
Materiality
Profit before tax: GEL 390 million
Non-recurring items: (GEL 11.5 million)
Totals GEL 401.5 million (materiality basis)
Materiality of GEL 20 million (5% of materiality basis)
Starting basis
Adjustments
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group. 124 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgment was that performance 
materiality was 50% (2015: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely GEL 10 million (2015: GEL 9 million). 
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts was undertaken based 
on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component was based on the relative scale and risk of the 
component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the performance 
materiality allocated to components was as follows:
BGEO Group plc GEL 10 million
JSC Bank of Georgia GEL 7 million
Georgia Healthcare Group plc GEL 3.5 million
Specific scope components GEL 2.0 million
REPORTING THRESHOLD
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of GEL 1 million (2015: GEL 0.9 million), 
which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we 
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 114, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the financial statements;
 – the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED 125 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
ISAS (UK AND IRELAND) 
REPORTING
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the 
Audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report and 
Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business 
model and strategy; and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should 
have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 
REPORTING
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment 
obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements  
in the Strategic Report or Directors’ Report. 
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
• the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
LISTING RULES REVIEW 
REQUIREMENTS
We are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 35, and 
longer-term viability, set out on page 35; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for our review.
We have no exceptions  
to report.
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR 
LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY
ISAS (UK AND IRELAND) 
REPORTING
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add 
or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a 
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how 
they are being managed or mitigated;
• the Directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s 
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of 
approval of the financial statements; and
• the Directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the 
prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider 
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material 
to add or to draw 
attention to.
John Headley (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor
London
13 April 2017
Notes:
1. The maintenance and integrity of the BGEO Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 126 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI)
2016 2015 2014
Notes
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 7 1,482,106 397,620  (306,116) 1,573,610  1,378,459  290,576  (236,101) 1,432,934  706,780  92,722  (89,358) 710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 943,091 153,497  (41,605) 1,054,983  721,802  15,730  (6,167) 731,365  399,430  72,181  (53,330) 418,281 
Investment securities 9 1,287,292 3,075  (4,364) 1,286,003  906,730  1,153  (4,016) 903,867  768,559  1,153  –  769,712 
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 10 6,681,672 –  (33,190) 6,648,482  5,366,764  –  (44,647) 5,322,117  4,438,032  –  (90,181) 4,347,851 
Accounts receivable and other loans 56,495 125,964  (53,953) 128,506 10,376  82,354  (4,758) 87,972  12,653  61,836  (4,282) 70,207 
Insurance premiums receivable 24,152 24,284  (2,013) 46,423  19,829  20,929  (1,532) 39,226  14,573  18,020  (753) 31,840 
Prepayments 19,607 57,270  (600) 76,277  21,033  37,295  –  58,328  15,644  18,130  –  33,774 
Inventories 9,009 179,335 –  188,344  9,439  117,588  –  127,027  6,857  94,585  –  101,442 
Investment properties 11 153,442 134,785 –  288,227  135,453  110,945  –  246,398  128,552  62,308  –  190,860 
Property and equipment 12 339,442 984,428  –  1,323,870  337,064  457,618  –  794,682  314,369  274,144  –  588,513 
Goodwill 13 49,592 57,394  –  106,986  49,592  23,392  –  72,984  38,537  11,096  –  49,633 
Intangible assets 41,350 17,557  –  58,907  35,162  5,354  –  40,516  31,768  2,664  –  34,432 
Income tax assets 14 20,638 3,405  –  24,043  16,003  5,547  –  21,550  14,484  8,261  –  22,745 
Other assets 15 140,338 56,312  (11,858) 184,792  163,731  79,479  (6,437) 236,773  153,764  58,407  (2,460) 209,711 
TOTAL ASSETS 11,248,226 2,194,926  (453,699) 12,989,453  9,171,437  1,247,960  (303,658) 10,115,739  7,044,002  775,507  (240,364) 7,579,145 
LIABILITIES
Client deposits and notes 16 5,730,419  –  (347,721) 5,382,698  4,993,681  –  (242,294) 4,751,387  3,482,001  –  (143,276) 3,338,725 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 17 3,067,651  435,630  (33,190) 3,470,091  1,692,557  144,534  (48,029) 1,789,062  1,324,609  177,313  (92,708) 1,409,214 
Debt securities issued 18 858,037  407,242  (9,636) 1,255,643  961,944  84,474  (6,614) 1,039,804  827,721  29,374  (400) 856,695 
Accruals and deferred income 25,242  158,387  (53,310) 130,319  20,364  126,488  –  146,852  19,897  88,726  –  108,623 
Insurance contracts liabilities 41,542  26,329  –  67,871  34,547  21,298  –  55,845  27,979  18,607  –  46,586 
Income tax liabilities 14 23,937  3,854  –  27,791  89,980  34,415  –  124,395  79,987  17,577  –  97,564 
Other liabilities 15 72,547  168,917  (9,842) 231,622  63,073  78,404  (6,721) 134,756  51,031  40,594  (3,980) 87,645 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 9,819,375  1,200,359  (453,699) 10,566,035  7,856,146  489,613  (303,658) 8,042,101  5,813,225  372,191  (240,364) 5,945,052 
EQUITY 20
Share capital 1,154  –  –  1,154  1,154  –  –  1,154  1,143  –  –  1,143 
Additional paid-in capital 45,072  138,800  –  183,872  101,793  138,800  –  240,593  87,950  157,355  –  245,305 
Treasury shares (54) –  –  (54) (44) –  –  (44) (46) –  –  (46)
Other reserves (31,116) 133,385  –  102,269  (63,958) 96,802  –  32,844  (11,073) (11,501) –  (22,574)
Retained earnings 1,393,117  485,828  –  1,878,945  1,257,415  319,635  –  1,577,050  1,134,158  216,100  –  1,350,258 
TOTAL EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS  
OF BGEO 1,408,173  758,013  –  2,166,186  1,296,360  555,237  –  1,851,597  1,212,132  361,954  –  1,574,086 
Non-controlling interests 20,678  236,554  –  257,232  18,931  203,110  –  222,041  18,645  41,362  –  60,007 
TOTAL EQUITY 1,428,851  994,567  –  2,423,418  1,315,291  758,347  –  2,073,638  1,230,777  403,316  –  1,634,093 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 11,248,226  2,194,926  (453,699) 12,989,453  9,171,437  1,247,960  (303,658) 10,115,739  7,044,002  775,507  (240,364) 7,579,145 
The financial statements on page 126 to 213 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
BGEO Group PLC
13 April 2017
Registered No. 07811410 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements. 127 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
2016 2015 2014
Notes
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 7 1,482,106 397,620  (306,116) 1,573,610  1,378,459  290,576  (236,101) 1,432,934  706,780  92,722  (89,358) 710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 943,091 153,497  (41,605) 1,054,983  721,802  15,730  (6,167) 731,365  399,430  72,181  (53,330) 418,281 
Investment securities 9 1,287,292 3,075  (4,364) 1,286,003  906,730  1,153  (4,016) 903,867  768,559  1,153  –  769,712 
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 10 6,681,672 –  (33,190) 6,648,482  5,366,764  –  (44,647) 5,322,117  4,438,032  –  (90,181) 4,347,851 
Accounts receivable and other loans 56,495 125,964  (53,953) 128,506 10,376  82,354  (4,758) 87,972  12,653  61,836  (4,282) 70,207 
Insurance premiums receivable 24,152 24,284  (2,013) 46,423  19,829  20,929  (1,532) 39,226  14,573  18,020  (753) 31,840 
Prepayments 19,607 57,270  (600) 76,277  21,033  37,295  –  58,328  15,644  18,130  –  33,774 
Inventories 9,009 179,335 –  188,344  9,439  117,588  –  127,027  6,857  94,585  –  101,442 
Investment properties 11 153,442 134,785 –  288,227  135,453  110,945  –  246,398  128,552  62,308  –  190,860 
Property and equipment 12 339,442 984,428  –  1,323,870  337,064  457,618  –  794,682  314,369  274,144  –  588,513 
Goodwill 13 49,592 57,394  –  106,986  49,592  23,392  –  72,984  38,537  11,096  –  49,633 
Intangible assets 41,350 17,557  –  58,907  35,162  5,354  –  40,516  31,768  2,664  –  34,432 
Income tax assets 14 20,638 3,405  –  24,043  16,003  5,547  –  21,550  14,484  8,261  –  22,745 
Other assets 15 140,338 56,312  (11,858) 184,792  163,731  79,479  (6,437) 236,773  153,764  58,407  (2,460) 209,711 
TOTAL ASSETS 11,248,226 2,194,926  (453,699) 12,989,453  9,171,437  1,247,960  (303,658) 10,115,739  7,044,002  775,507  (240,364) 7,579,145 
LIABILITIES
Client deposits and notes 16 5,730,419  –  (347,721) 5,382,698  4,993,681  –  (242,294) 4,751,387  3,482,001  –  (143,276) 3,338,725 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 17 3,067,651  435,630  (33,190) 3,470,091  1,692,557  144,534  (48,029) 1,789,062  1,324,609  177,313  (92,708) 1,409,214 
Debt securities issued 18 858,037  407,242  (9,636) 1,255,643  961,944  84,474  (6,614) 1,039,804  827,721  29,374  (400) 856,695 
Accruals and deferred income 25,242  158,387  (53,310) 130,319  20,364  126,488  –  146,852  19,897  88,726  –  108,623 
Insurance contracts liabilities 41,542  26,329  –  67,871  34,547  21,298  –  55,845  27,979  18,607  –  46,586 
Income tax liabilities 14 23,937  3,854  –  27,791  89,980  34,415  –  124,395  79,987  17,577  –  97,564 
Other liabilities 15 72,547  168,917  (9,842) 231,622  63,073  78,404  (6,721) 134,756  51,031  40,594  (3,980) 87,645 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 9,819,375  1,200,359  (453,699) 10,566,035  7,856,146  489,613  (303,658) 8,042,101  5,813,225  372,191  (240,364) 5,945,052 
EQUITY 20
Share capital 1,154  –  –  1,154  1,154  –  –  1,154  1,143  –  –  1,143 
Additional paid-in capital 45,072  138,800  –  183,872  101,793  138,800  –  240,593  87,950  157,355  –  245,305 
Treasury shares (54) –  –  (54) (44) –  –  (44) (46) –  –  (46)
Other reserves (31,116) 133,385  –  102,269  (63,958) 96,802  –  32,844  (11,073) (11,501) –  (22,574)
Retained earnings 1,393,117  485,828  –  1,878,945  1,257,415  319,635  –  1,577,050  1,134,158  216,100  –  1,350,258 
TOTAL EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO SHAREHOLDERS  
OF BGEO 1,408,173  758,013  –  2,166,186  1,296,360  555,237  –  1,851,597  1,212,132  361,954  –  1,574,086 
Non-controlling interests 20,678  236,554  –  257,232  18,931  203,110  –  222,041  18,645  41,362  –  60,007 
TOTAL EQUITY 1,428,851  994,567  –  2,423,418  1,315,291  758,347  –  2,073,638  1,230,777  403,316  –  1,634,093 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 11,248,226  2,194,926  (453,699) 12,989,453  9,171,437  1,247,960  (303,658) 10,115,739  7,044,002  775,507  (240,364) 7,579,145 
The financial statements on page 126 to 213 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
BGEO Group PLC
13 April 2017
Registered No. 07811410 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements. 128 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI)
2016 2015 2014
Notes
Banking
Business
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking interest income  933,715 –  (6,399) 927,316  872,299 –  (12,521) 859,778  600,925 –  (7,313) 593,612 
Banking interest expense  (376,987) –  (922) (377,909) (359,372) –  984  (358,388) (243,654) – –  (243,654)
NET BANKING INTEREST INCOME 21 556,728 –  (7,321) 549,407  512,927 –  (11,537) 501,390  357,271 –  (7,313) 349,958 
Fee and commission income  172,715 –  (2,652) 170,063  161,891 –  (3,733) 158,158  134,488 –  (2,053) 132,435 
Fee and commission expense  (47,766) –  616  (47,150) (40,302) –  550  (39,752) (32,643) – –  (32,643)
NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 22 124,949 –  (2,036) 122,913  121,589 –  (3,183) 118,406  101,845 –  (2,053) 99,792 
Net banking foreign currency gain 82,909 – –  82,909  76,926 – –  76,926  52,752 – –  52,752 
Net other banking income 12,767 –  (994) 11,773  19,837 –  (1,309) 18,528  9,890 –  (620) 9,270 
Net insurance premiums earned 42,959  56,998  (2,872) 97,085  40,161  54,996  (2,256) 92,901  28,129  69,700  (1,979) 95,850 
Net insurance claims incurred (17,858) (45,544) –  (63,402) (20,114) (42,880) –  (62,994) (11,707) (54,713) –  (66,420)
GROSS INSURANCE PROFIT 23 25,101  11,454  (2,872) 33,683  20,047  12,116  (2,256) 29,907  16,422  14,987  (1,979) 29,430 
Healthcare and pharma revenue –  362,586 –  362,586 –  183,993 –  183,993 –  125,720 –  125,720 
Cost of healthcare and pharma services –  (227,724) –  (227,724) –  (103,055) –  (103,055) –  (72,237) –  (72,237)
GROSS HEALTHCARE AND PHARMACY PROFIT 24 –  134,862 –  134,862 –  80,938 –  80,938 –  53,483 –  53,483 
Real estate revenue –  101,560  (694) 100,866 –  54,409 –  54,409 –  60,456  (80) 60,376 
Cost of real estate –  (81,098) –  (81,098) –  (39,721) –  (39,721) –  (46,810) –  (46,810)
GROSS REAL ESTATE PROFIT 25 –  20,462  (694) 19,768 –  14,688 –  14,688 –  13,646  (80) 13,566 
Utility revenue –  56,486  (139) 56,347 – – – – – – – – 
Cost of utility –  (17,806) –  (17,806) – – – – – – – – 
GROSS UTILITY PROFIT –  38,680  (139) 38,541 – – – – – – – – 
Gross other investment profit 25 –  20,802  124  20,926 –  20,639  138  20,777 –  12,804  187  12,991 
REVENUE  802,454  226,260  (13,932) 1,014,782  751,326  128,381  (18,147) 861,560  538,180  94,920  (11,858) 621,242 
Salaries and other employee benefits 26 (176,280) (48,286) 2,751  (221,815) (155,744) (31,621) 2,036  (185,329) (130,060) (25,651) 1,530  (154,181)
Administrative expenses 26 (83,792) (42,856) 2,336  (124,312) (74,381) (18,491) 1,953  (90,919) (58,833) (15,974) 1,348  (73,459)
Banking depreciation and amortisation (37,981) – –  (37,981) (34,199) – –  (34,199) (25,641) – –  (25,641)
Other operating expenses  (4,174) (2,506) –  (6,680) (3,535) (750) –  (4,285) (3,230) (520) –  (3,750)
OPERATING EXPENSES (302,227) (93,648) 5,087  (390,788) (267,859) (50,862) 3,989  (314,732) (217,764) (42,145) 2,878  (257,031)
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 500,227  132,612  (8,845) 623,994  483,467  77,519  (14,158) 546,828  320,416  52,775  (8,980) 364,211 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements. 129 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
2016 2015 2014
Notes
Banking
Business
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking interest income  933,715 –  (6,399) 927,316  872,299 –  (12,521) 859,778  600,925 –  (7,313) 593,612 
Banking interest expense  (376,987) –  (922) (377,909) (359,372) –  984  (358,388) (243,654) – –  (243,654)
NET BANKING INTEREST INCOME 21 556,728 –  (7,321) 549,407  512,927 –  (11,537) 501,390  357,271 –  (7,313) 349,958 
Fee and commission income  172,715 –  (2,652) 170,063  161,891 –  (3,733) 158,158  134,488 –  (2,053) 132,435 
Fee and commission expense  (47,766) –  616  (47,150) (40,302) –  550  (39,752) (32,643) – –  (32,643)
NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 22 124,949 –  (2,036) 122,913  121,589 –  (3,183) 118,406  101,845 –  (2,053) 99,792 
Net banking foreign currency gain 82,909 – –  82,909  76,926 – –  76,926  52,752 – –  52,752 
Net other banking income 12,767 –  (994) 11,773  19,837 –  (1,309) 18,528  9,890 –  (620) 9,270 
Net insurance premiums earned 42,959  56,998  (2,872) 97,085  40,161  54,996  (2,256) 92,901  28,129  69,700  (1,979) 95,850 
Net insurance claims incurred (17,858) (45,544) –  (63,402) (20,114) (42,880) –  (62,994) (11,707) (54,713) –  (66,420)
GROSS INSURANCE PROFIT 23 25,101  11,454  (2,872) 33,683  20,047  12,116  (2,256) 29,907  16,422  14,987  (1,979) 29,430 
Healthcare and pharma revenue –  362,586 –  362,586 –  183,993 –  183,993 –  125,720 –  125,720 
Cost of healthcare and pharma services –  (227,724) –  (227,724) –  (103,055) –  (103,055) –  (72,237) –  (72,237)
GROSS HEALTHCARE AND PHARMACY PROFIT 24 –  134,862 –  134,862 –  80,938 –  80,938 –  53,483 –  53,483 
Real estate revenue –  101,560  (694) 100,866 –  54,409 –  54,409 –  60,456  (80) 60,376 
Cost of real estate –  (81,098) –  (81,098) –  (39,721) –  (39,721) –  (46,810) –  (46,810)
GROSS REAL ESTATE PROFIT 25 –  20,462  (694) 19,768 –  14,688 –  14,688 –  13,646  (80) 13,566 
Utility revenue –  56,486  (139) 56,347 – – – – – – – – 
Cost of utility –  (17,806) –  (17,806) – – – – – – – – 
GROSS UTILITY PROFIT –  38,680  (139) 38,541 – – – – – – – – 
Gross other investment profit 25 –  20,802  124  20,926 –  20,639  138  20,777 –  12,804  187  12,991 
REVENUE  802,454  226,260  (13,932) 1,014,782  751,326  128,381  (18,147) 861,560  538,180  94,920  (11,858) 621,242 
Salaries and other employee benefits 26 (176,280) (48,286) 2,751  (221,815) (155,744) (31,621) 2,036  (185,329) (130,060) (25,651) 1,530  (154,181)
Administrative expenses 26 (83,792) (42,856) 2,336  (124,312) (74,381) (18,491) 1,953  (90,919) (58,833) (15,974) 1,348  (73,459)
Banking depreciation and amortisation (37,981) – –  (37,981) (34,199) – –  (34,199) (25,641) – –  (25,641)
Other operating expenses  (4,174) (2,506) –  (6,680) (3,535) (750) –  (4,285) (3,230) (520) –  (3,750)
OPERATING EXPENSES (302,227) (93,648) 5,087  (390,788) (267,859) (50,862) 3,989  (314,732) (217,764) (42,145) 2,878  (257,031)
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 500,227  132,612  (8,845) 623,994  483,467  77,519  (14,158) 546,828  320,416  52,775  (8,980) 364,211 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements. 130 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
2016 2015 2014
Notes
Banking
Business
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 500,227  132,612  (8,845) 623,994  483,467  77,519  (14,158) 546,828  320,416  52,775  (8,980) 364,211 
Profit from associates –  4,328 –  4,328 –  4,050 –  4,050 – – – – 
Depreciation and amortisation of investment business –  (28,865) –  (28,865) –  (14,225) –  (14,225) –  (9,164) –  (9,164)
Net foreign currency (loss) gain from investment business –  (9,650) –  (9,650) –  651 –  651 –  (3,169) –  (3,169)
Interest income from investment business 21 –  3,232  923  4,155 –  3,338  (998) 2,340 –  1,860  (551) 1,309 
Interest expense from investment business 21 –  (29,351) 7,922  (21,429) –  (25,493) 15,156  (10,337) –  (16,089) 9,531  (6,558)
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK 500,227  72,306 –  572,533  483,467  45,840 –  529,307  320,416  26,213 –  346,629 
Impairment charge on loans to customers 10 (158,892) – –  (158,892) (142,819) – –  (142,819) (45,088) – –  (45,088)
Impairment charge on finance lease receivables 10 (777) – –  (777) (1,958) – –  (1,958) (476) – –  (476)
Impairment charge on other assets and provisions (8,892) (2,528) –  (11,420) (6,740) (3,860) –  (10,600) (10,168) (3,288) –  (13,456)
COST OF CREDIT RISK (168,561) (2,528) –  (171,089) (151,517) (3,860) –  (155,377) (55,732) (3,288) –  (59,020)
NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 331,666  69,778 –  401,444  331,950  41,980 –  373,930  264,684  22,925 –  287,609 
Net non-recurring items 27 (45,351) 33,827 –  (11,524) (13,046) (1,531) –  (14,577) (11,837) 820 –  (11,017)
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX BENEFIT (EXPENSE) 286,315  103,605 –  389,920  318,904  40,449 –  359,353  252,847  23,745 –  276,592 
Income tax benefit (expense) 14 23,126  15,530 –  38,656  (44,647) (3,761) –  (48,408) (32,343) (3,482) –  (35,825)
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 309,441  119,135 –  428,576  274,257  36,688 –  310,945  220,504  20,263 –  240,767 
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
– shareholders of BGEO 306,918  91,620 –  398,538  270,466  33,228 –  303,694  216,883  15,626 –  232,509 
– non-controlling interests 2,523  27,515 –  30,038  3,791  3,460 –  7,251  3,621  4,637 –  8,258 
 309,441  119,135 –  428,576  274,257  36,688 –  310,945  220,504  20,263 –  240,767 
EARNINGS PER SHARE: 20
– basic earnings per share 10.4148  7.9264  6.7228 
– diluted earnings per share 10.0895  7.9264  6.7228 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 131 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
2016 2015 2014
Notes
Banking
Business
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
Banking 
Business 
Investment 
Business  Eliminations Total
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 500,227  132,612  (8,845) 623,994  483,467  77,519  (14,158) 546,828  320,416  52,775  (8,980) 364,211 
Profit from associates –  4,328 –  4,328 –  4,050 –  4,050 – – – – 
Depreciation and amortisation of investment business –  (28,865) –  (28,865) –  (14,225) –  (14,225) –  (9,164) –  (9,164)
Net foreign currency (loss) gain from investment business –  (9,650) –  (9,650) –  651 –  651 –  (3,169) –  (3,169)
Interest income from investment business 21 –  3,232  923  4,155 –  3,338  (998) 2,340 –  1,860  (551) 1,309 
Interest expense from investment business 21 –  (29,351) 7,922  (21,429) –  (25,493) 15,156  (10,337) –  (16,089) 9,531  (6,558)
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE COST OF CREDIT RISK 500,227  72,306 –  572,533  483,467  45,840 –  529,307  320,416  26,213 –  346,629 
Impairment charge on loans to customers 10 (158,892) – –  (158,892) (142,819) – –  (142,819) (45,088) – –  (45,088)
Impairment charge on finance lease receivables 10 (777) – –  (777) (1,958) – –  (1,958) (476) – –  (476)
Impairment charge on other assets and provisions (8,892) (2,528) –  (11,420) (6,740) (3,860) –  (10,600) (10,168) (3,288) –  (13,456)
COST OF CREDIT RISK (168,561) (2,528) –  (171,089) (151,517) (3,860) –  (155,377) (55,732) (3,288) –  (59,020)
NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE NON-RECURRING ITEMS 331,666  69,778 –  401,444  331,950  41,980 –  373,930  264,684  22,925 –  287,609 
Net non-recurring items 27 (45,351) 33,827 –  (11,524) (13,046) (1,531) –  (14,577) (11,837) 820 –  (11,017)
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX BENEFIT (EXPENSE) 286,315  103,605 –  389,920  318,904  40,449 –  359,353  252,847  23,745 –  276,592 
Income tax benefit (expense) 14 23,126  15,530 –  38,656  (44,647) (3,761) –  (48,408) (32,343) (3,482) –  (35,825)
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 309,441  119,135 –  428,576  274,257  36,688 –  310,945  220,504  20,263 –  240,767 
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
– shareholders of BGEO 306,918  91,620 –  398,538  270,466  33,228 –  303,694  216,883  15,626 –  232,509 
– non-controlling interests 2,523  27,515 –  30,038  3,791  3,460 –  7,251  3,621  4,637 –  8,258 
 309,441  119,135 –  428,576  274,257  36,688 –  310,945  220,504  20,263 –  240,767 
EARNINGS PER SHARE: 20
– basic earnings per share 10.4148  7.9264  6.7228 
– diluted earnings per share 10.0895  7.9264  6.7228 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements. 132 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Notes 2016 2015 2014
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 428,576  310,945  240,767 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Other comprehensive income (loss) to be reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods:
– unrealised revaluation of available-for-sale securities 86,245  (30,928) (4,079)
–  realised (gain) loss on available-for-sale securities reclassified to the consolidated 
income statement (28,325) 84  (83)
– gain (loss) from currency translation differences  13,252  (14,372) 20,157 
Income tax impact 14 (2,192) 1,276  (124)
NET OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) TO BE RECLASSIFIED TO 
PROFIT OR LOSS IN SUBSEQUENT PERIODS 68,980  (43,940) 15,871 
Other comprehensive income (loss) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods:
– revaluation of property and equipment 12 18,699  (7,223) – 
– income tax impact 14 4,947  361 – 
– impact of income tax changes on associates 14 5,580 – – 
NET OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) NOT TO BE RECLASSIFIED TO 
PROFIT OR LOSS IN SUBSEQUENT PERIODS 29,226  (6,862) – 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR, NET OF TAX 98,206  (50,802) 15,871 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 526,782  260,143  256,638 
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:
– shareholders of BGEO 490,790  256,324  250,571 
– non-controlling interests 35,992  3,819  6,067 
 526,782  260,143  256,638 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF  
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 133 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
Attributable to shareholders of BGEO
Non-
controlling 
interests Total equity Share capital
Additional 
paid-in 
capital
Treasury 
shares
Other 
reserves
Retained 
earnings Total
31 DECEMBER 2013 1,028  23,843  (56) (16,399) 1,174,124  1,182,540  58,514  1,241,054 
Profit for the year – – – –  232,509  232,509  8,258  240,767 
Other comprehensive income for the year – – –  11,359  6,703  18,062  (2,191) 15,871 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
FOR THE YEAR – – –  11,359  239,212  250,571  6,067  256,638 
Depreciation of property and equipment 
revaluation reserve, net of tax – – –  (446) 446 – – – 
Increase in equity arising from share-based 
payments –  19,094  13 – –  19,107 –  19,107 
Issue of share capital (Note 20) 108  218,921 – – –  219,029 –  219,029 
GBP-GEL translation effect 7  (8,667) –  551  8,109 – – – 
Transactions costs recognised directly in equity 
(Note 20) –  (3,370) – – –  (3,370) –  (3,370)
Dividends to shareholders of BGEO (Note 20) – – – –  (71,633) (71,633) –  (71,633)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests in 
existing subsidiaries – – –  (17,639) –  (17,639) (15,516) (33,155)
Non-controlling interests arising on acquisition 
of subsidiary – – – – – –  10,942  10,942 
Purchase of treasury shares –  (4,516) (3) – –  (4,519) –  (4,519)
31 DECEMBER 2014 1,143  245,305  (46) (22,574) 1,350,258  1,574,086  60,007  1,634,093 
Profit for the year – – – –  303,694  303,694  7,251  310,945 
Other comprehensive loss for the year – – –  (41,535) (5,835) (47,370) (3,432) (50,802)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE 
YEAR – – –  (41,535) 297,859  256,324  3,819  260,143 
Depreciation of property and equipment 
revaluation reserve, net of tax – – –  (625) 625 – – – 
Increase in equity arising from share-based 
payments –  22,483  15 – –  22,498  897  23,395 
GBP-GEL translation effect 11  1,737 –  (10,467) 8,719 – – – 
Dividends to shareholders of BGEO (Note 20) – – – –  (80,411) (80,411) –  (80,411)
Dilution of interests in subsidiaries – – –  109,435 –  109,435  125,163  234,598 
Transactions costs recognised directly in equity – – –  (13,379) –  (13,379) –  (13,379)
Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interests 
in existing subsidiaries – – –  11,989 –  11,989  2,369  14,358 
Non-controlling interests arising on acquisition 
of subsidiary – – – – – –  29,786  29,786 
Purchase of treasury shares –  (28,932) (13) – –  (28,945) –  (28,945)
31 DECEMBER 2015 1,154  240,593  (44) 32,844  1,577,050  1,851,597  222,041  2,073,638 
Profit for the year – – – –  398,538  398,538  30,038  428,576 
Other comprehensive income for the year – – –  91,831  421  92,252  5,954  98,206 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
FOR THE YEAR – – –  91,831  398,959  490,790  35,992  526,782 
Depreciation of property and equipment 
revaluation reserve, net of tax – – –  (540) 540 – – – 
Increase in equity arising from share-based 
payments –  42,365 14 – –  42,379  3,816  46,195
Dividends to shareholders of BGEO  
(Note 20) – – – –  (97,604) (97,604) –  (97,604)
Dilution of interests in subsidiaries – – –  (2,785) –  (2,785) 2,406  (379)
Dividends of subsidiaries to non-controlling 
shareholders – – – – – –  (936) (936)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests in 
existing subsidiaries – – –  (19,081) –  (19,081) (6,087) (25,168)
Purchase of treasury shares –  (99,086) (24) – –  (99,110) –  (99,110)
31 DECEMBER 2016 1,154  183,872  (54) 102,269  1,878,945  2,166,186  257,232  2,423,418 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 134 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Notes 2016 2015 2014
CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Interest received 918,426  863,965  588,978 
Interest paid (436,895) (361,834) (270,942)
Fees and commissions received  165,603  153,049  133,948 
Fees and commissions paid (47,157) (39,931) (33,006)
Insurance premiums received  97,403  92,838  95,859 
Insurance claims paid  (64,739) (60,818) (66,385)
Healthcare and pharma revenue received 214,677  171,927  95,865 
Cost of healthcare and pharma services paid (137,419) (92,358) (70,308)
Utility revenue received 58,714 – – 
Cost of utility services paid (19,156) – – 
Net cash (outflow) inflow from real estate (22,785) 25,611  24,396 
Net realised gain (loss) from trading securities 944  (655) 407 
Net realised gain (loss) from investment securities available-for-sale –  (84) 83 
Net realised gain from foreign currencies 64,334  64,256  44,169 
Recoveries of loans to customers previously written off 10 36,244  33,685  28,706 
Other (expenses paid) income received  (8,041) (126) 3,236 
Salaries and other employee benefits paid (179,861) (151,500) (129,793)
General and administrative and operating expenses paid (91,932) (105,616) (63,038)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE CHANGES  
IN OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 548,360  592,409  382,175 
Net (increase) decrease in operating assets 
Amounts due from credit institutions (245,460) (180,446) (71,099)
Loans to customers (1,000,571) 184,963  (935,313)
Finance lease receivables (4,248) (4,022) 6,115 
Prepayments and other assets 38,052  (21,062) 9,897 
Net increase (decrease) in operating liabilities
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,431,505  96,462  243,021 
Debt securities issued  147,963  (60,478) 128,364 
Amounts due to customers 240,586  349,420  236,794 
Other liabilities 21,698 (25,915) (2,419)
NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE  
INCOME TAX 1,177,885  931,331  (2,465)
Income tax paid (44,326) (29,408) (15,990)
NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES 1,133,559  901,923  (18,455)
CASH FLOWS USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 5 (188,010) (24,467) (22,177)
Repayment of remaining holdback amounts from previous year acquisitions (37,525) – – 
Net purchase of investment securities available-for-sale (315,317) (157,509) (255,710)
Proceeds from sale of investments in associates – –  300 
Purchase of investments in associates  (819) (3,092) (45,567)
Proceeds from sale of investment properties 11 8,599  19,815  7,383 
Purchase of investment properties 11 (9,799) (18,947) (49,348)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment and intangible assets 12 10,879  24,616  2,648 
Purchase of property and equipment and intangible assets (274,761) (157,488) (80,459)
Dividends received 3,230 – –
NET CASH FLOWS USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES  (803,523) (317,072) (442,930)
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 135 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
Notes 2016 2015 2014
CASH FLOWS (USED IN) FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
Proceeds from issue of share capital – –  215,659 
Dividends paid (97,106) (82,015) (69,725)
Purchase of treasury shares  (99,110) (28,945) (4,519)
Net proceeds from sale of non-controlling interest in existing subsidiary –  221,219 – 
(Purchase) of proceeds from sale of interests in existing subsidiaries (2,072) 14,358  (28,972)
NET CASH (USED IN) FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES  (198,288) 124,617  112,443 
Effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents 8,928  13,322  5,415 
NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 140,676  722,790  (343,527)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 7 1,432,934  710,144  1,053,671 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, ENDING OF THE YEAR 7 1,573,610  1,432,934  710,144 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT  
OF CASH FLOWS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 136 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Notes 2016 2015 2014
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 7 105,248  32,435  88,005 
Amounts due from credit institutions – –  46,368 
Investments in subsidiaries 2 1,003,578  950,290  896,253 
Investments in associates –  53,458  48,659 
Other assets 557  305  591 
TOTAL ASSETS 1,109,383  1,036,488  1,079,876 
LIABILITIES
Other liabilities 10,083  9,740  11,151 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 10,083  9,740  11,151 
EQUITY
Share capital 20 1,154  1,154  1,143 
Additional paid-in capital 208,621  208,621  206,884 
Other reserves – –  (328)
Retained earnings 723,211  793,397  796,341 
Net profit for the period 166,314  23,576  64,685 
TOTAL EQUITY 1,099,300  1,026,748  1,068,725 
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 1,109,383  1,036,488  1,079,876 
The financial statements on page 126 to 213 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
BGEO Group PLC
13 April 2017
Registered No. 07811410 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
SEPARATE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 137 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
Share 
capital
Additional 
paid-in capital
Other 
reserves
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
31 DECEMBER 2013 1,028 –  4,943  848,971  854,942 
Total comprehensive income – – –  64,685  64,685 
Issue of share capital 108  218,921 – –  219,029 
Transactions costs recognised directly in equity –  (3,370) – –  (3,370)
GBP-GEL translation effect 7  (8,667) (5,271) 16,481  2,550 
Dividends to shareholders of BGEO (Note 20) – – –  (69,111) (69,111)
31 DECEMBER 2014 1,143  206,884  (328) 861,026  1,068,725 
Total comprehensive income – – –  23,576  23,576 
GBP-GEL translation effect 11  1,737  328  12,782  14,858 
Dividends to shareholders of BGEO (Note 20) – – –  (80,411) (80,411)
31 DECEMBER 2015 1,154  208,621 –  816,973  1,026,748 
Total comprehensive income – – –  166,314  166,314 
Dividends to shareholders of BGEO (Note 20) – – –  (93,762) (93,762)
31 DECEMBER 2016 1,154  208,621 –  889,525  1,099,300 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 138 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Notes 2016 2015 2014
NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Interest income received 98  1,146 – 
Fees and commissions paid (467) (484) (498)
Salaries and other employee benefits paid (2,165) (1,920) (1,492)
General and administrative expenses paid (2,335) (2,073) (2,250)
CASH FLOWS USED IN OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE CHANGES IN 
OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (4,869) (3,331) (4,240)
Net decrease in operating assets –  56,658 – 
Net (decrease) increase in operating liabilities (163) 2,976  (46,857)
NET CASH FLOWS (USED IN) FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (5,032) 56,303  (51,097)
Net cash flows (used in) from investing activities 
Purchase of investments in associates –  (3,092) (45,567)
Increase of investments in subsidiaries –  (45,125) (28,549)
Dividends received 169,666 –  69,856 
NET CASH FLOWS FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES  169,666  (48,217) (4,260)
NET CASH FLOWS (USED IN) FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
Proceeds from issue of share capital – –  215,659 
Dividends paid (93,762) (80,411) (69,111)
NET CASH FLOWS (USED IN) FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES  (93,762) (80,411) 146,548 
Effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,941  16,755  (7,814)
NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 72,813  (55,570) 83,377 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 32,435  88,005  4,628 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, ENDING OF THE YEAR 105,248  32,435  88,005 
The accompanying notes on pages 139 to 213 are an integral part of these financial statements.
SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 (THOUSANDS OF GEORGIAN LARI) 139 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
1. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 
BGEO Group PLC (BGEO), formerly known as Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC) is a public limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales 
with registered number 07811410. BGEO holds 99.55% of the share capital of the Bank as at 31 December 2016, representing the Bank’s ultimate 
parent company. Together with the JSC Bank of Georgia (the “Bank”) and other subsidiaries, BGEO makes up a group of companies (the “Group”) 
and provide banking, healthcare, insurance, real estate, utility, pharmaceutical, leasing, brokerage and investment management services to corporate 
and individual customers. The list of the companies included in the Group is provided in Note 2. The shares of BGEO (BGEO Shares) are admitted  
to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange PLC’s Main 
Market for listed securities, effective 28 February 2012. The Bank is the Group’s main operating unit and accounts for most of the Group’s activities. 
JSC Bank of Georgia was established on 21 October 1994 as a joint stock company (JSC) under the laws of Georgia. The Bank operates under  
a general banking license issued by the National Bank of Georgia (NBG; the Central Bank of Georgia) on 15 December 1994. 
The Bank accepts deposits from the public and extends credit, transfers payments in Georgia and internationally and exchanges currencies.  
Its main office is in Tbilisi, Georgia. At 31 December 2016, the Bank has 278 operating outlets in all major cities of Georgia (31 December 2015: 266, 
31 December 2014: 219). The Bank’s registered legal address is 29a Gagarini Street, Tbilisi 0160, Georgia. 
The Group completed legal restructuring in August 2015, undertaken in accordance with the National Bank of Georgia’s intention to regulate banks 
in Georgia on a stand-alone basis and thereby limit investments in non-banking subsidiaries by locally regulated banking entities. 
There were the following changes to the management structure of BGEO Group PLC: Bozidar Djelic stepped down from Board on 15 December 
2016, having served as a member of the Nomination Committee and Risk Committee; and Kaha Kiknavelidze stepped down from the Board on 
6 September 2016 and assumed the role of CEO of the Bank. Neil Janin remained as Chairman of Board of Directors and Irakli Gilauri continued  
as Chief Executive Officer.
BGEO’s registered legal address is 84 Brook Street, London, W1K 5EH, England.
As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, the following shareholders owned more than 4% of the total outstanding 
shares of the Group. Other shareholders individually owned less than 4% of the outstanding shares.
Shareholder
31 December
2016
31 December
2015
31 December
2014
Harding Loevner Management LP 9.63% 9.09% 4.32%
Schroders Investment Management 5.36% 10.30% 12.46%
Artemis Investment Management 4.47% 3.57% 3.21%
Franklin Templeton Investments – 0.48% 2.45%
Others 80.54% 76.56% 77.56%
TOTAL* 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
* For the purposes of calculating percentage of shareholding, the denominator includes total number of issued shares, which includes shares held in the trust for the share-based 
compensation purposes of the Group.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 140 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
1. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES CONTINUED
As at 31 December 2016, the members of the Board of Directors of BGEO owned 308,388 shares or 0.8% (31 December 2015: 356,392 shares or 
0.9%, 31 December 2014: 267,204 shares or 0.7%) of BGEO. Interests of the members of the Board of Directors of BGEO were as follows: 
Shareholder
31 December
2016, shares held
31 December
2015, shares held
31 December
2014, shares held
Irakli Gilauri 202,315 250,319 161,131
Neil Janin 35,729 35,729 35,729
David Morrison 26,357 26,357 26,357
Kaha Kiknavelidze 26,337 26,337 26,337
Al Breach 16,400 16,400 16,400
Kim Bradley 1,250 1,250 1,250
Tamaz Georgadze – – –
Hanna Loikkanen* – – –
TOTAL 308,388 356,392 267,204
* Stepped down from and rejoined the Board of Directors of BGEO in December 2013 and August 2015, respectively.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
GENERAL
In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the stand-alone income statement of BGEO is not 
presented as part of these financial statements. BGEO’s income for the year is disclosed within the separate statement of financial position and the 
separate statement of changes in equity.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union (EU) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB) effective for 2016 reporting and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Bank and Georgian-based subsidiaries are required to maintain their records and prepare their financial statements for regulatory purposes in 
Georgian Lari, Group’s subsidiaries established outside of Georgia are in their respective local currencies, BGEO is in Georgian Lari. These financial 
statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for:
• the measurement at fair value of financial assets and investment securities, derivative financial assets and liabilities, investment properties and 
revalued property and equipment; 
• the measurement of inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value; and
• the measurement of repossessed assets at fair value less costs to sell or lower of cost and net realisable value as appropriate in the circumstances. 
The financial statements are presented in thousands of Georgian Lari (GEL), except per-share amounts and unless otherwise indicated.
GOING CONCERN
The Board of Directors of BGEO has made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and is satisfied that it has the 
resources to continue in business for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. Furthermore, management 
is not aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable 
future. Therefore, the financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 141 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES
BGEO holds a 99.55% stake in the Bank as at 31 December 2016. Total amount of investment in subsidiaries in BGEO’s separate statement of 
financial position as at 31 December 2016 was GEL 1,003,578 (31 December 2015: GEL 950,290, 31 December 2014: GEL 896,253), represented 
by direct investment in JSC BGEO Group. The consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 
2014 include the following subsidiaries and associates:
Address Subsidiaries
Proportion of voting rights and  
ordinary share capital held
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
31 December 
2016
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
JSC BGEO Group 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 29a Gagarini Street, 
Tbilisi, 0105
Investment 28/5/2015 –
JSC Bank of Georgia 99.55% 99.52% 99.63% Georgia 29a Gagarini Street, 
Tbilisi, 0105
Banking 21/10/1994 –
Bank of Georgia 
Representative Office  
UK Limited
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% United 
Kingdom
84 Brook Street, 
London W1K 5EH
Information 
Sharing and
Market 
Research
17/8/2010 –
Tree of Life Foundation 
NPO (formerly known as 
Bank of Georgia Future 
Foundation, NPO)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 3 Pushkin Street, 
Tbilisi 0105
Charitable 
activities
25/8/2008 –
Bank of Georgia 
Representative Office 
Hungary
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Hungary 1054 Budapest, 
Szabadság tér 7; 
Bank Center
Representative 
Office
18/6/2012 –
Representative Office  
of JSC Bank of Georgia  
in Turkey 
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Turkey Süleyman Seba 
Caddesi No:48 A 
Blok Daire 82 
Akaretler Beşiktaş 
34357 Istanbul
Representative 
Office
25/12/2013 –
Georgia Financial 
Investments, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Israel 7 Menahem Begin, 
Ramat Gan 52681, 
Israel
Information 
Sharing and
Market 
Research
9/2/2009 –
Professional Basketball 
Club Dinamo Tbilisi, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Digomi District, 
Block III, Lot #38/3, 
Tbilisi, 0159
Sport 10/1/2011 –
Teaching University of 
Georgian Bank, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia #29 Mitskevichi 
Street, Tbilisi, 0194
Education 15/10/2013 –
Privat Guard, LLC (a) 100.00% – Georgia Didube-Chughureti 
district, 114, Ak. 
Tsereteli Ave., Tbilisi. 
Security – 21/1/2015
Benderlock Investments 
Limited
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus Arch. Makariou III 
58, IRIS TOWER, 
8-th floor, Flat/Office 
702 P.C. 1075, 
Nicosia
Investments 12/5/2009 13/10/2009
JSC Belarusky  
Narodny Bank
79.99% 79.99% 79.99% Belarus Nezavisimosty Ave. 
87A, Minsk, 220012
Banking 16/4/1992 3/6/2008
BNB Leasing, LLC 99.90% 99.90% 99.90% Belarus Nezavisimosty Ave. 
87A, room 3, Minsk, 
220012
Leasing 30/3/2006 3/6/2008
JSC Galt & Taggart Holdings 
(Georgia)
– – 100.00% Georgia Arch. Makariou III 
58, IRIS TOWER, 
8-th floor, Flat/Office 
702 P.C. 1075, 
Nicosia
Investments 4/11/2008 –
JSC BGEO Investment 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Kazbegi Str. 3-5, 
Tbilisi
Investment 7/8/2015 –
JSC m
2
 Real Estate 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 4 Freedom Square, 
Tbilisi, 0105
Real estate 27/9/2006 –
m
2
 Residential, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 3-5 Kazbegi Str., 
Tbilisi, 0179
Real estate 17/8/2015 –
Optima ISANI, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 16 a Moscow Ave., 
Tbilisi
Real estate 25/7/2014 –
Tamarashvili 13, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 13 Tamarashvili Str., 
Tbilisi, 0179
Real estate 3/11/2011 –
m
2
 at Hippodrome, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 10 Givi Kartozia Str., 
Tbilisi
Real estate 6/7/2015 – 142 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Address Subsidiaries
Proportion of voting rights and  
ordinary share capital held
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
31 December 
2016
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
m
2
 Skyline, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 3 Maro Makashvili 
Str., Tbilisi
Real estate 23/7/2015 –
m
2
 at Kazbegi, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 25 Kazbegi Ave., 
Tbilisi, 0160
Real estate 21/5/2013 –
m
2
 at Tamarashvili, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 6 Tamarashvili Str., 
Tbilisi, 0177
Real estate 21/5/2013 –
m
2
 at Nutsubidze, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 71 Vaja Pshavela 
Ave., 0186
Real estate 21/5/2013 –
M Square Park, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 1 Marshal Gelovani 
Ave., Tbilisi
Real estate 15/9/2015 –
Optima Saburtalo, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 2 Mikheil Shavishvili 
St, Tbilisi
Real estate 15/9/2015 –
m
2
 at Vake, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia 50 I. Chavchavadze 
Ave., Tbilisi
Real estate 3/8/2016 –
m
2
 Hospitality, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 3-5 Kazbegi Str., 
Tbilisi, 0179
Real estate 17/8/2015 –
m
2
, LLC (formerly JSC 
m
2
)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia #3-5 Kazbegi Street, 
Tbilisi
Real estate 12/2/2014 –
m
2
 at Chavchavadze LLC 100.00% – – Georgia 50 I. Chavchavadze 
Ave., Tbilisi
Real estate 5/9/2016 –
m
2
 Commercial  
Properties LLC
100.00% – – Georgia 77 Zh. Shartavai St, 
Tbilisi
Real estate 1/3/2016 –
Caucasus Autohouse, 
LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 80 Aghmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Real estate 29/3/2011 –
Land, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Between University 
and Kavtaradze 
Str.,Tbilisi
Real estate 3/10/2014 –
JSC Georgian Renewable 
Power Company
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Renewable 
energy
14/9/2015 –
JSC Geohydro 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Renewable 
energy
11/10/2013 –
JSC Svaneti Hydro 65.00% 65.00% 100.00% Georgia 29a, Gagarin Street, 
Tbilisi 0160
Renewable 
energy
6/12/2013 –
JSC Zoti Hydro 65.00% 100.00% – Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Renewable 
energy
20/8/2015 –
JSC Caucasian Wind 
Company
100.00% – – Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Renewable 
energy
14/9/2016 –
JSC Caucasian Solar 
Company
100.00% – – Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Renewable 
energy
27/10/2016 –
Georgia Healthcare  
Group PLC
65.03% 67.70% – United 
Kingdom
84 Brook Street, 
London, W1K 5EH 
Healthcare 27/8/2015 28/8/2015
JSC Georgia  
Healthcare Group
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 40 Vazha-Pshavela 
Ave., Tbilisi
Healthcare 29/4/2015 –
JSC Insurance 
Company Imedi L 
(Formerly known as JSC 
Insurance Company 
Aldagi BCI)
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 3-5 Kazbegi Street, 
Tbilisi
Insurance 22/6/2007 –
Biznes Centri Kazbegze, 
LLC
(b) 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 44 Al. Kazbegi Ave, 
Tbilisi, 0177
Various 22/6/2010 10/1/2011
JSC GPC 100.00% – – Georgia Old Tbilisi, Sanapiro 
Str. #6, Tbilisi
Healthcare 19/10/1995 4/5/2016
JSC Medical Corporation 
EVEX
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 40 Vazha-Pshavela 
Ave., Tbilisi
Healthcare 31/7/2014 –
JSC My Family Clinic – – 100.00% Georgia N/A Healthcare 3/10/2005 –
JSC Kutaisi County 
Treatment and 
Diagnostic Center for 
Mothers and Children
66.70% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia 85 Djavakhishvili 
Street, Kutaisi, 4600
Medical 
services
5/5/2003 29/11/2011
Academician Z. 
Tskhakaia National 
Center of Intervention 
Medicine of Western 
Georgia, LLC
66.70% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia 83 A Djavakhishvili 
Street, Kutaisi
Medical 
services
15/10/2004 12/9/2011
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED 143 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
Address Subsidiaries
Proportion of voting rights and  
ordinary share capital held
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
31 December 
2016
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
Tskaltubo Regional 
Hospital, LLC
66.70% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia 16 Eristavi Street, 
Tskhaltubo
Medical 
services
29/9/1999 12/9/2011
JSC Kutaisi Str. Nicholas 
Surgical and 
Oncological Hospital
96.87% 96.87% 92.90% Georgia 9 Paolo Iashvili 
Street, Kutaisi
Medical 
services
3/11/2000 20/5/2008
Kutaisi Regional Clinical 
Hospital, LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
19/7/2010 10/1/2010
JSC Zugdidi multi profile 
Clinical Hospital 
“Republic”
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
11/6/1998 29/11/2011
JSC Chkhorotskhu 
Regional Central 
Hospital
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
30/11/1999 29/11/2011
E.K. Pipia Central 
Hospital of Tsalenjikha, 
LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
1/9/1999 12/9/2011
Martvili Multi profile 
Hospital, LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
17/3/2000 12/9/2011
Abasha Outpatient–
Polyclinic Union, LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
16/3/2000 12/9/2011
Khobi Central Regional 
Hospital, LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
13/7/2000 12/9/2011
Traumatologist, LLC – – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
20/7/2011 30/9/2014
Patgeo, LLC 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% Georgia Gldani Nadzaladevi 
district, Mukhiani, II 
mcr. District, 
Building #22, 1a, 
Tbilisi
Medical 
services
13/10/2010 27/9/2016
GN KO, LLC 50.00% 50.00% – Georgia Chavchavadze ave. 
N 16, Tbilisi
Medical 
services
6/4/2001 5/8/2015
High Technology 
Medical Center, LLC
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Tsinandali Str. N 9, 
Tbilisi
Healthcare 
service
16/4/1999 5/8/2015
Geolab, LLC 50.00% 50.00% – Georgia Tsinandali Str. N 9, 
Tbilisi
Healthcare 
service
3/5/2011 5/8/2015
Nephrology 
Development Clinic 
Center, LLC
80.00% 80.00% – Georgia Tsinandali Str. N 9, 
Tbilisi
Healthcare 
service
28/9/2010 5/8/2015
Catastrophe Medicine 
Pediatric Center, LLC
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia U. Chkeidze Str. N 
10
Medical 
services
18/6/2013 5/8/2015
JSC Pediatria 76.00% – – Georgia U. Chkeidze Str. N 
10, Tbilisi
Medical 
services
Emergency Service, LLC 100.00% – – Georgia #2, D. Uznadze Str., 
Tbilisi
Medical 
services
28/7/2009 6/1/2016
JSC Poti Central 
Hospital
100.00% – – Georgia Guria Str. 171, Poti Medical 
services
29/10/2014 1/1/2016
Deka, LLC 95.00% 95.00% – Georgia Bakhtrioni Str. 8B, 
Tbilisi
Medical 
services
12/1/2012 11/6/2015
EVEX–Logistics, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Vazha Pshavela Ave. 
#40, Tbilisi
Medical 
services
2/2/2015 –
EVEX Collection, LLC 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% Georgia Vazha Pshavela Ave. 
#40, Tbilisi
Medical 
services
25/3/2016 –
Unimed Achara, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Vazha Pshavela Ave. 
#40, Tbilisi
Medical 
services
29/6/2010 1/5/2012
 Unimedi Samtskhe, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Vazha Pshavela Ave. 
#40, Tbilisi
Medical 
services
29/6/2010 1/5/2012
Unimedi Kakheti, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 20 Chavchvadze 
Ave Tbilisi
Medical 
services
29/6/2010 1/5/2012
LLC Caraps Medline – – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
26/8/1998 26/12/2013
LLC Medline + – – – Georgia N/A Medical 
services
13/12/2007 30/12/2013
Avante Hospital 
Management Group, 
LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
5/8/2011 19/2/2014
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED 144 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Address Subsidiaries
Proportion of voting rights and  
ordinary share capital held
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
31 December 
2016
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
Children's New 
Hospital, LLC
– – 75.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
18/7/2011 19/2/2014
New Life, LLC – – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
21/9/1999 19/2/2014
Batumi Regional 
Healthcare Center for 
Mothers and Children, 
LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
19/11/2004 19/2/2014
Sunstone Medical, 
LLC
– – 100.00% Georgia N/A Medical 
services
9/11/2012 21/5/2014
M. Iashvili Children's 
Central Hospital, LLC
100.00% 66.70% 66.70% Georgia 2/6 Lubliana Street, 
Tbilisi
Medical 
services
3/5/2011 19/2/2014
Institute of Pediatrics, 
Alergology and 
Rheumatology Centre, 
LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 5 Lubliana Street 5, 
Tbilisi
Medical 
services
6/3/2000 19/2/2014
Referral Centre of 
Pathology, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 40 Vazha-Pshavela 
Ave., Tbilisi
Medical 
services
29/12/2014 –
EVEX Learning Center 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia #83A, Javakhishvili 
Street, Tbilisi
Education 20/12/2013 –
Georgian Global  
Utilities, LLC
100.00% 25.00% 25.00% British 
Virgin 
Islands
33 Porter Road, PO 
Box 3169 PMB 103, 
Road Town, Tortola
Utilities 16/08/2007 31/12/2014
Georgian Water and 
Power, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 33, Kostava Str. 1st 
Lane, Tbilisi
Utilities 25/06/1997 31/12/2014
Rustavi Water, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 5, Str. Nino Str., 
Rustavi
Utilities 31/08/1999 31/12/2014
Gardabani Sewage 
Treatment, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 33, Kostava Str.  
1st Lane, Tbilisi
Utilities 20/12/1999 31/12/2014
Mtskheta Water, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 1, Gvinjilia Str., 
Mtskheta
Utilities 1/9/1999 31/12/2014
Georgian Engineering and 
Management Company 
(GEMC), LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 3, Tkekultura Str., 
Tbilisi
Utilities 20/03/2011 31/12/2014
JSC Saguramo Energy 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 33, Kostava Str.  
1st Lane, Tbilisi
Utilities 11/12/2008 31/12/2014
JSC Liberty Consumer 98.25% 87.64% 70.12% Georgia 74a Chavchavadze 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0162
Investments 24/5/2006 –
JSC Teliani Valley 71.66% 71.44% 50.92% Georgia 3 Tbilisi Highway, 
Telavi.
Winery 30/6/2000 28/2/2007
Teliani Trading  
(Georgia), LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 2 Marshal Gelovani 
St, Tbilisi
Distribution 10/1/2006 27/3/2007
Teliani Trading  
(Ukraine), LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ukraine 18/14 Khvoiki Str., 
Kiev
Distribution 3/10/2006 31/12/2007
Le Caucase, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 2 Marshal Gelovani 
Str., Tbilisi
Cognac 
production
23/9/2006 20/3/2007
Kupa, LLC 70.00% 70.00% 70.00% Georgia 3 Tbilisi Highway, 
Telavi
Oak barrel 
production
12/10/2006 20/3/2007
Global Beer  
Georgia, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Vazisubani IV M/R, I 
KV, Building N21, 
App. N12, Tbilisi
Production 
and 
distribution
of alcohol and 
non–alcohol
beverages
24/12/2014 –
JSC Intertour 99.94% 99.94% 99.94% Georgia 49a, Chavchavadze 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0162
Travel agency 29/3/1996 25/4/2006
JSC Prime Fitness 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 78 Chavchavadze 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0162
Fitness centre 7/3/2006 –
JSC BG Financial 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Investment 7/8/2015 –
JSC Galt & Taggart 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Brokerage  
and asset
management
19/12/1995 28/12/2004
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED 145 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
Address Subsidiaries
Proportion of voting rights and  
ordinary share capital held
Country of 
incorporation Industry
Date of 
incorporation
Date of 
acquisition
31 December 
2016
31 December 
2015
31 December 
2014
Branch Office of “BG 
Kapital” JSC in Azerbaijan
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Azerbaijan 1C Mikayil Mushvig, 
Kempinski Hotel 
Badamdar, 6th floor, 
Yasamal. AZ1006, 
Baku
Representative 
office
28/12/2013 –
Galt & Taggart Holdings 
Limited
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus Arch. Makariou III 
58, IRIS TOWER, 
8-th floor, Flat/Office 
702 P.C. 1075, 
Nicosia
Investments 3/7/2006 –
BG Capital (Belarus), 
LLC 
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Belarus 5A-3H, K.Chornogo 
lane, Minsk, 220012
Brokerage 19/2/2008 –
Georgian Leasing  
Company, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 3-5 Kazbegi 
Str.,Tbilisi
Leasing 29/10/2001 31/12/2004
Prime Leasing 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Didube-Chughureti 
district, 114, Ak. 
Tsereteli Ave., Tbilisi
Leasing 27/1/2012 21/1/2015
Solo, LLC 100.00% 100.00% – Georgia 79 D.Agmashenebeli 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0102
Trade 22/4/2015 –
JSC United Securities 
Registrar of Georgia
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 74a Chavchavadze 
Ave., Tbilisi, 0162
Registrar 29/5/2006 –
JSC Express Technologies 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 1b, Budapest Str. 
Tbilisi, 0160
Investments 29/10/2007 –
JSC Georgian Card 99.47% 99.47% 98.23% Georgia 221 Nutsubidze 
Street, Tbilisi, 0168
Card 
processing
17/1/1997 20/10/2004
Direct Debit  
Georgia, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Luxemburg 25, 
Tbilisi, 0160
Electronic 
payment
services
7/3/2006 –
LLC Didi Digomi  
Research Center
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 80-82, 
D.Agmashenebeli 
Street, Tbilisi, 0102
Communication 
services
23/4/2007 –
Metro Service +, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 74a Chavchavadze 
Ave.,Tbilisi, 0162
Business 
servicing
10/5/2006 –
Express Technologies 
CEE, LLC 
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Hungary H-1054 Budapest; 
Szabadsag Ter. 7. 
Bank Center Platina 
Tower; 2nd floor
Other financial 
service
activities
5/3/2014 N/A
JSC Insurance Company 
Aldagi
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia #9 Ana 
Politkovskaya Str., 
Tbilisi
Insurance 31/7/2014 –
JSC Insurance  
Company Tao
100.00% 100.00% – Georgia Old Tbilisi, Pushkini 
Str. #3, Tbilisi
Insurance 22/8/2007 21/1/2015
Aliance, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia 1 Sanapiro Street, 
Tbilisi
Various 3/1/2000 5/1/2012
Green Way, LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Village Ratevani, 
Bolnisi District
Various 9/8/2008 5/1/2012
Premium Residence, 
LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia King Parmavaz Str. 
# 48, Batumi
Hotel 9/7/2010 1/5/2012
JSC Agron Group 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Kazbegi Str. 3-5, 
Tbilisi
Agro trade 3/11/2014 –
Agron Center, LLC – – 100.00% Georgia N/A Agro trade 11/11/2014 –
Premium Compliance 
Advisory, LLC
100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Georgia Kazbegi Str. 3-5, 
Tbilisi
Various 17/2/2012 –
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED 146 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
 
Proportion of voting rights and  
ordinary share capital held
Associates
31
December
2016
31
December
2015
31
December
2014
Country of
incorporation Address Industry
Date of
incorporation
Date of
acquisition
JSC Credit info (c) 19.11% 16.63% 16.63% Georgia
2 Tarkhnishvili St., 
Tbilisi, Georgia
Financial 
intermediation 14/2/2005 14/2/2005
#5 Clinic hospital, LLC 35.00% – – Georgia
Temka XI M/D, Q.1, 
Tbilisi, Georgia Healthcare 16/9/1999 20/8/2013
JSC Tbilisi Stock Exchange 21.59% – – Georgia
72 Vazha Pshavela 
Avenue, Tbilisi, 
Georgia
Financial 
intermediation 8/5/2015 23/12/2016
(a) Was discontinued in 2016. 
(b) Merged to JSC Insurance Company Imedi L in 2016. 
(c) On 22 December 2016 the Group obtained significant influence over JSC Credit info.
The Group recognised a liability in amount of GEL 21,692 in respect of a put notice for 15% of BNB’s shares received in 2016. 
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
ADOPTION OF NEW OR REVISED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AND VOLUNTARY CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
As required by IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative the Group now presents its share of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method in 
aggregate as a single line item, and classifies it between those items that will or will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
During the year, the Group changed its accounting policy with respect to the hospitals and clinics. The Group now applies the revaluation model, 
which is the fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. 
Prior to this change in policy, the Group applied the cost model, where hospitals and clinics were carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any accumulated impairment in value.
The Group believes the new policy provides reliable and more relevant information as it more closely aligns the accounting for these transactions with 
the business model around these asset categories. The change of accounting policy has been accounted for prospectively starting from 1 July 
2016. The Group recognised GEL 20,804 revaluation effect in other comprehensive income as at 1 July 2016.
No other new or revised IFRS during the year had a material impact on the Group’s financial position or performance.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016. The Group 
consolidates a subsidiary when it controls it. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and 
only if the Group has:
• power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee); 
• exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and 
• the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns. 
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in 
assessing whether it has power over an investee, including:
• the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee; 
• rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and 
• the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights. 
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three 
elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses 
control of the subsidiary. Income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the statement of 
comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the 
non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-Group assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 147 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION CONTINUED
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over 
a subsidiary, it:
• Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary. 
• Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests. 
• Derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity.
• Recognises the fair value of the consideration received. 
• Recognises the fair value of any investment retained. 
• Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss. 
• Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings,  
as appropriate, as would be required if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. 
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. For each business combination, 
the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets and other components of non-controlling interests at their acquisition date fair values. Acquisition-related costs are expensed 
as incurred and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance 
with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded 
derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any resulting 
gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. It is then considered in the determination of goodwill.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement,  
is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised either in either profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the 
contingent consideration is not within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS. Contingent consideration that  
is classified as equity is not re-measured and subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling 
interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair value of the net assets acquired  
is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of 
the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the re-assessment still 
results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with 
the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in 
these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES
Associates are entities in which the Group generally has between 20%-50% of the voting rights, or is otherwise able to exercise significant influence, 
but which it does not control or jointly control. Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method and are initially recognised at 
cost, including goodwill. Subsequent changes in the carrying value reflect the post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the 
associate. The Group’s share of its associates’ profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share of movements in 
reserves is recognised in other comprehensive income. However, when the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in 
the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless the Group is obliged to make further payments to, or on behalf of, the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates; 
unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. When available for sale 
investment becomes an associate, the investment is re-measured to fair value and any gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income is reclassified in profit or loss. 148 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
The Group measures financial instruments, such as trading and investment securities, derivatives and non-financial assets such as investment 
properties, at fair value at each balance sheet date. Also, fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in Note 30.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes 
place either:
• in the principal market for the asset or liability; or 
• in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. 
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the 
assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best 
interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 − Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
• Level 2 − Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable. 
• Level 3 − Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. 
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between Levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole) at the end of each reporting period.
FINANCIAL ASSETS
INITIAL RECOGNITION
Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, or available-
for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets upon initial recognition.
DATE OF RECOGNITION
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, i.e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the 
asset. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the period generally established 
by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are not 
entered into with the intention of immediate or short-term resale and are not classified as trading securities or designated as investment securities. 
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. This calculation includes all fees paid or received between parties to 
the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts. Gains and losses are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the 
amortisation process.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in any other 
categories. After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in other 
comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or 
loss previously reported in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the consolidated income statement. However, interest calculated using the 
effective interest method is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
In the normal course of business, the Group enters into various derivative financial instruments including forwards, swaps and options in the foreign 
exchange and capital markets. Such financial instruments are initially recognised in accordance with the policy for initial recognition of financial 
instruments and are subsequently measured at fair value. The fair values are estimated based on quoted market prices or pricing models that take 
into account the current market and contractual prices of the underlying instruments and other factors. Derivatives are carried as assets when their 
fair value is positive and as liabilities when it is negative. Gains and losses resulting from these instruments are included in the consolidated income 
statement as gains less losses from foreign currencies translation differences.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 149 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT INITIAL RECOGNITION
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, adjusted, in the case of instruments not at fair value through profit 
or loss, for directly attributable fees and costs.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction price. If the Group determines that the fair 
value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price, then:
• if the fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in an active market for an identical asset or liability (i.e. a Level 1 input) or based on a valuation 
technique that uses only data from observable markets, the Group recognises the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the 
transaction price as a gain or loss; or
• in all other cases, the initial measurement of the financial instrument is adjusted to defer the difference between the fair value at initial recognition 
and the transaction price. After initial recognition, the Group recognises that deferred difference as a gain or loss only when the inputs become 
observable, or when the instrument is derecognised. 
OFFSETTING
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position when there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, amounts due from central banks, excluding obligatory reserves with central banks, and 
amounts due from credit institutions that mature within ninety days of the date of origination and are free from contractual encumbrances and  
readily convertible to known amount of cash.
BORROWINGS
Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities, where the substance of the contractual arrangement results in the Group 
having an obligation either to deliver cash or another financial asset to the holder, or to satisfy the obligation other than by the exchange of a fixed 
amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of own equity instruments. Such instruments include amounts due to credit institutions 
and amounts due to customers (including promissory notes issued). These are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less 
directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method. Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement when the borrowings are derecognised as well as through the 
amortisation process.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of the 
liability and the consideration paid is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to 
get ready for its intended use of sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which 
they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
SUBORDINATED DEBT
Subordinated debt represents long-term funds attracted by the Bank on the international financial markets or domestic market. The holders of 
subordinated debt would be subordinate to all other creditors to receive repayment of debt in case of the Bank’s liquidation. Subordinated debt  
is carried at amortised cost.
LEASES
I. FINANCE – GROUP AS LESSOR
Leases that transfer substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the lease item to the lessee are classified as finance leases.  
The Group recognises finance lease receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position at a value equal to the net investment in the lease, 
starting from the date of commencement of the lease term. In calculating the present value of the minimum lease payments, the discount factor  
used is the interest rate implicit in the lease. Initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement of the finance lease receivables. Lease payments 
received are apportioned between the finance income and the reduction of the outstanding lease receivable. Finance income is based on a pattern 
reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding.
II. OPERATING – GROUP AS LESSEE
Leases of assets under which the risks and rewards of ownership are effectively retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Lease 
payments under an operating lease are recognised as expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included into other administrative 
and operating expenses.
III. OPERATING – GROUP AS LESSOR
The Group presents assets subject to operating leases in the consolidated statement of financial position according to the nature of the asset. Lease 
income from operating leases is recognised in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term as other income. The 
aggregate cost of incentives provided to lessees is recognised as a reduction of rental income over the lease term on a straight-line basis. Initial 
direct costs incurred specifically to earn revenues from an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset. 150 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one  
or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred “loss event”) and that loss event (or events) has an impact  
on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment  
may include indications that the borrower or a group of borrowers is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest  
or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there  
is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
AMOUNTS DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS, LOANS TO CUSTOMERS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES
For amounts due from credit institutions, loans to customers and finance lease receivables carried at amortised cost, the Group first assesses 
whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that 
are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, 
whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risks characteristics and collectively assesses them for 
impairment. Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, or continues to be, recognised are not included 
in a collective assessment of impairment.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred).  
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. Interest income continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original effective interest rate of the asset. 
Loans together with the associated allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been realised 
or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or decreases because of an 
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance 
account. If a future write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to the consolidated income statement in the respective impairment line with  
a negative sign as a reversal of impairment.
The present value of the estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. If a loan has a variable 
interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate. The calculation of the present value of the 
estimated future cash flows of a collateralised financial asset reflects the cash flows that may result from foreclosure less costs for obtaining and 
selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
For the purpose of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial assets are grouped on the basis of the Group’s internal credit grading system that 
considers credit risk characteristics such as asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors.
Future cash flows on a group of financial assets that are collectively evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of historical loss experience 
for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data 
to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the years on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects  
of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently. Estimates of changes in future cash flows reflect, and are consistent with, changes  
in related observable data from year to year (such as changes in unemployment rates, property prices, commodity prices, payment status, or other 
factors that are indicative of incurred losses in the group or their magnitude). The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash 
flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
WRITE-OFF OF LOANS TO CUSTOMERS
All retail loans, except mortgages, are written off when overdue by more than 150 days. Retail mortgage loans are written off when overdue by more 
than 365 days. Write off of corporate loans overdue by more than 150 days is subject to management discretion and is evaluated on a case-by-case 
basis, taking into account the current and expected positions of the loan/borrower.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group 
of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value 
of the investment below its cost. Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition 
cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the consolidated income statement – is 
reclassified from other comprehensive income to the consolidated income statement. Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed 
through the consolidated income statement; increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised in other comprehensive income.
In the case of debt instruments classified as available-for-sale, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as financial assets carried  
at amortised cost. However, the amount recorded for impairment is the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the amortised cost  
and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the consolidated income statement. Future interest 
income is based on the reduced carrying amount and is accrued using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose  
of measuring the impairment loss. The interest income is recorded in the consolidated income statement. If, in a subsequent year, the fair value  
of a debt instrument increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the 
consolidated income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the consolidated income statement.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 151 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED
RENEGOTIATED LOANS
A renegotiated loan is a loan for which the terms have been modified or for which additional collateral has been requested that was not 
contemplated in the original contract in response to a customer’s financial difficulties.
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market conditions, customer retention and other 
factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer. When the contractual payment terms of a loan are modified because 
we have significant concerns about the borrower’s ability to meet contractual payments when due, these loans are classified as “renegotiated loans”. 
Indicators of financial difficulties include defaults on covenants, significant arrears for 30 days or more in a three-month period, or concerns raised by 
the Credit Risk Department. Typical key features of terms and conditions granted through renegotiation to avoid default include special interest rates, 
postponement of interest or amortisation payments, modification of the schedule of repayments or amendment of loan maturity. Once the terms 
have been renegotiated, any impairment is measured using the original EIR as calculated before the modification of terms.
For the purposes of measuring credit losses within the collective loan loss assessment, these loans are not segregated from other loans which have 
not been renegotiated. Management regularly reviews all loans to ensure that all criteria according to the loan agreement continue to be met and that 
future payments are likely to occur. Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing 
review to determine whether they remain impaired.
Once a loan in retail book is identified as renegotiated, it remains within this category until maturity or de-recognition from the balance sheet unless 
the customer is able to cure the break by making six regular payments on time. Corporate loans retain renegotiated loan designation until maturity or 
de-recognition unless borrower’s experiences significant credit improvement during the remaining life of the loan. Any new loans that arise following 
derecognition events will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans and are assessed for impairment as above.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
FINANCIAL ASSETS
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where:
• the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or 
• the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset, or retained the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has 
assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third-party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and 
• the Group either: (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. 
Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. 
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the 
asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and/or purchased option (including a cash-settled option or similar provision) on the 
transferred asset, the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the Group may repurchase, except 
that in the case of a written put option (including a cash-settled option or similar provision) on an asset measured at fair value, the extent of the 
Group’s continuing involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option exercise price.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability  
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, 
and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
In the ordinary course of business, the Group gives financial guarantees, consisting of letters of credit, guarantees and acceptances. Financial guarantees 
are initially recognised in the consolidated financial statements at fair value, in “Other liabilities”, being the premium received. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, the Group’s liability under each guarantee is measured at the higher of the amortised premium and the best estimate of expenditure 
required to settle any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantee.
Any increase in the liability relating to financial guarantees is taken to the consolidated income statement. The premium received is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the guarantee. 152 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
INVENTORIES
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is accounted for as follows:
• Raw materials: purchase cost on a first-in/first-out basis. 
• Finished goods and work in progress: cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on the normal 
operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs 
necessary to make the sale.
TAXATION
The current income tax expense is calculated in accordance with the regulations in force in the respective territories in which BGEO and its 
subsidiaries operate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in respect of temporary differences using the liability method. Deferred income taxes are provided  
for all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes, except 
where the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
A deferred tax asset is recorded only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset  
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Georgia and Belarus also have various operating taxes that are assessed on the Group’s activities. These taxes are included as a component of 
other operating expenses.
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Investment property is land or building or a part of a building held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation and which is not used by the 
Group or held for sale in the ordinary course of business. Property that is being constructed or developed or redeveloped for future use as an 
investment property is also classified as an investment property.
Investment property is initially recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and subsequently remeasured at fair value reflecting market conditions 
at the end of the reporting period. Fair value of the Group’s investment property is determined on the basis of various sources including reports of 
independent appraisers, who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualifications and who have recent experience in valuation of property of 
similar location and category.
Investment property that is being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property or for which the market has become less active continues 
to be measured at fair value. Earned rental income is recorded in the income statement within net other banking income for Banking Business 
companies and within real estate revenue for Investment Business companies. Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of 
investment property are recorded in the income statement within net other banking income for Banking Business companies and within real estate 
revenue or gross other investment profit for Investment Business companies, depending on weather the gains derive from active property 
development or passive appreciation respectively.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with it will flow to the Group and the cost 
can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. If an investment property becomes owner-occupied, 
it is reclassified to property and equipment, and its carrying amount at the date of reclassification becomes its deemed cost to be 
subsequently depreciated.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment, except for land, office buildings and service centres, infrastructure assets and hospitals and clinics, is carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in value. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the equipment when that cost 
is incurred if the recognition criteria are met. Land, office buildings, service centres, infrastructure assets and hospitals and clinics are measured at 
fair value less depreciation and impairment charged subsequent to the date of the revaluation.
Infrastructure assets comprise a network of systems consisting of raw water aqueducts, mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water 
storage reservoirs and sludge pipelines. Investment expenditure on infrastructure assets relating to increase in capacity or enhancements of the 
network and asset replacements to maintain the operating capability of the network is treated as an addition and initially recorded at cost, whilst 
repair and maintenance expenditure which does not enhance the asset base is charged as an operating cost.
The carrying values of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 153 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
Following initial recognition at cost, office buildings and service centres are carried at a revalued amount, which is the fair value at the date of the 
revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Valuations are performed once in every 
three years, unless there is a sign of material change in fair values on the market.
Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to 
the revalued amount of the asset. Any revaluation surplus is credited to the revaluation reserve for property and equipment included in other 
comprehensive income, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in the consolidated 
income statement, in which case the increase is recognised in the consolidated income statement. A revaluation deficit is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement, except that a deficit directly offsetting a previous surplus on the same asset is directly offset against the surplus in 
the revaluation reserve for property and equipment.
An annual transfer from the revaluation reserve for property and equipment to retained earnings is made for the difference between depreciation 
based on the revalued carrying amount of the assets and depreciation based on the assets original cost. Additionally, accumulated depreciation as 
at the revaluation date is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the 
asset. Upon disposal, any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold is transferred to retained earnings.
Depreciation of an asset commences from the date the asset is ready and available for use. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over 
the following estimated useful lives:
Years
Office buildings and service centres Up to 100
Hospitals and clinics Up to 100
Infrastructure assets 10-40
Furniture and fixtures 10
Computers and equipment 5-10
Motor vehicles 5
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods are reviewed and adjusted as appropriate at each financial year-end.
Assets under construction are stated at cost and are not depreciated until the time they are available for use and reclassified to respective group of 
property and equipment.
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the life of the related leased asset or the expected lease term if lower.
Costs related to repairs and renewals are charged when incurred and included in other operating expenses, unless they qualify for capitalisation.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be 
impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s 
cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether 
other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so allocated:
• represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and
• is not larger than a segment as defined in IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units), to which the goodwill 
relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Impairment losses cannot be reversed in future periods.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The Group’s intangible assets include computer software and licenses.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is 
fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. The economic lives of intangible assets are assessed to be finite and amortised over four to ten years and assessed 
for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Amortisation periods and methods for intangible assets are 
reviewed at least at each financial year-end.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recorded as an expense as incurred. Software development costs (relating to 
the design and testing of new or substantially improved software) are recognised as intangible assets only when the Group can demonstrate the 
technical feasibility of completing the software so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete the asset and its ability to use or sell 
the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably 
the expenditure during the development. Other software development costs are recognised as an expense as incurred. 154 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE RECEIVABLES
Insurance and reinsurance receivables are recognised based upon insurance policy terms and measured at cost. The carrying value of insurance 
and reinsurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, 
with any impairment loss recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Reinsurance receivables primarily include balances due from both insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities. Premiums on 
reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into 
account the product classification of the reinsured business. Amounts due to reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated 
reinsured policies and in accordance with the reinsurance contract. Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis.
An impairment review is performed on all reinsurance assets when an indication of impairment occurs. Reinsurance receivables are impaired only if 
there is objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract that this can be measured reliably.
INSURANCE LIABILITIES
GENERAL INSURANCE LIABILITIES
General insurance contract liabilities are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the reporting date, whether 
reported or not, together with related claims handling costs and reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Significant delays 
can be experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, particularly in respect of liability business, 
environmental and pollution exposures – therefore the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty at the reporting date.
PROVISION FOR UNEARNED PREMIUMS
The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as unearned 
premium. The change in the provision for unearned premium is taken to the consolidated income statement in order that revenue is recognised over 
the period of risk or, for annuities, the amount of expected future benefit payments.
LIABILITY ADEQUACY TEST
At each reporting date, a liability adequacy test is performed, to ensure the adequacy of unearned premiums net of related deferred acquisition 
costs. In performing the test, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and policy administration expenses, as well as 
investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used. Any inadequacy is immediately charged to the consolidated income statement by 
establishing an unexpired risk provision.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of obligation can be made.
Provisions for the risk of incurring losses on off-balance sheet commitments is estimated regularly based on the past history of actual losses incurred 
on these commitments.
RETIREMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Group provides management and employees of the Group with private pension plans. These are defined contribution pension plans covering 
substantially all full-time employees of the Group. The Group collects contributions in the size of 2% of full-time employees’ salaries, of which  
1% is deducted from the salaries and the other 1% – additionally paid by the Group. When an employee reaches pension age, aggregated 
contributions, plus any earnings earned on the employee’s behalf are paid to the employee according to the schedule agreed with the employee.
Aggregated amounts are distributed during the period when the employee will receive accumulated contributions. Respective pension benefit 
obligations are recorded within other liabilities, Note 15.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive share-based remuneration, whereby employees render services as consideration  
for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions).
EQUITY-SETTLED TRANSACTIONS
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised together with the corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance 
and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date when the relevant employee is fully entitled to the award (the “vesting date”). The 
cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The consolidated income statement 
charge or credit for the period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for the awards that do not ultimately vest except for the awards where vesting is conditional upon market conditions  
(a condition linked to the price of BGEO’s shares) which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that 
all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial  
to the employee as measured at the date of the modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it has vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the 
award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as the replacement award on  
the date that it is granted, the cancelled and the new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the 
previous paragraph.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 155 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
SHARE CAPITAL
SHARE CAPITAL
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. External costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, other than on a business combination, are 
shown as a deduction from the proceeds in equity. Any excess of the fair value of consideration received over the par value of shares issued is 
recognised as additional paid-in capital.
TREASURY SHARES
Where BGEO or its subsidiaries purchase BGEO’s shares, the consideration paid, including any attributable transaction costs, net of income taxes, is 
deducted from total equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any 
consideration received is included in equity. Treasury shares are stated at par value, with adjustment of premiums against additional paid-in capital.
DIVIDENDS
Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the reporting date only if they are declared before or on the reporting date. 
Dividends are disclosed when they are proposed before the reporting date or proposed or declared after the reporting date but before the 
consolidated financial statements are authorised for issue.
CONTINGENCIES
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position but are disclosed unless the possibility of any outflow in 
settlement is remote. A contingent asset is not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position but disclosed when an inflow of 
economic benefits is probable.
INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue and expense is recognised:
INTEREST AND SIMILAR INCOME AND EXPENSE
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost and interest-bearing securities classified as trading or available-for-sale, interest income or 
expense is recorded at the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the 
expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. 
The calculation takes into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment options) and includes any fees or 
incremental costs that are directly attributable to the instrument and are an integral part of the effective interest rate, but not future credit losses. The 
carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability is adjusted if the Group revises its estimates of payments or receipts. The adjusted carrying 
amount is calculated based on the original effective interest rate and the change in carrying amount is recorded as interest income or expense.
Once the recorded value of a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been reduced due to an impairment loss, interest income 
continues to be recognised using the original effective interest rate applied to the new carrying amount.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME
The Group earns fee and commission income from a diverse range of services it provides to its customers. Fee income can be divided into the 
following two categories:
FEE INCOME EARNED FROM SERVICES THAT ARE PROVIDED OVER A CERTAIN PERIOD OF TIME
Fees earned for the provision of services over a period of time are accrued over that period. These fees include commission incomes and asset 
management, custody and other management and advisory fees. Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down and other credit 
related fees are deferred (together with any incremental costs) and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan.
FEE INCOME FROM PROVIDING TRANSACTION SERVICES
Fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third-party – such as the arrangement of the acquisition of 
shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction. Fees or components 
of fees that are linked to a certain performance are recognised after fulfilling the corresponding criteria.
DIVIDEND INCOME
Revenue is recognised when the Group’s right to receive the payment is established.
INSURANCE PREMIUM INCOME
For property and casualty and health insurance business, premiums written are recognised at policy inception and earned on a pro rata basis over 
the term of the related policy coverage. Estimates of premiums written as at the reporting date but not yet received, are assessed based on 
estimates from underwriting or past experience and are included in premiums earned.
INSURANCE CLAIMS
General insurance claims incurred include all claim losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, including the related handling costs 
and reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries and any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years. 156 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION CONTINUED
HEALTHCARE REVENUE
The Group recognises healthcare revenue when the amount can be reliably measured and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the 
entity. Healthcare revenue is presented net of corrections and rebates that occasionally arise as a result of reconciliation of detailed bills with 
counterparties (mostly with the state).
Healthcare revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for providing inpatient and outpatient services and includes 
the following components:
• Healthcare revenue from insurance companies – The Group recognises revenue from the individuals who are insured by various insurance 
companies based on the completion of the actual medical service and agreed-upon terms between the counterparties.
• Healthcare revenue from state – The Group recognises the revenue from the individuals who are insured under the state programmes based on 
the completion of the actual medical service and the agreed-upon terms between the counterparties.
• Healthcare revenue from out-of-pocket and other – The Group recognises the revenue from non-insured individuals based on the completion of 
the actual medical service and approved prices by the Group. Sales are usually in cash or by credit card. Other revenue from medical services 
includes revenue from municipalities and other hospitals, which the Group has contractual relationship with. Sales of services are recognised in 
the accounting period in which the services are rendered calculated according to contractual tariffs. 
UTILITY REVENUE
The Group recognises revenue from utility services to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue 
can be reliably measured. The following specific recognition criteria must be met before revenue is recognised:
• Revenue from water supply – includes amounts billed to the customers based on the metered or estimated usage of water by legal entities and 
by application of the relevant tariff for services set per unit of water supplied. Meters are read on a cyclical basis and the Group recognises 
revenue for unbilled amounts based on estimated usage from the last billing through to the end of the financial year. 
• Revenue from water supply to population – includes amounts billed on monthly basis to the residential customers (with meter) based on the 
metered usage of water and by application of the relevant tariff for services set per unit of water supplied or based on the number of individual 
person registered by respective city municipality per each residential address (without meter) by application of the relevant tariff set per capita per 
month for the general population. 
Revenue from connection service is recognised based on the completion of works in respect to connection services to the individual customers. In 
respect of long-term contracts, revenue is recognised based on the value of work carried out during the year with reference to the total sales value 
and the stage of completion of these contracts. 
GROSS REAL ESTATE PROFIT AND GROSS OTHER INVESTMENT PROFIT
Gross real estate profit comprises revenue from sale of developed real estate property and revaluation gains on such developed properties.
Revenue from sale of developed real estate property is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the real estate have been 
transferred to the buyer.
Gross other investment profit comprises revenue from sale of other finished goods and revaluation of other investment properties that were not 
developed by the Group.
Revenue from the sale of other finished goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the 
buyer, usually on delivery of the goods.
Continuous transfer of work in progress is applied when: (a) the buyer controls the work in progress, typically when the land on which the development 
is taking place is owned by the final customer, and (b) all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its present state  
are transferred to the buyer as construction progresses, typically when the buyer cannot put the incomplete property back to the Group. In such 
situations, the percentage of work completed is measured based on the costs incurred up until the end of the reporting period as a proportion  
of total costs expected to be incurred.
EBITDA
The Group separately presents EBITDA on the face of income statement for Investment Business. EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, 
taxes, depreciation and amortisation, as well as cost of credit risk and net non-recurring items for the Investment Business.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 157 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION CONTINUED
NON-RECURRING INCOME AND EXPENSES
The Group separately classifies and discloses those income and expenses that are non-recurring by nature. Any type of income or expense may  
be non-recurring by nature. The Group defines non-recurring income or expense as an income or expense triggered by or originated from an 
extraordinary economic, business or financial event that is not inherent to the regular and ordinary business course of the Group and is caused  
by uncertain or unpredictable external factors. Typical non-recurring income or expenses are but not limited to the following:
• Bankruptcy of a subsidiary or an associate or any other extraordinary and irregular event that causes material impairment of an investment in that 
subsidiary or associate or impairment of associated goodwill.
• Expenses incurred for the purposes of initial public offering (IPO) that are not directly attributable to issuance of new shares but are rather 
associated with the listing of existing shares. 
• Gains from bargain purchases (negative goodwill) associated with business combinations. 
• Impairment of property and equipment, which is an additional loss in excess of a regular depreciation charge caused by unexpected 
external factors. 
• Gains or losses from hyperinflation.
• Gains or losses from breaches of borrowings before maturity. 
• Redundancy expenses and costs of lay off of management and executives. 
• Failure of a software or license provider to complete implementation of a software or license through a breach of agreement with the Group, 
resulting in legal disputes and/or litigations. 
• Loss from early redemption of Eurobonds.
FUNCTIONAL, REPORTING CURRENCIES AND FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Georgian Lari, which is the Group’s presentation currency. BGEO’s and the Bank’s functional 
currency is Georgian Lari. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each 
entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency, converted at  
the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into 
functional currency at functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Gains and losses resulting from the translation of foreign 
currency transactions are recognised in the consolidated income statement as gains less losses from foreign currencies – translation differences. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the 
initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value was determined. When a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income, any exchange component of that 
gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income. Conversely, when a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in profit or loss, 
any exchange component of that gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Differences between the contractual exchange rate of a certain transaction and the NBG exchange rate on the date of the transaction are included  
in gains less losses from foreign currencies (dealing). The official NBG exchange rates at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 
2014 were:
Lari to GBP Lari to US$ Lari to EUR Lari to BYN
31 December 2016 3.2579 2.6468 2.794 1.3532
31 December 2015 3.5492 2.3949 2.6169 1.2904
31 December 2014 2.8932 1.8636 2.2656 1.5727
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the entities whose functional currency is different from the presentation currency of the Group  
are translated into Georgian Lari at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and, their income statements are translated at the weighted 
average exchange rates for the year. The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken to other comprehensive income. On disposal  
of a subsidiary or an associate whose functional currency is different from the presentation currency of the Group, the deferred cumulative amount 
recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that particular entity is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising 
on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operations and translated at the rate at the reporting date. 158 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE
Up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements, certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards 
have been published that are not yet effective for the current reporting period and which the Group has not early adopted. Such standards that are 
expected to have an impact on the Group, or the impacts of which are currently being assessed, are as follows:
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
INTRODUCTION
In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9 for annual periods on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. In 2016, the Group 
set up a multidisciplinary implementation team with members from Risk, Finance and Operations teams and hired an external consultant to initiate 
the implementation of IFRS 9. The project is sponsored by Chief Risk and Chief Financial Officers who provide regular updates to the Group’s 
Management Board. Implementation consists of six key phases: the initial assessment and analysis, design, build, testing, parallel running and  
go live. Initial assessment and analysis stage have been completed for all work streams and the Group is currently working on the design phase.  
The Group plans to adopt the new standard from the effective date and continues to assess IFRS 9 impact.
CLASSIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT
From a classification and measurement perspective, the new standard will require all financial assets, expect equity instruments and derivatives, to be 
assessed based on a combination of the entity’s business model for managing the assets and the instruments’ contractual cash flow characteristics. 
The IAS 39 measurement categories will be replaced by: Fair value through profit or loss (FVPL), fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), 
and amortised cost. IFRS 9 will allow entities to continue to irrevocably designate instruments that qualify for amortised cost or fair value through OCI 
instruments as FVPL, if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency. Equity instruments that are not held for 
trading may be irrevocably designated as FVOCI, with no subsequent reclassification of gains or losses to the income statement.
The accounting treatment for financial liabilities will largely be the same as the requirements of IAS 39, except for the treatment of gains or losses 
arising from an entity’s credit risk relating to liabilities designated at FVPL. Such movements will be presented in OCI with no subsequent 
reclassification to the income statement unless an accounting mismatch in profit or loss would arise.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
IFRS 9 is expected to fundamentally change the current loan loss impairment methodology. The standard will replace IAS 39’s incurred loss 
approach with a forward-looking expected loss (ECL) approach. The Group will be required to record an allowance for expected losses for all loans 
and other debt financial assets not held at FVPL, together with loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. The allowance is based on the 
expected credit losses associated with the probability of default in the next 12 months unless there has been a significant increase in credit risk since 
origination, in which case, the allowance is based on the probability of default over the life of the asset.
IAS 12 INCOME TAXES
In January 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes. The amendments clarify how to account for deferred tax assets related to 
debt instruments measured at fair value and clarify recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses, to address diversity in practice. Entities 
are required to apply the amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The Group is currently evaluating the impact, but 
does not anticipate that adopting the amendments would have a material impact on its financial statement.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective for the periods beginning on 1 January 2018 with early 
adoption permitted. IFRS 15 defines principles for recognising revenue and will be applicable to all contracts with customers. However, interest and 
fee income integral to financial instruments and leases will continue to fall outside the scope of IFRS 15 and will be regulated by the other applicable 
standards. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange 
for transferring goods or services to a customer. The standard also specifies a comprehensive set of disclosure requirements regarding the nature, 
extent and timing as well as any uncertainty of revenue and corresponding cash flows with customers. The new revenue standard will supersede all 
current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. IFRS 15 can be adopted using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach. 
The Group plans to early adopt new revenue recognition standard from 1 January 2017 using a modified retrospective approach. Anticipated impact 
of early adoption is expected to be approximately GEL 32,158 thousand decrease to shareholders’ equity. Main revenue streams impacted by early 
adoption include the following: a) fees and commission income, b) real estate revenue and c) connection fees from utility services.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 159 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE CONTINUED 
IFRS 16 LEASES
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases with an effective date of annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early application is 
permitted provided the new revenue standard, IFRS 15, is applied on the same date. IFRS 16 can be adopted using either a full retrospective or a 
modified retrospective approach. IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the 
way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases. Lessees will recognise a “right of use” asset and a corresponding 
financial liability on the statement of financial position. The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease and the financial liability measured at 
amortised cost. Leases must apply a single model for all recognised leases, but will have the option not to recognise “short-term” leases and leases 
of “low-value” assets. Lessor accounting remains substantially the same as in IAS 17. The Group does not anticipate early adoption of IFRS 16 and 
is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 on its financial statements.
IAS 7 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
In January 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows with the intention to improve disclosures of financing activities and 
help users to better understand the reporting entities’ liquidity positions. Under the new requirements, the Group will need to disclose changes in its 
financial liabilities as a result of financing activities such as changes from cash flows and non-cash items. The amendment is effective from 1 January 
2017. The Group is currently evaluating the impact.
IFRS 2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
On 20 June 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment that clarify the classification and measurement of share-based 
payment transactions. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.  
The Group is currently evaluating the impact.
ANNUAL IMPROVEMENTS 2014-2016 CYCLE
The improvements to IAS 28 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and the improvements to IFRS 12 for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
IFRS 12 DISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS IN OTHER ENTITIES
The amendment clarifies the scope of the standard by specifying that when an entity’s interest in a subsidiary, a joint arrangement (or a portion  
of its interest in a joint venture or an associate) is classified as asset held for sale or as held for distribution to owners in accordance with IFRS 5,  
the entity is not required to disclose summarised financial information for that subsidiary, joint venture or associate in accordance with IFRS 12.  
This improvement is not expected to have any impact on the Group.
IAS 28 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
The amendment clarifies that the election to measure an investment in as associate or a joint venture that is held by an entity that is a venture  
capital organisation, or other qualifying entity, at fair value through profit or loss, is available for each investment in as associate or joint venture  
on an investment by investment basis, upon initial recognition. This improvement is not expected to have any impact on the Group.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, the Board of Directors and management use their judgment and make estimates  
in determining the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements. The most significant judgments and estimates are as follows: 
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Where the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position cannot be derived from 
active markets, they are determined using a variety of valuation techniques that include the use of mathematical models. The input to these models 
is taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgment is required in establishing fair values (Note 30). 
MEASUREMENT OF FAIR VALUE OF INVESTMENT PROPERTIES AND PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
The fair value of investment properties, hospitals, infrastructure assets and office buildings and service centres included in property and equipment  
is determined by independent professionally qualified appraisers. Fair value is determined using a combination of the internal capitalisation method 
(also known as discounted future cash flow method) and the sales comparison method. 
The Group performs valuation of its investment properties, hospitals, infrastructure assets and office buildings and service centres included in 
property and equipment with a sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined 
using fair value at the end of the reporting period. Results of this valuation are presented in Notes 11 and 12, while valuation inputs and techniques 
are presented in Note 30. The Group’s properties are specialised in nature and spread across the different parts of the country. While the secondary 
market in Georgia provides adequate market information for fair value measurements for small and medium-sized properties, valuation of large and 
unique properties involves application of various observable and unobservable inputs to determine adjustments to the available comparable sale 
prices. These estimates and assumptions are based on the best available information, however, actual results could be different.  160 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED
ALLOWANCE FOR IMPAIRMENT OF LOANS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES 
The Group regularly reviews its loans and finance lease receivables to assess impairment. The Group uses its judgment to estimate the amount  
of any impairment loss in cases where a borrower is in financial difficulties and there are few available sources of historical data relating to similar 
borrowers. Similarly, the Group estimates changes in future cash flows based on the observable data indicating that there has been an adverse 
change in the payment status of borrowers in a group, or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on assets in the group. 
Management uses estimates based on historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics and objective evidence of impairment 
similar to those in the group of loans and finance lease receivables. The Group uses its judgment to adjust observable data for a group of loans  
and finance lease receivables to reflect current circumstances. 
The Group considers the fair value of collateral when estimating the amount of impairment loss for collateralised loans and finance lease receivables. 
Management monitors market value of collateral on a regular basis. Management uses its expert judgment or independent opinion to adjust the fair 
value to reflect current conditions. The amount and type of collateral required depends on the assessment of credit risk of the counterparty. 
Information about allowance for impairment of loans and finance lease receivables is presented in Note 10. 
5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
ACQUISITION OF GLOBAL UTILITIES LLC
On 21 July 2016, the Group completed acquisition of the remaining 75% equity stake in Georgian Global Utilities Limited (GGU), its utilities and 
energy business. As a result of this buy-out, BGEO owns 100% of GGU.
The provisional fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree as at the date of acquisition was:
Provisional 
fair value
recognised 
on acquisition
Cash and cash equivalents 3,760
Amounts due from credit institutions 2,922
Accounts receivable and other loans
1
27,304
Inventories 4,429
Investment properties (Note 11) 19,417
Property and equipment (Note 12) 304,932
Intangible assets 1,060
Income tax assets 2,033
365,857
Amounts due to credit institutions 84,632
Income tax liabilities 390
Other liabilities 24,969
109,991
TOTAL IDENTIFIABLE NET ASSETS 255,866
Gain on bargain purchase (Note 27) 36,915
CONSIDERATION GIVEN
2
218,951
The net cash inflow on acquisition was as follows:
2016
Cash paid (164,213)
Cash acquired with the subsidiary 3,760
NET CASH OUTFLOW (160,453)
The Group decided to enter the utilities and energy business as it sees opportunities and value creation in this sector of Georgian economy. 
Additionally, the Group believes that there is a room to increase GGU’s operational cash flows and EBITDA. Management considers that the deal  
will have a positive impact on the value of the Group.
GEL 62,742 and GEL 22,430 of revenue and profit, respectively, comes from the GGU during five months ended 31 December 2016. Had the 
acquisition occurred as of the beginning of the reporting period, the Group would have recorded GEL 1,079,466 and GEL 441,820 of revenue and 
profit, respectively. Fair value of any identifiable intangible assets was assessed as immaterial and thus, no such assets were recognised by the 
Group. The Group has recorded GEL 36,915 gain from bargain purchase.
The acquisition resulted in gain on bargain purchase due to large scale and specific nature of the business for which the Group was the only willing 
buyer at the time of planned sale.
1 Gross amount of receivables from utility business was GEL 63,929, of which GEL 36,625 is not expected to be collected. 
2 Consideration comprised of GEL 218,951, which consists of GEL 164,213 cash payment and fair value of a previously owned 25% of GGU. At the acquisition date the Group 
performed fair valuation of 25% share of GGU and recognised GEL 5,145 loss in Non-recurring expenses (Note 27), the carrying value of 25% share as at the acquisition date  
was GEL 59,883. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 161 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED
ACQUISITION OF A PHARMACEUTICAL SUBSIDIARY
On 4 May 2016 JSC GHG (“Acquirer”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 100% of shares in JSC GPC (“Acquiree”)  
a pharmaceuticals company operating in Georgia from individual investors.
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree as at the date of acquisition was:
Fair value 
recognised 
on acquisition
Cash and cash equivalents 1,455 
Accounts receivable and other loans
1
 7,885 
Inventory 31,282 
Property and equipment 8,105 
Intangible assets  861 
Income tax assets 552 
Prepayments  1,723 
Other assets 4,272 
 56,135 
Amounts due to credit institutions 15,198 
Accruals and deferred income 1,331 
Other liabilities 37,750 
 54,279 
TOTAL IDENTIFIABLE NET ASSETS 1,856 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 29,025 
CONSIDERATION GIVEN
2
 30,881 
The net cash inflow on acquisition was as follows:
2016
Cash paid  (26,686)
Cash acquired with the subsidiary  1,455 
NET CASH OUTFLOW (25,231)
The Group decided to increase its presence and investment in the Tbilisi healthcare market by entering the pharmaceuticals segment through the 
acquisition of GPC. Management considers that the deal will have a positive impact on the value of the Group.
Since acquisition, GPC has recorded GEL 133,002 and GEL 1,924 of revenue and profit respectively. If the combination had taken place at the 
beginning of the year, the Group would have recorded GEL 1,081,696 and GEL 428,357 of revenue and profit respectively.
1 Gross amount of receivables from pharmaceutical business was GEL 10,884, of which, GEL 2,999 is not expected to be collected. 
2 Consideration comprised of GEL 30,881, which consists of GEL 26,686 cash payment and a holdback amount with a fair value of GEL 4,195. 
ACQUISITION OF HEALTHCARE SUBSIDIARIES
During year ended 31 December 2016 JSC Medical Corporation EVEX (“Acquirer”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, made following acquisitions:
• On 1 June 2016, obtained de-facto control on LLC Emergency Service, a healthcare company operating in Georgia.
• On 1 January 2016, obtained de-facto control on JSC Poti Central Clinical Hospital, a healthcare company operating in Georgia.
• On 6 July 2016, 76% share in JSC Pediatry, a healthcare company operating in Georgia was acquired from individual shareholders.
• On 1 August 2016, 100% share in Patgeo LLC, a healthcare company operating in Georgia was acquired from individual shareholders.  162 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED
ACQUISITION OF HEALTHCARE SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
The fair values of aggregate identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree’s as at the date of acquisition were:
Fair value 
recognised 
on acquisition
Cash and cash equivalents 74
Receivables from healthcare services
1
1,435
Property and equipment 15,605
Intangible assets 19
Other assets 208
17,341
Amounts due to credit institutions 159
Accruals and deferred income 518
Income tax liabilities 1,475
Other liabilities 4,118
6,270
TOTAL IDENTIFIABLE NET ASSETS 11,071
Gain on bargain purchase (3,206)
Goodwill arising on business combination 4,124
CONSIDERATION GIVEN
2
11,989
The net cash inflow on acquisition was as follows:
2016
Cash paid (2,400)
Cash acquired with the subsidiaries 74
NET CASH OUTFLOW (2,326)
The Group decided to increase its presence and investment in the Tbilisi healthcare market by acquiring LLC Emergency Service, JSC Poti Central 
Clinical Hospital, JSC Pediatry and Patgeo LLC. Management considers that the deal will have a positive impact on the value of the Group.
GEL 6,774 and GEL 3,851 of revenue and profit, respectively come from the acquirees after their respective acquisition dates. If the combination 
had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Group would have recorded GEL 1,018,147 and GEL 429,013 of revenue and profit, respectively.
The primary factor that contributed to the cost of business combination that resulted in the recognition of goodwill on acquisition is the positive 
synergy that is expected to be brought into the Group’s operations. The goodwill of GEL 4,124 was added to the Healthcare cash-generating unit.
Prior to acquisition, owners of JSC Poti Central Clinical Hospital encountered certain financial difficulties which resulted in a lower acquisition cost 
causing a gain from a bargain purchase.
1 Gross amount of receivables from healthcare services was GEL 2,006, of which, GEL 571 is not expected to be collected.
2 Consideration comprised GEL 11,989 which consists of cash payment of GEL 2,400, a holdback amount with a fair value of GEL 2,697 and of pre-existing loans to Poti with a fair 
value of GEL 6,892.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 163 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION 
In February 2016, the Group announced the combination of Corporate Banking and Investment Management businesses into Corporate Investment 
Banking business. The comparative amounts as at 31 December 2015 and year ended 31 December 2014 are re-grouped accordingly to reflect 
this change. 
For management purposes, the Group is organised into the following operating segments based on products and services as follows: 
Banking Business The Group’s Banking Business segments, dedicated to delivery and enhancement of banking and related 
financial services.
RB Retail Banking (excluding Retail Banking of BNB) – principally providing consumer loans, mortgage loans, 
overdrafts, credit card facilities and other credit facilities as well as funds transfer and settlement services, and 
handling customers’ deposits for both, individuals as well as legal entities, encompassing mass affluent 
segment, retail mass markets, SMEs.
CIB Corporate Investment Banking – principally providing loans and other credit facilities to large legal entities, larger 
than SME and micro, finance lease facilities provided by Georgian Leasing Company LLC, providing funds 
transfers and settlement services, trade finance services and documentary operations support, saving and term 
deposits for corporate and institutional customers; as well as providing private banking services to resident and 
non-resident wealthy individuals and their direct family members by ensuring an individually tailored approach 
and exclusivity in rendering common banking services such as fund transfers, currency exchange or settlement 
operations, or holding their savings and term deposits; Investment Management involves providing wealth and 
asset management services to the same individuals through differing investment opportunities and specifically 
designed investment products. It also encompasses corporate advisory, private equity and brokerage services.
P&C Property and Casualty Insurance – principally providing wide-scale property and casualty insurance services to 
corporate clients and insured individuals.
BNB Comprising JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank, principally providing retail and corporate banking services in Belarus.
Investment Business The Group’s investment arm segments, with disciplined development paths and exit strategies.
GHG Georgia Healthcare Group – principally providing wide-scale healthcare and health insurance services to clients 
and insured individuals.
m
2
 Comprising the Group’s real estate subsidiaries, principally developing and selling affordable residential 
apartments and also, holding investment properties repossessed by the Bank from defaulted borrowers and 
managing those properties.
GGU Comprising the Group’s utility and energy subsidiaries – principally supplies water, electricity and provides 
a wastewater service.
Management monitors the operating results of its segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Segment performance, as explained in the table below, is measured in the same manner as profit or loss in the 
consolidated financial statements.
Transactions between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a similar manner to transactions with third parties. 
The Group’s operations are primarily concentrated in Georgia, except for BNB, which operates in Belarus.
No revenue from transactions with a single external customer or counterparty amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue in 2016, 2015 
or 2014. 164 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at and for 
the year ended 31 December 2016:
Banking Business Investment Business
Inter-
Business
eliminations
Group
total
Retail
Banking
Corporate
Investment
Banking BNB P&C
Other
Banking
Business
Banking
Business
eliminations
Banking
Business GHG m
2
GGU
Other
Investment
Business
Investment
Busines
eliminations
Investment
Business
Net banking interest income 374,022 147,108 30,773 3,118 1,707 – 556,728 – – – – – – (7,321) 549,407
Net fee and commission income 90,193 27,963 7,462 436 (550) (555) 124,949 – – – – – – (2,036) 122,913
Net banking foreign currency gain (loss) 26,086 48,643 8,452 (294) 22 – 82,909 – – – – – – – 82,909
Net other banking income 3,833 10,170 (738) 1,104 1 (1,603) 12,767 – – – – – – (994) 11,773
Gross insurance profit – – – 25,788 – (687) 25,101 11,489 – – – (35) 11,454 (2,872) 33,683
Gross healthcare profit – – – – – – – 134,467 – – – 395 134,862 – 134,862
Gross real estate profit – – – – – – – 1,316 19,146 – – – 20,462 (694) 19,768
Gross utility profit – – – – – – – – – 39,075 – (395) 38,680 (139) 38,541
Gross other investment profit – – – – – – – 1,321 1,798 6,395 11,323 (35) 20,802 124 20,926
REVENUE 494,134 233,884 45,949 30,152 1,180 (2,845) 802,454 148,593 20,944 45,470 11,323 (70) 226,260 (13,932) 1,014,782
Operating expenses (197,627) (69,100) (20,905) (12,284) (5,156) 2,845 (302,227) (68,606) (5,824) (8,188) (11,100) 70 (93,648) 5,087 (390,788)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE
COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 296,507 164,784 25,044 17,868 (3,976) – 500,227 79,987 15,120 37,282 223 – 132,612 (8,845) 623,994
Investment Business-related income statement items – – – – – – – (39,868) (386) (14,470) (5,582) – (60,306) 8,845 (51,461)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK 296,507 164,784 25,044 17,868 (3,976) – 500,227 40,119 14,734 22,812 (5,359) – 72,306 – 572,533
Cost of credit risk (75,690) (76,266) (15,797) (808) – – (168,561) (2,333) – 6 (201) – (2,528) – (171,089)
NET OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE 
NON-RECURRING ITEMS 220,817 88,518 9,247 17,060 (3,976) – 331,666 37,786 14,734 22,818 (5,560) – 69,778 – 401,444
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (32,002) (11,934) (1,418) 3 – – (45,351) 1,158 (533) 31,770 1,432 – 33,827 – (11,524)
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX 188,815 76,584 7,829 17,063 (3,976) – 286,315 38,944 14,201 54,588 (4,128) – 103,605 – 389,920
Income tax (expense) benefit 20,475 11,698 (5,141) (3,318) (588) – 23,126 21,155 (1,717) (2,696) (1,212) – 15,530 – 38,656
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 209,290 88,282 2,688 13,745 (4,564) – 309,441 60,099 12,484 51,892 (5,340) – 119,135 – 428,576
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Total assets 6,078,581 4,596,897 549,132 118,449 2,834 (97,667) 11,248,226 910,310 371,332 417,405 715,634 (219,755) 2,194,926 (453,699) 12,989,453
Total liabilities 5,369,591 3,995,932 475,324 75,541 655 (97,668) 9,819,375 370,222 234,382 139,162 676,348 (219,755) 1,200,359 (453,699) 10,566,035
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION
Property and equipment 31,705 4,855 1,407 1,241 64 – 39,272 110,550 4,181 33,446 62,442 – 210,619 – 249,891
Intangible assets 11,434 1,483 300 598 3 – 13,818 10,707 87 676 429 – 11,899 – 25,717
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 43,139 6,338 1,707 1,839 67 – 53,090 121,257 4,268 34,122 62,871 – 222,518 – 275,608
Depreciation and amortisation (30,943) (5,124) (1,140) (774) – – (37,981) (19,577) (243) (7,282) (1,763) – (28,865) – (66,846)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 165 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at and for 
the year ended 31 December 2016:
Banking Business Investment Business
Inter-
Business
eliminations
Group
total
Retail
Banking
Corporate
Investment
Banking BNB P&C
Other
Banking
Business
Banking
Business
eliminations
Banking
Business GHG m
2
GGU
Other
Investment
Business
Investment
Busines
eliminations
Investment
Business
Net banking interest income 374,022 147,108 30,773 3,118 1,707 – 556,728 – – – – – – (7,321) 549,407
Net fee and commission income 90,193 27,963 7,462 436 (550) (555) 124,949 – – – – – – (2,036) 122,913
Net banking foreign currency gain (loss) 26,086 48,643 8,452 (294) 22 – 82,909 – – – – – – – 82,909
Net other banking income 3,833 10,170 (738) 1,104 1 (1,603) 12,767 – – – – – – (994) 11,773
Gross insurance profit – – – 25,788 – (687) 25,101 11,489 – – – (35) 11,454 (2,872) 33,683
Gross healthcare profit – – – – – – – 134,467 – – – 395 134,862 – 134,862
Gross real estate profit – – – – – – – 1,316 19,146 – – – 20,462 (694) 19,768
Gross utility profit – – – – – – – – – 39,075 – (395) 38,680 (139) 38,541
Gross other investment profit – – – – – – – 1,321 1,798 6,395 11,323 (35) 20,802 124 20,926
REVENUE 494,134 233,884 45,949 30,152 1,180 (2,845) 802,454 148,593 20,944 45,470 11,323 (70) 226,260 (13,932) 1,014,782
Operating expenses (197,627) (69,100) (20,905) (12,284) (5,156) 2,845 (302,227) (68,606) (5,824) (8,188) (11,100) 70 (93,648) 5,087 (390,788)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE
COST OF CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 296,507 164,784 25,044 17,868 (3,976) – 500,227 79,987 15,120 37,282 223 – 132,612 (8,845) 623,994
Investment Business-related income statement items – – – – – – – (39,868) (386) (14,470) (5,582) – (60,306) 8,845 (51,461)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK 296,507 164,784 25,044 17,868 (3,976) – 500,227 40,119 14,734 22,812 (5,359) – 72,306 – 572,533
Cost of credit risk (75,690) (76,266) (15,797) (808) – – (168,561) (2,333) – 6 (201) – (2,528) – (171,089)
NET OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE 
NON-RECURRING ITEMS 220,817 88,518 9,247 17,060 (3,976) – 331,666 37,786 14,734 22,818 (5,560) – 69,778 – 401,444
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (32,002) (11,934) (1,418) 3 – – (45,351) 1,158 (533) 31,770 1,432 – 33,827 – (11,524)
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX 188,815 76,584 7,829 17,063 (3,976) – 286,315 38,944 14,201 54,588 (4,128) – 103,605 – 389,920
Income tax (expense) benefit 20,475 11,698 (5,141) (3,318) (588) – 23,126 21,155 (1,717) (2,696) (1,212) – 15,530 – 38,656
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 209,290 88,282 2,688 13,745 (4,564) – 309,441 60,099 12,484 51,892 (5,340) – 119,135 – 428,576
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Total assets 6,078,581 4,596,897 549,132 118,449 2,834 (97,667) 11,248,226 910,310 371,332 417,405 715,634 (219,755) 2,194,926 (453,699) 12,989,453
Total liabilities 5,369,591 3,995,932 475,324 75,541 655 (97,668) 9,819,375 370,222 234,382 139,162 676,348 (219,755) 1,200,359 (453,699) 10,566,035
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION
Property and equipment 31,705 4,855 1,407 1,241 64 – 39,272 110,550 4,181 33,446 62,442 – 210,619 – 249,891
Intangible assets 11,434 1,483 300 598 3 – 13,818 10,707 87 676 429 – 11,899 – 25,717
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 43,139 6,338 1,707 1,839 67 – 53,090 121,257 4,268 34,122 62,871 – 222,518 – 275,608
Depreciation and amortisation (30,943) (5,124) (1,140) (774) – – (37,981) (19,577) (243) (7,282) (1,763) – (28,865) – (66,846) 166 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at and for the 
year ended 31 December 2015:
Banking Business Investment Business
Inter-
Business
eliminations
Group
total
Retail
Banking
Corporate
Investment
Banking BNB P&C
Other
Banking
Business
Banking
Business
eliminations
Banking
Business GHG m
2
GGU
Other
Investment
Business
Investment
Busines
eliminations
Investment
Business
Net banking interest income  322,879  156,068  29,307  2,330  2,343 –  512,927 – – – – – –  (11,537) 501,390 
Net fee and commission income  78,218  34,335  9,198  310  (440) (32) 121,589 – – – – – –  (3,183) 118,406 
Net banking foreign currency gain 17,108  41,763  17,036  993  26 –  76,926 – – – – – – –  76,926 
Net other banking income 9,159  10,112  2,199  993  4  (2,630) 19,837 – – – – – –  (1,309) 18,528 
Gross insurance profit – – –  21,180 –  (1,133) 20,047  12,149 – – –  (33) 12,116  (2,256) 29,907 
Gross healthcare profit – – – – – – –  80,938 – – – –  80,938 –  80,938 
Gross real estate profit – – – – –    – –  557  14,131 – – –  14,688 –  14,688 
Gross other investment profit – – – – – – –  3,187  7,502 –  9,950 –  20,639  138  20,777 
REVENUE  427,364  242,278  57,740  25,806  1,933  (3,795) 751,326  96,831  21,633 –  9,950  (33) 128,381  (18,147) 861,560 
Operating expenses (172,296) (63,358) (19,731) (11,199) (5,070) 3,795  (267,859) (37,633) (5,860) –  (7,402) 33  (50,862) 3,989  (314,732)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 255,068  178,920  38,009  14,607  (3,137) –  483,467  59,198  15,773 –  2,548 –  77,519  (14,158) 546,828 
Investment Business-related income statement items – – – – – – –  (30,791) (2,905) 4,050  (2,033) –  (31,679) 14,158  (17,521)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK 255,068  178,920  38,009  14,607  (3,137) –  483,467  28,407  12,868  4,050  515 –  45,840 –  529,307 
Cost of credit risk (75,407) (56,158) (19,270) (710) 28 –  (151,517) (3,449) – –  (411) –  (3,860) –  (155,377)
NET OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE NON-
RECURRING ITEMS 179,661  122,762  18,739  13,897  (3,109) –  331,950  24,958  12,868  4,050  104 –  41,980 –  373,930 
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (8,945) (4,877) 1,478  (701) (1) –  (13,046) (1,676) (137) –  282 –  (1,531) –  (14,577)
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX  170,716  117,885  20,217  13,196  (3,110) –  318,904  23,282  12,731  4,050  386 –  40,449 –  359,353 
Income tax (expense) benefit  (23,994) (17,255) (2,754) (731) 87 –  (44,647) 9  (1,974) –  (1,796) –  (3,761) –  (48,408)
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 146,722  100,630  17,463  12,465  (3,023) –  274,257  23,291  10,757  4,050  (1,410) –  36,688 –  310,945 
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Total assets 4,612,775  4,044,731  475,483  102,886  2,011  (66,449) 9,171,437  758,966  275,676  53,458  160,180  (320) 1,247,960  (303,658) 10,115,739 
Total liabilities 3,117,808  4,340,041  397,970  66,630  146  (66,449) 7,856,146  286,941  167,889 –  35,103  (320) 489,613  (303,658) 8,042,101 
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION
Property and equipment  43,990  6,870  1,193  442  186 –  52,681  89,653  701 –  1,532 –  91,886 –  144,567 
Intangible assets 6,568  1,163  598  958  71 –  9,358  3,532  21 –  12 –  3,565 –  12,923 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 50,558  8,033  1,791  1,400  257 –  62,039  93,185  722 –  1,544 –  95,451 –  157,490 
Depreciation and amortisation  (27,714) (4,612) (1,038) (834) (1) –  (34,199) (12,666) (191) –  (1,368) –  (14,225) –  (48,424)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 167 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at and for the 
year ended 31 December 2015:
Banking Business Investment Business
Inter-
Business
eliminations
Group
total
Retail
Banking
Corporate
Investment
Banking BNB P&C
Other
Banking
Business
Banking
Business
eliminations
Banking
Business GHG m
2
GGU
Other
Investment
Business
Investment
Busines
eliminations
Investment
Business
Net banking interest income  322,879  156,068  29,307  2,330  2,343 –  512,927 – – – – – –  (11,537) 501,390 
Net fee and commission income  78,218  34,335  9,198  310  (440) (32) 121,589 – – – – – –  (3,183) 118,406 
Net banking foreign currency gain 17,108  41,763  17,036  993  26 –  76,926 – – – – – – –  76,926 
Net other banking income 9,159  10,112  2,199  993  4  (2,630) 19,837 – – – – – –  (1,309) 18,528 
Gross insurance profit – – –  21,180 –  (1,133) 20,047  12,149 – – –  (33) 12,116  (2,256) 29,907 
Gross healthcare profit – – – – – – –  80,938 – – – –  80,938 –  80,938 
Gross real estate profit – – – – –    – –  557  14,131 – – –  14,688 –  14,688 
Gross other investment profit – – – – – – –  3,187  7,502 –  9,950 –  20,639  138  20,777 
REVENUE  427,364  242,278  57,740  25,806  1,933  (3,795) 751,326  96,831  21,633 –  9,950  (33) 128,381  (18,147) 861,560 
Operating expenses (172,296) (63,358) (19,731) (11,199) (5,070) 3,795  (267,859) (37,633) (5,860) –  (7,402) 33  (50,862) 3,989  (314,732)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 255,068  178,920  38,009  14,607  (3,137) –  483,467  59,198  15,773 –  2,548 –  77,519  (14,158) 546,828 
Investment Business-related income statement items – – – – – – –  (30,791) (2,905) 4,050  (2,033) –  (31,679) 14,158  (17,521)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK 255,068  178,920  38,009  14,607  (3,137) –  483,467  28,407  12,868  4,050  515 –  45,840 –  529,307 
Cost of credit risk (75,407) (56,158) (19,270) (710) 28 –  (151,517) (3,449) – –  (411) –  (3,860) –  (155,377)
NET OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE NON-
RECURRING ITEMS 179,661  122,762  18,739  13,897  (3,109) –  331,950  24,958  12,868  4,050  104 –  41,980 –  373,930 
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (8,945) (4,877) 1,478  (701) (1) –  (13,046) (1,676) (137) –  282 –  (1,531) –  (14,577)
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX  170,716  117,885  20,217  13,196  (3,110) –  318,904  23,282  12,731  4,050  386 –  40,449 –  359,353 
Income tax (expense) benefit  (23,994) (17,255) (2,754) (731) 87 –  (44,647) 9  (1,974) –  (1,796) –  (3,761) –  (48,408)
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 146,722  100,630  17,463  12,465  (3,023) –  274,257  23,291  10,757  4,050  (1,410) –  36,688 –  310,945 
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Total assets 4,612,775  4,044,731  475,483  102,886  2,011  (66,449) 9,171,437  758,966  275,676  53,458  160,180  (320) 1,247,960  (303,658) 10,115,739 
Total liabilities 3,117,808  4,340,041  397,970  66,630  146  (66,449) 7,856,146  286,941  167,889 –  35,103  (320) 489,613  (303,658) 8,042,101 
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION
Property and equipment  43,990  6,870  1,193  442  186 –  52,681  89,653  701 –  1,532 –  91,886 –  144,567 
Intangible assets 6,568  1,163  598  958  71 –  9,358  3,532  21 –  12 –  3,565 –  12,923 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 50,558  8,033  1,791  1,400  257 –  62,039  93,185  722 –  1,544 –  95,451 –  157,490 
Depreciation and amortisation  (27,714) (4,612) (1,038) (834) (1) –  (34,199) (12,666) (191) –  (1,368) –  (14,225) –  (48,424) 168 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at and for the 
year ended 31 December 2014:
Banking Business Investment Business
Inter-
Business
eliminations
Group
total
Retail
Banking
Corporate
Investment
Banking BNB P&C
Other
Banking
Business
Banking
Business
eliminations
Banking
Business GHG m
2
GGU
Other
Investment
Business
Investment
Busines
eliminations
Investment
Business
Net banking interest income  215,796  117,771  22,410  506  317  471  357,271 – – – – –  (7,313) 349,958 
Net fee and commission income  58,858  33,571  9,443  312  (449) 110  101,845 – – – – –  (2,053) 99,792 
Net banking foreign currency gain (loss) 18,622  26,280  9,932  (2,085) 3 –  52,752 – – – – – –  52,752 
Net other banking income 3,563  7,785  504  516  36  (2,514) 9,890 – – – – –  (620) 9,270 
Gross insurance profit – – –  17,752 –  (1,330) 16,422  14,987 – – –  14,987  (1,979) 29,430 
Gross healthcare profit – – – – – – –  53,483 – – –  53,483 –  53,483 
Gross real estate profit – – – – – – – –  13,645  1 –  13,646  (80) 13,566 
Gross other investment profit – – – – – – –  377  107  12,320 –  12,804  187  12,991 
REVENUE 296,839  185,407  42,289  17,001  (93) (3,263) 538,180  68,847  13,752  12,321 –  94,920  (11,858) 621,242 
Operating expenses (127,627) (60,795) (18,390) (9,403) (4,812) 3,263  (217,764) (30,077) (5,136) (6,932) –  (42,145) 2,878  (257,031)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 169,212  124,612  23,899  7,598  (4,905) –  320,416  38,770  8,616  5,389 –  52,775  (8,980) 364,211 
Investment Business-related income statement items – – – – – – –  (22,041) (1,752) (2,769) –  (26,562) 8,980  (17,582)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK 169,212  124,612  23,899  7,598  (4,905) –  320,416  16,729  6,864  2,620 –  26,213 –  346,629 
Cost of credit risk (9,241) (41,703) (4,187) (601) – –  (55,732) (2,872) (66) (350) –  (3,288) –  (59,020)
NET OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE NON-
RECURRING ITEMS 159,971  82,909  19,712  6,997  (4,905) –  264,684  13,857  6,798  2,270 –  22,925 –  287,609 
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (5,796) (2,968) (3,073) – – –  (11,837) 505  18  297 –  820 –  (11,017)
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX  154,175  79,941  16,639  6,997  (4,905) –  252,847  14,362  6,816  2,567 –  23,745 –  276,592 
Income tax (expense) benefit  (19,297) (11,522) (962) (1,083) 521 –  (32,343) (1,345) (1,022) (1,115) –  (3,482) –  (35,825)
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 134,878  68,419  15,677  5,914  (4,384) –  220,504  13,017  5,794  1,452 –  20,263 –  240,767 
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Total assets 3,269,069  3,350,847  403,764  86,750  73,120  (139,548) 7,044,002  409,834  193,119  172,785  (231) 775,507  (240,364) 7,579,145 
Total liabilities 2,316,688  3,250,127  326,515  58,695  748  (139,548) 5,813,225  237,565  112,407  22,449  (230) 372,191  (240,364) 5,945,052 
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION
Property and equipment  19,540  6,523  2,101  1,477  313 –  29,954  38,503  368  1,761 –  40,632 –  70,586 
Intangible assets 6,503  1,251  304  232  7 –  8,297  1,519  27  30 –  1,576 –  9,873 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 26,043  7,774  2,405  1,709  320 –  38,251  40,022  395  1,791 –  42,208 –  80,459 
Depreciation and amortisation  (19,525) (4,225) (1,318) (570) (3) –  (25,641) (7,714) (332) (1,118) –  (9,164) –  (34,805)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 169 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
6. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The following tables present income statement and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s operating segments as at and for the 
year ended 31 December 2014:
Banking Business Investment Business
Inter-
Business
eliminations
Group
total
Retail
Banking
Corporate
Investment
Banking BNB P&C
Other
Banking
Business
Banking
Business
eliminations
Banking
Business GHG m
2
GGU
Other
Investment
Business
Investment
Busines
eliminations
Investment
Business
Net banking interest income  215,796  117,771  22,410  506  317  471  357,271 – – – – –  (7,313) 349,958 
Net fee and commission income  58,858  33,571  9,443  312  (449) 110  101,845 – – – – –  (2,053) 99,792 
Net banking foreign currency gain (loss) 18,622  26,280  9,932  (2,085) 3 –  52,752 – – – – – –  52,752 
Net other banking income 3,563  7,785  504  516  36  (2,514) 9,890 – – – – –  (620) 9,270 
Gross insurance profit – – –  17,752 –  (1,330) 16,422  14,987 – – –  14,987  (1,979) 29,430 
Gross healthcare profit – – – – – – –  53,483 – – –  53,483 –  53,483 
Gross real estate profit – – – – – – – –  13,645  1 –  13,646  (80) 13,566 
Gross other investment profit – – – – – – –  377  107  12,320 –  12,804  187  12,991 
REVENUE 296,839  185,407  42,289  17,001  (93) (3,263) 538,180  68,847  13,752  12,321 –  94,920  (11,858) 621,242 
Operating expenses (127,627) (60,795) (18,390) (9,403) (4,812) 3,263  (217,764) (30,077) (5,136) (6,932) –  (42,145) 2,878  (257,031)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK/EBITDA 169,212  124,612  23,899  7,598  (4,905) –  320,416  38,770  8,616  5,389 –  52,775  (8,980) 364,211 
Investment Business-related income statement items – – – – – – –  (22,041) (1,752) (2,769) –  (26,562) 8,980  (17,582)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) BEFORE COST OF 
CREDIT RISK 169,212  124,612  23,899  7,598  (4,905) –  320,416  16,729  6,864  2,620 –  26,213 –  346,629 
Cost of credit risk (9,241) (41,703) (4,187) (601) – –  (55,732) (2,872) (66) (350) –  (3,288) –  (59,020)
NET OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE NON-
RECURRING ITEMS 159,971  82,909  19,712  6,997  (4,905) –  264,684  13,857  6,798  2,270 –  22,925 –  287,609 
Net non-recurring (expense/loss) income/gain (5,796) (2,968) (3,073) – – –  (11,837) 505  18  297 –  820 –  (11,017)
PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX  154,175  79,941  16,639  6,997  (4,905) –  252,847  14,362  6,816  2,567 –  23,745 –  276,592 
Income tax (expense) benefit  (19,297) (11,522) (962) (1,083) 521 –  (32,343) (1,345) (1,022) (1,115) –  (3,482) –  (35,825)
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 134,878  68,419  15,677  5,914  (4,384) –  220,504  13,017  5,794  1,452 –  20,263 –  240,767 
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Total assets 3,269,069  3,350,847  403,764  86,750  73,120  (139,548) 7,044,002  409,834  193,119  172,785  (231) 775,507  (240,364) 7,579,145 
Total liabilities 2,316,688  3,250,127  326,515  58,695  748  (139,548) 5,813,225  237,565  112,407  22,449  (230) 372,191  (240,364) 5,945,052 
OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION
Property and equipment  19,540  6,523  2,101  1,477  313 –  29,954  38,503  368  1,761 –  40,632 –  70,586 
Intangible assets 6,503  1,251  304  232  7 –  8,297  1,519  27  30 –  1,576 –  9,873 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 26,043  7,774  2,405  1,709  320 –  38,251  40,022  395  1,791 –  42,208 –  80,459 
Depreciation and amortisation  (19,525) (4,225) (1,318) (570) (3) –  (25,641) (7,714) (332) (1,118) –  (9,164) –  (34,805) 170 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
7. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2016 2015 2014
Cash on hand 450,264 442,293 393,315
Current accounts with central banks, excluding obligatory reserves 150,152 152,455 152,647
Current accounts with other credit institutions 540,801 475,779 138,243
Time deposits with credit institutions with maturity of up to 90 days 432,393 362,407 25,939
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,573,610 1,432,934 710,144
Cash and cash equivalents held by BGEO of GEL 105,248 (2015: GEL 32,435, 2014: GEL 88,005) is represented by placements on current 
accounts with Georgian and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) banks.
As at 31 December 2016, GEL 837,721 (2015: GEL 662,296, 2014: GEL 136,559) was placed on current and time deposit accounts with 
internationally recognised OECD banks and central banks that are the counterparties of the Group in performing international settlements. The 
Group earned up to 0.90% interest per annum on these deposits (2015: up to 0.59%, 2014: up to 1.30%). Management does not expect any 
losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book 
and fair values.
8. AMOUNTS DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
2016 2015 2014
Obligatory reserves with central banks 934,997 620,287 382,963
Time deposits with maturity of more than 90 days 113,035 12,717 33,832
Deposits pledged as security for open commitments 3,287 96,405 –
Inter-bank loan receivables 3,664 1,956 1,486
AMOUNTS DUE FROM CREDIT INSTITUTIONS 1,054,983 731,365 418,281
Obligatory reserves with central banks represent amounts deposited with the NBG and National Bank of the Republic of Belarus (the NBRB). Credit 
institutions are required to maintain cash deposit (obligatory reserve) with the NBG and with the NBRB, the amount of which depends on the level of 
funds attracted by the credit institution. The Group’s ability to withdraw these deposits is restricted by the regulation. The Group earned up to 0.25% 
interest on obligatory reserves with NBG and NBRB for the years ended 31 December 2016 (2015: nil, 2014: nil).
As at 31 December 2016, inter-bank loan receivables include GEL 2,164 (2015: GEL 1,956, 2014: GEL 1,486) placed with non-OECD banks.
9. INVESTMENT SECURITIES
2016 2015 2014
Georgian Ministry of Finance treasury bonds* 811,532 575,591 459,400
Georgian Ministry of Finance treasury bills** 88,411 165,545 169,796
Certificates of deposit of central banks*** 24,015 76,807 92,547
Other debt instruments**** 360,597 84,476 46,557
Corporate shares 1,448 1,448 1,412
INVESTMENT SECURITIES 1,286,003 903,867 769,712
* GEL 712,169 was pledged for short-term loans from the NBG (2015: GEL 229,800, 2014: GEL 341,681). 
** GEL 55,842 was pledged for short-term loans from the NBG (2015: GEL 3,805, 2014: GEL 60,889). 
*** GEL 9,402 was pledged for short-term loans from the NBG (2015: GEL 2,966, 2014: GEL nil). 
**** GEL 286,832 was pledged for short-term loans from the NBG (2015: GEL 79,187, 2014: GEL 25,069). 
Other debt instruments as at 31 December 2016 mainly comprises GEL-denominated bonds issued by European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development of GEL 133,055 (2015: GEL 50,666, 2014: GEL 25,069), GEL-denominated bonds issued by the International Finance Corporation of 
GEL 28,402 (2015: GEL 28,460, 2014: GEL nil), GEL-denominated bonds issued by the Asian Development Bank of GEL 64,921 (2015: nil, 2014: nil), 
and GEL-denominated bonds issued by the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank of GEL 60,454 (2015: nil, 2014: nil).
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 171 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
10. LOANS TO CUSTOMERS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES
2016 2015 2014
Commercial loans 2,699,506 2,397,781 2,181,427
Consumer loans 1,367,228 1,165,107 801,474
Micro and SME loans 1,493,937 1,041,929 772,283
Residential mortgage loans 1,234,176 814,344 604,143
Gold – pawn loans 60,685 61,140 53,785
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS, GROSS 6,855,532 5,480,301 4,413,112
Less – allowance for loan impairment (252,769) (198,894) (103,780)
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS, NET 6,602,763 5,281,407 4,309,332
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES, GROSS 48,267 42,912 39,248
Less – allowance for finance lease receivables impairment (2,548) (2,202) (729)
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES, NET 45,719 40,710 38,519
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES, NET 6,648,482 5,322,117 4,347,851
ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN IMPAIRMENT
Movements of the allowance for impairment of loans to customers by class are as follows:
Commercial 
loans 
2016
Consumer 
loans 
2016
Residential 
mortgage 
loans
2016
Micro and 
SME loans 
2016
Total 
2016
AT 1 JANUARY 125,312  51,017  6,061  16,504  198,894 
Charge 75,288  64,099  3,899  15,606  158,892 
Recoveries  3,525  21,632  4,003  7,084  36,244 
Write-offs  (41,442) (65,597) (8,597) (10,317) (125,953)
Accrued interest on written-off loans (3,900) (12,463) (1,475) (642) (18,480)
Currency translation differences 976  97 –  2,099  3,172 
AT 31 DECEMBER 159,759  58,785  3,891  30,334  252,769 
Individual impairment  143,493  1,977  2,272  23,704  171,446 
Collective impairment  16,266  56,808  1,619  6,630  81,323 
 159,759  58,785  3,891  30,334  252,769 
GROSS AMOUNT OF LOANS, INDIVIDUALLY DETERMINED TO BE IMPAIRED, 
BEFORE DEDUCTING ANY INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED IMPAIRMENT 
ALLOWANCE  462,607  2,778  11,869  51,118  528,372 
Commercial 
loans
2015
Consumer 
loans
2015
Residential 
mortgage 
loans
2015
Micro and 
SME loans
2015
Total
2015
AT 1 JANUARY 72,885  23,648  2,993  4,254  103,780 
Charge 59,090  62,638  3,410  17,681  142,819 
Recoveries  4,331  21,079  3,066  5,209  33,685 
Write-offs  (10,324) (47,075) (2,847) (10,694) (70,940)
Accrued interest on written-off loans (1,086) (9,035) (561) (992) (11,674)
Currency translation differences 416  (238) –  1,046  1,224 
AT 31 DECEMBER 125,312  51,017  6,061  16,504  198,894 
Individual impairment  118,960  1,850  4,380  13,745  138,935 
Collective impairment  6,352  49,167  1,681  2,759  59,959 
 125,312  51,017  6,061  16,504  198,894 
GROSS AMOUNT OF LOANS, INDIVIDUALLY DETERMINED TO BE IMPAIRED, 
BEFORE DEDUCTING ANY INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED IMPAIRMENT 
ALLOWANCE 330,084  3,136  15,902  27,421  376,543  172 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
10. LOANS TO CUSTOMERS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN IMPAIRMENT CONTINUED
Commercial
loans
2014
Consumer
loans
2014
Residential
mortgage
loans
2014
Micro and
SME
loans
2014
Total
2014
AT 1 JANUARY 90,949 20,772 3,093 5,971 120,785
Charge (reversal) 34,617 14,147 (2,280) (1,396) 45,088
Recoveries 3,104 14,730 5,661 5,211 28,706
Write-offs (41,894) (22,556) (2,777) (4,748) (71,975)
Accrued interest on written-off loans (13,581) (3,341) (704) (348) (17,974)
Currency translation differences (310) (104) – (436) (850)
AT 31 DECEMBER 72,885 23,648 2,993 4,254 103,780
Individual impairment 63,816 1,403 2,525 3,637 71,381
Collective impairment 9,069 22,245 468 617 32,399
72,885 23,648 2,993 4,254 103,780
GROSS AMOUNT OF LOANS, INDIVIDUALLY DETERMINED TO BE IMPAIRED, 
BEFORE DEDUCTING ANY INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED IMPAIRMENT 
ALLOWANCE 243,825 1,924 7,944 10,594 264,287
Interest income accrued on loans, for which individual impairment allowances have been recognised as at 31 December 2016 comprised  
GEL 31,433 (2015: GEL 22,234, 2014: GEL 17,021).
COLLATERAL AND OTHER CREDIT ENHANCEMENTS
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty. Guidelines are implemented regarding 
the acceptability of types of collateral and valuation parameters.
The main types of collateral obtained are as follows:
• For commercial lending, charges over real estate properties, equipment and machinery, corporate shares, inventory, trade receivables and 
third-party corporate guarantees.
• For retail lending, mortgages over residential properties, cars, gold and jewellery and third-party corporate guarantees.
Management requests additional collateral in accordance with the underlying agreement and monitors the market value of collateral obtained during 
its review of the adequacy of the allowance for loan impairment.
It is the Group’s policy to dispose of repossessed properties in an orderly fashion. The proceeds are used to reduce or repay the outstanding claim. 
In general, the Group does not occupy repossessed properties for business use.
Without taking into account the discounted value of collateral, the allowance for loan impairment would be GEL 322,880 higher as at 31 December 
2016 (2015: GEL 176,759 higher, 2014: GEL 145,838 higher).
CONCENTRATION OF LOANS TO CUSTOMERS
As at 31 December 2016, the concentration of loans granted by the Group to the ten largest third-party borrowers comprised GEL 815,363 
accounting for 12% of the gross loan portfolio of the Group (2015: GEL 708,839 and 13% respectively, 2014: GEL 711,647 and 16% respectively). 
An allowance of GEL 20,123 (2015: GEL 2,484, 2014: GEL 4,034) was established against these loans.
As at 31 December 2016, the concentration of loans granted by the Group to the ten largest third-party group of borrowers comprised  
GEL 1,242,944 accounting for 18% of the gross loan portfolio of the Group (2015: GEL 1,094,979 and 20% respectively, 2014: GEL 1,094,084  
and 25% respectively). An allowance of GEL 51,831 (2015: GEL 41,413, 2014: GEL 18,324) was established against these loans.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 173 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
10. LOANS TO CUSTOMERS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
CONCENTRATION OF LOANS TO CUSTOMERS CONTINUED
As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, loans were principally issued within Georgia, and their distribution by 
industry sector was as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Individuals 3,336,589 2,482,389 1,831,479
Manufacturing 925,333 711,677 719,003
Trade 812,141 727,214 647,858
Real estate 423,124 354,331 244,134
Construction 304,890 178,642 114,891
Hospitality 233,891 168,011 166,214
Transport and communication 166,288 165,330 151,715
Service 136,792 223,088 156,399
Financial intermediation 130,435 77,662 109,201
Mining and quarrying 114,115 127,706 15,310
Electricity, gas and water supply 34,835 77,633 124,772
Other 237,099 186,618 132,136
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS, GROSS 6,855,532 5,480,301 4,413,112
Less – allowance for loan impairment (252,769) (198,894) (103,780)
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS, NET 6,602,763 5,281,407 4,309,332
Loans have been extended to the following types of customers:
2016 2015 2014
Private companies 3,497,322  2,958,145  2,531,689 
Individuals 3,336,589  2,482,389  1,831,479 
State-owned entities 21,621  39,767  49,944 
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS, GROSS  6,855,532  5,480,301  4,413,112 
Less – allowance for loan impairment (252,769) (198,894) (103,780)
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS, NET  6,602,763  5,281,407  4,309,332 
The following is a reconciliation of the individual and collective allowances for impairment losses on loans to customers for the years ended 
31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014:
2016 2015 2014
Individual
impairment
2016
Collective
impairment
2016
Total
2016
Individual
impairment
2015
Collective
impairment
2015
Total
2015
Individual
impairment
2014
Collective
impairment
2014
Total
2014
AT 1 JANUARY 138,935 59,959 198,894 71,381 32,399 103,780 91,799 28,986 120,785
Charge for the year 74,051 84,841 158,892 94,883 47,936 142,819 34,088 11,000 45,088
Recoveries 7,880 28,364 36,244 9,994 23,691 33,685 12,897 15,809 28,706
Write-offs (46,812) (79,141) (125,953) (34,722) (36,218) (70,940) (51,774) (20,201) (71,975)
Interest accrued on impaired
loans to customers (5,394) (13,086) (18,480) (3,617) (8,057) (11,674) (14,846) (3,128) (17,974)
Currency translation
differences 2,786 386 3,172 1,016 208 1,224 (783) (67) (850)
AT 31 DECEMBER 171,446 81,323 252,769 138,935 59,959 198,894 71,381 32,399 103,780
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES
2016 2015 2014
Minimum lease payments receivable 60,715 51,649 47,047
Less – unearned finance lease income (12,448) (8,737) (7,799)
48,267 42,912 39,248
Less – allowance for impairment (2,548) (2,202) (729)
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES, NET 45,719 40,710 38,519
The difference between the minimum lease payments to be received in the future and the finance lease receivables represents unearned 
finance income. 174 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
10. LOANS TO CUSTOMERS AND FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
As at 31 December 2016, the concentration of investment in the five largest lease receivables comprised GEL 8,420 or 17% of total finance lease 
receivables (2015: GEL 15,234 or 36%, 2014: GEL 10,160 or 26%) and finance income received from them for the year ended 31 December 2016 
comprised GEL 395 or 4% of total finance income from lease (2015: GEL 1,931 or 20%, 2014: GEL 909 or 11%).
Future minimum lease payments to be received after 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Within 1 year 29,265 28,807 29,901
From 1 to 5 years 31,450 22,842 17,146
More than 5 years – – –
MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENT RECEIVABLES 60,715 51,649 47,047
Movements of the allowance for impairment of finance lease receivables are as follows:
Finance lease 
receivables 
2016
Finance lease 
receivables 
2015
Finance lease 
receivables 
2014
AT 1 JANUARY  2,202  729  643 
Charge 777  1,958  476 
Amounts written-off (511) (305) (435)
Currency translation differences  80  (180) 45 
AT 31 DECEMBER 2,548  2,202  729 
Individual impairment 1,702  1,507  243 
Collective impairment 846  695  486 
 2,548  2,202  729 
GROSS AMOUNT OF FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES, INDIVIDUALLY DETERMINED TO BE IMPAIRED, 
BEFORE DEDUCTING ANY INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED IMPAIRMENT ALLOWANCE  2,475  3,725  1,487 
11. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
2016 2015 2014
AT 1 JANUARY 246,398 190,860 157,707
Additions* 36,123 56,823 58,449
Disposals (8,599) (19,815) (7,383)
Net gains from revaluation of investment property 1,811 20,737 1,909
Hyperinflation effect – – 394
Acuisition through business combination (Note 5) 19,417 705 –
Transfers (to) from property and equipment and other assets** (21,291) 2,381 (31,025)
Currency translation differences 14,368 (5,293) 10,809
AT 31 DECEMBER 288,227 246,398 190,860
* GEL 9,799 and GEL 18,947 was paid in 2016 and 2015 respectively, for acquisition of properties by the Group’s Real Estate business for development. The remaining additions  
of 2016, 2015 and full additions of 2014 comprise foreclosed properties, no cash transactions were involved. 
** Comprised of GEL 351 transfer to property and equipment (2015: transfers to property and equipment GEL 669 and 2014: transfers to property and equipment GEL 6,389 
respectively), GEL 19,402 transfer to other assets – inventories (2015: transfer from other assets – inventories GEL 2,357 and 2014: transfer to other assets – inventories GEL 
25,132) and GEL 1,538 transfer to finance lease receivables (2015 and 2014: transfer from finance lease receivable GEL 693 and 496). 
Investment properties are stated at fair value. The fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. Refer to Note 30 for details on fair value measurements of investment properties.
The Group pledges its investment property as collateral for its borrowings. The carrying amount of investment property pledged as at 31 December 
2016 was GEL 77,148 (2015: nil, 2014: nil).
The Group has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop 
investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 175 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
12. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
The movements in property and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2016 were as follows: 
Office
buildings &
service 
centres
Hospitals
& clinics
Furniture
& fixtures
Computers &
equipment
Motor
vehicles
Leasehold
improvements
Assets under
construction
Infrastructure 
assets Other Total
COST OR REVALUED 
AMOUNT
31 DECEMBER 2015 233,435 332,775 174,334 197,274 9,586 22,147 9,033 – – 978,584
Additions 5,298 47,950 21,714 69,897 3,394 2,299 98,211 1,098 30 249,891
Business combination, 
Note 5 109,863 13,296 3,528 2,605 6,689 1,063 21,659 169,939 – 328,642
Disposals (330) (5,412) (1,530) (1,700) (2,958) (2,970) (917) (670) (64) (16,551)
Transfers 3,196 194 (154) (372) 3,580 3,716 (39,097) 28,937 – –
Transfers from 
investment properties 351 – – – – – – – – 351
Transfers (to) from  
other assets – – (760) (857) 1 – 504 – 2,170 1,058
Revaluation (2,474) 12,990 – – – – – – – 10,516
Write off – – (2,440) (17,720) (667) (176) – – – (21,003)
Currency translation 
differences 2,275 – 111 312 64 158 143 – – 3,063
31 DECEMBER 2016 351,614 401,793 194,803 249,439 19,689 26,237 89,536 199,304 2,136 1,534,551
ACCUMULATED 
IMPAIRMENT
31 DECEMBER 2015 1,221 – 38 82 7 – 9 – – 1,357
Impairment 1,403 – – – – – – – – 1,403
Currency translation 
differences 302 – 2 (22) – – – – – 282
31 DECEMBER 2016 2,926 – 40 60 7 – 9 – – 3,042
ACCUMULATED 
DEPRECIATION
31 DECEMBER 2015 3,849 6,844 91,421 68,591 5,345 6,495 – – – 182,545
Depreciation charge 3,421 1,965 17,976 24,285 2,572 3,726 – 5,738 74 59,757
Currency translation 
differences 1,008 – 54 167 66 8 – – – 1,303
Transfers 764 – (204) (319) (241) – – – – –
Transfers (to) from  
other assets – – (414) (694) – – – – – (1,108)
Revaluation (369) (7,814) – – – – – – – (8,183)
Write off – – (2,440) (17,720) (667) (176) – – – (21,003)
Disposals (39) (255) (429) (434) (1,898) (2,613) – – (4) (5,672)
31 DECEMBER 2016 8,634 740 105,964 73,876 5,177 7,440 – 5,738 70 207,639
NET BOOK VALUE:
31 DECEMBER 2015 228,365 325,931 82,875 128,601 4,234 15,652 9,024 – – 794,682
31 DECEMBER 2016 340,054 401,053 88,799 175,503 14,505 18,797 89,527 193,566 2,066 1,323,870 176 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
12. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
The movements in property and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2015 were as follows: 
Office
buildings &
service 
centres
Hospitals
& clinics
Furniture
& fixtures
Computers &
equipment
Motor
vehicles
Leasehold
improvements
Assets under
construction Total
COST OR REVALUED AMOUNT
31 DECEMBER 2014 230,376 207,038 140,130 130,810 7,566 12,751 9,599 738,270
Additions 5,348 24,528 23,764 67,631 2,834 5,555 14,907 144,567
Business combination 10,388 94,096 8,317 22,806 870 1,790 7,347 145,614
Disposals (2,555) (1,425) (389) (21,096) (581) (1,872) (140) (28,058)
Transfers 3,090 8,538 3,124 (1,616) (1,024) 4,000 (16,112) –
Transfers to investment properties (425) – – – – – – (425)
Transfers (to) from other assets – – (343) (736) 4 – (6,231) (7,306)
Revaluation (9,168) – – – – – – (9,168)
Currency translation differences (3,619) – (269) (525) (83) (77) (337) (4,910)
31 DECEMBER 2015 233,435 332,775 174,334 197,274 9,586 22,147 9,033 978,584
ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT
31 DECEMBER 2014 3,621 – 51 120 13 9 9 3,823
Reversal of impairment (1,097) – – – – – – (1,097)
Transfers to investment properties (1,040) – – – – – – (1,040)
Currency translation differences (263) – (13) (38) (6) (9) – (329)
31 DECEMBER 2015 1,221 – 38 82 7 – 9 1,357
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
31 DECEMBER 2014 3,208 2,646 75,530 55,402 4,023 5,125 – 145,934
Depreciation charge 3,059 4,264 15,787 15,920 1,770 2,676 – 43,476
Currency translation differences (195) – (91) (235) (31) (36) – (588)
Transfers (199) 58 589 (315) (60) (73) – –
Transfers to investment properties (54) – – – – – – (54)
Transfers (to) from other assets – – (233) (606) 3 – – (836)
Revaluation (1,945) – – – – – – (1,945)
Disposals (25) (124) (161) (1,575) (360) (1,197) – (3,442)
31 DECEMBER 2015 3,849 6,844 91,421 68,591 5,345 6,495 – 182,545
NET BOOK VALUE:
31 DECEMBER 2014 223,547 204,392 64,549 75,288 3,530 7,617 9,590 588,513
31 DECEMBER 2015 228,365 325,931 82,875 128,601 4,234 15,652 9,024 794,682
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 177 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
12. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
The movements in property and equipment during the year ended 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Office
buildings &
service 
centres
Hospitals
& clinics
Furniture
& fixtures
Computers &
equipment
Motor
vehicles
Leasehold
improvements
Assets under
construction Total
COST OR REVALUED AMOUNT
31 DECEMBER 2013 209,639 128,491 129,769 101,563 6,728 10,771 8,942 595,903
Additions 1,417 26,478 8,492 21,020 2,665 3,258 7,256 70,586
Business combination 2 51,839 588 6,076 306 – 141 58,952
Disposals (44) (38) (623) (1,084) (1,089) (2,675) (93) (5,646)
Transfers 5,040 268 (1,856) 3,005 (1,150) 1,139 (6,446) –
Transfers from investment properties 6,389 – – – – – – 6,389
Transfers from (to) other assets 478 – (216) (511) – – (61) (310)
Effect of hyperinflation 3,225 – 228 438 52 67 58 4,068
Currency translation differences 4,230 – 3,748 303 54 191 (198) 8,328
31 DECEMBER 2014 230,376 207,038 140,130 130,810 7,566 12,751 9,599 738,270
ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT
31 DECEMBER 2013 3,611 – 40 109 6 – – 3,766
Effect of hyperinflation 187 – 7 19 3 – – 216
Currency translation differences (177) – 4 (8) 4 9 9 (159)
31 DECEMBER 2014 3,621 – 51 120 13 9 9 3,823
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
31 DECEMBER 2013 553 1,526 65,442 44,414 4,317 5,216 – 121,468
Depreciation charge 3,009 1,141 12,471 11,828 1,187 1,849 – 31,485
Effect of hyperinflation 134 – 102 238 38 66 – 578
Currency translation differences (261) – (1,333) (1,129) (233) (298) – (3,254)
Transfers to other assets (352) – (499) (494) – – – (1,345)
Disposals 125 (21) (653) 545 (1,286) (1,708) – (2,998)
31 DECEMBER 2014 3,208 2,646 75,530 55,402 4,023 5,125 – 145,934
NET BOOK VALUE:
31 DECEMBER 2013 205,475 126,965 64,287 57,040 2,405 5,555 8,942 470,669
31 DECEMBER 2014 223,547 204,392 64,549 75,288 3,530 7,617 9,590 588,513 178 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
12. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED
Office buildings and service centres of the Group include freehold land and are subject to revaluation on a regular basis. The date of the latest 
revaluation is 31 December 2015 and was carried out by professional valuators. Refer to Note 30 for details on fair value measurements of the 
Group’s premises. 
The Group engaged an independent appraiser to determine the fair value of its hospitals and clinics. Fair value is determined by reference to 
market-based evidence. The most recent revaluation report for the Group’s hospitals and clinics was dated 1 July 2016. 
The Group pledges its property as collateral for its borrowings. The carrying amount of the pledged property as at 31 December 2016 was  
GEL 482,001 (2015: GEL 330,224, 2014: GEL 221,478). 
If the office buildings and service centres, hospitals and clinics and infrastructure assets had been measured using the cost model, the carrying 
amounts of the office buildings and service centres, hospitals and clinics and infrastructure assets as at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015  
and 31 December 2014 would have been as follows: 
Office buildings & 
service centres 
2016
Hospitals 
& clinics 
2016
Infrastructure 
assets 
2016
Cost 299,720 388,803 199,304
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (24,126) (8,554) (5,738)
NET CARRYING AMOUNT 275,594 380,249 193,566 
Office buildings & 
service centres 
2015
Hospitals 
& clinics 
2015
Office buildings & 
service centres 
2014
Hospitals & 
clinics 
2014
Cost 179,067 332,775  166,839  207,038 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (19,736) (6,844) (16,896) (2,646)
NET CARRYING AMOUNT 159,331 325,931  149,943  204,392 
13. GOODWILL 
Movements in goodwill during the years ended 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, were as follows: 
2016 2015 2014
Cost
1 January 101,434 78,083 77,170
Business combinations 34,002 23,351 913
AT 31 DECEMBER 135,436 101,434 78,083
Accumulated impairment
1 January 28,450 28,450 28,450
AT 31 DECEMBER 28,450 28,450 28,450
Net book value:
1 January 72,984 49,633 48,720
AT 31 DECEMBER 106,986 72,984 49,633
IMPAIRMENT TEST FOR GOODWILL
Goodwill acquired through business combinations with indefinite lives have been allocated to seven individual cash-generating units, for impairment 
testing: Corporate Banking, Retail Banking, Property & Casualty Insurance, Health Insurance, Healthcare, Pharmacy and Liberty Consumer.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the cash-generating units (CGU) is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Pharmacy* 29,025 – –
Retail banking 23,488 23,488 12,433
Healthcare** 21,468 16,491 4,195
P&C Insurance 16,139 16,139 16,139
Corporate banking 9,965 9,965 9,965
Health Insurance 3,462 3,462 3,462
Liberty Consumer 3,439 3,439 3,439
TOTAL 106,986 72,984 49,633
* GEL 29,025 increase in goodwill for 2016 is from acquisition of Pharmaceutical subsidiary (Note 5). Impairment test revealed no need for impairment as at 31 December 2016. 
** GEL 4,977 increase in goodwill for 2016 is from acquisition of healthcare subsidiaries (Note 5), which was added to Healthcare CGU. Impairment test revealed no need for 
impairment as at 31 December 2016. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 179 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
13. GOODWILL CONTINUED
KEY ASSUMPTIONS USED IN VALUE IN USE CALCULATIONS
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation, using cash flow projections based on financial 
budgets approved by senior management covering from a one to three-year period. Discount rates were not adjusted for either a constant or a 
declining growth rate beyond the three-year periods covered in financial budgets. For the purposes of the impairment test, a 3% permanent growth 
rate has been assumed when assessing the future operating cash flows of the CGU.
The following discount rates were used by the Group for Corporate Banking and Retail Banking:
Corporate Banking Retail Banking
2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 
Discount rate 5.3% 5.8% 6.2% 6.9% 6.7% 6.5%
The following rates were used by the Group for P&C Insurance and Health Insurance:
P&C Insurance Health Insurance
2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 
Discount rate 14.5% 10.4% 10.9% 13.0% 11.2% 11.3%
The following rates were used by the Group for Healthcare, Pharma and Liberty Consumer:
Healthcare Liberty Consumer
2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014
Discount rate 13.0% 11.6% 10.5% 14.9% 9.4% 9.0%
Pharmacy
2016 2015 2014 
Discount rate 13.0% – –
DISCOUNT RATES
Discount rates reflect management’s estimate of return required in each business. This is the benchmark used by management to assess operating 
performance and to evaluate future investment proposals. Discount rates are calculated by using weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
For the Healthcare CGU, the following additional assumptions were made over the first three-year period of the business plan:
• further synergies from healthcare businesses will increase cost efficiency and further improve operating leverage; and
• growth of other healthcare business lines through an increased market demand and economic growth. 
For the Retail and Corporate banking CGUs the following additional assumptions were made:
• stable, business as usual growth of loans and deposits; 
• no material changes in cost/income structure or ratio; 
• stable, business as usual growth of trade finance and other documentary businesses; and
• further expansion of the express banking businesses bringing more stable margins to retail banking. 
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN ASSUMPTIONS
Management believes that reasonable possible changes to key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for each CGU will not result 
in an impairment of goodwill. The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 December 
2016. Possible change was taken as +/-1% in discount rate and growth rate. 180 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
14. TAXATION 
The corporate income tax credit (expense) comprises: 
2016 2015 2014
Current income expense (25,034) (38,959) (24,493)
Deferred income tax credit (expense) 63,690 (9,449) (11,332)
INCOME TAX CREDIT (EXPENSE) 38,656 (48,408) (35,825)
Deferred income tax credit (expense) in other comprehensive income (loss) 2,755 1,637 (124)
Deferred tax related to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income during the years ended 31 December 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 
as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Currency translation differences (2,171) 1,276 (124)
Net losses on investment securities available-for-sale (21) – –
Revaluation of buildings 4,947 361 –
INCOME TAX CREDIT (EXPENSE) IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2,755 1,637 (124)
The income tax rate applicable to most of the Group’s income is the income tax rate applicable to subsidiaries’ income which ranges from 15-27% 
(2015: from 15-25%, 2014: from 15-27%).
In May 2016, the Parliament of Georgia approved a change in the current corporate taxation model, with changes applicable from 1 January 2017 
for all entities apart from certain financial institutions, including banks and insurance businesses (changes are applicable to financial institutions, 
including banks and insurance businesses from 1 January 2019). The changed model implies a zero corporate tax rate on retained earnings and a 
15% corporate tax rate on distributed earnings, compared to the previous model of 15% tax rate charged to the Company’s profit before tax, 
regardless of the retention or distribution status. The change has had an immediate impact on deferred tax asset and deferred tax liability balances 
attributable to previously recognised temporary differences arising from prior periods. The Group considered the new regime as substantively 
enacted effective June 2016 and thus has re-measured its deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016. The Group has calculated the 
portion of deferred taxes that it expects to utilise before 1 January 2019 for financial businesses and has fully released the un-utilisable portion of 
deferred tax assets and liabilities. During the transitional period, between 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2019, no tax is payable on distributed 
profits from financial to non-financial businesses.
The UK Finance (No. 2) Bill 2016 was enacted in September 2016 reducing the standard rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 
1 April 2017 and 17% effective from 1 April 2020. There are no UK deferred tax balances at 31 December 2016. The deferred tax balances in other 
countries are recognised at the substantially enacted rates at the balance sheet date.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 181 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
14. TAXATION CONTINUED
The effective income tax rate differs from the statutory income tax rates. As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 a 
reconciliation of the income tax expense based on statutory rates with the actual expense is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 389,920 359,353 276,592
Average tax rate 15% 15% 15%
THEORETICAL INCOME TAX EXPENSE AT AVERAGE TAX RATE (58,488) (53,903) (41,489)
Non-taxable income 19,711 3,744 –
Correction of prior year declarations 2,494 1,472 5,802
Non-deductible expenses (1,645) (487) (697)
Tax at the domestic rates applicable to profits in each country (143) (262) 193
Effect of changes in tax rate 76,964 – (502)
Other (237) 1,028 868
INCOME TAX BENEFIT (EXPENSE) 38,656 (48,408) (35,825)
Applicable taxes in Georgia and Belarus include corporate income tax (profit tax), individuals’ withholding taxes, property tax and value added tax, 
among others. However, regulations are often unclear or nonexistent and few precedents have been established. This creates tax risks in Georgia 
and Belarus, substantially more significant than typically found in countries with more developed tax systems. Management believes that the Group 
is in substantial compliance with the tax laws affecting its operations. However, the risk remains that relevant authorities could take differing positions 
with regard to interpretative issues.
As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 income tax assets and liabilities consist of the following: 
2016 2015 2014
Current income tax assets 22,329 3,654 4,215
Deferred income tax assets 1,714 17,896 18,530
INCOME TAX ASSETS 24,043 21,550 22,745
Current income tax liabilities 5,548 20,083 11,093
Deferred income tax liabilities 22,243 104,312 86,471
INCOME TAX LIABILITIES 27,791 124,395 97,564 182 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
14. TAXATION CONTINUED
Deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 and their movements for the respective 
years are as follows:
2013
Origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
2014
Origination and reversal of emporary 
differences
2015
Origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
2016
In the
income
statement
Business
combination
In other
comprehensive
income
In the
income
statement
Business
combination
In other
comprehensive
income
In the
income
statement
Business
combination
In other
comprehensive
income
TAX EFFECT OF DEDUCTIBLE 
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES:
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,180 (175) – – 1,005 (523) – – 482 (482) – – –
Investment securities:  
Available-for-sale 1,196 (1) – – 1,195 (1,194) – (1) – – – – –
Investment properties 2,479 – – (1,499) 980 – – – 980 431 – (921) 490
Insurance premiums receivables 886 624 – – 1,510 650 – – 2,160 (952) – – 1,208
Allowances for impairment and 
provisions for other losses 455 (257) – – 198 5,035 – (367) 4,866 1,090 – 535 6,491
Tax losses carried forward 8,791 2,650 – 855 12,296 6,606 (1,992) 250 17,160 (13,095) – (4,065) –
Property and equipment 942 (6) – – 936 50 – (49) 937 (44) – (73) 820
Other assets and liabilities 3,169 751 – (51) 3,869 (406) 982 2 4,447 (3,053) 1,497 168 3,059
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 19,098 3,586 – (695) 21,989 10,218 (1,010) (165) 31,032 (16,105) 1,497 (4,356) 12,068
TAX EFFECT OF TAXABLE 
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES:
Amounts due to credit institutions 52 (5) – (3) 44 26 – (2) 68 1,162 – – 1,230
Amounts due to customers 1,325 – – – 1,325 (1,325) – – – – – – –
Loans to customers 21,839 8,562 – (165) 30,236 (763) – (517) 28,956 (11,210) – 720 18,466
Other insurance liabilities and 
pension fund obligations 956 426 – – 1,382 (1,160) – – 222 (222) – – –
Property and equipment 32,611 4,473 4,929 (330) 41,683 18,653 9,666 (1,184) 68,818 (57,990) 1,915 (6,091) 6,652
Investment properties 2 69 – (7) 64 6,500 – (53) 6,511 (4,966) – (1,545) –
Intangible assets 5,575 965 – (8) 6,532 (1,122) – (7) 5,403 (5,053) – 102 452
Other assets and liabilities 8,294 428 – (58) 8,664 (1,142) (13) (39) 7,470 (1,516) 140 (297) 5,797
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES 70,654 14,918 4,929 (571) 89,930 19,667 9,653 (1,802) 117,448 (79,795) 2,055 (7,111) 32,597
NET DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (51,556) (11,332) (4,929) (124) (67,941) (9,449) (10,663) 1,637 (86,416) 63,690 (558) 2,755 (20,529)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 183 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
14. TAXATION CONTINUED
Deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 and their movements for the respective 
years are as follows:
2013
Origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
2014
Origination and reversal of emporary 
differences
2015
Origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
2016
In the
income
statement
Business
combination
In other
comprehensive
income
In the
income
statement
Business
combination
In other
comprehensive
income
In the
income
statement
Business
combination
In other
comprehensive
income
TAX EFFECT OF DEDUCTIBLE 
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES:
Amounts due to credit institutions 1,180 (175) – – 1,005 (523) – – 482 (482) – – –
Investment securities:  
Available-for-sale 1,196 (1) – – 1,195 (1,194) – (1) – – – – –
Investment properties 2,479 – – (1,499) 980 – – – 980 431 – (921) 490
Insurance premiums receivables 886 624 – – 1,510 650 – – 2,160 (952) – – 1,208
Allowances for impairment and 
provisions for other losses 455 (257) – – 198 5,035 – (367) 4,866 1,090 – 535 6,491
Tax losses carried forward 8,791 2,650 – 855 12,296 6,606 (1,992) 250 17,160 (13,095) – (4,065) –
Property and equipment 942 (6) – – 936 50 – (49) 937 (44) – (73) 820
Other assets and liabilities 3,169 751 – (51) 3,869 (406) 982 2 4,447 (3,053) 1,497 168 3,059
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 19,098 3,586 – (695) 21,989 10,218 (1,010) (165) 31,032 (16,105) 1,497 (4,356) 12,068
TAX EFFECT OF TAXABLE 
TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES:
Amounts due to credit institutions 52 (5) – (3) 44 26 – (2) 68 1,162 – – 1,230
Amounts due to customers 1,325 – – – 1,325 (1,325) – – – – – – –
Loans to customers 21,839 8,562 – (165) 30,236 (763) – (517) 28,956 (11,210) – 720 18,466
Other insurance liabilities and 
pension fund obligations 956 426 – – 1,382 (1,160) – – 222 (222) – – –
Property and equipment 32,611 4,473 4,929 (330) 41,683 18,653 9,666 (1,184) 68,818 (57,990) 1,915 (6,091) 6,652
Investment properties 2 69 – (7) 64 6,500 – (53) 6,511 (4,966) – (1,545) –
Intangible assets 5,575 965 – (8) 6,532 (1,122) – (7) 5,403 (5,053) – 102 452
Other assets and liabilities 8,294 428 – (58) 8,664 (1,142) (13) (39) 7,470 (1,516) 140 (297) 5,797
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES 70,654 14,918 4,929 (571) 89,930 19,667 9,653 (1,802) 117,448 (79,795) 2,055 (7,111) 32,597
NET DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (51,556) (11,332) (4,929) (124) (67,941) (9,449) (10,663) 1,637 (86,416) 63,690 (558) 2,755 (20,529) 184 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
15. OTHER ASSETS AND OTHER LIABILITIES
OTHER ASSETS COMPRISE:
2016 2015 2014
Foreclosed assets
*
50,821 49,602 49,090
Operating tax assets 50,227 18,225 10,934
Defined contribution pension assets 16,441 13,706 11,201
Assets purchased for finance lease purposes 11,378 10,689 6,841
Reinsurance assets 13,161 10,381 11,289
Other receivables 12,903 19,380 4,811
Investments in associates 12,814 53,458 48,659
Derivative financial assets 1,466 42,212 45,733
Trading securities owned 1,396 1,977 1,034
Settlements on operations 1,100 5,060 2,869
Other 27,177 22,083 20,014
198,884 246,773 212,475
Less – allowance for impairment of other assets (14,092) (10,000) (2,764)
OTHER ASSETS 184,792 236,773 209,711
* Foreclosed assets represent movable repossessed assets. As at 31 December 2016 foreclosed assets are mostly represented by assets held for sale.
OTHER LIABILITIES COMPRISE:
2016 2015 2014
Accounts payable 111,766 44,865 15,995
Other taxes payable 34,662 5,072 4,258
Defined contribution pension obligations 16,441 13,706 11,201
Derivative financial liabilities 9,411 3,243 7,505
Amounts payable for share acquisitions
*
8,491 38,005 16,786
Other insurance liabilities 8,235 9,572 7,395
Creditors 6,606 7,729 10,436
Provisions 4,086 2,240 4,732
Dividends payable 1,313 815 2,419
Other 30,611 9,509 6,918
OTHER LIABILITIES 231,622 134,756 87,645
* 2016 amounts payable for share acquisitions fully comprise payables for healthcare business acquisitions. 2015 amounts payable for share acquisitions comprise GEL 28,757 
payable for the healthcare subsidiaries acquired in 2015 and GEL 9,248 payable for the acquisition of JSC PrivatBank. 2014 amounts payable for share acquisitions comprise  
GEL 13,694 payable for healthcare business acquisitions and GEL 3,092 payable for acquisition of Georgian Global Utilities LLC.
The table below shows the fair values of derivative financial instruments, recorded as assets or liabilities, together with their notional amounts.  
The notional amount, recorded gross, is the amount of a derivative’s underlying asset or liability, reference rate or index and is the basis upon which 
changes in the value of derivatives are measured. The notional amounts indicate the volume of transactions outstanding at the year end and are  
not indicative of the credit risk.
2016
Notional
amount
Fair value
Asset Liability
FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS
Forwards and swaps – domestic 234,969 954 1,734
Forwards and swaps – foreign 302,679 512 7,043
INTEREST RATE CONTRACTS
Forwards and swaps – foreign 794,040 – 634
TOTAL DERIVATIVE ASSETS/LIABILITIES 1,331,688 1,466 9,411
2015 2014
Notional
amount
Fair value
Notional
amount
Fair value
Asset Liability Asset Liability
FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS
Forwards and swaps – domestic 12,510 183 10 49,648 247 1,242
Forwards and swaps – foreign 145,055 41,994 510 494,206 45,486 6,263
Options foreign 56,768 35 2,723 – – –
TOTAL DERIVATIVE ASSETS/LIABILITIES 214,333 42,212 3,243 543,854 45,733 7,505
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 185 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
16. CLIENT DEPOSITS AND NOTES
The amounts due to customers include the following:
2016 2015 2014
Time deposits 2,787,419 2,597,244 1,867,925
Current accounts 2,521,051 2,153,275 1,445,790
Promissory notes issued 74,228 868 25,010
AMOUNTS DUE TO CUSTOMERS 5,382,698 4,751,387 3,338,725
HELD AS SECURITY AGAINST LETTERS OF CREDIT AND GUARANTEES (NOTE 19) 96,692 64,534 53,393
As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, promissory notes issued by the Group comprise the notes privately held by 
financial institutions being effectively equivalents of certificates of deposits with fixed maturity and fixed interest rate. The average effective maturity  
of the notes was 16 months (2015: nine months, 2014: one month).
At 31 December 2016, amounts due to customers of GEL 635,303 (12%) were due to the ten largest customers (2015: GEL 782,146 (16%),  
2014: GEL 424,103 (13%)).
Amounts due to customers include accounts with the following types of customers:
2016 2015 2014
Individuals 3,134,251 2,615,774 1,868,762
Private enterprises 2,110,975 1,945,233 1,284,955
State and state-owned entities 137,472 190,380 185,008
AMOUNTS DUE TO CUSTOMERS 5,382,698 4,751,387 3,338,725
The breakdown of customer accounts by industry sector is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Individuals 3,134,251 2,615,774 1,868,762
Trade 420,402 374,291 277,792
Financial intermediation 365,515 292,771 110,759
Construction 272,351 224,477 220,234
Service 264,609 289,485 275,504
Transport and communication 213,301 317,161 173,591
Manufacturing 208,145 236,238 107,813
Government services 102,530 141,007 128,046
Electricity, gas and water supply 95,651 74,125 21,275
Real estate 66,207 64,990 53,742
Hospitality 22,248 18,818 33,503
Other 217,488 102,250 67,704
AMOUNTS DUE TO CUSTOMERS 5,382,698 4,751,387 3,338,725
17. AMOUNTS OWED TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
Amounts due to credit institutions comprise:
2016 2015 2014
Borrowings from international credit institutions 1,221,070 640,517 574,240
Short-term loans from the National Bank of Georgia 1,085,000 307,200 400,772
Time deposits and inter-bank loans 397,506 353,638 261,551
Correspondent accounts 329,609 92,617 32,606
SUBTOTAL 3,033,185 1,393,972 1,269,169
Non-convertible subordinated debt 436,906 395,090 140,045
AMOUNTS DUE TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS 3,470,091 1,789,062 1,409,214
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group paid up to 5.79% on Dollar borrowings from international credit institutions (2015: up to 
5.29%, 2014: up to 6.77%). During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group paid up to 8.44% on Dollar subordinated debt (2015: up to 
7.95% and 2014: up to 10.40%).
Some long-term borrowings from international credit institutions are received upon certain conditions (the “Lender Covenants”) that the Group 
maintains different limits for capital adequacy, liquidity, currency positions, credit exposures, leverage and others. At 31 December 2016, 
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 the Group complied with all the Lender Covenants of the significant borrowings from international 
credit institutions. 186 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
18. DEBT SECURITIES ISSUED
Debt securities issued comprise:
2016 2015 2014
Eurobonds 937,406 908,183 779,445
Georgian local bonds 140,965 98,859 46,217
Certificates of deposit 177,272 32,762 31,033
DEBT SECURITIES ISSUED 1,255,643 1,039,804 856,695
On 26 July 2016, the Group completed the issuance of its US$ 350 million 6.00% notes due 2023 (the “Notes”). The Regulation S/Rule 144A senior 
unsecured Notes were issued and sold at an issue price of 99.297% of their principal amount. The Notes are rated BB- (Fitch) and B1 (Moody’s). 
The Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange. Following the issuance of the new Notes, the Bank fully redeemed the existing 7.75% Eurobonds 
due 2017. The Group has incurred a loss of GEL 43,919 (Note 27) from full redemption of Eurobonds.
In December 2016, the Group’s utility subsidiary Georgian Water and Power LLC completed the issuance of five-year local bonds of GEL 30 million. 
The bonds were issued at par with an annual coupon rate of NBG refinance rate plus 3.5% payable quarterly with 5% withholding tax applying to 
individuals.
In October 2016, the Group’s real estate subsidiary JSC m
2
 Real Estate completed the issuance of three-year local bonds of US$ 25 million 
(GEL 66.8 million). The bonds were issued at par with an annual coupon rate of 7.5% payable semi-annually with a 5% withholding tax applying 
to individuals.
In 2016, the JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank completed the issuance of US$ 3.8 million (GEL 14.2 million) and EUR 5.1million (GEL 10.1 million).  
The bonds were issued at par with an average annual coupon rate of 5.94%.
19. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
LEGAL
In the ordinary course of business, the Group and BGEO are subject to legal actions and complaints. Management believes that the ultimate liability, 
if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of 
the Group or BGEO.
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 the Group’s financial commitments and contingencies comprised 
the following:
2016 2015 2014
CREDIT-RELATED COMMITMENTS
Guarantees issued 508,685 473,839 465,527
Undrawn loan facilities 231,704 273,851 144,634
Letters of credit 58,561 43,126 95,669
798,950 790,816 705,830
Less – Cash held as security against letters of credit and guarantees (Note 16) (96,692) (64,534) (53,393)
Less – Provisions (4,086) (2,240) (4,732)
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS
Not later than 1 year 35,823 17,056 12,382
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 110,466 31,216 21,943
Later than 5 years 18,994 5,553 3,178
165,283 53,825 37,503
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS 13,174 27,624 10,035
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES, NET 876,629 805,491 695,243
As at 31 December 2016, capital expenditure commitment was for purchase of property and capital repairs of GEL 11,240 and software and other 
intangible assets of GEL 1,934. As at 31 December 2015, capital expenditure commitment was for purchase of property and capital repairs of  
GEL 25,915 and software and other intangible assets of GEL 1,709. As at 31 December 2014, capital expenditure represented the commitment  
for purchase of property and capital repairs of GEL 9,810 and software and other intangible assets of GEL 225.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 187 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
20. EQUITY
SHARE CAPITAL
As at 31 December 2016, 2015 and 2014 issued share capital comprised 39,500,320 common shares, of which 39,500,320 were fully paid.  
Each share has a nominal value of one (1) British Penny (31 December 2015: one (1) British Penny, 31 December 2014: one (1) British Penny). 
Shares issued and outstanding as at 31 December 2016 are described below:
Number
of shares
Ordinary
Amount
of shares
Ordinary
31 DECEMBER 2013 35,909,383 1,028
Issue of share capital 3,590,937 108
Effect of translation of equity components to presentation currency – 7
31 DECEMBER 2014 39,500,320 1,143
Effect of translation of equity components to presentation currency – 11
31 DECEMBER 2015 39,500,320 1,154
31 DECEMBER 2016 39,500,320 1,154
In 2016 the Management Board has approved a US$ 50 million share buyback and cancellation programme over a two-year period. The Group 
expects to execute the programme during 2017.
TREASURY SHARES
Treasury shares are held by the Group solely for the employee’s future share-based compensation purposes.
The number of treasury shares held by the Group as at 31 December 2016 comprised 1,843,091 (31 December 2015: 1,521,752, 31 December 
2014: 1,522,185).
Nominal amount of treasury shares of GEL 54 as at 31 December 2016 comprise the Group’s shares owned by the Group (31 December 2015: 
GEL 44, 31 December 2014: GEL 46).
DIVIDENDS
Shareholders are entitled to dividends in British Pounds Sterling.
On 26 May 2016, the shareholders of BGEO declared a final dividend for 2015 of Georgian Lari 2.4 per share. The currency conversion date was set 
at 11 July 2016, with the official GEL:GBP exchange rate of 3.0376, resulting in a GBP-denominated final dividend of 0.7901 per share. Payment of 
the total GEL 97,604 final dividends was received by shareholders on 22 July 2016.
On 21 May 2015, the shareholders of BGEO declared a final dividend for 2014 of Georgian Lari 2.1 per share. The currency conversion date was set 
at 8 June 2015, with the official GEL:GBP exchange rate of 3.5110, resulting in a GBP-denominated final dividend of 0.5981 per share. Payment of 
the total GEL 80,411 final dividends was received by shareholders on 16 June 2015.
On 28 May 2014, the Shareholders of BGEO declared a final dividend for 2013 of Georgian Lari 2.0 per share. The currency conversion date was set 
at 9 June 2014, with the official GEL:GBP exchange rate of 2.9815, resulting in a GBP-denominated final dividend of 0.6708 per share. Payment of 
the total GEL 71,633 final dividends was received by shareholders on 18 June 2014.
NATURE AND PURPOSE OF OTHER RESERVES
REVALUATION RESERVE FOR PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
The revaluation reserve for property and equipment is used to record increases in the fair value of office buildings, service centres and hospitals and 
decreases to the extent that such decrease relates to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity.
UNREALISED GAINS (LOSSES) ON INVESTMENT SECURITIES
This reserve records fair value changes on investment securities.
UNREALISED GAINS (LOSSES) FROM DILUTION OR SALE/ACQUISITION OF SHARES IN EXISTING SUBSIDIARIES
This reserve records unrealised gains (losses) from dilution or sale/acquisition of shares in existing subsidiaries.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries 
with functional currency other than GEL.
Movements in other reserves during the years ended 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are presented in the 
statements of other comprehensive income. 188 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
20. EQUITY CONTINUED
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC is the only significant subsidiary of the Group that has a material non-controlling interest of 34.97% as at 
31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 32.30%, 31 December 2014: nil). The following table summarises key information relevant to Georgia 
Healthcare Group PLC.
2016 2015 2014
Total assets 910,310 758,966 409,834
Total liabilities 370,222 286,941 237,565
Profit for the year 60,099 23,291 13,017
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (121,914) 112,369 28,313
EARNINGS PER SHARE
2016 2015 2014
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
Profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group 398,538  303,694  232,509 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 38,266,383  38,314,369  34,584,751 
Basic earnings per share 10.4148 7.9264 6.7228
2016 2015 2014
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Effect of dilution on weighted average number of ordinary shares:
Dilutive unvested share options  1,233,937  – – 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 39,500,320  38,314,369  34,584,751
Diluted earnings per share 10.0895 7.9264 6.7228
21. NET INTEREST INCOME
2016 2015
Banking 
Business
Investment 
Business Elimination Total
Banking 
Business
Investment 
Business Elimination Total
From loans to customers 822,695  491  (5,653) 817,533  782,525  1,480  (12,289) 771,716 
From investment securities: available-for-sale  91,416  (54) (747) 90,615  69,670  11  (245) 69,436 
From finance lease receivable 10,420 – –  10,420  9,728 – – 9,728 
From amounts due from credit institutions 9,184  2,795  924  12,903  10,376  1,847  (985) 11,238 
INTEREST INCOME 933,715  3,232  (5,476) 931,471  872,299  3,338  (13,519) 862,118 
On client deposits and notes (192,581) – 3,999  (188,582) (190,024) – 2,767  (187,257)
On amounts owed to credit institutions (124,668) (19,426) 2,435  (141,659) (100,714) (22,395) 11,453  (111,656)
On debt securities issued  (59,738) (9,925) 566  (69,097) (68,634) (3,098) 1,920  (69,812)
INTEREST EXPENSE (376,987) (29,351) 7,000  (399,338) (359,372) (25,493) 16,140  (368,725)
NET INTEREST INCOME 556,728  (26,119) 1,524  532,133  512,927  (22,155) 2,621  493,393 
2014
Banking 
Business
Investment 
Business Elimination Total
From loans to customers 546,668  628  (7,313) 539,983 
From investment securities: available-for-sale  39,988 – – 39,988 
From finance lease receivable 8,370 – –  8,370 
From amounts due from credit institutions 5,899  1,232  (551) 6,580 
INTEREST INCOME 600,925  1,860  (7,864) 594,921 
On client deposits and notes (133,835) – –  (133,835)
On amounts owed to credit institutions (55,384) (15,619) 9,063  (61,940)
On debt securities issued  (54,435) (470) 468  (54,437)
INTEREST EXPENSE (243,654) (16,089) 9,531  (250,212)
NET INTEREST INCOME 357,271  (14,229) 1,667  344,709 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 189 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
22. NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME
2016 2015 2014
Settlements operations 129,792 112,540 87,076
Guarantees and letters of credit 18,893 25,930 21,503
Cash operations 12,965 13,822 9,665
Currency conversion operations 585 1,550 3,204
Brokerage service fees 1,328 805 7,214
Advisory 1,379 465 –
Other 5,121 3,046 3,773
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 170,063 158,158 132,435
Settlements operations (34,304) (29,371) (21,354)
Cash operations (5,807) (4,670) (3,726)
Guarantees and letters of credit (2,880) (3,836) (3,991)
Insurance brokerage service fees (2,475) (708) (1,137)
Currency conversion operations (20) (62) (108)
Other (1,664) (1,105) (2,327)
FEE AND COMMISSION EXPENSE (47,150) (39,752) (32,643)
NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 122,913 118,406 99,792
23. GROSS INSURANCE PROFIT 
Net insurance premiums earned, net insurance claims incurred and respective gross insurance profit for the years ended 31 December 2016, 
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 comprised: 
2016 2015 2014
Life insurance contracts premium written 9,638 9,830 5,381
General insurance contracts premium written 117,254 110,962 81,691
TOTAL PREMIUMS WRITTEN 126,892 120,792 87,072
Gross change in life provision (117) 283 70
Gross change in general insurance contracts unearned premium provision (9,160) (7,006) 26,621
TOTAL GROSS PREMIUMS EARNED ON INSURANCE CONTRACTS 117,615 114,069 113,763
Reinsurers’ share of life insurance contracts premium written (560) (530) (53)
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance contracts premium written (19,847) (20,402) (18,328)
Reinsurers’ share of change in life provision 5 1 (32)
Reinsurers’ share of change in general insurance contracts unearned premium provision (128) (237) 500
TOTAL REINSURERS’ SHARE OF GROSS EARNED PREMIUMS 
ON INSURANCE CONTRACTS (20,530) (21,168) (17,913)
NET INSURANCE PREMIUMS EARNED 97,085 92,901 95,850
Life insurance claims paid (2,968) (2,046) (1,364)
General insurance claims paid (64,404) (67,561) (68,827)
TOTAL INSURANCE CLAIMS PAID (67,372) (69,607) (70,191)
Reinsurers’ share of life insurance claims paid 181 54 120
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance claims paid 7,530 4,186 1,858
Gross change in total reserves for claims (6,643) 3,045 443
Reinsurers’ share of change in total reserves for claims 2,902 (672) 1,350
NET INSURANCE CLAIMS INCURRED (63,402) (62,994) (66,420)
GROSS INSURANCE PROFIT 33,683 29,907 29,430 190 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
24. GROSS HEALTHCARE AND PHARMACY PROFIT
2016 2015 2014
Revenue from Government programmes 166,988 144,013 78,967
Revenue from pharma 132,939 – –
Revenue from free flow (non-insured retail individuals) 46,215 36,102 33,854
Revenue from insurance companies 16,444 3,878 11,562
Other revenue from medical services – – 1,337
HEALTHCARE AND PHARMA REVENUE 362,586 183,993 125,720
Pharma direct materials (105,416) – –
Direct salary expenses (75,998) (65,344) (39,022)
Healthcare direct materials (44,569) (35,474) (20,830)
Expenses on medical service providers (1,741) (2,017) (12,042)
Other direct expenses – (220) (343)
COST OF HEALTHCARE AND PHARMA SERVICES (227,724) (103,055) (72,237)
GROSS HEALTHCARE AND PHARMA PROFIT 134,862 80,938 53,483
25. GROSS REAL ESTATE PROFIT AND GROSS OTHER INVESTMENT PROFIT
2016 2015 2014
Revenue from affordable housing 96,373 44,917 56,993
Revaluation of investment property developed by the Group 959 7,083 1,910
Income from operating lease 3,534 2,409 1,473
REAL ESTATE REVENUE 100,866 54,409 60,376
Cost of real estate (81,098) (39,721) (46,810)
GROSS REAL ESTATE PROFIT 19,768 14,688 13,566
2016 2015 2014
Profit from wine production and distribution 11,150 10,079 12,449
Net gains from revaluation of other investment properties 1,727 7,267 –
Net gain from sale of PPE and IP 431 154 89
Other investment profit 7,618 3,277 453
GROSS OTHER INVESTMENT PROFIT 20,926 20,777 12,991
26. SALARIES AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, AND GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
2016 2015 2014
Salaries and bonuses (217,434) (181,316) (150,167)
Social security costs (3,545) (3,216) (3,292)
Pension costs (836) (797) (722)
SALARIES AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (221,815) (185,329) (154,181)
The average number of staff employed by the Group for the years ended 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 
comprised:
2016 2015 2014
The Bank 4,729 4,591 3,622
Insurance companies** 699 623 597
BNB 575 504 433
GGU 2,326 – –
Other 1,034 1,062 840
AVERAGE NUMBER OF STAFF EMPLOYED EXCLUDING HEALTHCARE AND PHARMACY* 9,363 6,780 5,492
Healthcare and pharmacy companies*** 11,392 8,229 7,242
AVERAGE TOTAL NUMBER OF STAFF EMPLOYED 20,755 15,009 12,734
*
* Salary expenses on staff employed in the healthcare and pharmacy segment are included in cost of healthcare and pharmacy services.
** JSC Insurance Company Imedi L and JSC Insurance Company Aldagi. 
*** JSC GHG and its subsidiaries. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 191 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
26. SALARIES AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, AND GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES CONTINUED
Salaries and bonuses include GEL 45,992, GEL 31,219 and GEL 27,193 of the Equity Compensation Plan costs for the years ended 31 December 
2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, respectively, associated with the existing share-based compensation scheme approved in the 
Group (Notes 28 and 32). 
2016 2015 2014
Occupancy and rent (28,943) (18,077) (11,351)
Marketing and advertising (20,298) (11,266) (10,901)
Legal and other professional services (15,930) (12,183) (9,742)
Repairs and maintenance (12,694) (10,785) (9,065)
Operating taxes (8,951) (5,735) (5,074)
Office supplies (8,667) (7,579) (6,246)
Communication (6,613) (6,630) (5,107)
Corporate hospitality and entertainment (6,486) (4,807) (4,139)
Personnel training and recruitment (2,674) (1,703) (1,697)
Travel expenses (2,315) (2,383) (1,621)
Security (2,125) (2,074) (2,577)
Insurance (1,676) (1,176) (443)
Other (6,940) (6,521) (5,496)
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (124,312) (90,919) (73,459)
Auditors’ remuneration is included within legal and other professional services expenses above and comprises (as represented to comply with 
ICAEW guidance):
2016 2015
Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s current year annual report 423 405 
Fees payable for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 2,990 2,057
TOTAL AUDIT FEES 3,413  2,462
Audit related assurance services
Review of the Company’s and subsidiaries’ interim accounts 637  351 
Other assurance services 590  1,237 
TOTAL AUDIT RELATED FEES 1,227 1,588
Non-audit services
Tax compliance services 49 –
Tax advisory services – 194
Corporate finance services – 1,724 
Other non-audit services 41 –
TOTAL OTHER SERVICES FEES 90 1,918 
TOTAL FEES 4,730  5,968
The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates. Fees paid to other auditors not associated with EY 
in respect of the audit of the Parent and Group’s subsidiaries were GEL 111 (2015: GEL 40, 2014: GEL 17) and in respect of other services of the 
Group were GEL 328 (2015: GEL 200, 2014: GEL 327). 192 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
27. NET NON-RECURRING ITEMS
2016 2015 2014
Gain on bargain purchase (Note 5) 36,915 5,361 1,003
Gain from the sale of Class C and Class B shares of Visa Inc. and MasterCard, respectively 16,426 – –
Gain on reclassification of AFS investment to investment in associate 9,626 – –
Loss from full redemption of debt securities issued (43,919) – –
Termination benefits (9,820) (1,598) –
Consulting costs (5,258) – –
Loss from remeasurement of investment in associate (5,145) – –
Write-off of miscellaneous healthcare related assets (2,973) (2,277) –
Impairment of prepayments (2,205) (2,503) –
Impairment of property and equipment and intangible assets (1,403) (426) –
Reversal of impairment on property and equipment – 1,524 –
Gain from building transferred to healthcare segment from the Government – – 524
Loss from early repayments of borrowings from international
credit institutions and debt securities issued – (4,519) (2,503)
JSC PrivatBank integration costs – (3,731) –
Impairment of finance lease receivables – (1,969) –
Foreign exchange loss on revaluation of holdback – (1,580) –
Tax penalties from inspection of Revenue Services of Georgia – (1,340) –
Impairment of investment securities available-for-sale – – (3,837)
Loss from Belarus hyperinflation – – (3,073)
Charity expenses – – (210)
Other (3,768) (1,519) (2,921)
NET NON-RECURRING EXPENSE/LOSS (11,524) (14,577) (11,017)
28. SHARED-BASED PAYMENTS
EXECUTIVES’ EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN
In 2015 the Group founded Executive Equity Compensation Trustee – Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited (the “Trustee”) which acts as the trustee of the 
Group’s Executives’ Equity Compensation Plan (EECP). In 2016 the Trustee has repurchased 768,953 shares (2015: 282,657 shares and 2014: nil).
In February 2016, BGEO’s Remuneration Committee resolved to award 320,500 ordinary shares of BGEO to the members of the Management 
Board and 52,600 ordinary shares of BGEO to the Group’s 19 executives. Shares awarded to the Management Board and the other 19 executives 
are subject to two-year vesting for Management Board and three-year vesting for executives, with continuous employment being the only vesting 
condition for both awards. The Group considers 12 February 2016 as the grant date. The Group estimates that the fair value of the shares awarded 
on 12 February 2016 was Georgian Lari 57.83 per share.
In March 2015, BGEO’s remuneration committee resolved to award 153,500 ordinary shares of BGEO to the members of the Management Board 
and 107,215 ordinary shares of BGEO to the Group’s 24 executives. Shares awarded to the Management Board and the other 20 executives are 
subject to two-year vesting, with continuous employment being the only vesting condition for both awards. The Group considers 19 March 2015  
as the grant date. The Group estimates that the fair value of the shares awarded on 19 March 2015 was Georgian Lari 57.41 per share.
In February 2014, the Bank’s Supervisory Board resolved to award 135,500 ordinary shares of BGEO to the members of the Management Board 
and 88,775 ordinary shares of BGEO to the Group’s 27 executives. Shares awarded to the Management Board are subject to two-year vesting, 
while shares awarded to the other 27 executives are subject to three-year vesting, with continuous employment being the only vesting condition  
for both awards. The Group considers 24 February 2014 as the grant date. The Group estimates that the fair value of the shares awarded on 
24 February 2014 was Georgian Lari 67.90 per share.
In August 2015, the Management Board members signed new three-year fixed contingent share-based compensation agreements with the total  
of 934,000 ordinary shares of BGEO. The total amount of shares fixed to each executive will be awarded in three equal instalments during the three 
consecutive years starting January 2017, of which each award will be subject to a four-year vesting period. The Group considers 24 August 2015  
as the grant date for the awards. The Group estimates that the fair value of the shares on 24 August 2015 was Georgian Lari 59.17.
At the end of 2015 and during 2016, the new Management Board members signed new three-year fixed contingent share-based compensation 
agreements with the total of 225,000 ordinary shares of BGEO. The total amount of shares fixed to each executive will be awarded in three equal 
instalments during the three consecutive years starting January 2017, of which each award will be subject to a four-year vesting period. The Group 
considers 30 December 2015 and 6 September 2016 as the grant date for the awards. The Group estimates that the fair value of the shares on 
30 December 2015 and 6 September 2016 were Georgian Lari 68.30 and 90.22, respectively.
The Bank grants share compensation to its non-executive employees. In February 2016, March 2015 and February 2014, the Supervisory Board of 
the Bank resolved to award 91,851, 111,298 and 42,745 ordinary shares to its non-executive employees, respectively. All these awards are subject 
to three-year vesting, with a continuous employment being the only vesting condition for all awards. The Group considers 12 February 2016, 
19 March 2015 and 24 February 2014 as the grant dates of these awards, respectively. The Group estimates that the fair values of the shares 
awarded on 12 February 2016, 19 March 2015 and 24 February 2014 were Georgian Lari 57.83, 57.41 and 67.90 per share, respectively.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 193 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
28. SHARED-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
SUMMARY
Fair value of the shares granted at the measurement date is determined based on available market quotations.
The weighted average fair value of share-based awards at the grant date comprised GEL 66.19 per share in year ended 31 December 2016 
(31 December 2015: GEL 58.74 per share, 31 December 2014: GEL 67.90).
The Group’s total share-based payment expenses for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprised GEL 45,992 (31 December 2015: GEL 31,219, 
31 December 2014: GEL 27,193) and are included in “salaries and other employee benefits”, as “salaries and bonuses”.
Below is the summary of the share-based payments related data:
2016 2015 2014
Total number of equity instruments awarded* 689,951 1,536,013 267,020
– among them, to top management and Board of Directors 545,500 1,106,000 135,500
Weighted average value at grant date, per share (GEL in full amount) 66.19 58.74 67.90
VALUE AT GRANT DATE, TOTAL (GEL) 45,671 90,228 18,132
TOTAL EXPENSE RECOGNISED DURING THE YEAR (GEL) (45,992) (31,219) (27,193)
* 2015 award includes fixed contingent share-based compensation of 1,164,000 ordinary shares per new employment agreements signed on 24 August 2015 for subsequent 
consecutive three year period, including 934,000 of the Management Board members.
During 2016, BGEO directors obtained 115,000 shares (2015: 147,500, 2014: 115,000) with fair value of GEL 10,760 (2015: 8,251, 2014: 7,437). 
Weighted average share price comprised GEL 93.57 per share (2015: GEL 55.94, 2014: GEL 64.67).
29. RISK MANAGEMENT
INTRODUCTION
Risk is inherent in the Group’s activities but it is managed through a process of ongoing identification, measurement and monitoring, subject to risk 
limits and other controls. This process of risk management is critical to the Group’s continuing profitability and each individual within the Group is 
accountable for the risk exposures relating to his or her responsibilities. The Group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, the latter 
being subdivided into trading and non-trading risks. It is also subject to operational risks.
The independent risk control process does not include business risks such as changes in the environment, technology and industry. They are 
monitored through the Group’s strategic planning process.
RISK MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee assists the Board in relation to the oversight of the Group’s financial and reporting processes. It monitors the integrity of the 
financial statements and is responsible for governance around both the internal audit function and external auditor, reporting back to the Board.  
It reviews the effectiveness of the policies, procedures and systems in place related to, among other operational risks, compliance, IT and IS 
(including cyber-security) and works closely with the Risk Committee in connection with assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control framework.
RISK COMMITTEE
The Risk Committee assists the Board in relation to the oversight of risk. It reviews the Group’s risk appetite in line with strategy, identifies and 
monitors risk exposure and the risk management infrastructure, oversees the implementation of strategy to address risk and, in conjunction with  
the Audit Committee, assesses the strength and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
MANAGEMENT BOARD
The Management Board has overall responsibility for the Bank’s asset, liability and risk management activities, policies and procedures. In order to 
effectively implement the risk management system, the Management Board delegates individual risk management functions to each of the various 
decision-making and execution bodies within the Bank.
BANK ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Bank’s Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO) is the core risk management body that establishes policies and guidelines with 
respect to capital adequacy, market risks and respective limits, funding liquidity risk and respective limits, interest rate and prepayment risks and 
respective limits, money market general terms and credit exposure limits, designs and implements respective risk management and stress testing 
models in practice and regularly monitors compliance with the pre-set risk limits.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Internal Audit Department is responsible for the annual audit of the Bank’s risk management, internal control and corporate governance 
processes, with the aim of reducing the levels of operational and other risks, auditing the Bank’s internal control systems and detecting any 
infringements or errors on the part of the Bank’s departments and divisions. It examines both the adequacy of and the Bank’s compliance with  
those procedures. The Bank’s Internal Audit Department discusses the results of all assessments with management, and reports its findings  
and recommendations to the Audit Committee. 194 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
INTRODUCTION CONTINUED
RISK MEASUREMENT AND REPORTING SYSTEMS
The Group’s risks are measured using a method which reflects both the expected loss likely to arise in normal circumstances and unexpected 
losses, which are an estimate of the ultimate actual loss based on different forecasting models. The models make use of probabilities derived from 
historical experience, adjusted to reflect the economic environment. The Group runs three different basic scenarios, of which one is Base Case 
(forecast under normal business conditions) and the other two are Troubled and Distressed Scenarios, which are worse and the worst case 
scenarios, respectively, that would arise in the event that extreme events which are unlikely to occur do, in fact, occur.
Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily performed based on limits established by the Group. These limits reflect the business strategy and 
market environment of the Group as well as the level of risk that the Group is willing to accept, with additional emphasis on selected industries. 
In addition, the Group monitors and measures the overall risk-bearing capacity in relation to the aggregate risk exposure across all risks types 
and activities.
Information compiled from all the businesses is examined and processed in order to analyse, control and identify early risks. This information is 
presented and explained to the Management Board, and the head of each business division. The reports include aggregate credit exposures and 
their limits, exceptions to those limits, liquidity ratios and liquidity limits, market risk ratios and their limits, and changes to the risk profile. Senior 
management assesses the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses on a monthly basis. The Management Board receives a 
comprehensive Credit Risk report and ALCO report once a month. These reports are designed to provide all the necessary information to assess 
and conclude on the risks of the Group.
For all levels throughout the Group, specifically tailored risk reports are prepared and distributed in order to ensure that all business divisions have 
access to extensive, relevant and up-to-date information.
A daily briefing is given to the Management Board and all other relevant employees of the Group on the utilisation of market limits, proprietary 
investments and liquidity, plus any other risk developments.
RISK MITIGATION
As part of its overall risk management, the Group uses derivatives and other instruments to manage exposures resulting from changes in interest 
rates, foreign currencies, equity risks, credit risks and exposures arising from forecast transactions. While these are intended for hedging, they do not 
qualify for hedge accounting.
The Group actively uses collateral to reduce its credit risks (see below for more detail).
EXCESSIVE RISK CONCENTRATION
Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographic region, or these 
counterparties represent related parties to each other, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations 
to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations also involve combined, aggregate exposures of large 
and significant credits compared to the total outstanding balance of the respective financial instrument. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity 
of the Group’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry or geographical location.
In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risks, the Group’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on maintaining a 
diversified portfolio of both, financial assets as well as financial liabilities. Identified concentrations of credit risks or liquidity/repayment risks are 
controlled and managed accordingly.
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk that the Group will incur a loss because its customers, clients or counterparties fail to discharge their contractual obligations. 
The Group manages and controls credit risk by setting limits on the amount of risk it is willing to accept for individual counterparties and for 
geographical, industry, product and currency concentrations, and by monitoring exposures in relation to such limits.
The Group has established a credit quality review process to provide early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of 
counterparties, including regular collateral revisions. Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit risk classification system, which 
assigns each counterparty a risk rating. Risk ratings are subject to regular revision.
The credit quality review process allows the Group to assess the potential loss as a result of the risks to which it is exposed and take corrective 
action. The maximum credit exposure is limited to carrying value of respective instruments.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Credit risk arising from derivative financial instruments is, at any time, limited to those with positive fair values, as recorded in the statement of the 
financial position.
CREDIT-RELATED COMMITMENTS RISKS
The Group makes available to its customers guarantees which may require that the Group make payments on their behalf. Such payments are 
collected from customers based on the terms of the letter of credit. They expose the Group to similar risks to loans and these are mitigated by the 
same control processes and policies.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 195 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED
CREDIT QUALITY PER CLASS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
The credit quality of financial assets is managed by the Group through internal credit ratings. The table below shows the credit quality by class of 
asset for loan-related lines in the statement of financial position, based on the Group’s credit rating system.
31 December 2016 Notes
Neither past due nor impaired
Past due or
individually
impaired Total
High
Grade
Standard
Grade
Sub-standard
Grade
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 1,049,889 5,094 – – 1,054,983
Debt investment securities available-for-sale 9 1,284,555 – – – 1,284,555
Loans to customers: 10
Commercial loans 1,617,466 588,526 17,814 475,700 2,699,506
Consumer loans 1,243,553 21,520 23,740 78,415 1,367,228
Micro and SME loans 1,225,610 113,565 37,761 117,001 1,493,937
Residential mortgage loans 1,134,266 49,285 15,052 35,573 1,234,176
Gold – pawn loans 56,977 – – 3,708 60,685
5,277,872 772,896 94,367 710,397 6,855,532
Finance lease receivables 10 28,756 9,925 3,089 6,497 48,267
TOTAL 7,641,072 787,915 97,456 716,894 9,243,337
31 December 2015 Notes
Neither past due nor impaired
Past due or
individually
impaired Total
High
Grade
Standard
Grade
Sub-standard
Grade
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 731,365 – – – 731,365
Debt investment securities available-for-sale 9 902,419 – – – 902,419
Loans to customers: 10
Commercial loans 1,789,428 196,607 57,085 354,661 2,397,781
Consumer loans 1,047,775 22,810 22,642 71,880 1,165,107
Micro and SME loans 892,014 80,064 27,828 42,023 1,041,929
Residential mortgage loans 750,455 22,033 11,223 30,633 814,344
Gold – pawn loans 61,140 – – – 61,140
4,540,812 321,514 118,778 499,197 5,480,301
Finance lease receivables 10 16,442 12,270 3,531 10,669 42,912
TOTAL 6,191,038 333,784 122,309 509,866 7,156,997
31 December 2014 Notes
Neither past due nor impaired
Past due or
individually
impaired Total
High
Grade
Standard
Grade
Sub-Standard
Grade
Amounts due from credit institutions 8 418,281 – – – 418,281 
Debt investment securities available-for-sale 9 768,300 – – – 768,300 
Loans to customers: 10
Commercial loans 1,635,707  138,115  159,074  248,531  2,181,427 
Consumer loans 739,767  22,293  1,541  37,873  801,474 
Micro and SME loans 663,388  83,413  7,799  17,683  772,283 
Residential mortgage loans 570,879  16,565  2,009  14,690  604,143 
Gold – pawn loans 53,785 – – –  53,785 
 3,663,526  260,386  170,423  318,777  4,413,112 
Finance lease receivables 10 19,437  4,684  2,150  12,977  39,248 
TOTAL 4,869,544  265,070  172,573  331,754  5,638,941 
Past due loans to customers, analysed by age below, include those that are past due by at least one day and are not impaired.
It is the Group’s policy to maintain accurate and consistent risk ratings across the credit portfolio. This facilitates focused management of the 
applicable risks and the comparison of credit exposures across all lines of business, geographic regions and products. The rating system is 
supported by a variety of financial analytics to provide the main inputs for the measurement of counterparty risk. All internal risk ratings are tailored to 
the various categories and are derived in accordance with the Group’s rating policy. Attributable risk ratings are assessed and updated regularly. 196 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED
The credit risk assessment policy for non-past due and individually non-impaired financial assets has been determined by the Group as follows:
• a financial asset that is neither past due nor impaired at the reporting date, but historically used to be past due no more than 30 days is assessed 
as a financial asset with High Grade; a financial asset that is neither past due nor impaired at the reporting date, but historically used to be past 
due more than 30 but less than 60 days is assessed as a financial asset with Standard Grade; and
• a financial asset that is neither past due nor impaired at the reporting date, but historically used to be past due more than 60 days or borrower  
of this loan has at least an additional borrowing in past due more than 60 days as at reporting date is assessed as a financial asset with 
Sub-Standard Grade.
AGING ANALYSIS OF PAST DUE BUT NOT IMPAIRED LOANS PER CLASS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
31 December 2016
Less than
30 days
31 to
60 days
61 to
90 days
More than
90 days Total
Loans to customers:
Consumer loans 34,353 10,940 9,349 20,995 75,637
Micro and SME loans 20,035 9,494 6,479 29,874 65,882
Residential mortgage loans 10,074 4,472 1,840 7,319 23,705
Commercial loans 10,235 4,558 387 1,621 16,801
Finance lease receivables 2,565 368 349 740 4,022
TOTAL 77,262 29,832 18,404 60,549 186,047
31 December 2015
Less than
30 days
31 to
60 days
61 to
90 days
More than
90 days Total
Loans to customers:
Consumer loans 29,592  8,498  6,930  23,724  68,744 
Micro and SME loans 5,196  4,148  1,000  4,259  14,603 
Residential mortgage loans 7,594  1,207  908  5,023  14,732 
Commercial loans 21,727  1,227  25  1,596  24,575 
Finance lease receivables 1,520  342  535  4,547  6,944 
TOTAL 65,629  15,422  9,398  39,149  129,598 
31 December 2014
Less than
30 days
31 to
60 days
61 to
90 days
More than
90 days Total
Loans to customers:
Consumer loans 2,673  528  342  1,162  4,705 
Micro and SME loans 19,266  4,758  2,703  9,222  35,949 
Residential mortgage loans 3,822  788  304  1,832  6,746 
Commercial loans 2,926  3,307  259  598  7,090 
Finance lease receivables 1,977  9,154  156  203  11,490 
TOTAL 30,664  18,535  3,764  13,017  65,980 
See Note 10 for more detailed information with respect to the allowance for impairment of loans to customers and finance lease receivables.
The Group specifically monitors performance of the loans with overdue payments in arrears for more than 90 days. The gross carrying value  
(i.e. carrying value before deducting any allowance for impairment) of such loans comprised GEL 293,054, GEL 166,224 and GEL 118,131  
as at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, respectively.
CARRYING AMOUNT PER CLASS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS WHOSE TERMS HAVE BEEN RENEGOTIATED
The table below shows the carrying amount for renegotiated financial assets, by class.
2016 2015 2014
Loans to customers:
Commercial loans 235,026 141,294 115,155
Micro and SME loans 37,003 20,890 8,734
Residential mortgage loans 38,757 28,594 3,446
Consumer loans 29,828 18,243 617
Finance lease receivables 5,829 2,684 4,957
TOTAL 346,443 211,705 132,909
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 197 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED 
IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT
The main considerations for the loan impairment assessment include whether any payments of principal or interest are overdue by any number of 
days or there are any known difficulties in the cash flows of counterparties, credit rating downgrades, or infringement of the original terms of the 
contract. The Group addresses impairment assessment in two areas: individually assessed allowances and collectively assessed allowances. Loans 
are considered to be individually impaired if they are past due by certain number of days as prescribed per the Group methodology, or history of the 
debt service is deteriorated by a certain percentage, as defined per the Group methodology, or any other defined event of default is identified. 
Impairment for all such loans is assessed individually, rather than through a collective impairment assessment model of the Group.
INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED ALLOWANCES
For loan loss allowance determination purposes the Group considers all individually significant loans and classifies them between being individually 
impaired or not impaired. The allowance for those individually significant loans that are determined to be individually impaired is determined through 
individual assessment of the associated credit risk by assigning a proper credit rating. The allowances for non-significant loans that are determined 
to be individually impaired are also individually assessed. The allowance for losses for individually significant loans that are determined not to be 
individually impaired is assessed through the collective assessment approach described below. Items considered when determining allowance 
amounts include the sustainability of the counterparty’s business plan, its ability to improve performance once a financial difficulty has arisen, 
projected receipts and the expected dividend payout should bankruptcy ensue, the availability of other financial support and the realisable value  
of collateral, the timing of the expected cash flows and past history of the debt service of the borrower. Impairment losses are evaluated at each 
reporting date, unless unforeseen circumstances require more careful attention.
COLLECTIVELY ASSESSED ALLOWANCES
Allowances are assessed collectively for all loans (including but not limited to credit cards, residential mortgages and unsecured consumer lending, 
commercial lending, etc.), both, significant as well as non-significant, where there is not yet objective evidence of individual impairment. Allowances 
are evaluated on each reporting date with each portfolio receiving a separate review.
The collective assessment takes into account the impairment that is likely to be present in the portfolio even though there is not yet objective 
evidence of the impairment in an individual assessment. Impairment losses are estimated by taking into consideration the following information: 
historical losses on the portfolio, current economic conditions, the appropriate delay between the time a loss is likely to have been incurred and  
the time it will be identified as requiring an individually assessed impairment allowance, and expected receipts and recoveries once impaired.  
Local management is responsible for deciding the length of this period which can extend for as long as one year, depending on the product.  
The impairment allowance is then reviewed by credit management to ensure alignment with the Group’s overall policy.
Financial guarantees and letters of credit are assessed and provision is made in a similar manner as for loans.
The geographical concentration of the Group’s assets and liabilities is set out below:
2016
Georgia OECD
CIS and
other foreign
countries Total
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents 661,207 837,721 74,682 1,573,610
Amounts due from credit institutions 1,048,136 3,287 3,560 1,054,983
Investment securities 914,446 286,832 84,725 1,286,003
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 6,286,382 – 362,100 6,648,482
All other assets 2,373,880 16,455 36,040 2,426,375
11,284,051 1,144,295 561,107 12,989,453
LIABILITIES:
Client deposits and notes 3,872,607 560,582 949,509 5,382,698
Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,676,312 1,682,934 110,845 3,470,091
Debt securities issued 200,055 1,031,462 24,126 1,255,643
All other liabilities 436,785 13,403 7,415 457,603
6,185,759 3,288,381 1,091,895 10,566,035
NET BALANCE SHEET POSITION 5,098,292 (2,144,086) (530,788) 2,423,418 198 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED
2015 2014
Georgia OECD
CIS and
other foreign 
countries Total Georgia OECD
CIS and
other foreign 
countries Total
ASSETS:
Cash and cash equivalents 623,904  662,296  146,734  1,432,934  475,858  136,559  97,727  710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 630,217  97,242  3,906  731,365  393,975  1,686  22,620  418,281 
Investment securities 824,820  79,047 – 903,867  726,880  25,069  17,763  769,712 
Loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables 5,002,004 – 320,113  5,322,117  4,081,898 – 265,953  4,347,851 
All other assets  1,625,445  63,265  36,746  1,725,456  1,266,904  10,069  56,184  1,333,157 
 8,706,390  901,850  507,499  10,115,739  6,945,515  173,383  460,247  7,579,145 
LIABILITIES:
Client deposits and notes 3,522,316  422,649  806,422  4,751,387  2,163,559  515,879  659,287  3,338,725 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 508,287  1,063,404  217,371  1,789,062  582,906  770,838  55,470  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued 98,859  940,945 – 1,039,804  46,216  810,479 – 856,695 
All other liabilities  446,820  8,296  6,732  461,848  324,846  3,709  11,863  340,418 
 4,576,282  2,435,294  1,030,525  8,042,101  3,117,527  2,100,905  726,620  5,945,052 
NET BALANCE SHEET POSITION 4,130,108  (1,533,444) (523,026) 2,073,638  3,827,988  (1,927,522) (266,373) 1,634,093 
LIQUIDITY RISK AND FUNDING MANAGEMENT
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due under normal and stress circumstances. To 
limit this risk, management has arranged diversified funding sources in addition to its core deposit base, manages assets with liquidity in mind and 
monitors future cash flows and liquidity on a regular basis. This incorporates an assessment of expected cash flows and the availability of high grade 
collateral which could be used to secure additional funding if required.
The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse assets that can be easily liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption of 
cash flow. The Group also has committed lines of credit that it can access to meet liquidity needs. In addition, the Group maintains a cash deposit 
(obligatory reserve) with the NBG, the amount of which depends on the level of customer funds attracted.
The liquidity position is assessed and managed by the Group primarily on a stand-alone Bank basis, based on certain liquidity ratios established by 
the NBG. As at 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 these ratios were as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Average liquidity ratio 43.6% 38.1% 39.3%
Maximum liquidity ratio 62.5% 48.0% 46.8%
Minimum liquidity ratio 34.1% 28.9% 31.7%
The average liquidity ratio is calculated on a stand-alone basis for JSC Bank of Georgia as the annual average (arithmetic mean) of daily liquidity 
ratios, computed as the ratio of liquid assets to liabilities determined by the National Bank of Georgia as follows:
Liquid assets comprise cash, cash equivalents and other assets that are immediately convertible into cash. Those assets include investment 
securities issued by the Georgian Government plus Certificates of Deposit issued by NBG and do not include amounts due from credit institutions, 
other than inter-bank deposits, and/or debt securities of Governments and Central Banks of non-OECD countries, amounts in nostro accounts 
which are under lien, impaired inter-bank deposits and amounts on obligatory reserve with NBG that are pledged due to borrowings from NBG.
Liabilities comprise the total balance sheet liabilities, less amounts due to credit institutions that are to be exercised or settled later than six months 
from the reporting date, plus off-balance sheet commitments with residual maturity subsequent to the reporting date of less than six months. 
Off-balance sheet commitments include all commitments except financial guarantees and letters of credit that are fully collateralised by cash covers 
in the Bank, and commitments due to dealing operations with foreign currencies. The maximum and minimum liquidity ratios are taken from historical 
data of the appropriate reporting years.
The Group also matches the maturity of financial assets and financial liabilities and imposes a maximum limit on negative gaps compared to the 
Bank’s stand-alone total regulatory capital calculated per NBG regulation. The ratios are assessed and monitored monthly and compared against set 
limits. In the case of deviations, amendment strategies/actions are discussed and approved by ALCO.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 199 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. 
Repayments which are subject to notice are treated as if notice were to be given immediately. However, the Group expects that many customers will 
not request repayment on the earliest date the Bank could be required to pay and the table does not reflect the expected cash flows indicated by 
the Bank’s deposit retention history.
Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2016
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
Client deposits and notes 1,892,485 3,066,596 503,357 49,205 5,511,643
Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,745,625 578,801 1,173,071 451,051 3,948,548
Debt securities issued 91,251 127,073 493,251 947,050 1,658,625
Derivative financial liabilities 2,188 6,589 634 – 9,411
Other liabilities 68,780 108,734 23,519 22 201,055
TOTAL UNDISCOUNTED FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,800,329 3,887,793 2,193,832 1,447,328 11,329,282
Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2015
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
Client deposits and notes 2,968,883 1,258,421 613,914 60,094 4,901,312
Amounts owed to credit institutions 318,902 376,323 628,932 524,874 1,849,031
Debt securities issued 51,564 24,695 1,070,369 – 1,146,628
Other liabilities 53,099 36,939 19,266 4 109,308
TOTAL UNDISCOUNTED FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,392,448 1,696,378 2,332,481 584,972 8,006,279
Financial liabilities
As at 31 December 2014
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to 5
years
Over
5 years Total
Client deposits and notes 2,064,563 903,041 461,975 22,098 3,451,677
Amounts owed to credit institutions 616,480 225,911 535,643 189,493 1,567,527
Debt securities issued 45,941 73,767 879,653 – 999,361
Other liabilities 37,183 37,004 17,422 – 91,609
TOTAL UNDISCOUNTED FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,764,167 1,239,723 1,894,693 211,591 6,110,174
The table below shows the contractual expiry by maturity of the Group’s financial commitments and contingencies.
Less than
3 months
3 to 12
months
1 to
5 years
Over
5 years Total
31 December 2016 401,159 230,831 303,451 41,966 977,407
31 December 2015 411,175 300,894 142,915 17,281 872,265
31 December 2014 320,945 257,065 162,858 12,500 753,368
The Group expects that not all of the contingent liabilities or commitments will be drawn before expiry of the commitments.
The maturity analysis does not reflect the historical stability of current accounts. Their liquidation has historically taken place over a longer period than 
indicated in the tables above. These balances are included in amounts due in less than three months in the tables above.
Included in client deposits and notes are term deposits of individuals. In accordance with the Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay such 
deposits upon demand of a depositor (Note 16).
MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as interest 
rates, foreign exchanges and equity prices. The Group classifies exposures to market risk into either trading or non-trading portfolios. Trading and 
non-trading positions are managed and monitored using sensitivity analysis.
INTEREST RATE RISK
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The 
following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Group’s 
consolidated income statement.
The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the net interest income for the year, 
based on the floating rate non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2016. Changes in basis points are calculated as 
standard deviations of daily changes in floating rates over the last month multiplied by respective floating rates. During the year ended 31 December 
2016, year ended 31 December 2015 and year ended 31 December 2014, sensitivity analysis did not reveal any significant potential effect on the 
Group’s equity. 200 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
MARKET RISK CONTINUED
Currency
Increase in
basis points
2016
Sensitivity of net
interest income
2016
Sensitivity
of other
comprehensive 
income
2016
GEL 2.06% 261 (1,758)
EUR 0.01% 1 –
USD 0.03% 69 –
Currency
Decrease in
basis points
2016
Sensitivity of net
interest income
2016
Sensitivity
of other
comprehensive 
income
2016
GEL 2.06% (261) 1,758
EUR 0.01% (1) –
USD 0.03% (69) –
Currency
Increase in
basis points
2015
Sensitiity of net
interest income
2015
Sensitivity
of other
comprehensive 
income
2015
GEL 0.63% 1,887 (5,080)
EUR 0.20% 81 –
USD 0.05% 187 –
Currency
Decrease in
basis points
2015
Sensitivity of net
interest income
2015
Sensitivity
of other
comprehensive 
income
2015
GEL 0.63% (1,887) 5,080
EUR 0.20% (81) –
USD 0.05% (187) –
Currency
Increase in
basis points
2014
Sensitivity of net
interest income
2014
Sensitivity
of other
comprehensive 
income
2014
GEL 0.07% 198 –
EUR 0.01% (6) –
USD 0.01% 84 –
Currency
Decrease in
basis points
2014
Sensitivity of net
interest income
2014
Sensitivity
of other
comprehensive 
income
2014
GEL 0.07% (198) –
EUR 0.01% 6 –
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 201 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED 
CURRENCY RISK
Currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Management Board has 
set limits on positions by currency based on the NBG regulations. Positions are monitored daily.
The tables below indicate the currencies to which the Group had significant exposure at 31 December 2016 on its trading and non-trading monetary 
assets and liabilities and its forecast cash flows. The analysis calculates the effect of a reasonably possible movement of the currency rate against 
the Georgian Lari, with all other variables held constant on the income statement (due to the fair value of currency sensitive non-trading monetary 
assets and liabilities). The reasonably possible movement of the currency rate against the Georgian Lari is calculated as a standard deviation of daily 
changes in exchange rates over the 12 months. A negative amount in the table reflects a potential net reduction in income statement or equity, while 
a positive amount reflects a net potential increase. During the year ended the year ended 31 December 2016, year ended 31 December 2015 and 
year ended 31 December 2014, sensitivity analysis did not reveal any significant potential effect on the Group’s equity.
2016 2015 2014
Currency
Change in
currency
rate in %
Effect on
profit before
tax
Change in
currency
rate in %
Effect on
profit before
tax
Change in
currency
rate in %
Effect on
profit before
tax
EUR 11.6% (3,336) 2.9% 1 14.3% 11
GBP 15.8% – 2.5% – 22.9% (6)
USD 9.3% 3,507 1.1% (1,329) 23.4% (4,745)
PREPAYMENT RISK
Prepayment risk is the risk that the Group will incur a financial loss because its customers and counterparties repay or request repayment earlier than 
expected, such as fixed rate mortgages when interest rates fall, or other credit facilities, for similar or whatever reasons.
The Group calculates the effect of early repayments by calculating the weighted average rates of early repayments across each loan product 
individually, applying these historical rates to the outstanding carrying amount of respective products as at the reporting date and multiplying by the 
weighted average effective annual interest rates for each product. The model does not make a distinction between different reasons for repayment 
(e.g. relocation, refinancing and renegotiation) and takes into account the effect of any prepayment penalties on the Group’s income.
The estimated effect of prepayment risk on net interest income of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2016, 31 December 2015 and 
31 December 2014 is as follows:
Effect on net
interest income
2016 (27,487)
2015 (19,341)
2014 (16,744)
OPERATIONAL RISK
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to perform, operational risks 
can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss. The Group cannot expect to eliminate all operational 
risks, but through a control framework and by monitoring and responding to potential risks, the Group is able to manage the risks. Controls include 
effective segregation of duties, access, authorisation and reconciliation procedures, staff education and assessment processes, including the use of 
internal audit.
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Most of the Group’s business is concentrated in Georgia. As an emerging market, Georgia does not possess a well-developed business and 
regulatory infrastructure that would generally exist in a more mature market economy. Operations in Georgia may involve risks that are not typically 
associated with those in developed markets (including the risk that the Georgian Lari is not freely convertible outside the country, and undeveloped 
debt and equity markets). However, over the last few years the Georgian Government has made a number of developments that positively affect the 
overall investment climate of the country, specifically implementing the reforms necessary to create banking, judicial, taxation and regulatory 
systems. This includes the adoption of a new body of legislation (including new Tax Code and procedural laws). In the view of the Board, these steps 
contribute to mitigate the risks of doing business in Georgia.
The existing tendency aimed at the overall improvement of the business environment is expected to persist. The future stability of the Georgian 
economy is largely dependent upon these reforms and developments and the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures 
undertaken by the Government. However, the Georgian economy is vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in 
the world. 202 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
29. RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
INSURANCE RISK
The risk under an insurance contract is the risk that an insured event will occur including the uncertainty of the amount and timing of any resulting 
claim. The principal risk the Group faces under such contracts is that actual claims and benefit payments exceed the carrying amount of insurance 
liabilities. This is influenced by the frequency of claims, severity of claims, actual benefits paid that are greater than originally estimated and 
subsequent development of long-term claims.
The variability of risks is improved by diversification of risk of loss to a large portfolio of insurance contracts as a more diversified portfolio is less likely 
to be affected across the board by change in any subset of the portfolio, as well as unexpected outcomes. The variability of risks is also improved by 
careful selection and implementation of underwriting strategy and guidelines as well as the use of reinsurance arrangements. The Group establishes 
underwriting guidelines and limits, which stipulate who may accept what risks and the applicable limits. These limits are continuously monitored.
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and 
risks of the asset or liability. The following tables show analysis of assets and liabilities measured at fair value or for which fair values are disclosed by 
level of the fair value hierarchy:
31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets measured at fair value
Total investment properties – – 288,227 288,227
Land – – 118,765 118,765
Residential properties – – 82,003 82,003
Non-residential properties – – 87,459 87,459
Investment securities – 1,283,606 2,397 1,286,003
Other assets – derivative financial assets – 1,466 – 1,466
Other assets – trading securities owned 1,396 – – 1,396
Total revalued property – – 936,739 936,739
Office buildings – – 248,277 248,277
Hospitals and clinics – – 401,053 401,053
Service centres – – 93,843 93,843
Infrastructure assets – – 193,566 193,566
Assets for which fair values are disclosed
Cash and cash equivalents – 1,573,610 – 1,573,610
Amounts due from credit institutions – 1,054,983 – 1,054,983
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables – – 6,725,662 6,725,662
Liabilities measured at fair value:
Other liabilities – derivative financial liabilities – 9,411 – 9,411
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Client deposits and notes – 5,388,768 – 5,388,768
Amounts owed to credit institutions – 3,272,454 197,637 3,470,091
Debt securities issued – 996,164 318,236 1,314,400
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 203 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS CONTINUED
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY CONTINUED
31 December 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets measured at fair value
Total investment properties – – 246,398 246,398
Land – – 94,476 94,476
Residential properties – – 40,873 40,873
Non-residential properties – – 111,049 111,049
Investment securities – 902,419 1,448 903,867
Other assets – derivative financial assets – 42,212 – 42,212
Other assets – trading securities owned 1,977 – – 1,977
Total revalued property – – 228,365 228,365
Office buildings – – 96,455 96,455
Service centres – – 131,910 131,910
Assets for which fair values are disclosed
Cash and cash equivalents – 1,432,934 – 1,432,934
Amounts due from credit institutions – 731,365 – 731,365
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables – – 5,284,299 5,284,299
Liabilities measured at fair value:
Other liabilities – derivative financial liabilities – 3,243 – 3,243
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Client deposits and notes – – 4,777,093 4,777,093
Amounts owed to credit institutions – – 1,789,062 1,789,062
Debt securities issued – 938,894 131,621 1,070,515
31 December 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets measured at fair value
Total investment properties – – 190,860 190,860
Land – – 92,285 92,285
Residential properties – – 31,632 31,632
Non-residential properties – – 66,943 66,943
Investment securities – 768,300 1,412 769,712
Other assets – derivative financial assets – 45,733 – 45,733
Other assets – trading securities owned 1,034 – – 1,034
Total revalued property – – 223,547 223,547
Office buildings – – 112,082 112,082
Service centres – – 111,465 111,465
Assets for which fair values are disclosed
Cash and cash equivalents – 710,144 – 710,144
Amounts due from credit institutions – 418,281 – 418,281
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables – – 4,447,978 4,447,978
Liabilities measured at fair value
Other liabilities – derivative financial liabilities – 7,505 – 7,505
Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Client deposits and notes – – 3,366,109 3,366,109
Amounts owed to credit institutions – – 1,409,214 1,409,214
Debt securities issued – 779,445 77,250 856,695
The following is a description of the determination of fair value for financial instruments which are recorded at fair value using valuation techniques. 
These incorporate the Group’s estimate of assumptions that a market participant would make when valuing the instruments.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Derivative financial instruments valued using a valuation technique with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, currency swaps and 
forward foreign exchange contracts. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value 
calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates and 
interest rate curves.
TRADING SECURITIES AND INVESTMENT SECURITIES
Trading securities and a certain part of investment securities are quoted equity and debt securities. Investment securities valued using a valuation 
technique or pricing models consist of unquoted equity and debt securities. These securities are valued using models which sometimes only 
incorporate data observable in the market and at other times use both observable and non-observable data. The non-observable inputs to the 
models include assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the investee, its risk profile, and economic assumptions regarding the 
industry and geographical jurisdiction in which the investee operates. 204 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS CONTINUED
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY CONTINUED
ASSETS-HELD-FOR-SALE
In the fair value hierarchy table above is not included the assets-held-for-sale with a fair value of GEL 31,235. Assets-held-for-sale is sensitive to 
haircuts applied against comparative information, which vary from 0-15%. 15% Increase (decrease) in the existing haircuts will result in (decrease) 
increase in fair value by GEL 187k.
MOVEMENTS IN LEVEL 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE
The following tables show a reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts of Level 3 financial assets which are recorded at fair value:
At 
31 December
2013
Impairment
of
Investment
Purchase of
AFS
securities
At 
31 December
2014
Purchase
of AFS
securities
At 
31 December
2015
Other
Comprehensive
income
Reclassification
to associates
Purchase of
AFS
securities
At 
31 December
2016
Level 3 financial 
assets
Equity investment 
securities 
available-for-sale 5,222 (3,837) 27 1,412 36 1,448 9,626 (9,626) 949 2,397
MOVEMENTS IN LEVEL 3 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE
All investment properties and revalued properties of property and equipment are Level 3. Reconciliations of their opening and closing amounts are 
provided in Notes 11 and 12, respectively.
IMPACT ON FAIR VALUE OF LEVEL 3 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE OF CHANGES TO KEY ASSUMPTIONS
The following table shows the impact on the fair value of level 3 instruments of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions:
2016 2015 2014
Carrying
Amount
Effect of 
reasonably
possible 
alternative
assumptions
Carrying
Amount
Effect of 
reasonably
possible 
alternative
assumptions
Carrying
Amount
Effect of 
reasonably
possible
alternative
assumptions
Level 3 financial assets
Equity investment securities available-for-sale 2,397 +/- 359 1,448 +/- 217 1,412 +/- 212
In order to determine reasonably possible alternative assumptions the Group adjusted key unobservable model inputs as follows:
For equities, the Group adjusted the price-over-book-value multiple by increasing and decreasing the ratio by 10%, which is considered by the 
Group to be within a range of reasonably possible alternatives based on the price-over-book-value multiples used across peers within the same 
geographic area of the same industry.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 205 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS CONTINUED
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY CONTINUED
DESCRIPTION OF SIGNIFICANT UNOBSERVABLE INPUTS TO VALUATIONS OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
The following tables show descriptions of significant unobservable inputs to level 3 valuations of investment properties and revalued properties 
and equipment:
2016
Valuation
technique
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Range
(weighted
average)
Other key
information
Range
(weighted
average) Sensitivity of the input to fair value
Investment 
property
 288,227
Land 118,765 Market 
approach
Price per
square metre
51-1,332 
(457)
Square 
metres, 
land
8,165- 
230,398
(116,236)
Increase (decrease) in the price per square 
metre would result in increase (decrease)  
in fair value
Residential 
properties
 82,003 Market 
approach
Price per
square metre
933-1,939 
(1,405)
Square 
metres, 
building
80-3,251
(2,402)
Increase (decrease) in the price per square 
metre would result in increase (decrease)  
in fair value
Non-residential 
properties
 87,459            
 15,397
Market 
approach
Price
2.8-5.5mln 
(4.1mln)
Square 
metres,
land
8,383- 
18,635 
(11,826)
Increase (decrease) in the price would result  
in increase (decrease) in fair value
Square 
metres, 
building
2,293- 
6,702 
(3,774)
Rent per 
square metre
29.2-45.5 
(38.1)
Square 
metres, 
building
418-4,868 
(2,798)
Increase (decrease) in the rent price would 
result in increase (decrease) in fair value
 62,138
Income 
approach
Occupancy 
rate
35-90%  
(81%)
Increase (decrease) in the occupancy rate 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value
Average daily 
rate
12-218 
(26)
Increase (decrease) in the average daily rate 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value
Land price 
per square 
metre
34-67 
(57)
Square 
metres,  
land
7,939- 
13,946 
(9,672)
Increase (decrease) in the land price per 
square metre would result in increase 
(decrease) in fair value
 9,924 Cost 
approach
Depreciated 
replacement 
cost per 
square metre
366-1,054 
(778)
Square 
metres, 
building
836-1,639 
(1,851)
Increase (decrease) in the depreciated 
replacement cost per square metre would 
result in increase (decrease) in fair value 206 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
2016
Valuation
technique
Significant
unobservable
inputs
Range
(weighted
average)
Other key
information
Range
(weighted
average) Sensitivity of the input to fair value
Property and 
equipment
 936,739
Office buildings
 248,277
Income 
approach
Rent per
square
metre
53-108 
(83)
Square 
metres, 
building
243-17,647 
(12,670)
Increase (decrease) in the rent per square 
metre would result in increase (decrease)  
in fair value
Occupancy
Rate
60-95%  
(84%)
    Increase (decrease) in the occupancy rate 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value
Service centres 93,843            
 21,899
Market 
approach
Price per
square
metre
1,926-3,996
(3,170)
Square 
metres, 
building
66-1,589 
(1,076)
Increase (decrease) in the price per square 
metre would result in increase (decrease)  
in fair value
Rent per
square
metere
26.3-115.0
(52.4)
Square 
metres, 
building
196-2,283 
(952)
Increase (decrease) in the rent per square 
metre would result in increase (decrease)  
in fair value
 63,775
Income 
approach
Occupancy
Rate
40-95%  
(83%)
Increase (decrease) in the occupancy rate 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value
Average
daily rate
16-256 
(29)
Increase (decrease) in the average daily rate 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value
 8,169 Cost 
approach
Depretiated 
Replacement
cost per
square metre
501-501  
(501)
    Increase (decrease) in the depreciated 
replacement cost per square metre would 
result in increase (decrease) in fair value
Infrastructure 
assets
 193,566 
  Discounted 
cash flows 
(DCF)
WACC; 
terminal 
period 
growth rate
16.6% Pipes  
and wells, 
equipment
N/A increase (decrease) in terminal growth rate 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value; 
increase (decrease) in WACC would result in 
decrease (increase) in fair value
  Cost 
approach, 
Market 
approach
Unit costs, 
comparable 
prices, 
technical 
parameters
84     increase (decrease) in the price of comparable 
would result in increase (decrease) in fair value
Hospitals and 
clinics
 401,053 Market 
approach
Price per
square meter, 
land, building
3-1,106 Square 
meters, 
building
151-30,700 Increase (decrease) in the price per square 
metre would result in increase (decrease)  
in fair value
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OVERVIEW CONTINUED 207 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OVERVIEW CONTINUED
Set out below is an overview of all financial instruments, other than cash and short-term deposits, held by the Group as at 31 December 2016, 
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014:
31 December 2016
Loans and
receivables
Available-
for-sale
Fair value
through
profit or loss
Financial assets
Amounts due from credit institutions 1,054,983 – –
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 6,648,482 – –
Accounts receivable and other loans 128,506 – –
Equity instruments – 1,448 261
Debt instruments – 1,284,555 1,135
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments – – 1,466
TOTAL 7,831,971 1,286,003 2,862
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 5,382,698 – –
Amounts owed to credit institutions 3,470,091 – –
Debt securities issued 1,255,643 – –
Trade and other payables (in other liabilities) 171,519 – –
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments – – 9,411
TOTAL 10,279,951 – 9,411
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Loans and
receivables
Available-
for-sale
Fair value
through
profit or loss
Loans and
receivables
Available-
for-sale
Fair value
through
profit or loss
Financial assets
Amounts due from credit institutions 731,365 – – 418,281 – –
Loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables 5,322,117 – – 4,347,851 – –
Accounts receivable and other loans 87,972 – – 70,207 – –
Equity instruments – 1,448 1,505 – 1,412 41
Debt instruments – 902,419 472 – 768,300 993
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments – – 42,212 – – 45,733
TOTAL 6,141,454 903,867 44,189 4,836,339 769,712 46,767
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 4,751,387 – – 3,338,725 – –
Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,789,062 – – 1,409,214 – –
Debt securities issued 1,039,804 – – 856,695 – –
Trade and other payables (in other liabilities) 106,128 – – 57,295 – –
Foreign currency derivative financial instruments – – 3,243 – – 7,505
TOTAL 7,686,381 – 3,243 5,661,929 – 7,505 208 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS CONTINUED
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES NOT CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE
Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial 
statements. The table does not include the fair values of non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, or fair values of other smaller financials 
assets and financial liabilities, fair values of which are materially close to their carrying values.
Carrying
value 2016
Fair value
2016
Unrecognised
gain (loss) 2016
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,573,610 1,573,610 –
Amounts due from credit institutions 1,054,983 1,054,983 –
Loans to customers and finance lease receivables 6,648,482 6,725,662 77,180
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 5,382,698 5,388,768 (6,070)
Amounts owed to credit institutions 3,470,091 3,470,091 –
Debt securities issued 1,255,643 1,314,400 (58,757)
TOTAL UNRECOGNISED CHANGE IN UNREALISED FAIR VALUE 12,353
Carrying
value 2015
Fair value
2015
Unrecognised
loss 2015
Carrying
value 2014
Fair value
2014
Unrecognised
loss 2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,432,934 1,432,934 – 710,144 710,144 –
Amounts due from credit institutions 731,365 731,365 – 418,281 418,281 –
Loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables 5,322,117 5,284,299 (37,818) 4,347,851 4,447,978 100,127
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 4,751,387 4,777,093 (25,706) 3,338,725 3,366,109 (27,384)
Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,789,062 1,789,062 – 1,409,214 1,409,214 –
Debt securities issued 1,039,804 1,070,515 (30,711) 856,695 856,695 –
TOTAL UNRECOGNISED CHANGE IN 
UNREALISED FAIR VALUE (94,235) 72,743
The following describes the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for those financial instruments which are not already 
recorded at fair value in the consolidated financial statements.
ASSETS FOR WHICH FAIR VALUE APPROXIMATES CARRYING VALUE
For financial assets and financial liabilities that are liquid or have a short-term maturity (less than three months), it is assumed that the carrying 
amounts approximate to their fair value. This assumption is also applied to demand deposits, savings accounts without a specific maturity and 
variable rate financial instruments.
FIXED RATE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The fair value of fixed rate financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost are estimated by comparing market interest rates when they were 
first recognised with current market rates offered for similar financial instruments. The estimated fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits is based 
on discounted cash flows using prevailing money-market interest rates for debts with similar credit risk and maturity.
31. MATURITY ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
The table below shows an analysis of financial assets and liabilities according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled. See Note 29 
“Risk management” for the Group’s contractual undiscounted repayment obligations. 
2016
On 
Demand
Up to 
3 Months
Up to 
6 Months
Up to 
1 Year
Up to 
3 Years
Up to 
5 Years
Over 
5 Years Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  1,115,012  458,598 – – – – –  1,573,610 
Amounts due from credit institutions 944,403  14,334  19,913  69,842  5,094 –  1,397  1,054,983 
Investment securities 109,868  1,080,617  38,414  11,488  6,269  38,971  376  1,286,003 
Loans to customers and finance 
lease receivables –  1,124,962  501,429  1,520,939  1,765,099  810,045  926,008  6,648,482 
TOTAL 2,169,283  2,678,511  559,756  1,602,269  1,776,462  849,016  927,781  10,563,078 
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 1,004,823  876,865  550,296  2,462,509  408,091  54,055  26,059  5,382,698 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 330,899  1,373,489  176,065  358,190  582,783  299,309  349,356  3,470,091 
Debt securities issued –  82,247  34,338  70,208  271,276  87,892  709,682  1,255,643 
TOTAL 1,335,722  2,332,601  760,699  2,890,907  1,262,150  441,256  1,085,097  10,108,432 
NET 833,561  345,910  (200,943) (1,288,638) 514,312  407,760  (157,316) 454,646 
ACCUMULATED GAP 833,561  1,179,471  978,528  (310,110) 204,202  611,962  454,646  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 209 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
31. MATURITY ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED
2015
On 
Demand
Up to 
3 Months
Up to 
6 Months
Up to 
1 Year
Up to 
3 Years
Up to 
5 Years
Over 
5 Years Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  1,072,361  360,573 – – – – – 1,432,934 
Amounts due from credit institutions 617,673  702  28,338  82,393  309 – 1,950 731,365 
Investment securities 560,120  241,481  31,247  6,531  60,244  3,057  1,187  903,867 
Loans to customers and finance 
lease receivables – 796,765  537,690  1,024,619  1,586,728  705,152  671,163  5,322,117 
TOTAL 2,250,154  1,399,521  597,275  1,113,543  1,647,281  708,209  674,300  8,390,283 
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 847,003  810,072  541,142  2,008,160  444,591  80,012  20,407  4,751,387 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 92,617  528,644  108,023  247,414  403,528  139,573  269,263  1,789,062 
Debt securities issued – 51,457 – 53,703  934,644 – – 1,039,804 
TOTAL 939,620  1,390,173  649,165  2,309,277  1,782,763  219,585  289,670  7,580,253 
NET 1,310,534  9,348  (51,890) (1,195,734) (135,482) 488,624  384,630  810,030 
ACCUMULATED GAP 1,310,534  1,319,882  1,267,992  72,258  (63,224) 425,400  810,030  
2014
On 
Demand
Up to 
3 Months
Up to 
6 Months
Up to 
1 Year
Up to 
3 Years
Up to 
5 Years
Over 
5 Years Total
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents  691,573  18,571 – – – – – 710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 382,714  808  3,974  26,324  2,486 – 1,975  418,281 
Investment securities 327,846  383,657  7,361  9,698  34,008  1,966  5,176  769,712 
Loans to customers and finance 
lease receivables – 695,719  510,881  734,149  1,282,395  624,387  500,320  4,347,851 
TOTAL 1,402,133  1,098,755  522,216  770,171  1,318,889  626,353  507,471  6,245,988 
Financial liabilities
Client deposits and notes 272,235  603,510  366,000  1,686,080  355,892  39,995  15,013  3,338,725 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 32,951  582,882  63,704  153,848  314,313  152,742  108,774  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued – 45,864  28,930  43,425  738,476 – – 856,695 
TOTAL 305,186  1,232,256  458,634  1,883,353  1,408,681  192,737  123,787  5,604,634 
NET 1,096,947  (133,501) 63,582  (1,113,182) (89,792) 433,616  383,684  641,354 
ACCUMULATED GAP 1,096,947  963,446  1,027,028  (86,154) (175,946) 257,670  641,354 
The Group’s capability to discharge its liabilities relies on its ability to realise equivalent assets within the same period of time. In the Georgian 
marketplace, where most of the Group’s business is concentrated, many short-term credits are granted with the expectation of renewing the loans 
at maturity. As such, the ultimate maturity of assets may be different from the analysis presented above. To reflect the historical stability of current 
accounts, the Group calculates the minimal daily balance of current accounts over the past two years and includes the amount in the less than  
one year category in the table below. The remaining current accounts are included in the on demand category.
The Group’s principal sources of liquidity are as follows: 
• deposits; 
• borrowings from international credit institutions;
• inter-bank deposit agreement;
• debt issues; 
• proceeds from sale of securities;
• principal repayments on loans;
• interest income; and 
• fees and commissions income. 
As at 31 December 2016 client deposits and notes amounted to GEL 5,382,698 (2015: GEL 4,751,387, 2014: GEL 3,338,725) and represented  
51% (2015: 59%, 2014: 56%) of the Group’s total liabilities. These funds continue to provide a majority of the Group’s funding and represent a diversified 
and stable source of funds. As at 31 December 2016 amounts owed to credit institutions amounted to GEL 3,470,091 (2015: GEL 1,789,062,  
2014: GEL 1,409,214) and represented 33% (2015: 22%, 2014: 24%) of total liabilities. As at 31 December 2016 debt securities issued amounted  
to GEL 1,255,643 (2015: GEL 1,039,804, 2014: GEL 856,695) and represented 12% (2015: 13%, 2014: 14%) of total liabilities.
In the Board’s opinion, liquidity is sufficient to meet the Group’s present requirements. 210 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
31. MATURITY ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or settled:
31 December 2016
Less than
1 year
More than
1 year Total
Cash and cash equivalents 1,573,610 – 1,573,610
Amounts due from credit institutions 1,048,492 6,491 1,054,983
Investment securities 1,240,387 45,616 1,286,003
Loans to customers and finance lease 3,147,330 3,501,152 6,648,482
Accounts receivable and other loans 128,222 284 128,506
Insurance premiums receivable 46,379 44 46,423
Prepayments 57,465 18,812 76,277
Inventories 88,375 99,969 188,344
Investment properties – 288,227 288,227
Property and equipment – 1,323,870 1,323,870
Goodwill – 106,986 106,986
Intangible assets – 58,907 58,907
Income tax assets 22,329 1,714 24,043
Other assets 137,258 47,534 184,792
TOTAL ASSETS 7,489,847 5,499,606 12,989,453
Client deposits and notes 4,894,493 488,205 5,382,698
Amounts owed to credit institutions 2,238,643 1,231,448 3,470,091
Debt securities issued 186,793 1,068,850 1,255,643
Accruals and deffered income 58,726 71,593 130,319
Insurance contracts liabilities 62,247 5,624 67,871
Income tax liabilities 5,548 22,243 27,791
Other liabilities 213,063 18,559 231,622
TOTAL LIABILITIES 7,659,513 2,906,522 10,566,035
NET (169,666) 2,593,084 2,423,418
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
Less than 
1 year
More than 
1 year Total
Less than 
1 year
More than 
1 year Total
Cash and cash equivalents 1,432,934 –  1,432,934  710,144 –  710,144 
Amounts due from credit institutions 729,106  2,259  731,365  413,820  4,461  418,281 
Investment securities 839,379  64,488  903,867  728,562  41,150  769,712 
Loans to customers and finance 
lease receivables 2,359,074  2,963,043  5,322,117  1,940,749  2,407,102  4,347,851 
Accounts receivable and other loans 87,955  17  87,972  70,207 –  70,207 
Insurance premiums receivable 39,177  49  39,226  31,764  76  31,840 
Prepayments  25,371  32,957  58,328  17,848  15,926  33,774 
Inventories 98,387  28,640  127,027  30,184  71,258  101,442 
Investment properties –  246,398  246,398 –  190,860  190,860 
Property and equipment –  794,682  794,682 –  588,513  588,513 
Goodwill –  72,984  72,984 –  49,633  49,633 
Intangible assets –  40,516  40,516 –  34,432  34,432 
Income tax assets 3,654  17,896  21,550 –  22,745  22,745 
Other assets 106,129  130,644  236,773  88,734  120,977  209,711 
TOTAL ASSETS 5,721,166  4,394,573  10,115,739  4,032,012  3,547,133  7,579,145 
Client deposits and notes 4,206,377  545,010  4,751,387  2,927,825  410,900  3,338,725 
Amounts owed to credit institutions 976,698  812,364  1,789,062  833,385  575,829  1,409,214 
Debt securities issued  105,160  934,644  1,039,804  118,219  738,476  856,695 
Accruals and deffered income 113,134  33,718  146,852  36,241  72,382  108,623 
Insurance contracts liabilities 51,273  4,572  55,845  43,166  3,420  46,586 
Income tax liabilities 20,083  104,312  124,395  11,093  86,471  97,564 
Other liabilities 120,082  14,674  134,756  49,422  38,223  87,645 
TOTAL LIABILITIES 5,592,807  2,449,294  8,042,101  4,019,351  1,925,701  5,945,052 
NET 128,359  1,945,279  2,073,638  12,661  1,621,432  1,634,093 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 211 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Financial
statements
32. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES 
In accordance with IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”, parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or 
exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operational decisions. In considering each possible related party relationship, 
attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form. 
Related parties may enter into transactions which unrelated parties might not, and transactions between related parties may not be effected on the 
same terms, conditions and amounts as transactions between unrelated parties. All transactions with related parties disclosed below have been 
conducted on an arm’s length basis. 
The volumes of related party transactions, outstanding balances at the year end, and related expenses and income for the year are as follows: 
2016 2015 2014
Share-
holders* Associates
Key
management
personnel**
Share-
holders* Associates
Key
management
personnel**
Share-
holders* Associates
Key
management
personnel**
LOANS OUTSTANDING AT 
1 JANUARY, GROSS – 13,541 1,258 – 78,592 2,048 – – 1,484
Loans issued during the year – 337 2,035 – 4,000 4,511 – 85,933 4,853
Loan repayments during the year – (640) (1,236) – (84,033) (6,188) – (16,376) (4,474)
Other movements – 2,009 (51) – 14,982 887 – 9,035 185
LOANS OUTSTANDING AT 
31 DECEMBER, GROSS – 15,247 2,006 – 13,541 1,258 – 78,592 2,048
Less: allowance for impairment at 
31 December – – – – (116) – – (743) (1)
LOANS OUTSTANDING AT 
31 DECEMBER, NET – 15,247 2,006 – 13,425 1,258 – 77,849 2,047
Interest income on loans – 1,243 148 – 3,986 173 – 1,767 86
Loan impairment charge – – – – – – – (743) –
DEPOSITS AT 1 JANUARY – 1,419 20,129 – 4,975 17,500 – 50 11,455
Deposits received during the year – 1,163 14,447 – 195,316 40,774 – 132,087 33,646
Deposits repaid during the year – – (446) – (199,048) (41,548) – (128,859) (31,225)
Other movements – (1,341) (5,711) – 176 3,403 – 1,697 3,624
DEPOSITS AT 31 DECEMBER – 1,241 28,419 – 1,419 20,129 – 4,975 17,500
Interest expense on deposits – – (614) – (33) (477) – (2) (513)
Other income – – 115 – 15 77 – 2 92
BORROWINGS AT 1 JANUARY – – – – – – 233,209 – –
Borrowings received during the year – – – – – – – – –
Borrowings repaid during the year – – – – – – 1,453 – –
Other movements – – – – – – (234,662) – –
BORROWINGS AT 31 DECEMBER – – – – – – – – –
Interest expense on borrowings – – – – – – (6,750) – –
INTEREST RATE SWAPS AT 
1 JANUARY – – – – – – 1,453 – –
Payments during the year – – – – – – (1,453) – –
Other movements – – – – – – – – –
INTEREST RATE SWAPS AT 
31 DECEMBER – – – – – – – – –
Net loss from interest rate swaps – – – – – – – – –
* On 24 February 2012 the EBRD and IFC utilised the equity conversion feature of subordinated convertible loans, becoming shareholders of the Group and sold their shares in 2014. 
** Key management personnel include members of BGEO’s Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and Deputies of the Bank. 
Details of Directors’ emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 113. Compensation of key management personnel 
comprised the following:
2016 2015 2014
Salaries and other benefits 7,735 6,464 4,143
Share-based payments compensation* 40,679 19,435 14,763
Social security costs 51 55 43
TOTAL KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION 48,465 25,954 18,949
* Share-based payments compensation includes termination benefits in the amount of GEL 9,820 for key management personnel reflected in the non-recurring items Note 27. 
Key management personnel do not receive cash settled compensation, except for fixed salaries. The major part of the total compensation is 
share-based (Note 28). The number of key management personnel at 31 December 2016 was 18 (31 December 2015: 16, 31 December 2014: 16). 212 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
33. CAPITAL ADEQUACY 
The Group maintains an actively managed capital base to cover risks inherent in the business. The adequacy of the Group’s capital is monitored 
using, among other measures, the ratios established by the NBG in supervising the Bank. 
Approved and published on 28 October 2013 by NBG, new capital adequacy regulation became effective in 2014, based on Basel II/III 
requirements, adjusted for NBG’s discretionary items. Pillar I requirements became effective on 30 June 2014, with Pillar II (ICAAP) requirements 
becoming effective 30 June 2015. A transition period is to continue through 31 December 2017, during which the Bank will be required to comply 
with both the new, and the current, capital regulations of the NBG. 
During year ended 31 December 2016, the Bank and the Group complied in full with all its externally imposed capital requirements. 
The primary objectives of the Group’s capital management are to ensure that the Bank complies with externally imposed capital requirements and 
that the Group maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholders’ value. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its 
activities. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders or issue capital securities. No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes from the previous years. 
NBG CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO 
The NBG requires banks to maintain a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 10.8% of risk-weighted assets, computed based on the Bank’s  
stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with NBG regulations and pronouncements. As at 31 December 2016, 
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, the Bank’s capital adequacy ratio on this basis was as follows: 
2016 2015 2014
Core capital 676,692 728,139 895,318
Supplementary capital 669,940 649,607 398,598
Less: deductions from capital (79,059) (60,311) (365,487)
TOTAL REGULATORY CAPITAL 1,267,573 1,317,435 928,429
RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 9,360,857 7,811,398 6,719,169
TOTAL CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO 13.5% 16.9% 13.8%
Core capital comprises share capital, additional paid-in capital and retained earnings (without current period profits), less intangible assets and 
goodwill. Supplementary capital includes subordinated long-term debt, current period profits and general loss provisions. Deductions from the 
capital include investments in subsidiaries. Certain adjustments are made to IFRS-based results and reserves, as prescribed by the NBG.
NEW NBG (BASEL II/III) CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO
Effective 30 June 2014, the NBG requires banks to maintain a minimum total capital adequacy ratio of 10.5% of risk-weighted assets, computed 
based on the Bank’s stand-alone special purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with NBG regulations and pronouncements, based 
on Basel II/III requirements. As at 31 December 2016 the Bank’s capital adequacy ratio on this basis was as follows:
2016 2015 2014
Tier 1 capital 892,613 914,784 800,465
Tier 2 capital 519,726 479,176 217,100
TOTAL CAPITAL 1,412,339 1,393,960 1,017,565
RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS 9,790,282 8,363,369 7,204,080
TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO 14.4% 16.7% 14.1%
Tier 1 capital comprises share capital, additional paid-in capital and retained earnings, less investments in subsidiaries, intangible assets and 
goodwill. Tier 2 capital includes subordinated long-term debt and general loss provisions. Certain adjustments are made to IFRS-based results and 
reserves, as prescribed by the NBG.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 213 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
34. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 
JSC ABC PHARMACY ACQUISITION
On 6 January 2017 the Group acquired 67% of the shares of JSC ABC Pharmacy (ABC), a pharmaceuticals company operating in Georgia from 
individual investors. As a result of acquisition, the Group increased its presence and investment in the Georgian healthcare market through the 
acquisition of ABC. Management considers that the deal will have a positive impact on the value of the Group. Subsequent to acquisition, GHG will 
merge ABC with GPC, the existing pharmaceuticals subsidiary of the Group, and the name of the merged company will be JSC Georgian Pharmacy 
(GEPHA).
Consideration comprised cash payment of GEL 32,554, a holdback amount with a fair value of GEL 30,041 (payable in five traches over the five-year 
period) and non-cash consideration comprising 33% shares in GPC. In accordance with the terms of the deal, the selling shareholders are required 
to invest 33% of cash proceeds from sale of ABC in GHG shares that will be locked up during the three years following the purchase. In addition, the 
Group and the selling shareholders entered in a call and put options over remaining 33% minority stake in the combined pharma business. Upon 
exercise of either option, 33% of the cash proceeds received by the selling shareholders will be used to purchase GHG shares, with a lock-up that 
expires annually in a straight line over two years.
Provisionally estimated unaudited net assets of ABC at acquisition date comprised GEL 39,937. The goodwill is expected to arise from the acquisition 
consisting largely of the synergy that is expected to be brought into the Group’s operations. The Group continues a thorough examination of the net 
assets and if identified, adjustments will be made to the net assets and amount of the goodwill and accounting for business combination will be 
complete during the 12-month period from the acquisition date, as allowed by IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”.
DE-DOLLARISATION PROGRAMME
On 11 January 2017, the Government of Georgia approved a “de-dollarisation” programme. The purpose of the programme is to increase the 
disposable income of individuals, reduce their dependency on foreign exchange rate fluctuations and promote financial stability in Georgia. Under  
the programme rules, all Georgian commercial banks were required to convert eligible Dollar-denominated loans into GEL, at a discount that is 
compensated by the Government, until 25 March 2017 at clients’ sole discretion, i.e. clients had an option to convert the loans at their own will. 
Additionally, NBG introduced new regulation, according to which, borrowings that are less than GEL 100 thousands would be issued in local 
currency effective from 15 January 2017. The conversion programme did not affect the Group’s 2017 financial results significantly and the Group  
is currently assessing long-term business impact of the de-dollarisation initiative. 214 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB Asian Development Bank
AFS Available-for-sale
AGM Annual General Meeting
ALCO Asset and Liability Committee
AML Anti-money laundering
ATMs Automated teller machines
WM Wealth Management
BGH Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC
BIS Bank for International Settlement
BNB Belarusky Narodny Bank 
CAGR Compounded annual growth rate
CAR Capital Adequacy ratio
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CRO Chief Risk Officer
DCFTA Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement
DEG Deutsche Investitions – und Entwicklungsgesellschaft 
– German Investment and Development Corporation
DFI Development Finance Institutions
EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction  
and Development
EECP Executives’ Equity Compensation Plan
EFSE European Fund For Southeast Europe
EIB European Investment Bank
EPS Earnings per share
ESMS Environmental and Social Risk  
Management Procedures
EUR Euro
EY Ernst & Young
FDI Foreign direct investment
FMO Financierings-Maatschappij voor 
Ontwikkelingslanden: The Netherlands  
Development Bank
FMS Financial Monitoring Services
FRC Financial Reporting Council
GBP Great British Pound, national currency of the UK
GDP Gross domestic product
GDRs Global Depositary Receipts
GEL Georgian Lari or Lari, national currency of Georgia
GHG Georgia Healthcare Group
GLC Georgian Leasing Company
IAS International Accounting Standards
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IMF International Monetary Fund
IFC International Finance Corporation
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF International Monetary Fund
IRR Internal Rate of Return
IT Information technology
JSC Joint stock company
KfW Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
KPIs Key performance indicators
LCR  Liquidity Coverage ratio
LSE London Stock Exchange
MFC My Family Clinic 215 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
MSME Micro, small and medium enterprise
NBG National Bank of Georgia
NBRB National Bank of the Republic of Belarus
NGO Non-governmental organisation
NIM Net Interest Margin
NMF Not meaningful to present
NPLs Non-performing loans
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation  
and Development
OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control
PA Personal accident
P&C Property & Casualty
PLC  Public limited company
POS Point of Sale
PPP Purchasing power parity
ROAA Return on Average Assets
ROAE Return on Average Equity
SMEs Small and medium size enterprises
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland
US$ The Dollar, national currency of the  
United States of America
VAR Value at Risk
WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital 216 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
GLOSSARY
Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) The core risk-management body that establishes policies and guidelines 
with respect to various aspects of risk-management strategy
Asian Development Bank (ADB) of countries in Asia A regional development bank established to facilitate economic 
development
Average Interest Earning Assets Interest-earning assets include: fixed income investment and trading 
securities, amounts due from credit institutions and loans to customers 
and finance lease receivables
Basic EPS Profit for the period from operations attributable to shareholders of the 
Group divided by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary 
shares over the same period
Belarusky Narodny Bank (BNB) Belarusian banking subsidiary of Bank of Georgia Group
BIS Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio Tier I Capital divided by total risk-weighted assets, both calculated  
in accordance with the requirements of Basel Accord I
BIS Total Capital Adequacy ratio Total Capital divided by total risk-weighted assets, both calculated  
in accordance with the requirements of Basel Accord I
Book value per share Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Group divided by ordinary 
shares outstanding at period end; net ordinary shares outstanding 
equals total number of ordinary shares outstanding at period end less 
number of treasury shares at period end
Constant currency basis Changes assuming constant exchange rate 
Cost of Funding Interest expense of the period (adjusted for the gains or losses from 
revaluation of interest rate derivatives) divided by monthly average 
interest-bearing liabilities; interest-bearing liabilities include: amounts due 
to credit institutions, amounts due to customers, debt securities issued 
and interest rate derivatives
Cost to Income ratio Operating expenses divided by revenue
Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) Development finance institutions established (or chartered) by more than 
one country which are subject to international law and whose owners or 
shareholders are generally national Governments, including, among 
others, the EBRD, IFC, ADB, etc.
Environmental and Social Policy A policy adopted by the BGH Board of Directors in 2012
EVEX JSC Medical Corporation EVEX holds the Group’s healthcare subsidiaries
Express banking A wide array of services and products including Express branches, 
Express cards and Express Pay terminals, aimed at attracting mass-
market customers
Express branch A small-format branch offering predominantly transactional banking 
services through ATMs and Express Pay terminals
Express card A contactless card with a loyalty programme linked to the customer’s 
current account, which can also be used for transport payments
Express Metro branches Express branches in metro stations in Tbilisi
Express Pay (self-service) terminal A payment terminal enabling customers to make various payments 
remotely including utility bill payments and loan repayments at a wide 
variety of locations
Galt & Taggart Former BG Capital
Georgian Leasing Company (GLC) The Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary through which it provides finance 
leasing services
Geostat National Statistics Office of Georgia
Global Depositary Receipt (GDR) A certificate issued by a depositary bank, which represents ownership  
of an underlying number of shares
Gross loans In all sections of the Annual Report, except for the consolidated financial 
statements, gross loans are defined as gross loans to customers and 
gross finance lease receivables
International Finance Corporation (IFC) A member of the World Bank Group, the largest global development 
institution focused exclusively on the private sector in developing countries 217 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) German Government-owned development bank
Liberty Consumer A Georgia-focused investment company in which the Group holds a 
70% stake
Loan Yield Interest income from loans to customers and finance lease receivables 
divided by average gross loans to customers and finance lease 
receivables
m
2
 Real Estate Real Estate business of the Group, formerly known as SB Real Estate
Market share(s) Market share data is based on the information provided by the National 
Bank of Georgia. For Bank of Georgia, market share represents market 
share based on total assets as of 31 December 2014 (unless noted 
otherwise) on a stand-alone basis. For Aldagi, market share is provided 
based on the gross insurance premium revenue as of 31 December 2014
Net Interest Margin (NIM) Net interest income of the period (adjusted for the gains or losses from 
revaluation of interest rate derivatives) divided by average interest-
earning assets for the same period
Net loans In all sections of the Annual Report, except for the consolidated audited 
financial statements, net loans are defined as gross loans to customers 
and finance lease receivables less allowance for impairment
New NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio Tier I Capital divided by total risk weighted assets, both calculated  
in accordance with the requirements the National Bank of Georgia 
instructions
New NBG (Basel 2/3) Total Capital Adequacy ratio Total capital divided by total risk weighted assets, both calculated  
in accordance with the requirements of the National Bank of Georgia 
instructions
Non-performing loans (NPLs) The principal and interest on loans overdue for more than 90 days and 
any additional potential losses estimated by management
Operating cost Equals operating expenses
Operating leverage Percentage change in revenue less percentage change in operating 
expenses
Proparco A subsidiary of the Agence Française de Développement (AFD)
Reserve for loan losses to gross loans Allowance for impairment of loans and finance lease receivables divided 
by gross loans and finance lease receivables
Return on Average Total Assets (ROAA) Profit for the period divided by monthly Average Total Assets for the 
same period
Return on Average Total Equity (ROAE) Profit for the period attributable to shareholders of the Group divided by 
monthly average equity attributable to shareholders of the Bank for the 
same period
Weighted average number of ordinary shares Average of daily outstanding number of shares less daily outstanding 
number of treasury shares
Weighted average diluted number of ordinary shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares plus weighted average 
dilutive number of shares known to the management during the  
same period 218 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
OUR WEBSITE
All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the 
Annual Report, presentations to investors, key financial information, 
regulatory news, share and dividend data, AGM documentation and 
other significant information about BGEO at http://www.bgeo.com.
OUR REGISTERED ADDRESS
BGEO Group PLC
84 Brook Street
London W1K 5EH
United Kingdom
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of BGEO (the “AGM”) will be held at  
12 noon (London time) on 1 June 2017 at Baker & McKenzie LLP , 100 
New Bridge Street, London EC4V 6JA. Details of the business to be 
conducted at the AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be 
mailed to shareholders on or about 2 May 2017 and will be available on 
the BGEO’s website: http://bgeo.com/page/id/83/shareholder-meetings.
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
BGEO’s share register is maintained by Computershare Investor  
Services PLC.
Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares,  
such as change of address or change of ownership, should be directed 
to the address or telephone number immediately below. Holders of 
ordinary shares may also check details of their shareholding, subject  
to passing an identity check, by visiting the Registrar’s website:  
www.investorcentre.co.uk or by calling the Shareholder Helpline  
on +44 (0)370 873 5866.
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
United Kingdom
+44 (0)870 873 5866
DIVIDENDS
On 20 February 2017, the Directors of BGEO declared their intention  
to recommend an annual dividend in the amount of GEL 2.6 per share 
(payable in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate), subject to 
approval by the shareholders at BGEO’s AGM. As a holding company 
whose principal assets are the shares of its subsidiaries, BGEO relies 
primarily on dividends and other statutorily and contractually permissible 
payments from its subsidiaries, principally the Bank, to generate reserves 
necessary to pay dividends to its shareholders.
If the annual dividend is approved at BGEO’s AGM on 1 June 2017, 
BGEO expects the following dividend timetable:
Ex-Dividend Date: 22 June 2017
Record Date: 23 June 2017
Currency Conversion Date: 26 June 2017
Payment Date: 7 July 2017
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this Annual Report and Accounts contain 
forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements 
concerning expectations, projections, objectives, targets, goals, 
strategies, future events, future revenues or performance, capital 
expenditures, financing needs, plans or intentions relating to acquisitions, 
competitive strengths and weaknesses, plans or goals relating to 
financial position and future operations and development. Although 
BGEO Group PLC believes that the expectations and opinions reflected 
in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can  
be given that such expectations and opinions will prove to have been 
correct. By their nature, these forward-looking statements are subject to 
a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies, 
and actual results and events could differ materially from those currently 
being anticipated as reflected in such statements. Important factors that 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied in forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our 
control, and certain of which include, among other things, those 
described in “Principal risks and uncertainties” included in this Annual 
Report and Accounts, see pages 36 to 39. No part of these results  
or report constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or 
inducement to invest in BGEO Group PLC or any other entity and  
must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment 
decision. BGEO Group PLC undertakes no obligation to update any 
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.  
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast. 219 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
NOTES 220 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
NOTES  BGEO Group Annual Report 2017
