 BONMARCHÉ HOLDINGS PLC
Annual Report 2016
BONMARCHÉ HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report 2016
Feel fabulous with Bonmarche As we focus on attracting new customers with 
a more contemporary Bonmarché, our core 
proposition remains unchanged. 
Building on our brand promise, our proposition 
continues to be the destination multi-channel 
retailer for women over 50, helping more and 
more women feel fabulous.
Making women 
feel fabulous
FIND OUT MORE AT:
www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk
INTERIM DIVIDEND PER SHARE
2.50p
FINAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE
4.64p
TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR FY16 
PER SHARE
7.14p Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
01
Strategic Report
01 Highlights
02 At a glance
04  Chairman’ s Statement
06  Chief Executive’s Report
14  Business model 
and strategy
15  Our vision
16  Key performance 
indicators
18  Risks and risk 
management
20  V iability
21 Financial Review
24  Corporate social 
responsibility
Corporate Governance
28  Chairman’ s intr oduction 
to governance
30 Board of Directors
31  T rading Boar d
32  Corporate 
Governance Report
36  Nomination 
Committee Report
37  Audit Committee Report
40  Statement from 
the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
42  Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
59  Directors’ Report
62  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
Financial Statements
63  Independent 
Auditor’s Report
69  Consolidated 
income statement
69  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive 
income
70  Consolidated and 
Company balance 
sheets
71  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
72  Company statement 
of changes in equity
73  Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
74  Notes to the 
financial statements
Shareholders’ 
Information
100  Shar eholders’ 
information
Highlights
Operational highlights
The Bonmarché brand modernisation journey continues to evolve, centred on our 
five strategic pillars to drive growth:
Brand and consumer:
• Increased number of ‘active’ and ‘high value, high loyal’ customers in the Bonus Club
• Launched new partnership with new brand ambassador, Mark Heyes
Product development:
• Improved size availability, resulting in 15% sales growth across leisurewear, trousers, 
skirts and lingerie
• Continued strategic focus on the ‘de-weathering’ of coats and knitwear ranges 
and new range of clothing developed, ‘wardrobe favourites’
Channels to market:
• Opened a net 20 new locations, contributing to £4.7m additional sales
• Ongoing replacement of store fascias, due for completion FY17
• Improved stock delivery service to stores 
Systems and processes: 
• Electronic point-of-sale (‘EPOS’) technology upgrade on track for completion 
by late autumn FY17
People and culture: 
• Ranked 19th in The Sunday Times’ ‘Best Large Companies to Work For’ survey
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£10.6m
-14.5%
FY14 £11.2m
FY15 £12.4m
FY16 £10.6m
BASIC EPS
16.1p
-22.2%
FY14 23.4p
FY15 20.7p
FY16 16.1p
NET CASH
£12.4m
+£2.2m
FY14 £7.8m
FY15 £10.2m
FY16 £12.4m
UNDERLYING BASIC EPS
18.3p
-11.6%
FY14 18.6p
FY15 20.7p
FY16 18.3p
REVENUE
£188.0m
+5.3%
FY14 £164.3m
FY15 £178.6m
FY16 £188.0m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£9.6m
-22.9%
FY14 £8.0m
FY15 £12.4m
FY16 £9.6m
Financial highlights Annual Report 2016
02
At a glance
Feel fabulous 
with Bonmarché
We are one of the UK’s largest multi-channel 
retailers of stylish, quality and affordable clothing 
for women over 50.
Understanding 
our customers
We place great emphasis on 
knowing what our customers 
want – appropriate, stylish 
and quality products at 
fantastic prices underpinned 
by outstanding service. 
Our Bonus Club loyalty 
card scheme is a valuable 
asset. It offers benefits to 
the members, and provides 
us with insight into customer 
preferences and spending 
patterns. The data helps us 
to serve our customers better.
Trusted brand
We are dedicated to serving 
the mature female customer. 
Bonmarché is a brand that 
our customers can trust to 
provide style appropriate, 
quality products at 
fantastic prices.
We offer a comprehensive 
range that is designed 
in-house to offer the 
right balance of style, 
fit and value.
3.4%
Share of UK 
women ’s value 
clothing market Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
03
Talented and 
dedicated colleagues
Our committed and 
experienced colleagues 
provide friendly and helpful 
service that our customers 
love – it’s one of the things 
we are known for. 
Our values act as 
guiding principles:
• Respect
• Integrity
• Friendly service
• Professionalism
Developing a truly 
multi-channel 
proposition
‘Shop the way you want’ 
– we offer different ways to 
shop – online, catalogue, 
TV and telephone.
We have 312 stores across 
the UK, in convenient, 
accessible locations.
312
Stores across 
the UK
3,462
Dedicated employees Annual Report 2016
04
Chairman ’s Statement
John Coleman Chairman
Bonmarché’s fundamental proposition 
is to be the destination multi-channel 
retailer for women who want age 
appropriate, stylish, quality clothing 
at fantastic prices with outstanding 
service. Whilst the year was challenging, 
we see strong ongoing demand for what 
we offer, and those challenges have 
helped us focus on the need to increase 
our pace of continuing improvement. 
We have put in place the strategy and 
the capability to achieve this.
Performance for the year 
It was an unusually difficult year. 
The external trading environment was 
particularly tough; the shopping habits 
of Bonmarché’s customers are significantly 
influenced by weather, and for much of 
FY16 it gave them little reason to make 
seasonal purchases, which anecdotally 
has been reflected in the performance 
of other similar retailers. 
I believe that we have learned important 
lessons from last year and are now 
focused on implementing self-help 
measures to improve our performance. 
We are also ensuring that we adapt to 
the rapidly changing way our customers 
see the world – their lifestyles, fashion 
preferences and ways of browsing 
and shopping.
We placed much emphasis during 
the period on continuing to develop 
the Bonmarché brand and bringing it 
to the attention of new customers. The 
majority of our stores are now fronted by 
updated fascias showing new branding, 
and we ran a TV advertising campaign 
during the autumn. ‘Bonmarché’ continues 
to be the focus of this brand development, 
and I am delighted that TV fashion 
presenter Mark Heyes will be working 
with us as an ambassador to help tell new 
customers about us, whilst reinforcing the 
brand’s credentials with existing customers. 
Improvement to the product range 
will continue to be pivotal, and I am 
delighted that Geraldine Higgins joined 
us as Product Director in January of 
this year to lead that process.
During last year, we also started 
to focus on and plan a number 
of projects to modernise business 
processes and practices, and improve 
the capability of our people and 
systems. The implementation of this 
business change process will begin 
this year, and will be a key enabler of 
the successful delivery of the other 
parts of our wider strategy.
The financial position of the business 
continues to be very sound, with no net 
debt and a balance sheet which provides 
a stable platform for the future.
Bonmarché’s employees have worked 
tirelessly, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank them for their 
continued support and hard work. 
The Board
On 16 December 2015, we announced 
that Beth Butterwick would be leaving 
the Company. Beth’s contribution to 
Bonmarché has been highly valued and 
I would like to express my thanks for her 
hard work since joining in 2011. Beth will 
leave later in 2016 and I wish her well in 
her future endeavours. I am delighted 
that Helen Connolly will be joining the 
Company to lead the business in its 
next phase of development. Helen has 
extensive relevant retail experience, most 
recently working at Asda, where she was 
Senior Buying Director for the George 
clothing business. Helen will join the 
Company and the Board later in the year. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
05
There have been further changes 
to the Board since the end of the 
financial year. To support our effective 
governance as we embark upon the 
business change programme noted 
previously, Mark McClennon joined 
us as an independent Non-executive 
Director on 8 April 2016. Mark is 
currently Global Vice President for IT 
at Unilever plc, and I believe that we will 
benefit enormously from his experience 
and wisdom as we progress with the 
change agenda. On the same date, 
Sun’s nominee director, Sergei 
Spiridonov, replaced Michael Kalb as 
a non-independent Non-executive 
Director. Michael will continue his 
association with the Company as a 
Board Observer.
Corporate governance
On 19 October 2015 the Company 
moved from the AIM market to the 
Official List of the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange. As 
a consequence we are required 
to report on how we have applied 
the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 (the ‘Code’). 
Following the step up to the Official List, 
the Company was required to appoint 
an additional Non-executive Director 
to serve on the Board and to comply 
with the Code requirement in relation 
to committee membership. Mark 
McClennon was appointed as an 
independent Non-executive Director 
on 8 April 2016 and he has also joined 
the Remuneration, Audit and 
Nomination Committees. 
The Code’s ‘comply or explain’ approach 
permits listed companies some degree of 
flexibility to apply governance principles 
other than in strict accordance with 
the Code, for example, to take account 
of differences in business size and 
complexity. I believe that we are making 
good progress towards being fully 
compliant with the Code, led by our 
strong and experienced Board.
Dividend 
As a sign of its confidence in our ability 
to navigate these challenging times, 
the Board is pleased to recommend a 
final dividend of 4.64 pence per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year 
to 7.14 pence per share, a 5.0% increase 
over the previous year. If approved by 
shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2016, 
the final dividend will be paid on 
5 August 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 24 June 2016.
Outlook
The market niche in which we compete 
continues to represent an opportunity 
to gain market share from less focused 
competitors. I believe in our strategy 
to deliver successfully our five pillars 
of growth (described further in the 
Chief Executive’s Report), and in the 
ability of our colleagues to execute it. 
The beginning of FY17 has continued to 
be tough due to poor weather; however, 
our full-year expectation is unchanged 
provided trading conditions normalise.
John Coleman
Chairman
10 June 2016 Annual Report 2016
06 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
07
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
Total revenue growth for the full year 
was 5.3%, from £178.6m to £188.0m. 
Like-for-like (‘LFL ’) sales grew by 0.7% 
and online sales grew by 3.6%. In line 
with our revised expectations, profit 
before tax (‘PBT’) was £9.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 22.9% 
on the prior year, and underlying PBT 
(PBT before exceptional items) was 
£10.6m (FY15: £12.4m), a decrease 
of 14.5% on the prior year.
The results reflect the challenging 
trading experienced throughout both 
the winter and spring seasons, which 
impacted normal footfall patterns and 
consumers’ propensity to buy seasonal 
ranges. However, we have emerged 
from this tough period focused on five 
key strategies that form the pillars of 
our forward growth and modernisation 
programme. Internally we are now 
concentrating on several areas where 
we expect to deliver significant 
improvements for the benefit 
of our customers.
The difficult trading conditions, widely 
reported across the retail sector, made 
sales growth harder to achieve. It was 
therefore necessary to place greater 
emphasis on cost levels, whilst taking 
care not to reduce investment essential 
for growth. I have been impressed at 
our teams’ ability to maintain a tight 
control on costs particularly through 
the second half of our financial year, 
which has mitigated the effect of trading 
on profitability. The Group’s financial 
position remains sound and we enter 
the new financial year with a strong 
balance sheet.
This is my final Annual Report at 
Bonmarché, and I am confident that 
I will leave the business with a robust 
modernisation plan and a depth of 
experience and expertise within the 
business to execute it over the 
coming years. 
Trading review
Sales (in this report we will refer to 
revenue as ‘sales’) for the year increased 
by 5.3%, with store-only LFL sales 
increasing by 0.7%. Our market share 
(of the UK’s 50+ women’s value clothing 
market, as measured by Kantar) ended 
the year at 3.4%, which was a 0.1% 
decrease on the previous year. 
During the first half of the year, sales 
increased by 6.5% with LFL store sales 
up 2.0% and online sales up by 4.2%, 
compared to H1 in the previous year. 
As has been well reported, the cooler 
extended summer suppressed demand 
in traditional categories such as dresses, 
T-shirts and swimwear and, as a result 
of this, customers continued to stay 
away from the high street, which also 
affected Bonmarché.
In the second half of the year, total sales 
growth slowed to 4.1%. Store LFL sales 
declined by 0.6% and online sales grew 
by 3.1% compared with the previous 
year. The recurring theme of a lacklustre 
summer remained a hindrance into the 
autumn, and record mild temperatures 
were recorded into December. In the 
early part of the autumn, our strategy 
to ‘de-weather’ our coats and knitwear 
departments worked well. However, we 
had planned for these ranges to reach 
more normalised volumes by November 
and due to unseasonable conditions this 
did not materialise. Affected by the 
same conditions, the competition 
started implementing heavy discounts 
from the Black Friday period onwards, 
which made it harder to achieve sales 
at normal prices. 
Post-Christmas, the final quarter of this 
financial year started well as we saw 
LFL sales grow 12.1% during January, 
due to a strong demand for sale items. 
However, with the unhelpful effects of 
a long period of cold, wet weather this 
spring, this growth was short-lived as 
customers lacked the motivation to 
begin investing in traditional spring 
clothing. Categories faring well during 
this period were leisurewear, coats, 
core trousers and nightwear. 
To ensure that stock levels were well 
controlled, despite the disappointing 
sales performance, we made appropriate 
use of discounts, which were higher than 
the prior year. The negative impact on 
margin was mitigated by a higher 
buying-in margin due to improved 
sourcing and more favourable exchange 
rates. As a result, the terminal stock level 
(number of units of the outgoing season’s 
stock carried forward into the following 
year) was lower than last year, which is 
important as it minimises the adverse 
impact of unsold stock from the previous 
season on trading during FY17.
Beth Butterwick Chief Executive
“ Looking back, the external environment 
has made for a challenging year of 
trading. However , we have emerged from 
this period focused on five key strategies 
that form the pillars of our forward 
growth and modernisation programme. ” Annual Report 2016
08
Chief Executive’s Report continued Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
09
Financial results
Profit before tax (‘PBT’) was £9.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 22.9% 
on the prior year. Underlying PBT (PBT 
before exceptional items) was £10.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 14.5% 
on the prior year. The underlying PBT 
margin decreased from 6.9% to 5.6%.
The £1m of costs which have been 
classified as ‘exceptional’ relate to 
the listing of the Company’s shares on 
the Official List of the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in October 2015.
The financial results are explained 
in more detail in the Financial Review 
on page 21.
Strategic review
Brand: fit for the future
In my report last year, I made reference 
to evidence that our customers are 
embracing the move towards more 
contemporary clothing styles. A recent 
‘brand awareness’ project confirmed 
that Bonmarché is known to 84% of our 
customer demographic, with value, service 
and comfort being the key observations 
they make about the brand. On this 
basis, a key outcome continues to be 
our focus on delivering a more modern 
and stylish fashion experience across 
all our customer touchpoints: stores, 
online, catalogue, magazine and TV. 
We have continued to invest in 
updating our store portfolio and across 
other channels we have improved brand 
consistency with our new logo and 
introduced more aspirational models 
and ‘lifestyle’ images. We continue to 
improve our online shopping experience, 
seeking to make the journey for our 
customers as easy as possible. This work 
was recognised by the 2015 internet 
‘Which?’ survey of online shops, where 
our customers ranked us joint first (with 
John Lewis) in the clothing and accessories 
sector. Our marketing collateral (magazine, 
catalogue and mailers) has also been 
updated with a subtle shift towards 
fresher models and more aspirational 
‘get the look’ outfit suggestions. 
The Bonmarché brand modernisation 
journey continues to evolve and is at 
the centre of our business strategy.
The focus of strategy is on five key drivers:
• Brand development and customer 
acquisition – understanding the 
evolving attitude of our customers, 
and harnessing their engagement 
• Products – modernising our style 
offer and making relevant our 
breadth of ranges to suit customers’ 
everyday occasions 
• Channels to market – enabling 
our selling channels to facilitate 
an ‘anywhere any time’ shopping 
experience for our customers
• Systems and processes – supporting 
a more fluid, agile, productive 
business operation
• People – harnessing our colleagues’ 
passion, expertise and talent through 
an organisation focused on serving 
this important and growing 
customer demographic
1. Brand development 
and customer acquisition
Sales from our most loyal customers 
(‘high value, high loyal’) grew by 4% 
year-on-year, a higher rate of growth 
than in LFL sales. The significance 
of this data is that, whilst our loyal 
customers are still loyal, we must 
increase our effectiveness in attracting 
new customers within our target cohort.
In order to improve the appeal of the 
Bonus Club we have recently introduced 
new Bonus Club member benefits, 
including welcome packs and birthday 
vouchers. In our Scottish region, we are 
testing a top tier scheme called Diamond 
Club; with an annual fee of £10, these 
customers receive benefits such as free 
delivery and advance notification of new 
collections. Improving the appeal of Bonus 
Club to keep it relevant is an important 
and ongoing activity, but a key priority 
for the forthcoming year is brand marketing 
to attract new customers. 
To support this initiative, we conducted 
a regional TV test last autumn, reaching 
90 of our stores. Whilst financially there 
was little measurable upside in the short 
term, crucially it created an increase in 
‘brand awareness’. Our plan is to repeat 
this on a national scale from September 
to October 2016. This campaign will be 
supported by our new brand ambassador, 
Mark Heyes, a TV fashion presenter 
who we believe will resonate well with 
our customers. Mark will be offering style 
advice to customers through all of our 
communication channels to enhance 
further our commitment to helping mature 
women ‘feel fabulous about themselves’.
2. Products
Back to core basics
Over the last year we have focused 
on several category initiatives, based 
on both the external information we 
receive (Kantar and RetailMap) and 
internal feedback such as sales patterns, 
store comments and customer reviews. 
The foundation of our collections are 
the ‘core basic’ lines that our customers 
expect us to offer all year round. Improved 
size availability has resulted in 15% sales 
growth across leisurewear, trousers, skirts 
and lingerie. As an average for the year, 
our core basics were 90% in-stock across 
a broad range of customer ‘hero lines’: 
items she shops for day-in day-out, 
through the year.
The ‘de-weathering’ factor
Another strategic focus was the 
de-weathering of our coats and knitwear 
ranges in the transitional autumn season. 
The offer at this time comprised fewer 
options but with a broader selection of 
lightweight layering; this proved successful 
between August and October. However, 
as the mild conditions continued into 
November, the early successes could 
not counteract the poor performance 
of these categories as the weights of 
the clothing increased in the anticipation 
of normal winter weather. 
Offering wardrobe favourites
We also developed a range of clothing 
called ‘wardrobe favourites’. These are 
individual outfit-building items that 
customers may use to add to an existing 
outfit without having to invest in a two or 
three item purchase. These lines have 
been successful with the commercial 
benchmark being that we had a full price 
sell-through of 75% across our tops 
categories, versus an average across 
our seasonal tops collections of 53%.  Chief Executive’s Report continued
Annual Report 2016
10
2. Products continued
Seasonal collections
Whilst we saw good progress in our 
core and wardrobe favourite categories, 
we had less success with more 
seasonal departments, where we 
repeated bestsellers for too long and did 
not introduce enough ‘newness’. 
Blouses, dresses, and skirts are key 
examples of where there was insufficient 
progress. Increasingly, our customers 
are informing us that, whilst they are not 
slaves to fashion, they do require the 
collections and prints to be relevant to 
colour, print and style trends that they 
see elsewhere and executed in a more 
modern cut. Successes with a long, 
tailored jacket and the growth of our 
printed trouser range have given us the 
confidence to increase significantly the 
pace of modernisation of our range, 
which is a priority for FY17 and beyond.
Brand and designer collections 
Through the David Emanuel range, we 
tested higher-stretch price points across 
dresses and coats. This worked best in 
styles where we had focused on new 
shapes and fabrics, which points to an 
opportunity to apply this to the main 
Bonmarché ranges. 
The existing three-year contract with 
David Emanuel expired at the end 
of March 2016, at which point we 
decided to serve notice to terminate 
the agreement. The arrangement with 
Mr Emanuel has run for nearly nine years, 
and I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank David for his collaboration during 
that time. The arrangement will formally 
terminate at the end of September, after 
which a run-off period will apply to allow 
for the orderly sale of any remaining 
David Emanuel-branded stock. The 
timing of this change dovetails well with 
the introduction of Mark Heyes as a 
brand ambassador. 
We have continued to test and learn from 
our Ann Harvey label. Customers have 
gravitated towards the new, more exciting 
styles across tops, dresses and knitwear; 
the extension down into core sizes (14 and 
16) has also worked well as has the lower 
price positioning.
With regards to menswear, as noted in our 
interim report last November, this is now 
narrowly focused on ‘gifting-orientated’ 
items during the Christmas season. 
Price positioning 
On pricing, we continue to focus on 
‘good value’ products at the opening 
and mid-price points. Additionally, we 
have simplified our price point offer and 
multi-buy deals (‘2 for’, ‘3 for 2’, etc.) 
which have worked well across 
core products.
Supplier partnerships that 
deliver appealing products
Other important changes to our forward 
collections will be a broader offer of new 
and more interesting fabrics and a 
subtle leaning towards a more casual 
end-use clothing offer. Linked to this, a 
review of our supply base has led to the 
conclusion that we need to bring in new 
suppliers (particularly in Turkey and 
India) that will give us more on-trend 
fabrics, new styles and the flexibility to 
test in-season and repeat best sellers 
through shorter order lead times. As a 
result of this, we expect our Far East 
supplier base (in particular China) will 
reduce by approximately 15%. 
3. Channels to market
A seamless customer journey
Our priority in relation to all channels is 
to improve customers’ overall shopping 
experience and the ease with which 
they search and purchase. Converting 
more customers to purchase across 
multiple channels is important; our 
Bonus Club data tells us that shoppers 
who both shop online and in store 
spend significantly more than customers 
who shop only in store or only online.  Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
11
a) Stores 
New space
Our LFL stores, which represent 83.5% of our total sales, delivered 0.7% year-on-year 
growth. In this year, we opened in 25 new locations which contributed to £4.7m additional 
sales. Additionally, we closed five locations. At the end of the financial year, our store 
portfolio comprised 312 sites, detailed as follows:
Number at 
28 March 2015
Net opened 
during year
Number at 
26 March 2016
Solus Bonmarché stores 265 5 270
Solus Bonmarché stores relocated n/a 1/(1)* n/a
Garden centre concessions 17 13 30
Other concessions 10 2 12
Total 292 20 312
Overall, the performances of new stores 
are in line with the investment return targets, 
with average paybacks within three years 
for solus stores and one and a half years 
for concessions. The strategy of opening 
approximately five new solus stores 
and approximately 15 concessions/other 
locations each year will continue. 
This rate achieves an optimal balance 
of contributing to growth, being modest 
enough to be able to remain selective 
in site location and being able to be 
funded from operating cash flow.
Improving our store experience
An ongoing focus across our retail 
estate continues to be small, but 
important, environment enhancements, 
with the desired outcome being that our 
customers feel that spending time with 
us is an enjoyable experience. During 
2015, we have replaced the fascias of 
140 stores. A further 40 will be replaced 
during the new financial year, to 
complete the programme.
Other visual improvements to stores have 
included: new window displays with more 
mannequins to ‘showcase’ product styles 
and how they fit; more seated areas for 
accompanying shoppers; modernised till 
areas with the focus being to de-clutter 
till points; clearer store information towers 
in the windows; testing smaller point-of-sale 
displays and a more up-to-date design 
of accessory display units. 
‘Customer first’
We have continued to train and develop 
our store colleagues, covering a range 
of customer and product-related topics. 
Through this year we have measured 
our ongoing progress using a CSAT 
programme (online customer satisfaction 
survey). This continues to provide a net 
promoter score measure, although the 
altered methodology of collecting the 
data means that we will lose the ability 
to make comparisons with prior years 
until we have established a history 
of results using the new method. 
Nevertheless, we retain the ability to 
make relative comparisons between 
stores, which provides a useful tool to 
help the retail teams focus on detailed 
aspects of operational improvement. 
The CSAT replies also provide a broader 
range of feedback which is beginning to 
help inform decisions in other parts of 
the business.
At the beginning of the year we launched 
a ‘personal shopping’ service, whereby 
customers can pre-book an appointment 
to get style advice for special occasions or 
outfit building. Average transaction values 
associated with a personal shopping 
consultation were £90, compared to 
£19 for normal transactions. 
Benefiting both our customers’ 
experience and store operations, we 
launched an improved stock delivery 
service to all stores during Q1. The 
objective was to improve style choice 
and size availability on our sales floor 
by shortening the interval between 
identifying the need for an item to 
be replenished, and the item being 
available for sale. The initiative also 
introduced out of hours deliveries, so 
that stock replenishment can take place 
without inconveniencing customers 
during busy trading hours. Whilst it is 
difficult to attribute an accurate sales 
uplift to this, test stores indicated that 
there was a sales gain as a result of this 
operation which more than funded the 
incremental cost. The benefits of this are 
likely to be realised to a greater extent 
over the next two to three years as other 
system and process improvements 
further enhance stock availability.
* One solus store relocated in the year, i.e. one opened and there was one corresponding closure. Annual Report 2016
12
3. Channels to market continued
a) Stores continued
‘Customer first’ continued
Looking ahead to this year, and 
with the rising costs as a result of 
the introduction of the Living Wage, 
we continue to assess and implement 
a smarter, more productive way of 
working whilst protecting our 
‘service promise’.
b) Other channels to market 
Online sales
At the end of this financial year, online 
sales represented 7 .3% of our total sales, 
which is disappointing. This has been a 
challenging year for our online operation, 
which only managed to achieve a £0.5m 
increase or a 3.6% growth on the prior 
year. The weakest months were either 
side of our responsive site implementation 
in July 2015, and in December, when 
we experienced weak trading following 
Black Friday, with customers having taken 
advantage of the plethora of discounts 
generally available around that event.
The responsive site delivers a 
better shopping experience when 
customers use tablet or mobile devices. 
Its introduction has also enabled us to 
introduce a tool called ‘Attraqt’ which 
more effectively merchandises products 
for individual customers, based on their 
purchase profile history. To measure 
our site effectiveness, we introduced 
‘ForeSee’, an online ‘mystery shopper’ 
tool that collates customer feedback on 
their journey experience through our site. 
This is analogous to the CSAT 
programme used in stores. Eventually, 
as we continue on our multi-channel 
journey, these separate customer 
feedback programmes will be joined up 
as part of a more coherent CRM design.
We have continued to simplify and 
improve our homepage and the look 
and feel of our site generally. We use 
AB multivariate testing to ensure that 
changes that we believe are improvements 
are also preferred by customers. 
Investing in a more fulfilling customer 
online experience 
Our customers are increasingly 
digitally savvy, searching, browsing 
and ‘shopping on the go’. Tablets now 
account for 40% of our online sales, 
with mobiles growing to 13% and 
traditional PCs stepping back to 47%. 
Ongoing improvements during the 
forthcoming year include a website 
re-platform to ‘Demandware’, which 
with our new EPOS store till system will 
facilitate an online gift card functionality 
and more aligned store and online price 
initiatives such as ‘2 for’ and ‘3 for 2’. 
An improved fulfilment service will 
enable a later ‘next day delivery’ cut 
off and the ability to track parcels.
‘Shop your way’
Supporting our two main channels (stores 
and online) are a catalogue, TV shopping 
and a call centre to handle telephone 
orders. We launched an additional high 
summer catalogue last year and the 
Ideal World TV shopping channel continues 
to provide exposure for the brand. 
A new telephone system introduced just 
before the end of the year will allow our 
internal call centre team to reduce the 
incidence of customers abandoning calls 
due to slow answer response times.
4. Systems and processes
2020 customer 
experience vision
During the course of this year, we 
have tested and implemented several 
physical service improvement initiatives 
including the delivery improvement 
mentioned above.
In last year’s Annual Report, I noted 
that we had experienced issues with 
a project to replace our EPOS system. 
I am pleased to report that a re-start 
of work with Oracle has allowed us to 
continue this critical renewal project 
and we aim to have rolled out the Retail J 
system to all stores by the end of the 
year, which should support an improved 
customer experience as well as provide 
the business with greater customer 
insight.
At the start of the new financial year, 
we also implemented a new HR system. 
The benefits are multiple, ranging from 
more agile payroll functionality, a 
working hour tracking tool, automated 
holiday requests and, in the future, 
an applicant tracking service. 
Looking ahead to this financial year, 
we are currently finalising a ‘discovery 
phase’ plan to replace a 20-year-old 
legacy ERP system. Over the next 
several years, as modules are introduced, 
Chief Executive’s Report continued Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
13
processes and systems will be 
modernised/introduced in merchandise 
and allocation planning, PIM (management 
of product information across all channels), 
CRM (allowing us to link all store and 
online customer information to our 
Bonus Club membership data), 
and business intelligence.
With a view to ensuring that these 
programmes are delivered successfully, 
we have invested in an experienced 
‘change programme team’ alongside 
building a stronger IT support team. 
Governance will be further supported 
by our new independent Non-executive 
Director, Mark McClennon, who has 
extensive and deep experience in these 
matters as a result of a distinguished 
career at Unilever.
5. People
Great people make 
great companies
Over the course of last year, we have 
continued to prioritise attracting new talent 
to support major strategic initiatives. The 
main focus for recruitment has been 
across our creative brand marketing, 
buying and merchandising, multi-channel, 
systems change programme and, 
underpinning our organisation, senior 
appointments within our HR function.
In conjunction with this, we have 
continued to evolve and embed 
our colleague performance and 
development tool, enabling 
development review conversations 
through the year. As we look to our 
2020 vision, Bonmarché will attract, 
develop, retain and reward a team of 
skilled, motivated and talented colleagues.
Employee survey
In 2015 we moved from using a company 
culture survey to an employee engagement 
survey, using ‘Best Companies’. Best 
Companies compiles the Sunday Times 
100 Best Companies to work for Survey. 
The results of our internal survey provide 
valuable insight into organisational 
behaviours which we need to develop or 
improve to assist in our aim to have the 
right capability to execute our strategy 
successfully. The tool provides feedback 
at an organisational level, and also at a 
much more granular level, which allows 
individual managers to identify steps they 
can take to improve their own performance. 
The main output of this programme is the 
diagnostic insight it gives, but in addition 
I am delighted to report that Bonmarché 
ranked 19th in the ‘Best Large Companies 
to work for’ survey. 
Outlook 
Looking ahead, there will continue 
to be external factors that affect 
consumer confidence and the cost 
of doing business – the EU referendum, 
rising costs driven by the Living Wage, 
forex rates, and business rates are all 
unhelpful macro headwinds. Consumers 
are also spending a greater proportion of 
their disposable income on technology 
and leisure; however, we are focused on 
continuing to provide customers with a 
compelling reason to shop at Bonmarché. 
We firmly believe that as a niche retailer, 
focused on catering for the mature female 
demographic, Bonmarché is well 
positioned to continue to grow. 
The brand development work we are 
conducting through the early summer 
will serve to focus and drive our five key 
business initiatives and support our 
modernisation programme, which is 
core to our growth strategy. I am a firm 
believer that the key to successfully 
executing our strategy will be the strong 
talent of our newly recruited specialists 
and existing colleagues. Timely delivery 
of our vision through a continued team 
focus is our priority in the year ahead. 
Trading during the early part of FY17 
has continued to be tough due to 
poor weather, however our full year 
expectation is unchanged provided 
trading conditions normalise.
Beth Butterwick
Chief Executive
10 June 2016 Annual Report 2016
14
Business model and strategy
CUSTOMERS
We know our customers 
• Research
• Insight
• Implementation
BRAND
What we are known for 
• Flattering styles that fit
• Great service
• Good value
SUPPLY
We operate an effective 
supply chain
• Flexible
• Efficient
• Ethical
CONVENIENCE
We provide a comprehensive 
channel offering
• Solus/concession stores
• Website
• Catalogue
• TV shopping
• Telephone
FEEL FABULOUS 
PLAN
CUSTOMERS
CONVENIENCE
SUPPLY
BRAND Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
15
Our vision
SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES
Roll out the Retail J EPOS system to all stores by the end 
of the year
Move online store to ‘Demandware’ platform which will 
improve online shopping experience 
Begin modernisation of processes and systems in 
merchandise and allocation planning, PIM (management 
of product information across all channels) 
and business intelligence
PEOPLE
Attract, develop, retain and reward a team of skilled, 
motivated and talented colleagues
PRODUCTS
Significantly increase the pace 
of modernisation in the product 
offer, whilst maintaining our 
strengths in value and age 
appropriate fit
Introduce more on-trend 
fabrics, new styles and the 
facility to test in-season and 
repeat bestsellers by bringing 
in new near-east suppliers 
(Turkey and India)
CHANNELS TO MARKET
Opening five new solus 
stores and approximately 
15 concessions/other 
locations
A modern webstore 
that allows customers 
to shop more conveniently 
and efficiently
Improved fulfilment service to 
allow later ‘next day delivery’ 
cut off and facilitate better 
communication to customers 
through the delivery process
BRAND AND CUSTOMER
Increase our effectiveness in 
attracting new customers 
within our target cohort
Improve Bonus Club member 
benefits to keep it relevant 
and complement brand 
marketing activities
Fashion presenter 
Mark Heyes will be working 
with us as an ambassador to 
help tell new customers 
about us and reinforce the 
brand’s credentials for 
existing customers
Feel fabulous 
with Bonmarche Annual Report 2016
16
Key performance indicators
Financial and non-financial KPIs are used to measure 
performance and progress against the strategic plan.
Like-for-like sales (%)
1
The year-on-year increase in 
sales from stores and concessions 
which have been open throughout the 
whole of the preceding financial year. 
This KPI excludes online sales.
The LFL sales performance, although 
positive, was below our expectations. 
The Chief Executive’s Report includes 
more detailed commentary in relation 
to this.
Online participation (%)
Online sales as a percentage 
of total sales.
Online participation declined slightly. 
Online sales grew 3.6%, but the growth 
in total sales as a result of opening new 
stores and concessions meant that the 
participation dropped slightly. Increasing 
the rate of online sales growth will be a 
renewed focus for FY17.
Product gross margin (%)
1
Product gross profit as a percentage 
of revenue.
The product gross margin decreased 
by 0.1%. Compared to FY15, a higher 
level of discounting was largely offset by 
more favourable foreign exchange rates.
KPI Results 2016 performance
0.7%
FY14 10.4%
FY15 4.0%
FY16 0.7%
7.3%
FY14 5.9%
FY15 7.4%
FY16 7.3%
57.3%
FY14 57.2%
FY15 57.4%
FY16 57.3%
Further information regarding the performance of the business for the financial period can be found in the Chief Executive’s Report 
on pages 6 to 13 and in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 23.
1 The like-for-like and product gross margin KPIs used are measured and quoted on the same basis as used for internal management reporting.  Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
17
Underlying PBT margin (%)
Profit before taxation (‘PBT’) and 
exceptional items as a percentage 
of revenue.
Costs were well controlled; however, 
the operational gearing inherent within 
the business meant that due to the low 
sales growth, it was not possible to 
reduce costs sufficiently to maintain 
the underlying PBT margin.
Cash balance (£m)
Cash held by the Group  
at the year end.
Later than expected capital expenditure 
towards the end of FY16 resulted in 
the year-end cash balance being 
approximately £4m higher than 
originally planned. 
Net promoter score (‘NPS’) (%)
A measure of the propensity of customers 
to recommend Bonmarché to someone 
else. Since the beginning of FY16, the 
data has been collected through 
customer satisfaction surveys.
This is the first year that NPS data 
has been collected using customer 
satisfaction surveys; previously it was 
collected using a ‘mystery shopper’ 
methodology. As a result of this change, 
we are unable to use the previous two 
years’ comparative data. Whilst we are 
establishing a history with the new 
data, our retail colleagues continue 
to use the feedback to improve our 
proposition through regional and 
store-level comparisons.
KPI Results 2016 performance
5.6%
FY14 6.8%
FY15 6.9%
FY16 5.6%
£13.0m
FY14 £8.2m
FY15 £11.1m
FY16 £13.0m
70.1%
FY16 70.1% Annual Report 2016
18
Risks and risk management
External risk and impact Mitigation
Economy
Almost all of the Group’s revenue is generated in the UK. A 
deterioration in the strength of the UK economy would reduce 
the consumers’ ability or desire to purchase discretionary items. 
A reduction in consumer expenditure could materially and 
adversely affect the Group’s financial condition, operations 
and business prospects.
The business offers a low-priced, value-oriented product 
compared to most of the clothing market, and the Directors 
therefore consider that it would be less affected by a reduction 
in discretionary expenditure than other clothing retailers. 
In addition, the property portfolio has short lease terms, 
providing relative flexibility to close or relocate stores 
should it become necessary. 
New competitors
The Group operates in a competitive industry. An existing 
retailer may expand into Bonmarché’s target market, or a new 
entrant to the market may emerge. A decline in market share 
could lead to lower sales and/or the need for more competitive 
pricing and may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
financial condition, operations and business prospects. 
The Group has adopted a strategy that is intended to 
differentiate it from its closest competitors. This includes 
the operation of a well established customer loyalty scheme 
– the Bonus Club. Senior management regularly reviews 
the competitive landscape, supported by, for example, 
third-party competitor benchmarking research. In addition, 
the Bonus Club customer database is regularly monitored 
for evidence of changes in trends that might indicate the 
need for the business to take action.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group purchases a significant proportion of its stock 
from overseas and is therefore exposed to foreign currency 
risk. Most such overseas purchases are paid for in US Dollars. 
Given that the Group’s sales and operations are denominated 
in Pounds Sterling, it is exposed to the effects of changes in 
the Sterling to US Dollar exchange rate in particular. Without 
mitigation, input costs may fluctuate in the short term, 
creating uncertainty as to profits and cash flows.
A Treasury Policy sets out the parameters and procedures 
relating to foreign currency hedging. The Group does not 
speculate on foreign currency transactions in order to make 
a profit; therefore, the hedging instruments purchased must 
serve purely to reduce the Group’s exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations. This allows visibility of the exchange 
rate for up to 12 months.
Weather conditions
The attitude and/or sensitivity of Bonmarché’s customers 
to changes in weather affects when they shop and what they 
buy. Prolonged unseasonal or extreme weather conditions 
(such as extended periods of snow and ice in winter) may 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, 
operations and financial condition.
Bonmarché’s strategy of developing alternative sales 
channels reduces the reliance on high street footfall. In 
addition, the business has taken steps to maintain a high 
availability of core basic product lines, sales of which can 
be more resilient during periods of low footfall as a result 
of adverse or unseasonal weather. 
The Board considers that effective risk management is critical 
to enable delivery of the strategy and long term success 
of the business.
Our approach
Our risk management approach is set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 32 to 35 and includes a summary 
of the main features of our risk management and internal 
control systems.
How we identify, assess and manage risks
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities in relation 
to the management of risk to senior management. Senior 
management identifies new or emerging risks, or changes to risks 
that are relevant to their area of responsibility. Risks are given an 
overall ‘impact’ assessment, having been measured against a 
defined set of likelihood and impact criteria, and each risk is 
allocated to the relevant member of senior management whose 
responsibility it is to monitor the mitigating activities and take any 
actions required. Senior management is responsible for monitoring 
the mitigating activities and taking any actions required. A key 
tool used to support the risk management process is the Risk 
Register, which records relevant risks that have been identified 
and tracks the status of any mitigating actions or controls.
Senior management keeps risk under constant review as part 
of the Group’s normal operations and conducts structured risk 
reviews every six months at which the Risk Register and other 
risk information are considered. Senior management updates the 
Audit Committee on matters relating to risk on a regular basis and, 
in addition, will raise matters on an ad-hoc basis if required.
Principal risks and uncertainties
We set out below the principal risks and uncertainties that the 
Directors consider could impact the business, and the 
mitigating activities in place to minimise their impact. The list 
highlights the principal risks, but there may be other risks to which 
the business is exposed, and the list is not therefore intended 
to be exhaustive.
Risks have been classified as either external, in relation to 
which we are unable to influence the likelihood, and internal, in 
relation to which we can influence both likelihood and impact. 
The risks highlighted here have not been ranked in any order 
of priority.  Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
19
Internal risk and impact Mitigation
Key management
The Group’s Executive Directors and senior managers 
(together, the ‘key management’) have in-depth knowledge 
of the Group, Bonmarché’s brands, products and target 
markets, and the women’s fashion industry generally. The 
Directors believe that the retention of its key management 
as well as the recruitment of future personnel with similar 
attributes are important to successful business performance 
and strategy implementation. 
The Group’s Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, 
retain and motivate key management and includes a long term 
incentive scheme and performance-related pay. The Group 
encourages personal development for colleagues, to maximise 
the opportunities for internal succession. Succession 
management for senior management is monitored by 
the Nomination Committee.
Purchase of products from overseas
The Group’s products are predominantly manufactured 
overseas. Processes are operated to ensure that the 
Group engages with business partners that comply with 
laws, regulations and generally accepted standards of 
good practice. Failure to carry out sufficient due diligence, 
and to act in the event of any negative findings, could 
adversely impact reputation, customer and investor appeal.
A policy covering the selection of suitable suppliers, 
including review of compliance with laws and regulations 
and good practices, is in place. Bonmarché is a member of 
the Ethical Trade Initiative (‘ETI’) and is committed to working 
only with suppliers that can demonstrate that they are 
committed to the ethical treatment of workers. The business 
is also registered with Sedex, an organisation that provides 
an online database allowing members to store, share and 
report information on labour standards, health and safety, 
environment and business ethics of suppliers. Suppliers 
complete a self-assessment questionnaire and undergo a 
third-party ‘SMETA’ audit. SMETA is an auditing technique 
based on good practice in ethical trade, based on the 
principles of ETI Base Code.
Buying and design
Failure to identify and react to the fashion and clothing 
preferences of the target market could result in lower sales, 
higher markdowns to reduce excess inventories and lower 
profits. The Group’s customer goodwill and brand image could 
be negatively impacted.
Trends and demands are continually reviewed 
by knowledgeable and experienced employees who 
have a high level of market awareness. Senior employees 
conduct product and market research and attend trade fairs. 
Internal processes consider store and customer feedback 
on designs, quality and demand, and management takes 
action where appropriate. Data from the Bonus Club 
customer database is considered in the development 
of future seasons’ products.
IT systems and security
Failure of the Group’s IT systems, for example due to inadequate 
protection from malicious attacks or viruses, could lead to 
business interruption and reputational damage. In addition, 
failure to make appropriate investment in new IT systems 
could result in delays in executing strategy. Failure to manage 
IT projects effectively could have an adverse impact across 
the Group.
A Business Continuity Plan is in place to recover data and 
provide key personnel with replacement IT facilities should 
a major system failure occur. Reputable antivirus, antispam 
and web filtering software is used. Senior management 
ensures that suitable and efficient hardware systems and 
programs are used. Senior management reviews current 
and anticipated IT requirements to support current and 
planned operations. Appropriate governance procedures 
are established in relation to key IT projects and suitable 
contractual terms with suppliers and external consultants 
are put in place. 
Brand and reputation
The maintenance of the Group’s brand and reputation is vital 
to the success of the business. Failure to protect and manage 
this could reduce the confidence and trust that customers 
place in the business, which could have a detrimental impact 
on sales, profits and business prospects. 
Brand and reputation are closely monitored by senior 
management. Corporate and consumer public relations 
are actively managed, and customer feedback (received 
through a variety of channels) is carefully monitored.  Annual Report 2016
20
Viability
In assessing the nature and extent of the principal risks the 
Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, 
it has also considered the potential impact of those risks 
on the prospects of the Group. 
Viability Statement 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the longer 
term prospects of the Group. 
The Board conducted a review using a forecast period of three 
years, taking into account the Group’s current position, plans, 
and the possible impact of its principal risks which could impact 
on solvency during the period. The Board has considered 
its appetite for risk and adopted a risk appetite statement, 
which underpins the Group’s risk management approach. 
A three year period was considered appropriate, as this is 
the period covered by the Group’s plans; beyond three years, 
the degree of uncertainty is too great to produce meaningful 
forecasts. The plans consider cash flow and key ratios, 
including the fixed cover ratio measured to test compliance 
with the current bank covenant. 
In taking into account the Group’s current position, 
the Directors have considered financial and operational 
factors. The Group has traded profitably and its liquidity 
remains strong, with a £12.4m net cash balance at the end 
of the year, and unutilised revolving credit facilities of £10m. 
In assessing the impact of the principal risks on the viability of 
the Group, the Directors have considered a ‘reasonable worst 
case’ scenario that combines the effect of a number of risks 
that would significantly impact on the sales, profitability and 
cash flow of the Group. The impact of this scenario on the 
Group’s financial models was assessed in order to ‘stress-test’ 
the working capital requirements, and the headroom available 
within the £10m revolving credit facility. The assessment assumes 
that the Group’s current bank facilities, which mature in 
November 2017, will be renewed on similar or better terms 
and therefore be available throughout the period referred 
to in this Viability Statement.
Based on the outcome of this assessment, the Board 
considers that it has a reasonable basis on which to conclude 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due, over the three year period to the 
end of March 2019. 
The Directors also consider it appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the 
going concern paragraph in note 1 to the financial statements.  Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
21
Financial Review
Stephen Alldridge 
Finance Director
The abbreviations ‘FY16’ and ‘FY15’ are used to refer to the 52-week periods ended 
26 March 2016 and 28 March 2015, respectively.
Income statement
52 weeks ended 
26 March 2016
£’000
52 weeks ended 
28 March 2015
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
%
Revenue 187,963 178,575 9,388 5.3%
Cost of sales (143,033) (135,378) (7,655) (5.7%)
Gross profit 44,930 43,197 1,733 4.0%
Administrative expenses (26,572) (22,855) (3,717) (16.3%)
Distribution costs (8,665) (7,728) (937) (12.1%)
Operating profit 9,693 12,614 (2,921) (23.2%)
Analysed as:        
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 10,735 12,614 (1,879) (14.9%)
Exceptional items (1,042) — (1,042) (100.0%)
Finance income 49 18 31 172.2%
Finance costs (184) (232) 48 20.7%
Profit before taxation 9,558 12,400 (2,842) (22.9%)
Taxation (1,783) (2,504) 721 28.8%
Profit for the period 7,775 9,896 (2,121) (21.4%)
Memo information: 
Underlying EBITDA and PBT
52 weeks ended 
26 March 2016
£’000
52 weeks ended 
28 March 2015
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
%
Profit before taxation 9,558 12,400 (2,842) (22.9%)
Exceptional items 1,042 — 1,042 100.0%
Underlying profit 
before taxation 10,600 12,400 (1,800) (14.5%)
Net finance costs 135 214 (79) (36.9%)
Depreciation 3,147 2,529 618 24.4%
Intangibles amortisation 380 379 1 0.3%
Underlying EBITDA 14,262 15,522 (1,260) (8.1%)
Statutory basic earnings 
per share (pence) 16.1p 20.7p (4.6p) (22.2%)
Underlying basic earnings 
per share (pence) 18.3p 20.7p (2.4p) (11.6%)
Other memo information:
52 weeks ended 
26 March 2016
£’000
52 weeks ended 
28 March 2015
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
%
Property lease costs 18,032 17,361 (671) (3.9%) Annual Report 2016
22
Financial Review continued
3  Underlying operating expenses are defined 
as cost of sales less cost of stock recognised 
as an expense and included in cost of sales 
(note 15 of the Group financial statements) 
plus administrative expenses and distribution 
costs, less exceptional items.
Profit before tax and 
exceptional items
Group profit before tax (‘PBT’) was 
£9.6m (FY15: £12.4m), a decrease 
of 22.9% on the prior year. 
Underlying PBT (profit before tax 
and exceptional items) was £10.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 14.5% 
on the prior year. The underlying PBT 
margin decreased from 6.9% to 5.6%.
In FY16, £1m of expenses have 
been classified as ‘exceptional’ as they 
related to the listing of the Company’s 
shares on the Official List of the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange 
in October 2015.
Revenue
Total revenue grew by 5.3% from 
£178.6m to £188.0m. Like-for-like (‘LFL ’) 
sales grew 0.7%. During the year we 
opened 25 new stores/concessions, 
relocated one store and closed five 
stores, bringing the average number 
of stores open during the year to 302 
(FY15: 276). Online sales grew by 3.6%. 
Commentary regarding the general 
trading performance, the store opening 
programme and online sales is included 
in the Chief Executive’s Report.
Sales analysis
FY16
£’000
FY15
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
£’000
Increase/
(decrease)
%
LFL sales including VAT
1
188,251 186,881 1,370 0.7%
Net new/closed stores 
(incl. VAT) 20,678 11,251 9,427 83.8%
Online sales (incl. VAT) 16,523 15,947 576 3.6%
Total sales 225,452 214,079 11,373 5.3%
Other
2
68 127 (59) (46.2%)
VAT (37,557) (35,631) (1,926) (5.4%)
Total revenue 187,963 178,575 9,388 5.3%
1  Each year, new stores that have been open throughout the previous financial year become classified 
as ‘LFL ’ stores. Therefore, within the prior year comparative, the split between LFL and new stores alters 
each year, and the analysis of the FY15 ‘LFL ’ sales and ‘new store’ sales differs from the corresponding 
analysis shown in last year’s Annual Report. The total sales and total revenue figures are unaffected.
2  ‘Other’ comprises the net effect of revenue from the wholesale supply of goods to a franchise partner 
with a single store in Gibraltar, less the value donated to charitable causes, being the proceeds from 
selling Bonmarché carrier bags.
The terminal stock position in relation to the 
2015 Autumn/Winter season was good, 
as a result of unusually strong demand for 
these heavier items of clothing during the 
fourth quarter. Much of this increased 
demand was driven by prolonged cold 
weather, and appropriate discounting of 
this stock in order to clear units. Although 
the effect on the FY16 gross margin was 
detrimental, this low terminal stock position 
provides a good basis from which to begin 
the new financial year.
Operating expenses 
and interest
Underlying operating expenses
3
 grew 
in absolute terms by 7.8% year-on-year 
(FY15 growth on FY14: 8.8%). Expressed 
as a percentage of turnover, underlying 
operating expenses increased to 51.5% 
from 50.3%.
Costs grew principally as a result 
of these key factors:
• The additional operating costs 
of the 25 new stores/concessions 
opened during the year, and the full 
year impact of the stores opened 
in the prior year.
• In the distribution operation, 
volume-related costs increased 
in line with sales growth, and 
we also incurred the costs of an 
initiative introduced to reduce the 
interval between picking an item 
for replenishment in store, and 
the item arriving in store, thereby 
improving the availability of stock.
• An increase in online marketing 
costs, resulting from the introduction 
of the ‘responsive’ website in July 2015. 
The development costs for this project 
were treated as operating expenses, 
and additional paid advertising costs 
were incurred to maintain sales levels 
during the changeover.
• Inflationary increases, in particular 
in relation to payroll. The introduction 
of the Living Wage will make this a 
more significant factor during FY17. 
We will therefore be looking at options 
to increase productivity, in order to 
mitigate this inflationary increase. 
Product gross margin
The product gross margin was 57 .3%, 
0.1% lower than last year. The two key 
variables which affected the year-on-year 
gross margin comparison were the level 
of discounting and the effects of foreign 
currency exchange rates.
The more challenging trading conditions 
experienced during FY16 required the use 
of more discounts to maintain acceptable 
rates of sale and closing stock. During the 
first half of the year, the higher discounting 
was primarily due to the comparative from 
the previous year being very low. During 
the second half of the year, the increase 
was primarily due to the fact that trading 
conditions in the year were more difficult 
than in the prior year. 
The impact of the higher discounting 
was largely offset by exchange rates on 
stock purchases that were more favourable 
than during FY15. Bonmarché’s policy is to 
reduce the uncertainty resulting from future 
currency fluctuations by contracting to buy 
US Dollars in advance of the date on which 
they are needed. On average, compared to 
FY15, the forward contracts which matured 
during FY16 were committed when the 
exchange rate more strongly favoured 
Sterling, particularly during the first 
half of the year. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
23
• In addition to the effect of inflation, 
central payroll costs increased as 
a result of headcount increases. 
It is not envisaged that there will 
be any further increases in the 
central headcount during FY17.
• As the capital expenditure programme 
continued, and due to a first full year of 
depreciation being charged in relation to 
the previous year’s capital expenditure, 
the depreciation charge increased 
by 24%. 
The net interest charge reduced as a 
result of an increase in interest received 
on deposits, and the decline in interest 
charged on finance leases as the leases 
progress towards maturity.
Exceptional items
£1m of FY16’s costs have been 
classified as exceptional, which related 
to the admission of the Company’s 
shares to the Official List of the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange 
in October 2015. There were no costs 
requiring classification as exceptional 
during FY15.
Tax
The effective tax rate for FY16 
was 18.6%. The tax charge included 
a £0.4m credit recognised in relation 
to FY14, following the release of a 
provision. Without this credit, the 
effective tax rate would have been 
22.9%, 2.9% higher than the statutory 
rate of 20.0%. 
Certain costs of the admission to the Main 
Market have been treated as disallowable 
for tax purposes, which increases the 
effective tax rate. Additionally, parts of 
Bonmarché’s shopfitting costs are deemed 
disallowable expenditure in the calculation 
of capital allowances, which also has 
the effect of increasing the effective tax 
rate. The costs of admission to the Main 
Market had a significantly greater effect 
in this respect than the disallowable 
capital expenditure.
Further details regarding the Group’s 
approach to tax, the FY16 tax expense, 
tax cash payments and the total tax 
contribution made by the Group in 
FY16 are given on page 26.
Earnings per share 
and dividends
The statutory basic earnings per 
share for the year were 16.1 pence 
(FY15: 20.7 pence). The underlying 
basic earnings per share (pre-exceptional 
costs) were 18.3 pence (FY15: 20.7 pence).
The Board is proposing a final dividend 
in respect of FY16 of 4.64 pence per 
share (FY15: 4.50 pence per share) 
making the total dividend for the year 
7.14 pence per share, a 5% increase 
over FY15 (FY15: 6.80 pence per share). 
If approved by shareholders at the AGM 
on 28 July 2016, the dividend will be paid 
on 5 August 2016 to shareholders on 
the register as at the close of business 
on 24 June 2016.
Cash flow and cash position
Operating activities generated net cash 
of £10.5m (FY15: £11.1m), after payment 
of the £1.0m exceptional costs referred 
to above. 
The Group’s cash balance increased 
by £1.9m to £13.0m (FY15: £11.1m). 
The cash generated was principally 
applied to make tax payments of 
£2.5m, dividend payments of £3.4m 
and capex payments of £5.0m.
We had expected the year’s capex 
payments to be approximately £9.0m, 
however, £4.0m relating to new stores/
relocations, systems/EPOS and visual 
store improvements which had been 
forecast for payment during the final 
quarter will now be paid during FY17. 
The closing cash position is therefore 
affected by this timing difference.
Stock
Stock at the year-end was £24.3m 
(FY15: £24.8m), a 2.0% decrease 
on last year.
The decrease was because the FY15 
closing stock balance was higher than 
normal. The Chinese New Year disrupts 
the intake of stock, and its timing in 2015 
meant that there was a risk that spring 
stock intake would be adversely affected. 
To mitigate this risk, we brought stock in 
earlier than we would have done ordinarily, 
and consequently the FY15 closing 
stock balance was higher than normal. 
The timing of the Chinese New Year 
represented less of a risk in 2016, and 
therefore it was not necessary to take 
the same mitigating action. 
As we open more stores, there is a natural 
increase in the stockholding requirement. 
This applied to FY16, but this increase 
in stock was more than outweighed 
by the effect of the more favourable 
timing of 2016’s Chinese New Year. 
Capital expenditure
Investment in property, plant and 
equipment, and intangible assets during 
FY16 totalled £5.7m (FY15: £6.3m). 
The major areas of investment were 
new stores and concessions, and store 
refurbishment projects, along with the 
completion of several smaller IT projects. 
As noted above, approximately £4.0m 
of capital expenditure originally planned 
for late FY16 will now occur in FY17, 
and the total capital expenditure for 
FY17 will be approximately £14.0m. 
This includes the initial expenditure 
on the business change programme 
to replace the ERP system mentioned 
in the Chief Executive’s Report.
Stephen Alldridge
Finance Director
10 June 2016 Annual Report 2016
24
 Corporate social responsibility 
Chief Executive’s statement
I present our first formal report on the 
subject of corporate social responsibility.
We recognise our responsibility to 
minimise the impact of the business 
on the environment, and accordingly 
we seek to reduce our carbon footprint 
by reducing energy consumption from 
heat, light and transport, recycling 
waste and minimising the packaging 
of our goods. We have taken many 
steps in the right direction, but there is 
still opportunity to improve. The pursuit 
of goals which minimise environmental 
impact are not only right from the 
perspective of conscience but, when 
done well, also tend to lead to lower 
costs, and therefore make good 
business sense.
From a health and safety perspective, 
the nature of Bonmarché’s business 
makes it inherently a relatively low risk 
organisation. Nevertheless, appropriate 
attention is paid to health and safety.
A highlight for the Company was to 
be recognised as one of The Sunday 
Times’ ‘Top 25 Best Big Companies 
to Work For’ in 2016. This underpins our 
commitment to creating a culture where 
everyone feels that their contribution is 
valued and they are treated with respect 
and professionalism.
Beth Butterwick
Chief Executive
10 June 2016
Environmental report
Bonmarché has a responsibility to 
manage the impact of its business 
activities on the environment.
Disclosure of greenhouse 
gas emissions
In accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 disclosure requirements for listed 
companies, the greenhouse gas emissions 
during FY16 resulting from activities 
for which the Group is responsible 
were as follows:
• Scope 1: 2,780 tonnes CO
2
e; and
• Scope 2: 9,352 tonnes CO
2
e.
Scope 1 emissions principally comprise 
fuel consumed in the Group’s freight, 
company car and ‘grey’ fleets, and have 
been calculated using mileage and fuel 
records. Bonmarché uses very little 
natural gas but, in respect of what was 
used, emissions were estimated using 
supplier invoices.
Scope 2 emissions are deemed to 
be the result of electricity consumption. 
Supplier invoices have been used to 
estimate the emissions, in conjunction 
with UK Government Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting.
Across all categories the review period was 
the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016.
During the year the Group successfully 
completed Phase 1 of the Energy 
Savings Opportunities Scheme and has 
instigated a rolling programme of audits 
to ensure compliance in Phase 2.
No comparable greenhouse gas emissions 
disclosure is made in respect of FY15. 
Bonmarché was an AIM-listed company 
during that period and was not therefore 
required to make such disclosure.
Social and community
In recent years, the Group has 
improved the ethical standards 
associated with its supply chain. 
The Group has recently rewritten its 
code of conduct in relation to sourcing 
and suppliers, which is now in line with 
ILO (International Labour Organisation) 
conventions and the Ethical Trading 
Initiative (‘ETI’) Base Code. During 2015, 
Bonmarché attained the status of a 
‘full member’ of the ETI, having 
previously held the status of ‘foundation’ 
level membership.
We communicate with our suppliers 
through regular meetings and visits. 
These points of contact are used to 
reiterate the importance of ethical and 
responsible business, and to confirm 
to suppliers that we are committed to, 
and expect them equally to commit to, 
upholding human rights and supporting 
the United Nations’ Guiding Principles of 
Business and Human Rights. During the 
forthcoming year, we will be introducing 
a modern slavery policy to meet the 
requirements of the 2015 UK Modern 
Slavery Act. 
We currently work with 81 suppliers 
working from 205 factories in 15 countries. 
All our suppliers and production sites are 
required to complete a self-assessment 
questionnaire and undergo a third-party 
‘SMETA’ audit. SMETA is an auditing 
technique based on good practice in 
ethical trade, based on the principles 
of the ETI Base Code. In many cases, 
this is also followed up with factory visits. 
Beth Butterwick 
Chief Executive Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
25
Future health 
and safety initiatives:
• rolling store auditing programme;
• training to improve audit compliance;
• fire risk assessment training 
for store managers;
• train/retrain store managers 
in risk assessment; and
• rollout of health and well-being training.
Enforcement 
There were no enforcement notices served 
on the Company by either environmental 
health or fire officers during FY16.
Our people
We benchmark our benefits package 
to ensure it is appropriately comparable 
to other relevant companies in the market. 
Our reward packages may include, for 
example, staff discount, an allowance 
for uniform, an employee assistance 
programme, private healthcare, childcare 
vouchers and a recently introduced 
holiday purchase scheme.
The Company operates an annual 
performance review system, the primary 
aim of which is to agree colleagues’ 
development objectives and identify any 
support required in order to assist them 
in achieving them. Bonmarché also 
operates a recognition scheme known 
as ‘Star Colleague’, in which employees 
may nominate for a prize fellow colleagues 
who are deemed to have ‘gone the extra 
mile’ in doing their job.
Bonmarché has recently been recognised 
as one of The Sunday Times’ ‘Top 25 
Best Big Companies to Work For’.
In the past year, 92% of our factories 
undertook an SMETA audit, and we are 
working to increase this percentage to 
cover all suppliers and production units. 
Bonmarché was one of the first 
40 organisations to sign up to the 
Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building 
Safety. 21 of our suppliers’ factories are 
officially listed with the Accord and we liaise 
between the Accord administration and 
other connected businesses with a view 
to ensuring progress is being made in 
resolving issues and thereby meeting 
the Accord obligations and goals 
in Bangladesh.
We have arranged ethical awareness 
training for all staff involved in buying 
and sourcing, to develop their knowledge 
of production processes and help them 
understand how their decisions can 
support continuous improvement 
in the ethics of the supply chain.
Charitable activity
Bonmarché has been supporting 
Macmillan for a number of years and 
to date has raised £3.1m, through events, 
the sale of pin badges and the sale of 
products with a percentage donation 
to the charity. The Group also donates to 
Macmillan the 5 pence (less a deduction 
for VAT) charge levied for supplying a 
carrier bag.
Health and safety
The Company is committed to providing 
a safe environment for all colleagues 
and customers. Risk management and 
audit programmes undertaken by our 
in-house safety team and overseen by 
the Board are designed to achieve this.
 Male 50%
  F e m a l e 5 0%
 Male 35%
  F e m a l e 6 5 %
 Male 9%
  F e m a l e 9 1%
PERSONS EMPLOYED 
BY GROUP
SENIOR MANAGERS
DIRECTORS 
(EXECUTIVES AND 
TRADING BOARD)
 Male 67%
  F e m a l e 3 3%
PLC BOARD
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY 
AS AT 26 MARCH 2016 Annual Report 2016
26
 Corporate social responsibility continued
Tax transparency
Tax approach
The Board believes that good corporate governance 
principles should extend to the Group’s attitude towards 
its tax liabilities. Therefore the Group’s objective in relation 
to managing and controlling its tax affairs is to comply 
with relevant legislation, whilst minimising its tax liabilities. 
The Group will therefore use all appropriate exemptions, 
reliefs or other tax planning mechanisms, provided that, when 
judged on a reasonable basis, they would not be considered 
‘aggressive’. The Group is proactive, open and transparent 
in its dealings with HM Revenue & Customs. 
The Group’s tax affairs are uncomplicated, as all trade 
is carried out in the UK, all Group companies are UK 
companies and therefore all corporation tax liabilities arise 
in the UK and are paid to the UK Exchequer. 
Tax expense
All of the Group’s profits are subject to UK corporation tax, 
for which the statutory rate for FY16 was 20%. The effective 
tax rate on profit before tax for FY16 was 18.6%. This was 
lower than the statutory rate due to the impact of prior period 
adjustments which created a credit to the profit and loss account. 
This outweighed the ongoing effect of expenses not deductible 
for tax purposes, which increase Bonmarché’s normal effective 
tax rate. The table opposite illustrates the reconciliation between 
the theoretical tax charge and the actual tax charge.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Profit before tax (‘PBT’) 9,558 12,400
Theoretical tax charge – PBT 
multiplied by rate of corporation 
tax of 20%/21% 1,912 2,604
Tax effects of:
– Other timing differences (92) 123
–  Expenses not deductible 
for tax purposes
–  Relating to exceptional items 208 —
–  Relating to normal operations 139 52
Effects of changes in tax rate 19 (46)
Adjustments in respect 
of prior periods (403) (229)
Actual tax charge 1,783 2,504
An explanation of the differences between the Group’s actual 
effective tax rate for FY16 and its normalised effective rate can 
be found in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 23. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
27
Tax cash payments
The UK corporation tax paid in FY16 
was £2.5m, whilst the tax expense 
charged to the profit and loss account 
for the year was £2.2m (before deducting 
a credit of £0.4m relating to prior years).
The tax expense and the cash tax paid in 
each financial year are different, principally 
because UK cash tax payments are made 
in quarterly instalments which straddle 
consecutive financial years. For example, 
the £2.5m cash tax paid in FY16 comprised 
the final two quarterly instalments in 
respect of FY15 amounting to £1.3m, 
and the first two quarterly instalments 
in respect of FY16 amounting to £1.2m. 
The quarterly instalments are based 
on estimates of the expected tax liability 
for the full year and may therefore vary 
from the actual liability.
Total tax contribution
The Group’s contribution to the UK 
Exchequer is significantly greater than 
its headline UK corporation tax liability. 
During FY16, the total tax cost incurred 
by the Group was £19.5m (FY15: £19.1m). 
In addition, the Group collected on 
behalf of the UK Exchequer £18.3m 
(FY15: £17.5m). The composition 
of these figures is shown opposite.
 Business rates £9.8m
  Import duty £5.0m
 Corporation tax £2.2m
 Employer’s NIC £1.7m
 Fuel duty £0.4m
  C a r bon r e d uct i on 
commitment £0.3m
  B usi ne s s r a t e  
levies £0.1m
FY16 TAXES BORNE
 VAT collected £13.0m
  E mpl o y e e s ’ 
PAYE/NIC  
collected £5.2m
 CIS collected £0.1m
FY16 TAXES COLLECTED
FY16 TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION
£37.8m
Taxes collected £18.3m
Taxes borne £19.5m
FY15 TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION
£36.6m
Taxes collected £17.5m
Taxes borne £19.1m
Total taxes borne and collected by the Group Chairman ’s introduction to governance
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to 
present our first Corporate Governance 
Report since the Company made the 
step up from AIM to the Official List of 
the Main Market of the London Stock 
Exchange on 19 October 2015. As a 
consequence, we are required to report 
on how we have applied the principles 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2014 (the ‘Code’). I believe that we are 
making good progress towards being 
fully compliant with the Code. We have 
a strong and effective Board which 
possesses extensive knowledge and 
experience of the retail sector and 
City-related matters. 
Compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘Code’)
As a Premium Listed company we are 
required to report on a ‘comply or 
explain’ basis on how the Company 
has applied the provisions of the Code. 
This report has been prepared against 
the Code published in September 2014. 
The Code’s ‘comply or explain’ approach 
permits listed companies some degree 
of flexibility and the ability to apply 
governance principles other than in strict 
accordance with the Code, for example 
to take account of differences in size 
and complexity between different entities.
Bonmarché complies with the Corporate 
Governance Statement requirements 
pursuant to the FCA Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules by virtue of the 
information included in the Corporate 
Governance section of the Annual 
Report, together with the information 
contained in the Shareholders 
Information section on page 100.
During the period under review the 
Company did not fully comply with 
the Code as only one independent 
Non-executive Director served on the 
Board; however, since the year end, 
a second independent Non-executive 
Director has been appointed.
The Board
During the period under review there 
were a number of changes to the 
composition of the Board.
On 29 April 2015 Tim Mason stepped 
down as Chairman and, on behalf 
of the Board, I wish to thank him 
for his valuable contribution to the 
development of the Company. 
On the same date, I was appointed 
as Chairman.
Michael Kalb joined the Board as 
a non-independent Non-executive 
Director on 29 April 2015 as the 
appointee of the Company’s majority 
shareholder, BM Holdings S.à r.l., an 
affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc. 
(‘Sun Capital’); however, he stepped 
down on 8 April 2016 and was replaced 
by Sergei Spiridonov, who is Group 
Chief Operating Officer of Sun European 
Partners, LLP, the European adviser 
to Sun Capital. His biographical details 
can be found on page 31. Michael Kalb 
continues to have a relationship with 
the Company in the capacity of Board 
Observer on behalf of BM Holdings S.à r.l.
On 8 April 2016 Mark McClennon 
was appointed as an independent 
Non-executive Director. He is currently 
Global Vice President for IT at Unilever plc, 
leading IT in relation to the growth agenda 
for Unilever globally across marketing, 
e-commerce, R&D and sustainability. 
 
John Coleman Chairman
Annual Report 2016
28 He joined Unilever in 1993 and has held 
a variety of senior roles across the 
business. Mark’s biographical details 
can be found on page 30.
On 16 December 2015 we announced 
that Beth Butterwick would be leaving 
the Company. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank Beth for her 
valuable contribution to the Company 
since joining in 2011. The search for 
Beth’s replacement has been ongoing 
and I am pleased to report that a new 
Chief Executive has been appointed. 
Helen Connolly will join Bonmarché from 
George at Asda, where she has held the 
position of Senior Buying Director for the 
past three years. Prior to that, she held 
positions within Arcadia Group and 
Next plc. Helen’s expertise in buying, 
merchandising, sourcing and product 
and business development is first class 
and I believe that she will be an excellent 
leader for the business. Helen will join 
the Company and the Board later in 
the year.
I believe that the current make-up 
of the Board, combined with a strong 
management team, provides us with 
an appropriate balance of skills, 
knowledge, expertise and diversity 
to enable us to deliver value to 
shareholders and to maintain 
strong corporate governance.
We have recently undertaken an internal 
evaluation of the Board’s performance. 
The insights gained from this exercise 
will help us as we continue to develop 
our corporate governance processes 
and we have put in place an action plan 
which will be implemented over the 
coming year.
Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’)
The AGM provides an opportunity 
for shareholders to meet the Board 
and to ask questions. Our 2016 AGM 
is scheduled for 28 July 2016 at our 
headquarters at Grange Moor, near 
Wakefield, and we look forward 
to meeting the shareholders who 
are able to attend.
John Coleman
Chairman
10 June 2016
Introducing 
our incoming 
Chief Executive 
The Board of Bonmarché 
is pleased to announce 
the appointment of 
Helen Connolly as the 
Company’s new Chief 
Executive. Helen will 
take up her position later 
in the year and a further 
announcement will be 
made at the relevant time.
Helen is currently Senior 
Buying Director for George 
at ASDA, where she is 
responsible for all women’s 
clothing, non-clothing and 
male and female essentials. 
Previously, she was 
Category Director for 
Buying and Design, 
and Buying Manager of 
Womenswear at George 
at ASDA. She was formerly 
Head of Sourcing for 
Womenswear and Girlswear 
from China, Thailand, India 
and Sri Lanka at Next plc 
and has also worked within 
Arcadia Group as Head of 
Buying at Dorothy Perkins.
Helen brings significant 
relevant experience from 
the value retail sector, 
with particular expertise in 
women’s apparel, which is 
Bonmarché’s core market.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
29
Corporate Governance Board of Directors
John Coleman
Non-executive 
Chairman
(independent)
Stephen Alldridge
Finance Director
Beth Butterwick
Chief Executive
Ishbel Macpherson
Senior Independent
Non-executive 
Director
John Coleman has 
15 years of experience 
acting as a non-executive 
director on the boards 
of various companies in 
different sectors, including 
builders merchants, travel/
leisure and retail and the 
value fashion retail segment. 
As well as acting as a 
non-executive director, 
John worked as CEO of 
House of Fraser between 
1996 and 2006 and as 
CEO of Texas Homecare 
and Ladbrokes plc 
between 1993 and 1995. 
Before that he was 
Managing Director of 
Dorothy Perkins from 
1991 to 1993, Managing 
Director of Topman and 
T opshop from 1990 to 1991 
and Managing Director 
of Topshop from 1986 
to 1990, all at the Burton 
Group. On 22 April 2016, 
he was appointed as a 
non-executive director 
and Chairman Elect 
of McBride plc. John is 
a qualified accountant.
Stephen Alldridge joined 
the Group in 2003 and 
has an in-depth knowledge 
of Bonmarché. With Beth 
Butterwick, he led the 
acquisition of the business 
in January 2012 and has 
since been closely involved 
in the development of 
strategy, as well as 
overseeing Bonmarché’ s 
logistics and IT operations, 
leading the successful 
AIM IPO in November 
2013 and Bonmarché’s 
move to the Main Market 
in October 2015. Before 
joining Bonmarché, he 
was a financial controller 
at The Peacock Group 
plc, which he joined in 
1996. He qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant 
with Ernst & Young, 
following which he spent 
two further years with 
the firm specialising in 
corporate recovery.
Appointed to the Group in 
2011, Beth Butterwick led 
the turnaround of the new 
business strategy. This 
enabled the acquisition 
of the business and 
assets of Bonmarché 
by Bonmarché Limited, 
an affiliate of Sun Capital 
Partners, Inc., in January 
2012. With over 21 years’ 
retail experience, Beth 
started her career as a 
graduate trainee with 
Marks & Spencer, where 
she progressed to head of 
buying for the Accessories 
Group. She joined Gap 
Inc. as part of the senior 
management team 
responsible for the 
European expansion. 
Following this, Beth was 
appointed as Commercial 
Director at MS Mode BV, 
based in the Netherlands, 
where she played a key 
part in its performance 
improvement, prior to its 
acquisition by Excellent 
Retail Brands Group in 
January 2011.
Ishbel Macpherson has 
10 years of experience 
acting as a non-executive 
director on the boards of 
various companies in 
different sectors, including 
pharmaceuticals, retail 
and support services. 
Prior to acting as a 
non-executive director, 
Ishbel worked in the 
finance sector, as Head of 
UK emerging companies, 
corporate finance at 
Dresdner Kleinwort 
Wasserstein between 
1999 and 2005, Head 
of smaller companies, 
corporate finance at 
Hoare Govett between 
1994 and 1999, and 
Director of corporate 
finance at BZW between 
1989 and 1994.
Date of appointment 
Board Committees
Experience
October 2013 September 2011 October 2013 March 2003
A R A R A R A R N N
Mark McClennon 
Independent  
Non-executive 
Director
Mark McClennon is the 
Global Vice President for 
IT at Unilever plc, leading 
IT in relation to the growth 
agenda for Unilever group 
marketing, e-commerce, 
R&D and sustainability. 
He joined Unilever in 1993 
and has held a variety 
of senior roles across 
the business. Mark holds 
a BA (Hons) in pure 
mathematics from the 
University of Liverpool 
and he trained as 
an accountant.
April 2016
A R N N N
Annual Report 2016
30 Jeff Bee
Merchandising 
Director
Jeff Bee joined the Group 
in June 2012. He heads 
up the Merchandising 
function and takes 
responsibility for the 
levels of stock the Group 
maintains, pricing and the 
product mix. Previously, 
he spent 12 years at Next, 
three years at Matalan and 
10 years as a consultant 
to companies such as 
Marks & Spencer, 
Dixons Group, Faith 
and Republic.
Date of appointment 
Board Committees
Experience
June 2012
Mark Pickersgill
Retail Director
Mark Pickersgill joined the 
Group in August 2008 to 
head up retail operations, 
store portfolio and 
store design and visual 
merchandising. Previously, 
he spent four years 
at C&A, six years at 
Topshop, two years 
at Next, three years at 
Gymboree and seven 
years at Peacocks.
August 2008
Geraldine Higgins 
Product Director 
Geraldine Higgins joined 
the Group in January 2016 
as Product Director and 
is responsible for Buying 
and Design, Sourcing and 
Compliance. She has a 
strong value trading and 
sourcing background, 
having previously spent 
eight years at Dunnes 
Stores in Ireland, four years 
at Primark, five years at 
Matalan, three years at 
Etam (Holland), and more 
recently at Sainsbury’s 
and Monsoon.
January 2016
Trading Board
Sergei Spiridonov 
Non-independent 
Non-executive 
Director
Sergei Spiridonov is 
Group Chief Operating 
Officer of Sun European 
Partners LLP , the European 
adviser to Sun Capital. 
Prior to joining Sun 
European, Sergei led the 
strategic transformation 
team at Tesco plc and 
before that he was a 
Partner with McKinsey 
and Company, where he 
worked with a wide range 
of consumer and retail 
businesses. He holds 
a master’s degree in 
business administration 
from Harvard Business 
School and a master 
of science degree in 
accounting and finance 
along with a certificate 
in banking and finance 
from the London School 
of Economics.
April 2016
A R N
A
R
N
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Attends by invitation
Chair of the Committee
Note:
Since the year end, a People Director 
and an Interim Multi-channel and 
Marketing Director have been 
appointed to the Trading Board.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
31
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report
The role of the Board
It is the responsibility of the Board to 
promote the long term success of the 
Group and to provide leadership within 
a framework of prudent and effective 
controls that enable risk to be assessed 
and appropriately managed. The Board 
agrees the Group’s strategy, seeks to 
ensure that adequate resources are 
available to enable the Group’s objectives 
to be met, and reviews management 
performance. The Board also approves 
the Group’s values and ensures that its 
responsibilities to shareholders and 
other stakeholders are met.
A Schedule of Matters Reserved for 
the Board is in place and it is reviewed 
periodically. The Schedule can be 
found on the Company’s website: 
www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk.
The key responsibilities of the Board are:
• the overall management of the Group;
• approval of long term objectives 
and strategy;
• approval of revenue and capital 
budgets and plans;
• oversight of operations, ensuring that 
adequate systems of internal control and 
risk management are in place and that 
accounting and other records are 
maintained such that statutory and 
regulatory obligations are complied with;
• review of performance in light of 
strategy and budgets, ensuring that 
any corrective actions are taken;
• approval of the audited financial 
statements, the Annual Report, the 
interim results, material contracts 
and major projects;
• approval of the dividend policy;
• determining changes to the structure, 
size and composition of the Board 
and succession planning;
• determining the remuneration policy 
for the Directors and senior executives 
and approval of the remuneration of 
the Non-executive Directors; and
• approval of communications with 
shareholders and the market.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees are available on 
the Company’s website: 
www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive are separate and the 
division of their responsibilities has 
been agreed and approved by the 
Board. The Chairman engages 
in separate discussions with the 
Non-executive Directors between 
formal Board meetings.
A summary of the main responsibilities 
of each role is available on the Company’s 
website: www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk.
Role of the Chairman
The Chairman ensures that the 
Board is effective, sets the agenda 
and programme for the year, ensures 
that adequate time is allocated for the 
discussion of all agenda items and 
ensures that the Directors receive 
accurate and timely information. 
The Chairman also consults with the 
Non-executive Directors, including the 
Senior Independent Director, on matters 
of corporate governance.
Role of the Chief Executive
The Chief Executive is responsible 
for the day-to-day leadership, operation, 
performance and management 
of the Group and for leading the 
implementation of the strategy 
agreed by the Board.
Senior Independent Director
Ishbel Macpherson is the Senior 
Independent Director (‘SID’) and she is 
available to shareholders to address any 
concerns which have not been resolved 
through the normal channels of Chairman 
or Chief Executive. The SID will also 
hold a meeting once a year with the 
Non-executive Directors without the 
Chairman present.
The Company’s governance framework is set out in the diagram below:
Plc 
BOARD
Remuneration  
COMMITTEE
Nomination  
COMMITTEE
Audit  
COMMITTEE
Delegation
Accountability
Executive  
DIRECTORS
Trading  
BOARD
Annual Report 2016
32 Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial three-year term with typical 
tenure expected to be two three-year 
terms, subject to annual re-election 
by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting. Their letters of appointment 
set out their duties and the level of 
commitment expected. They are 
expected to commit at least 15.5 days 
per annum. The key elements of the 
role of Non-executive Director are:
• strategy – to challenge constructively, 
and contribute to the development 
of strategy;
• performance – to scrutinise the 
performance of management in 
meeting agreed goals and objectives 
and monitor reporting of performance;
• risk – to satisfy themselves as to the 
integrity of financial information and the 
robustness of financial controls and 
systems of risk management; and 
• people – to determine appropriate 
levels of remuneration for the 
Executive Directors and oversee 
the appointment of Executive 
Directors and succession planning.
The Company Secretary
The Company Secretary ensures effective 
communication between the Board 
and its Committees and between senior 
management and the Non-executive 
Directors. The Company Secretary also 
advises the Chairman and the Board on 
corporate governance and ensures that 
Board procedures are followed.
Stephen Alldridge currently acts as 
Company Secretary in addition to his 
role as Finance Director. Whilst he is 
an Executive Director of the Company, 
the Board believes that he is able to 
maintain independence, where required, 
as Company Secretary.
It is the Board’s intention to appoint a 
new Company Secretary later in 2016.
Conflicts of interest
Under the Articles of Association, 
the Board may authorise any actual 
or potential conflict of interest on the part 
of a Director and may impose appropriate 
conditions relating to such conflict. 
Directors are not able to vote in respect 
of any contract, arrangement or transaction 
in which they have a material interest 
and in such circumstances they are 
not counted in the quorum.
A process is in place to identify 
Directors’ potential or actual conflicts 
of interests. This includes declaring any 
potential new conflicts before the start 
of each Board meeting. A Conflicts of 
Interest Register is maintained and 
circulated to the Board in advance 
of each Board meeting.
Committee membership
The Board has agreed that all independent 
Non-executive Directors will serve as 
members of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees.
The Code recommends that a 
majority of the Nomination Committee 
are independent Directors. Whilst 
John Coleman’s role as Non-executive 
Chairman of the Company meant that 
the Company did not comply with the 
Code in this regard during the period 
under review, the Board considered that 
such an arrangement was appropriate 
and practical for the size and nature of 
the Company.
On 8 April 2016 Mark McClennon 
was appointed as an independent 
Non-executive Director and he joined 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees on the same date.
Board induction, training 
and development
An induction programme for newly 
appointed Directors is in place which 
consists of briefings from the Chairman, 
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director 
and corporate advisers along with visits 
to the head office, the distribution centre 
and stores.
The Directors are encouraged to attend 
training and continuing professional 
development courses as required. 
Individual training needs are discussed 
with Directors as part of the annual 
Board evaluation process. Updates on 
corporate governance and regulations 
are provided as required.
Independent advice
The Directors may seek independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the 
expense of the Company.
Performance evaluation
The Board conducted an evaluation of 
its own performance during May 2016. 
The evaluation was conducted on the 
basis of questionnaires which were 
completed by each individual Director. 
Responses were reviewed by the 
Chairman, who then met with each 
Director on a one-to-one basis to 
discuss their responses, general views 
as to the Board’s performance and 
individual training needs. The Chairman 
summarised the outcome of the process 
at the Board meeting in May 2016. 
All Directors agreed that the Board is 
of an appropriate size and composition 
to conduct its role, and that the diversity 
of skills and experience on the Board 
provides for open debate and focused 
and constructive challenge by the 
Non-executive Directors.
Provision B.6.2 of the UK Code, which 
requires that evaluation of the Board 
should be externally facilitated at least 
every three years, does not apply to the 
Company as it is not a constituent of the 
FTSE 350. However, the Board intends 
to keep under review whether an 
externally facilitated evaluation would 
be appropriate in future years.
Appointments
The recruitment of new Directors is 
led by the Nomination Committee and, 
where appropriate, the Committee is 
supported by external independent 
search consultants (see the Nomination 
Committee Report on page 36).
How the Board operates
The Board meets at regular intervals 
and met 10 times during the year under 
review. Directors are also provided with 
weekly trading information and a Board 
pack covering each month in which no 
formal Board meeting is held to ensure 
they are apprised of the Company’s 
ongoing performance. Directors have 
contact on a variety of issues between 
formal meetings and are encouraged to 
question and voice any concerns they 
may have on any topic put to the Board 
for debate.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
33
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued
How the Board operates continued
The Board is supported in its work by Board Committees which are responsible 
for a variety of tasks delegated by the Board. Attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings by the Directors is shown below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
meetings meetings meetings meetings
J Coleman 10/10 5/5 3/3 2/2
I Macpherson 10/10 5/5 3/3 2/2
B Butterwick 10/10 — — —
S Alldridge 10/10 — — —
T Mason — — — —
M Kalb 9/10 — — —
Note: The number of meetings attended is reported out of the number of meetings that the Director 
was eligible to attend.
In relation to the Audit and Remuneration 
Committee meetings, Michael Kalb 
attended as an Observer up to his 
resignation on 8 April 2016 and thereafter 
he was replaced by Sergei Spiridonov, 
who was appointed as a non-independent 
Non-executive Director on the same date.
Beth Butterwick and Stephen Alldridge 
may also attend Committee meetings 
by invitation.
In addition, a Trading Board meets 
on a regular basis. This consists of the 
Chief Executive, who chairs the meeting, 
the Finance Director, the Product Director, 
the Merchandise Director, the Retail 
Director, the People Director and the 
Multi-channel and Marketing Director. 
The responsibility of the Trading Board is 
to oversee the day-to-day management 
of the Group’s business, implement 
the strategy and policies of the Board 
and review progress and financial 
performance against approved 
budgets and plans. The proceedings 
of the Trading Board are reported to 
the Board by the Chief Executive.
Accountability
What the Board did during 
the year
There are a number of standing and 
routine items included for review on 
each Board agenda. These include 
the Chief Executive’s Report and the 
Finance Director’s Report, which 
contains a health and safety report, 
financial reports, consideration of 
reports from the Board Committees, 
proposed new store openings and 
investor relations updates. The Board 
also receives periodic presentations 
and updates from members of the Trading 
Board in relation to strategic developments 
or operational matters and took part in 
a full-day strategic review. 
Risk management and 
internal control systems
Introduction
The Board is responsible for ensuring 
that an appropriate risk management and 
internal control framework is in place.
Risk governance
Effective risk management is key to the 
long term success of the business and it 
requires an appropriate risk governance 
structure. The governance structure and 
processes should be appropriate to the 
size and complexity of the business, its 
culture and its risk appetite and tolerance. 
Bonmarché’s risk governance framework 
is based on its organisational structure, 
to make use of established lines 
of accountability. 
The Board has delegated specific duties 
in relation to risk management and 
internal control to the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee periodically 
reviews the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the risk management framework.
Executive Directors and senior 
management are responsible for 
managing the risk framework and 
internal control systems, for reviewing 
the framework to identify opportunities 
for improvement, and for reporting its 
effectiveness to the Audit Committee. 
Board:
• provides oversight and direction 
and sets the tone; and
• receives reports from the 
Audit Committee.
Audit Committee:
• endorses risk appetite, tolerance 
and policy; and
• reviews risk profile and reporting.
Executives and senior management:
• manage and identify risk; and
• support risk culture.
Employees:
• comply with risk procedures; and
• identify risks.
Risk management framework
The risk management framework sets 
out the policies and procedures for 
managing risk. It is designed to allow:
• risks to be assessed and managed in 
a balanced and proportionate manner;
• implementation of effective controls; 
• clear understanding of roles 
and responsibilities in relation 
to risk management;
• continual improvement of risk 
management and controls; and 
• consistent application of procedures 
as a result of having defined policies 
and procedures in place.
Key features of the risk 
management and internal 
control systems
The key areas that the framework 
details are:
• risk governance environment 
(as described above);
• framework foundations, scope, risk 
appetite and descriptions of roles and 
responsibilities; and
• framework arrangements, incorporating 
risk management procedures to gather 
and document risk information relating 
to new risks, progress on any mitigations 
requiring action, changes to current risks 
or mitigations and changes to the 
overall risk profile. 
A Risk Register is an important feature 
of our risk framework, as it documents 
the identification, assessment and 
treatment of risks, and any mitigations 
Annual Report 2016
34 requiring action. The Board undertook 
a detailed review of the register at its 
meeting in February 2016. During the 
year, the Audit Committee reviewed the 
effectiveness of the risk management 
and internal control systems. The review 
concluded that the framework as described 
above is suitable for identifying, evaluating 
and managing principal risks and enables 
risk management activities to be monitored 
and reviewed on a regular basis. The risk 
management and internal control systems 
were in place throughout the year and 
up to the date of approval of the 2016 
Annual Report. 
Principal risks and 
uncertainties
The Directors have identified the risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group, 
management of which is considered 
key to the successful implementation 
of strategy and long term growth. 
The principal risks, and how we mitigate 
them, are described on pages 18 and 19.
Financial and business 
reporting
The Board seeks to present a fair, 
balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects in all half-year, full-year 
and any other price-sensitive reports 
and other information published externally. 
The Board receives a number of reports, 
including those from the Audit Committee, 
to enable it to monitor and clearly 
understand the Group’s financial position. 
Having requested, and received, advice 
from the Audit Committee, the Board 
believes that the 2016 Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy. 
Anti-fraud, bribery 
and corruption
The Company aims to promote honest 
and ethical conduct. To support this, it 
has in place an anti-bribery policy which 
aims to ensure compliance with the 
Bribery Act 2010. 
Whistleblowing
The Company has a written policy and 
formal procedures designed to ensure 
that colleagues can confidentially raise 
concerns about possible improprieties. 
This includes guidance on raising 
the concerns internally and provides 
external, independent whistleblowing 
advice from the charity Public Concern 
at Work. The Audit Committee regularly 
reviews the Company’s whistleblowing 
policy and procedures, and any instances 
of whistleblowing, as part of its 
standing agenda.
Controlling shareholder
The Group is controlled by BM Holdings 
S.à r.l., which owns 52.4% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. 
BM Holdings S.à r.l.’s ultimate Parent 
Company is a private equity investment 
fund advised by an affiliate of 
Sun Capital Partners, Inc.
Under the UK Listing Rules companies 
with a shareholder or shareholders who 
could, when acting in concert, exercise 
30% or more of the voting rights of a 
company at a general meeting are 
required to enter into a binding agreement 
with that shareholder or shareholders. 
This is intended to ensure that the parties 
to the agreement comply with certain 
independence provisions as set out 
in the Listing Rules.
On 15 November 2013, prior to admission 
to AIM, the Company entered into a 
Relationship Agreement (as amended 
and restated on 18 September 2015) with 
BM Holdings S.à r.l., Investec Bank plc 
and Sun Capital Partners Management V, 
LLC. The Relationship Agreement exists 
to ensure that the Group is capable of 
carrying on its business independently 
of its parent group, and that transactions 
and relationships between the Group 
and the Parent Company’s group are 
conducted on an arm’s length commercial 
basis such that the Company continues 
to satisfy the appropriate criteria for 
trading as a Premium-Listed company. 
The Relationship Agreement also 
regulates the provision of any consulting 
services by Sun Capital Partners 
Management V, LLC to the Company.
The views of the major shareholder are 
represented on the Board through its 
entitlement to nominate a Director, for 
so long as it holds over 15% of the 
Company’s issued share capital, and, 
for so long as it controls more than 30% 
of voting rights, the Chairman of the Board. 
The major shareholder is also entitled to 
nominate an Observer to attend all Board 
meetings. BM Holdings S.à r.l. has 
presently waived its right to nominate 
the Chairman. Sergei Spiridonov, who 
was appointed as a non-independent 
Non-executive Director on 8 April 2016, 
acts as BM Holdings S.à r.l.’s 
representative and Michael Kalb 
acts as Board Observer having 
previously served as a non-independent 
Non-executive Director on behalf of 
BM Holdings S.à r.l. from 29 April 2015 
to 8 April 2016.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4(14), 
the Board confirms that for the year 
ended 26 March 2016:
(i) the Company has complied with the 
independence provisions included in 
the Relationship Agreement; and
(ii)   so far as the Company is aware, the 
independence provisions contained 
in the Relationship Agreement have 
been complied with by the other 
parties to the Relationship 
Agreement and their associates.
Other shareholders
The Group attaches great importance 
to communication with shareholders and 
maintains an active dialogue with the 
investment community through a planned 
programme of investor relations activities. 
The Chief Executive and the Finance 
Director provide formal presentations 
at the time of announcing the Group’s 
full-year and interim results and meet 
institutional investors and analysts at 
other times.
Investor relations activity is reported to 
the Board as part of the regular update 
provided by the Finance Director at 
each Board meeting.
The Interim results and the Annual 
Report are the primary means of 
communication during the year with all 
of the Company’s shareholders. They 
are available on the Company’s corporate 
website, www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk, which 
also contains the latest announcements, 
press releases, published financial 
information and other information 
about the Company. 
The Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) 
affords the opportunity for shareholders 
to meet the Directors personally and to 
ask questions about the Group and its 
business. This year’s AGM will be held 
on 28 July 2016 at the Company’s 
headquarters at Jubilee Way, Grange 
Moor, Wakefield WF4 4SJ. The Notice 
of AGM is available on the Company’s 
website at www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk and 
will be sent out to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the meeting. 
The result of the proxy votes submitted by 
shareholders in respect of each resolution 
is made available on the Company’s 
website or can be provided upon 
request to the Company Secretary.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
35
Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present the report of 
the Nomination Committee for 2016.
The main purpose of the Nomination 
Committee is to lead the process 
of reviewing the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and its 
Committees and, where appropriate, 
to make recommendations to the 
Board with regard to any changes. 
It also assesses the skills and 
attributes needed by the Board and 
its Committees to operate effectively 
and discharge its responsibilities.
The Committee was established in 
September 2015 following the decision 
to move the Company’s listing from AIM 
to the Official List of the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange. Since 
its inception the Committee has 
considered the composition of the 
Board in order to move towards full 
compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and has 
focused on succession management. 
In March 2016, we appointed a new 
People Director, Nikki Rolph, who will 
contribute generally to the operation 
of the Committee, including in relation 
to succession planning.
The Committee has formal terms 
of reference which are available 
on the Company’s website: 
www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk.
The Committee met on two occasions 
during FY16.
Committee membership
• John Coleman – Chairman
• Ishbel Macpherson
• Mark McClennon (joined 8 April 2016)
During the year the Committee comprised 
only one independent Non-executive 
Director, as under the Code the other 
member, being the Chairman, is not 
counted as independent. Since the year 
end, Mark McClennon, who is an 
independent Non-executive Director, 
joined the Committee on 8 April 2016.
Activities during the year
It was decided that an additional 
independent Non-executive Director 
should be appointed in order to 
strengthen the Board. One of the 
Committee’s key activities has therefore 
been to identify suitable candidates, 
working closely with external search 
consultant JCA Group, which 
specialises in the recruitment of 
executive and non-executive directors. 
JCA Group is independent and has no 
other connection with the Company. 
On 8 April 2016 Mark McClennon 
was appointed as an independent 
Non-executive Director. His biographical 
details can be found on page 30. 
Following the announcement on 
16 December 2015 that Beth Butterwick 
intended to stand down as Chief Executive, 
the Committee has undertaken a search 
for a replacement. It has worked alongside 
an independent specialist retail recruitment 
consultancy, Endaba. A shortlist of 
candidates was compiled and, following 
a thorough selection process, it was 
decided to recommend to the Board 
the appointment of Helen Connolly 
to succeed Beth. Helen will join us 
later in the year.
The Committee also carries out appraisals 
of Board and senior management and 
considers the issue of succession over 
the longer term. In doing this, it will take 
into consideration the optimum blend of 
skills and experience needed to lead and 
support the Group.
Areas of focus for FY17
• The structure, size and composition 
of the Board and its Committees.
• Succession planning.
• Induction of new Directors. 
• Exposure of Non-executive Directors 
across the Group.
Diversity
The Board recognises the value 
of diversity, including gender, in the 
boardroom and it seeks to recruit 
directors from a variety of backgrounds 
with differing skills and experience. 
It is the Board’s policy that Board 
appointments are made on merit, set 
against objective criteria, taking into 
account the skills, experience and 
expertise of candidates rather than 
by setting specific targets.
There are currently two female members 
of the Board, representing 33% of the 
overall membership. 
John Coleman
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
10 June 2016
John Coleman  
Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee
Annual Report 2016
36 Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Audit Committee Report for 
the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
ensuring that the financial performance 
of the Group is properly reported and 
reviewed. Its role includes monitoring 
the integrity of the financial statements 
(including annual and interim accounts 
and results announcements), reviewing 
internal control and risk management 
systems, reviewing any changes to 
accounting policies, reviewing and 
monitoring the extent of any non-audit 
services undertaken by the external 
auditor and advising on the appointment 
of the external auditor.
During the year, the Committee has 
focused on evaluating the Company’s 
risk and internal control framework 
in relation to financial and business 
processes, to gain assurance as to 
the adequacy and effectiveness of 
the control systems. There has been 
particular focus on the Viability Statement 
which is set out in the Strategic Report 
and we have worked with management 
and the Board to ensure that the business 
maintains a robust control framework. 
I am pleased to report that the Audit 
Committee is satisfied that the control 
systems are adequate and are 
operating effectively.
In October 2015 the Company 
made its transition from AIM to the 
Official List of the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange and, as a 
result, we have taken a variety of steps 
to enhance our corporate governance 
procedures in line with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘Code’) where practical and 
appropriate for a company of Bonmarché’s 
size and maturity. I am satisfied that the 
enhanced governance arrangements 
in place are suitable for the Company 
at the current time; however, we will keep 
the governance framework under review 
to ensure that it evolves in line with the 
development of the Company.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee 
are set out on the Company’s website: 
www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk.
Meetings of the Committee have 
also been attended by the Executive 
Directors and the non-independent 
Non-executive Director.
Ishbel Macpherson
Chairman of the Audit Committee
10 June 2016
Members of the Audit Committee
During the period under review, 
the Committee consisted of two 
Non-executive Directors: me (as Chairman) 
and John Coleman (who is not counted 
as independent). Beth Butterwick 
and Stephen Alldridge have attended 
the Committee meetings by invitation as 
have the non-independent Non-executive 
Directors. Whilst the Code states that 
an audit committee should, in the case 
of a smaller company, comprise two 
independent non-executive directors, 
during the year the Committee had 
only one independent Non-executive 
Director as the Chairman is not counted 
as independent under the Code.
On 8 April 2016 Mark McClennon 
was appointed as an independent 
Non-executive Director and I am 
pleased to say that he joined the 
Committee on the same date. 
The Board is satisfied that, as Chairman 
of the Committee, I have recent and 
relevant financial experience, in particular 
due to my background in investment 
banking and the experience I have gained 
through being a member or the chairman 
of audit committees of other listed 
companies. I report the Committee’s 
deliberations at the following Board 
meeting and the minutes of each 
meeting are made available to all 
members of the Board.
The Audit Committee met five times 
in the year.
Ishbel Macpherson  
Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
Audit Committee Report
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
37
Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued
Duties
The main duties of the Audit Committee 
are set out in its Terms of Reference, 
which are available on the Company’s 
website (www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk), 
and include the requirements:
• to monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group, including its 
annual and half-year reports;
• to review the content of and advise 
the Board on whether, taken as a 
whole, the Annual Report is fair, 
balanced and understandable;
• to review and challenge where 
necessary any changes to, and the 
consistency of, accounting policies 
and whether the Company has followed 
appropriate accounting standards 
and made appropriate estimates 
and judgements, taking into account 
the views of the external auditor, the 
going concern assumption and all 
material information presented with 
the financial statements;
• to keep under review the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal control systems 
(including financial, operational 
and compliance controls and risk 
management) and to review and 
approve the statements to be included 
in the Annual Report concerning internal 
controls and risk management;
• to assess regularly the need for an 
internal audit function;
• to consider and make recommendations 
to the Board, to be put to shareholders 
for approval at the Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’), in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment or removal 
of the Company’s external auditor;
• to ensure that at least every 10 years 
the external audit services contract 
is put out to tender;
• to oversee the relationship with the 
external auditor, including approval 
of its remuneration and its terms of 
engagement, and to assess annually 
its independence and objectivity, taking 
into account relevant professional 
and regulatory requirements and 
the relationship with the auditor as 
a whole, including the provision 
of any non-audit services;
• to meet regularly with the external 
auditor and, at least once a year, without 
any Executive Director or other member 
of management present, to discuss any 
issues arising from the audit;
• to review and approve the annual 
external audit plan and review the 
findings of the audit with the external 
auditor; and
• to review the Group’s arrangements 
for its employees to raise concerns in 
confidence about possible improprieties 
in financial reporting or other matters, the 
Group’s procedures for detecting fraud, 
and the Group’s anti-bribery procedures.
The Board’s responsibility for the 
assessment of risk is delegated 
to the Committee.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference were 
updated by the Board in March 2016 to 
ensure they are in line with the Code. 
Principal activities during 
the year
The main items of business considered 
by the Audit Committee during the 
year included: 
• a review of the financial statements 
and Annual Report, including an 
assessment of whether they were 
fair, balanced and understandable;
• consideration of the external 
audit report and management 
representation letter;
• a review of the Viability Statement;
• a review of the 2016 audit plan 
and audit engagement letter;
• a review of suitability of the external 
auditor and approval of the policy 
in relation to permissible non-audit 
work which may be carried out by 
the external auditor and the policy 
in relation to the appointment and 
reappointment of the auditor;
• a review of the risk management 
and internal control systems;
• a review and approval of the interim 
results and dividend;
• an assessment of the need for an 
internal audit function; 
• a review of regular 
whistleblowing reports;
• a regular review of the gifts and 
hospitality register, and annual 
review of UK Bribery Act procedures 
and compliance;
• meetings with the external auditor 
without management being present; and
• a review of the implications of new 
regulations for Premium Listed 
companies and decisions as 
to whether to apply these to 
the Company.
Significant accounting issues
In relation to the Code provision C.3.8, the 
Audit Committee must report significant 
issues in relation to financial statements 
and consider the appropriateness 
of assumptions in respect of key 
accounting judgements.
The key accounting judgements considered 
related to gift voucher liabilities and 
provisions against inventories. Information 
on the gift voucher liabilities and inventory 
provisions is provided in the critical 
accounting estimates and assumptions 
section on page 79.
The Audit Committee, following a review 
of information provided by management 
and the conclusions of the external auditor, 
has satisfied itself as to the reasonableness 
and consistency of the assumptions made 
by management in relation to these items. 
There were no other significant issues 
relating to the financial statements on 
which the Committee must report.
Fair, balanced 
and understandable
In accordance with UK Code provision 
C.3.4 and its Terms of Reference, 
the Audit Committee has considered, 
at the request of the Board, whether 
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance.
The Audit Committee and the Board 
reviewed and approved a detailed timetable 
for the production of the 2016 Annual 
Report, ensuring that sufficient time 
was provided for reviews at various draft 
stages and for input from the Board and 
Committees to be reflected in the drafting 
process. Having reviewed the final draft 
of the Annual Report, the Committee 
advised the Board that, in its view, the 
2016 Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable.
Annual Report 2016
38 Viability Statement
The Code and the Listing Rules require 
listed companies to include in their annual 
report and accounts a Viability Statement. 
The Committee reviewed and discussed 
reports from management and concluded 
that the financial statements can be 
prepared on a going concern basis and 
that there is a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as 
they fall due over at least the next three 
years. As part of that review, the Directors 
carried out an assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group, including those 
that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. The assessment of the 
Group’s prospects, together with the 
Group’s Viability Statement, is set out 
in the Strategic Report on page 20.
Role of the external auditor
The Committee monitors the 
relationship with the external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, to 
ensure that auditor independence 
and objectivity are maintained.
As part of its review the Committee monitors 
the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor. The Audit Committee has 
established a policy that limits the payment 
for non-audit services to the auditor to a 
maximum of 50% of the audit fee in any 
one year, other than in circumstances 
where there is a compelling commercial 
or other reason to involve the auditor to 
a greater extent, and then only with the 
prior consent of the Audit Committee. 
The breakdown of fees between audit and 
non-audit services is provided in note 5b 
of the Group’s financial statements. The 
non-audit services fees exceeded the policy 
maximum during the year as the auditor 
carried out work as Reporting Accountant 
in relation to the admission of the Company 
to the Official List of the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange. The 
Audit Committee is satisfied that it was 
appropriate for the auditor to carry 
out this work and that it did not impair 
its independence or objectivity.
The Committee also assesses the 
auditor’s performance. Having reviewed 
the auditor’s independence and 
performance, the Committee recommends 
that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be 
reappointed as the Company’s auditor 
at the AGM.
The Committee reviews and 
agrees the engagement letter from 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and 
verifies its independence and objectivity.
In accordance with the practice 
recommended by the Auditing Practices 
Board, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
audit partners serve a maximum 
of five years on listed clients.
Audit process
The auditor prepares an audit plan 
for its review of the full-year financial 
statements. The audit plan sets out the 
scope of the audit, areas to be targeted 
and audit timetable. This plan is 
reviewed and agreed in advance by the 
Audit Committee. Following its review, 
the auditor presented its findings to the 
Audit Committee for discussion. No major 
areas of concern were highlighted by the 
auditor during the year. The Committee 
reviewed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process. This review considered 
the audit planning process and approach, 
the audit process, auditor independence, 
audit team expertise, responsiveness 
and resourcing.
Internal audit
The Committee conducted its annual 
review of the need for an internal audit 
function at its meeting in January 2016. 
At present, the Group does not have an 
internal audit function, and the Committee 
continues to believe that management 
is able to derive assurance as to the 
adequacy and effectiveness of internal 
controls and risk management 
procedures without one.
Monitoring and control are achieved 
using a range of preventative and detective 
controls. Formal policies and procedures 
and a risk management framework are 
in place for key financial and operational 
activities. Management will continue 
to evaluate the need for additional 
assurance and, where necessary, 
will consider using an outsourced 
service provider to undertake ad-hoc 
assessments. Policies, procedures and 
controls will be monitored on an 
ongoing basis, and the need for an 
internal audit function will be reviewed 
on at least an annual basis.
Risk management 
and internal controls
As described on page 34 of the 
Corporate Governance Report, the 
Group has established a framework of 
risk management and internal control 
systems, policies and procedures. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the risk management and 
internal control framework with a view to 
ensuring that it operates effectively.
Process for preparing 
consolidated accounts
The Group has established internal control 
and risk management systems in relation 
to the process for preparing consolidated 
financial statements. The Group structure 
is simple and all accounting functions 
take place in one location.
The main features of the Group’s internal 
control system in relation to preparing 
the financial statements are summarised 
as follows:
• a robust preparation process for the 
consolidated financial results involving 
a number of review stages by individuals 
who are independent from those 
preparing the financial statements 
and consolidation;
• a financial policies and procedures 
document which includes a section 
on the financial reporting preparation;
• a rigorous process for determining 
amounts where management judgement 
and estimates are made, including review 
by the Finance Director and, when 
necessary, by the Audit Committee 
and the Board; and
• a review by the Audit Committee and 
the Board of the draft consolidated 
financial statements, including any 
reports and notes as provided by 
management when necessary on 
significant accounting issues, 
changes in accounting policies 
and other matters pertaining to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Whistleblowing
The Group has in place a whistleblowing 
policy which sets out the formal process 
by which an employee of the Group may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in financial reporting or other 
matters. Whistleblowing is a standing item 
on the Committee’s agenda and updates 
are provided at each meeting. During 
the year no incidents were reported 
to the Committee.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
39
Corporate Governance Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present, on behalf of 
the Board, our Directors’ Remuneration 
Report in respect of the 52 weeks 
ended 26 March 2016. 
This is our first Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for a financial period ending after 
the Company’s shares were admitted 
to trading on the Official List of the Main 
Market of the London Stock Exchange 
on 19 October 2015. In accordance with 
the applicable remuneration reporting 
regulations, the report is presented 
in two sections:
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy: 
this sets out our forward-looking 
remuneration policy for Directors and 
will be subject to a binding vote at the 
2016 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’).
• The Annual Report on Remuneration: 
this provides details of the remuneration 
earned by Directors in FY16 and how 
we intend to apply the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy in FY17. This 
will be subject to an advisory vote 
at the 2016 AGM. 
I would like to thank shareholders 
for their support of our remuneration 
arrangements whilst we were listed on 
AIM. We sought to adopt best practice 
amongst AIM-listed companies for 
remuneration reporting when presenting 
our Directors’ Remuneration Reports for 
FY14 and FY15 and I am delighted to 
report that the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for FY15 was supported by 100% 
of the votes cast at the 2015 AGM.
How we link executive 
remuneration to our strategy
We continue to take a disciplined 
approach to executive remuneration, 
ensuring that we incentivise and reward 
the right behaviours to support the 
overall strategy of the Group. Following 
the Company’s transition to the Main 
Market, the Remuneration Committee 
has reviewed and developed the 
remuneration policy for Directors to 
take account of developing best practice 
across the fully listed environment and 
to ensure that the incentive pay structure 
for Executive Directors is aligned to the 
strategic direction of the Group. 
The following is an overview of how 
our policy on executive remuneration 
supports the strategic objectives of 
the Group: 
• Annual bonus payments are subject 
to the achievement of stretching profit 
before tax targets, which supports the 
focus on profitability and growth and 
therefore the long term success of 
the Group.
• A proportion of the annual bonus 
is deferred into shares for three years 
to ensure that Directors consider the 
longer term impact of decisions that 
are made and the sustainability of the 
business, which aligns their interests 
with shareholders.
• The LTIP awards are designed to 
encourage behaviours which facilitate 
the delivery of sustainable growth of 
the business, whilst delivering value 
to stakeholders and promoting the 
long term success of the Group. The 
earnings per share (‘EPS’) target aligns 
clearly to the Group’s strategy to 
deliver earnings growth and the Total 
Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) measure 
relative to other retailers clearly aligns 
interests to shareholders and maintains 
a link to share price performance.
FY16 performance and 
variable pay outcome
The Group’s performance in FY16 
is summarised on pages 7 to 23 
and, while FY16 was a difficult year, 
our results represent a credible 
performance in light of the challenging 
trading conditions. We achieved a 5.3% 
total revenue increase on the prior year, 
like-for-like sales grew by 0.7% and 
online sales grew by 3.6%. 
We believe that variable pay should only 
be awarded for achievement against 
stretching targets. Despite a number 
of year-on-year improvements, the 
threshold profit before tax target has 
not been met, and therefore no annual 
bonus awards have paid out in respect 
of FY16.
The Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) was approved by shareholders at 
the 2015 AGM and the first awards were 
granted in respect of FY16. Accordingly, 
there are no long term incentive outcomes 
to report in relation to FY16. 
Ishbel Macpherson  
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Annual Report 2016
40 Executive Director changes 
during FY17
Beth Butterwick will step down as 
Chief Executive during FY17. As Beth 
resigned from the Company, she will 
not be eligible for an annual bonus for 
FY17 and her LTIP awards will lapse on 
the date she ceases to be employed. 
Her Restricted Share Plan granted in 
October 2012 was vested as to 60% 
of the shares when she gave notice 
of her intention to leave the Company, 
and was forfeited in respect of the 
balance of the shares. Details of her 
arrangements on cessation are on 
page 47.
Our new Chief Executive, Helen Connolly, 
will take up her position in FY17. Helen’s 
salary has been set at £300,000 taking 
into account a variety of factors, including 
Helen’s wealth of experience and 
market positioning.
As part of Helen’s joining arrangements, 
we agreed to grant her share awards as 
compensation for share awards to be 
forfeited under her previous employment. 
The awards will be granted on an equivalent 
basis to the awards forfeited. Further 
details are on page 47 and full disclosure 
of the awards will be provided in next 
year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Reward for FY17
Executive Directors’ 
salaries and Non-executive 
Directors’ fees
In line with the salary review timetable 
for all other employees, the Executive 
Directors’ base salaries and Non-executive 
Directors’ fees will be reviewed during 
October 2016. Any increases are expected 
to be modest and in line with the range 
of salary increases awarded to other 
employees in the Group. 
Annual bonus
Maximum bonus opportunity for 
FY17 has been set at 100% of salary 
and are subject to stretching profit 
before tax targets.
LTIP
Whilst our remuneration policy allows 
a larger LTIP award to be granted, we 
consider it appropriate to maintain the 
level of awards granted in FY16. Awards 
will therefore be granted at 50% of 
salary for FY17 and the performance 
measures will be continue to be based 
on EPS and TSR.
We are proposing changes to the LTIP, 
for which shareholder approval will be 
sought at the AGM. Those changes 
reflect the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
for which approval is also sought, and 
are described in the Notice of AGM. 
I hope that you will agree that our 
proposals reflect a sensible and 
disciplined approach to executive 
remuneration and that you will support 
the resolutions to be proposed at the 
AGM in relation to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Ishbel Macpherson
Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
10 June 2016
At a glance summary: Executive Directors’ remuneration
Shareholder approval will be sought 
for the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
at the 2016 AGM (see page 49).
The threshold profit before tax target 
has not been met and therefore no 
annual bonuses have paid out in 
respect of FY16.
Maximum bonus opportunity for FY17 
will be equal to 100% of salary. Bonus 
is based on profit before tax targets. 
Salaries/fees for FY17 will be 
considered in October at the same 
time as for the wider workforce. 
Any increase will be in line with the 
range of increases awarded to 
other employees. 
There are no long term incentive 
outcomes to report in relation 
to FY16. 
Similar to FY16, FY17 LTIP awards 
will be granted at 50% of salary with 
vesting based on EPS and relative 
TSR targets (see page 46). 
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
41
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Single figure table – audited
The table below sets out single total figure remuneration received by each Director for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 
and the prior 52-week period. 
LTIP Pension Single total
Salary Benefits vesting contribution/ figure of
Financial and fees in kind Bonus in period allowance remuneration
Director Position period £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Beth Butterwick Chief Executive FY16 303 21 — — 62 386
FY15 285 20 — — 58 363
Stephen Alldridge Finance Director FY16 202 18 — — 41 261
FY15 192 19 — — 39 250
Non-executive Directors
Tim Mason Chairman FY16 Note 1 — — — — —
FY15 Note 1 — — — — —
John Coleman Chairman
2
FY16 119 — — — — 119
FY15 55 — — — — 55
Ishbel Macpherson Non-executive Director FY16 60 — — — — 60
FY15 55 — — — — 55
Michael Kalb Non-executive Director
3
FY16 Note 3 — — — — —
FY15 — — — — — —
Total FY16 720 39 — — 67 826
Total FY15 587 39 — — 97 723
1  Tim Mason received no payment from the Group, but fees of £100,000 and £8,000 were payable to Sun Capital Partners Management V, LLC for his services 
in respect of FY15 and FY16 respectively. Tim stepped down from his role as Chairman and left the Board on 29 April 2015.
2  John Coleman was appointed as Chairman on 29 April 2015. His fee for FY16 therefore reflects his role as both a Non-executive Director and Chairman during 
the financial period.
3  Michael Kalb was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 29 April 2015. He received no payment from the Group, but a fee of £46,000 was payable to 
Sun Capital Partners Management V, LLC for his services.
The figures in the single figure table above are derived from the following:
Salary and fees The amount of salary/fees received in the financial period (up to the date of resignation as a Director 
in the case of Directors who left during the financial period).
Benefits The taxable value of benefits received in the financial period. These are principally a car benefit 
and private medical insurance.
Pension The pension figure represents the Company’s contributions to the Group personal pension plan 
and any cash payment in lieu of pension contributions made in the financial period. 
Annual Report 2016
42 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Additional disclosures in respect of the single figure table – audited
Base salary
Details of annual base salaries for Executive Directors are set out below:
FY15 FY16
 (effective from (effective from
28 September 27 September
2014) 2015)
Executive Director £’000 £’000 % increase
Beth Butterwick 300 306 2%
Stephen Alldridge 200 204 2%
Executive Bonus Scheme FY16: FY16 performance against targets – audited
The Executive Directors were awarded a maximum bonus opportunity equal to 100% of average base salary earned over FY16. 
100% of the bonus was assessed against profit before tax. 
The following table sets out the performance targets that applied. As the threshold performance level was not met, no bonus 
was earned. 
Threshold Maximum
performance performance Actual % of maximum
Performance measure (5% of salary) (100% of salary) performance bonus payable
Profit before tax and exceptional items £13.7m £17.3m £10.6m 0%
Scheme interests vesting in respect of the financial period – audited
No LTIP awards vested in respect of the financial period. 
Scheme interests awarded in respect of the financial period – audited
The following LTIP awards were granted on 24 September 2015 in respect of FY16, equating to 50% of salary:
Face value % of award
Number at grant vesting at Performance
Executive Director Type of award of shares £’000
1
threshold period
Beth Butterwick
2
LTIP 51,020 150 25% 3 years
Stephen Alldridge LTIP 34,013 100 25% 3 years
1 Based on a share price of £2.94, being the closing mid-market price on the day before the date of grant.
2 Beth Butterwick’s LTIP award will lapse on her cessation of employment, as referred to on page 47. 
LTIP awards are subject to the achievement of a combination of growth in earnings per share (‘EPS’) and Total Shareholder 
Return (‘TSR’) relative to members of the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index and of the FTSE AIM Retail Index excluding 
food and drink. Vesting of 75% of the award will be linked to EPS and 25% will be linked to TSR. The pay-out schedules for 
each element are set out below:
EPS element (75% of total award) TSR element (25% of total award)
Performance level Compound annual EPS growth Ranking against Retail Index % of that part of the award vesting
Below ‘threshold’ Below 8% p.a. Below median 0%
‘Threshold’ 8% p.a. Median 25%
‘Target’ 12% or above — 50% of the EPS element
‘Stretch’ 20% or above Upper quartile 100%
Pro-rata vesting in between the above points.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
43
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Payments to past Directors and for loss of office – audited
The Company neither made any payments to past Directors nor made any payments to Directors for loss of office during 
the financial period. Beth Butterwick will cease employment during FY17 and the arrangements relating to her remuneration 
in respect of her cessation of employment are described on page 47.
Directors’ share interests – audited
The Remuneration Committee has adopted shareholding guidelines in accordance with which Executive Directors are required 
to build up and maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of annual salary. Executive Directors will 
be required to retain half of any shares resulting from the exercise of LTIP or Deferred Bonus Plan awards after tax until the 
guidelines have been met.
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the Company’s ordinary shares as at 26 March 2016 (or, if earlier, 
the date on which the Director resigned from the Board) were as set out below. There have been no changes to those interests 
between 26 March 2016 and 10 June 2016:
Unvested
Subject to Not subject to Total as at
Owned performance performance 26 March
Director Type outright conditions conditions 2016
Beth Butterwick Restricted 
Share Plan
shares 
1
756,000 — — 756,000
2
LTIP — 51,020 — 51,020
3
Stephen Alldridge Restricted 
Share Plan
shares 
4
406,000 — 101,500 507,500
LTIP — 34,013 — 34,013
Tim Mason Shares — — — —
John Coleman Shares — — — —
Ishbel Macpherson Shares 25,000 — — 25,000
Michael Kalb Shares — — — —
1  The Executive Directors participated in a share incentive scheme established by the Company’s majority shareholder, Sun Capital Partners Management V, LLC, 
prior to IPO. This involved a single grant of restricted shares in October 2012, with shares vesting equally over five years, commencing on 20 January 2013, 
subject only to continued employment.
2 The unvested portion of Beth Butterwick’s Restricted Share Plan lapsed on her giving notice to leave the Company in December 2015.
3 This award will lapse on Beth Butterwick’s termination of employment as referred to on page 47. 
4 Includes 101,500 Restricted Share Plan shares that vested during the financial period.
Annual Report 2016
44 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Performance graph and historical Chief Executive remuneration outcomes – unaudited
The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance of the Company over the period from 20 November 2013 
(the date of admission of the Company’s shares to trading on AIM) to 26 March 2016 compared with the FTSE All Share General 
Retailers Index. This index was chosen because the Company is a member of it.
The table below shows the single total figure of remuneration for the Chief Executive and the bonus earned as a percentage 
of maximum opportunity. As the Company’s shares were admitted to trading on AIM on 20 November 2013, only three financial 
periods have been reported. No relevant ‘single total figure’ Long Term Incentive Plan component vested in respect of any of these 
financial periods.
Bonus LTIP 
Total (as a % (as a %
remuneration of maximum of maximum
£’000 opportunity) opportunity)
FY16 386 Nil N/A
FY15 363 Nil N/A
FY14 573 68.7% N/A
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive – unaudited
The table below sets out the percentage change in base salary, value of taxable benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive 
compared with the average percentage change for all employees.
Percentage change from FY15 to FY16
Salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus
Chief Executive 6.3% 5.7% N/A
Employees (average change) 3.7% 22.2% N/A
Beth Butterwick received a salary increase of 11% on 28 September 2014 reflecting the admission of the Company’s shares to 
trading on AIM, and 2% on 27 September 2015. Because her FY15 salary is based on the lower salary for half of FY15 and her 
salary as increased to reflect admission for the balance of FY15, the increase between FY15 and FY16 is 6.3% as shown in the 
table above. The increase made to Beth Butterwick’s salary in FY15 was 2% on 27 September 2015, as referred to on page 43. 
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
Nov 13 Feb 14 May 14 Aug 14 Nov 14 Feb 15 May 15 Aug 15 Nov 15 Feb 16
Index 20 November 2013 = 100
Bonmarché
FTSE All Share General Retailers Index
Admission
Admission date
20 November 2013
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
45
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Relative importance of the expenditure on pay – unaudited
The table below shows the Group’s total employee remuneration (including Directors) compared to the Group’s financial 
performance and payments to shareholders.
FY16 FY15
£’m £’m
Total employee costs 39.4 36.3
Distributions to shareholders 3.5 3.3
Underlying profit before tax 10.6 12.4
Implementation of Directors’ Remuneration Policy for FY17 – unaudited
Information on how the Company intends to implement the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for FY17 is set out below.
Salary/fees 
In line with the salary review timetable for all other employees, the Executive Directors’ base salaries and Non-executive 
Directors’ fees will be reviewed in October 2016. Any increase to the Finance Director’s salary or any Non-executive Director’s 
fee is expected to be modest and will be in line with the range of salary increases awarded to other employees in the Company.
Beth Butterwick will step down as Chief Executive during FY17. Helen Connolly will take up her position during FY17. Helen’s 
salary has been set at £300,000 taking into account a variety of factors, including her experience and market positioning. Her salary 
will not be subject to a review in October 2016.
Annual incentive plan
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for FY17 will remain at 100% of salary for each Executive Director and in the case 
of Helen Connolly will be based on her salary from her date of appointment until the end of FY17. The bonus is subject 
to stretching profit before tax targets. The Committee considers that the profit before tax targets are commercially sensitive. 
However, the targets will be fully disclosed in next year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report on the same basis as the FY16 profit 
before tax targets disclosed on page 43.
In accordance with the Company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy, half of any bonus earned in excess of 50% of salary will be 
deferred in shares over a three-year period, subject to a minimum deferral of £10,000. 
LTIP
FY17 LTIP awards will be granted at the level of 50% of salary. The performance conditions applying to the FY17 awards will be 
based on a combination of growth in EPS and TSR relative to members of the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index and of the 
FTSE AIM Retail Index excluding food and drink. Vesting of 75% of the award will be linked to EPS and 25% will be linked to TSR. 
The pay-out schedules for each element are set out below:
EPS element (75% of total award) TSR element (25% of total award)
Performance level Compound annual EPS growth Ranking against Retail Index % of that part of the award vesting
Below ‘threshold’ Below 8% p.a. Below median 0%
‘Threshold’ 8% p.a. Median 25%
‘Target’ 12% or above — 50% of the EPS element
‘Stretch’ 20% or above Upper quartile 100%
Pro-rata vesting in between the above points.
Annual Report 2016
46 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Beth Butterwick termination arrangements – unaudited
Beth Butterwick will cease employment during FY17 and will receive her salary, pension and other benefits up to the date 
of termination. Beth will not be eligible to earn a bonus in respect of FY17 and her LTIP award granted in FY16 will lapse on 
termination. Beth Butterwick will be entitled to retain the shares subject to her Restricted Share Plan, in respect of which her 
award has vested prior to the date on which Beth gave notice to leave the Company, in accordance with the terms of that plan.
Helen Connolly – joining awards – unaudited
The Committee has agreed to grant Helen Connolly share awards in connection with her recruitment to compensate her for 
three share awards under plans operated by her former employer which she will forfeit as a result of her joining the Company, 
in accordance with the Company’s existing Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the policy to be proposed to shareholders for 
approval at the 2016 AGM. The number of shares subject to the awards will be determined by reference to the share price 
and exchange rate at the date on which Helen joins the Company and will be included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
for FY17.
The first award which is in compensation for an award that would have vested in 2016 will vest six months after Helen starts 
employment. The second and third awards will vest in March 2017 and March 2018 respectively, reflecting the vesting dates 
of the forfeited awards.
The vesting of the awards will be subject to Helen’s continued employment until the relevant vesting date. Although the awards 
will be granted outside the terms of the Company’s LTIP, they will be subject to malus and clawback provisions on a similar 
basis to those which apply to awards under that LTIP. 
The Committee has the right to reduce or cancel the awards to the extent that Helen’s awards with her former employer are not forfeited.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration – unaudited
Remuneration Committee membership
The Remuneration Committee is composed of the Company’s independent Non-executive Directors (Ishbel Macpherson 
and Mark McClennon) and the Chairman of the Board (John Coleman). Ishbel Macpherson is the Chairman of the Committee.
John Coleman has continued to serve as a member of the Remuneration Committee following his appointment as Chairman 
of the Company on 29 April 2015. This is in light of the insight and experience that he adds as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. The Code requires that in the case of smaller companies, a Remuneration Committee should have at least two 
independent non-executive directors. During the year, the Committee had only one independent Non-executive Director as 
the Chairman was not considered independent for the purposes of the Code.
Mark McClennon was appointed to the Board as an independent Non-executive Director on 8 April 2016 and became a member 
of the Remuneration Committee with effect from that date.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the financial period and attendance by individual Committee members 
at meetings is shown in the Corporate Governance Report on page 34. The Remuneration Committee met three times during 
the financial period.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the non-independent Non-executive Directors also attended meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee by invitation.
No Director was present when matters relating to their own remuneration were discussed.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference, which are available on the Company’s 
website (www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk).
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
47
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration – unaudited 
continued
Key matters considered by the Remuneration Committee
Key issues reviewed and discussed by the Remuneration Committee during the financial period included:
• approval of FY15 Executive Bonus Scheme out-turn for Executive Directors and senior management;
• approval of the FY15 Directors’ Remuneration Report;
• approval of Executive Director salary increases with effect from 27 September 2015;
• approval of the quantum and performance metrics for the FY16 Executive Bonus Scheme and LTIP awards;
• the remuneration packages for Helen Connolly’s appointment (including the joining awards referred to on page 47) 
and in connection with Beth Butterwick’s exit from the business; and
• the remuneration arrangements for other senior executives.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
Material advice or services were provided to the Remuneration Committee during the financial period by the following advisers:
Adviser Details of appointment
Remuneration consultant services 
provided to the Company in FY16
Fees paid by the 
Company for advice 
to the Remuneration 
Committee in FY16 
and basis for charge
Other services provided 
to the Company in FY16
MM&K Previous remuneration consultants 
to the Remuneration Committee. 
Remuneration advice provided 
to the Remuneration Committee 
in respect of the Company’s 
Main Market listing.
£63,690 N/A
Deloitte LLP Current remuneration consultants 
to the Remuneration Committee. 
Appointed by the Remuneration 
Committee in January 2016 
following a competitive  
tender process.
Review of incentive arrangements.
Advice on the preparation of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
£7,500 Share scheme advice.
Accounting 
advice in respect 
of share-based 
payments.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that all advice received was objective and independent. Deloitte and MM&K are 
members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operate under its Code of Conduct in relation 
to executive remuneration in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee also receives advice and guidance on senior executive remuneration from the Chief Executive 
and the Finance Director.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board on 10 June 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Ishbel Macpherson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 June 2016
Annual Report 2016
48 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Shareholders’ approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set out below will be sought at the 2016 AGM. 
Subject to approval by shareholders, the policy will become effective from the conclusion of that meeting. 
Key principles
The Company’s remuneration package for Executive Directors has been designed based on the following key principles: 
• to promote the long term success of the Company, with transparent and stretching performance conditions, which are 
rigorously applied;
• to provide appropriate alignment between the Company’s strategic goals, shareholder returns and executive reward; and
• to have a competitive mix of base salary and short and long term incentives, with an appropriate proportion of the package 
determined by stretching targets linked to the Company’s performance.
Policy table for Executive Directors
Component
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base 
salary
To recruit and 
reward Executive 
Directors of a 
suitable calibre 
for the role and 
duties required.
Recognises 
individuals’ 
experience, 
responsibility 
and performance.
Base salaries are usually 
reviewed annually.
As part of the salary review 
process, the Remuneration 
Committee takes account of:
• underlying Group performance;
• the role, and the individual’s 
experience and performance; 
• where there has been a change 
in market practice either in the retail 
sector or more widely; and
• pay and conditions elsewhere in 
the Group.
While there is no maximum salary, 
increases will normally be in line 
with the range of salary increases 
awarded (in percentage of salary 
terms) to other employees in 
the Group. 
Salary increases above this level 
may be awarded to take account 
of individual circumstances, such 
as, but not limited to:
• where an Executive Director 
has been promoted or 
has had a change in scope 
or responsibility;
• an individual’s development or 
performance in role (including, 
in accordance with the policy 
on recruitment remuneration, 
if a newly appointed Executive 
Director’s salary is positioned 
below a market rate that it may 
be increased to a market rate 
over such period as the 
Committee considers 
appropriate);
• where there is a need to realign 
an Executive Director’s salary 
with the market; or
• where there has been a change 
in the size and/or complexity of 
the business.
Increases may be implemented 
over such time period as the 
Committee deems appropriate.
Although performance 
conditions do not apply, the 
Executive Director’s individual 
performance and the scope of 
the role is taken into account 
when determining the level of 
any salary increase. 
Benefits To provide market 
competitive benefits 
and to ensure 
the wellbeing of 
Executive Directors.
Executive Directors receive benefits 
in line with market practice, and these 
include life insurance, private medical 
insurance, company car or car 
allowance and, where relevant, 
relocation expenses.
Other benefits may be provided 
based on individual circumstances. 
Whilst the Committee has not set 
an absolute maximum on the level 
of benefits Executive Directors 
may receive, the value of benefits 
is set at a level which the Committee 
considers to be appropriately 
positioned taking into account 
relevant market levels based on 
the nature and location of the role 
and individual circumstances.
Not applicable.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
49
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Component
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Pension To provide 
Executives with 
a long term savings 
opportunity; the 
pension forms part 
of a competitive 
package to recruit 
and retain Executive 
Directors of a 
suitable calibre.
A contribution may be made to either 
the Group personal pension plan or 
an alternative defined contribution 
pension arrangement. In appropriate 
circumstances, such as where 
contributions exceed the annual 
or lifetime allowance, Executive 
Directors may be permitted to take an 
amount of the employer contribution 
as a non-pensionable, non-bonusable 
cash allowance which will ordinarily 
be reduced to take account of 
employer social security contributions 
due in respect of the allowance.
Employer contributions and/or 
a cash allowance of up to 20% 
of salary.
Not applicable.
Executive 
Bonus 
Scheme 
To provide a 
performance-
justified earnings 
opportunity and 
to focus attention 
on achievement 
of KPIs.
Awards are based on performance 
against key financial targets and/or 
the delivery of strategic/individual 
objectives. 
Pay-out levels are determined by the 
Committee after the 52-week financial 
period end based on performance 
against those targets/objectives.
The Committee has discretion 
to amend the pay-out should 
any formulaic output not reflect 
the Committee’s assessment of 
overall business performance.
For up to two years following 
the payment of a bonus award, 
clawback provisions will apply such 
that the Committee may require the 
repayment of some or all of the award 
in the circumstances set out at the 
foot of this table.
The overall maximum annual 
bonus opportunity is 150% of 
salary. For FY17, the maximum 
bonus opportunity will be 100% 
of salary, which is in line with the 
maximum which was set for FY16.
Targets are set annually 
reflecting the Company’s 
strategy and aligned with 
key financial, strategic and/or 
individual targets. 
At least 75% of the bonus 
is assessed against one 
or more key financial 
performance metrics.
Financial metrics
There is no minimum payment 
at threshold performance. 
Up to 50% of the ordinary 
maximum opportunity for this 
element of the bonus will be 
paid for on-target financial 
performance and 100% of the 
ordinary maximum opportunity 
will be paid for achieving 
stretch financial performance.
Non-financial strategic 
or individual metrics
Any element of the bonus 
subject to a non-financial 
metric will vest between 0% 
and 100% based on the 
Committee’s assessment 
of the extent to which the 
metric has been met.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
Annual Report 2016
50 Component
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Deferred 
Bonus 
Plan 
(‘DBP’)
Provides a retention 
element through 
share ownership 
and direct alignment 
with shareholders’ 
interests.
Executive Directors are required to 
defer half of any bonus award earned 
in excess of 50% of salary into shares, 
the vesting of which is deferred for 
three years, subject only to continued 
employment. The Committee may 
decide to pay the whole of the bonus 
earned in cash where the amount to 
be deferred would, in the opinion of 
the Committee, be so small as to 
make the operation of the DBP 
administratively burdensome; this 
de minimis threshold is currently 
set at £10,000. Deferred shares 
will typically take the form of nil-cost 
share options, but may be structured 
as an alternative form of share award. 
Executive Directors may also be 
offered the opportunity to defer 
voluntarily up to 100% of any bonus 
award earned into shares, the vesting 
of which is deferred for three years.
Awards under the DBP may be 
granted on the basis that the number 
of shares shall be increased to reflect 
dividends paid over the vesting period, 
or the Committee may make a cash 
payment equal to those dividends 
on release of the shares. Any 
such payment may assume the 
reinvestment of dividends on such 
basis as the Committee determines. 
The vesting of the deferred shares is 
not subject to the satisfaction of any 
performance conditions. However, 
the Committee has the right to apply 
malus provisions to reduce, cancel 
or impose further conditions on 
unvested or unexercised awards 
in the circumstances set out at the 
foot of this table.
Ordinarily, half of any bonus 
earned in excess of 50% of salary 
is mandatorily deferred, subject to 
the discretion of the Committee 
as referred to in the ‘Operation’ 
column. At the discretion of the 
Committee, up to 100% of any 
bonus earned may be deferred 
at the request of the participant.
Not applicable. Deferred 
shares are not subject to any 
additional performance metrics 
after the application of the 
performance metrics which 
determine the amount of 
bonus earned under the 
Executive Bonus Scheme.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
51
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Component
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Long 
Term 
Incentive 
Plan 
(‘LTIP’)
To incentivise 
Executive Directors 
to deliver longer 
term value to 
shareholders 
through the 
successful 
execution of the 
Group’s strategy 
and to align their 
interests with those 
of shareholders 
through share 
ownership.
Awards are granted in the form of 
nil-cost share options, conditional 
shares or other such form as has the 
same economic effect. Awards will be 
granted with vesting dependent on the 
achievement of performance 
conditions set by the Committee, 
which will normally be assessed at the 
end of a period of at least three years. 
Awards may be settled in cash (or 
granted as a right to a cash amount) 
at the election of the Committee.
Awards under the LTIP may be 
granted on the basis that the number 
of shares shall be increased to reflect 
dividends paid over the period to 
release, or the Committee may make 
a cash payment equal to those 
dividends on release of the shares. 
Any such payment may assume the 
reinvestment of dividends on such 
basis as the Committee determines.
The Committee may at its discretion 
structure awards as Qualifying LTIP 
awards comprising both an HMRC 
tax-qualifying option and an LTIP 
award, with the vesting of the LTIP 
award scaled back to take account 
of any gain made on exercise of the 
tax-qualifying option.
The Committee has the right to apply 
malus provisions to reduce, cancel or 
impose further conditions on unvested 
awards in the circumstances set out at 
the foot of this table.
For up to two years following the 
vesting of an LTIP award, clawback 
provisions will apply such that the 
Committee may cancel an award 
which has not been exercised, or 
require the repayment of some or all 
of the award in the circumstances set 
out at the foot of this table.
The maximum award is 150% 
of salary in respect of a 52-week 
financial period. The intended 
grant to Executive Directors in 
respect of FY17 is 50% of salary. 
Where an award is structured as a 
Qualifying LTIP award, the shares 
subject to the tax-qualifying option 
part of the award are not taken 
into account for the purposes 
of this limit, reflecting the ‘scale 
back’ referred to in the 
‘Operation’ column.
Performance measures are 
selected that reflect underlying 
business performance.
Performance metrics and 
their weighting where there 
is more than one metric are 
reviewed annually to maintain 
appropriateness and relevance.
Awards will vest between 25% 
and 100% of the maximum 
opportunity for performance 
between ‘threshold’ 
performance (the minimum 
level of performance that 
results in any level of vesting) 
and ‘maximum’ performance.
All-
employee 
share 
plans
To encourage 
all employees 
to become 
shareholders and to 
link their interests to 
those of the wider 
shareholder group.
Executive Directors are entitled 
to participate in a tax-qualifying 
all-employee Save As You Earn 
(‘SAYE’) plan under which they may 
make monthly savings contributions 
over a period of three or five years 
linked to the grant of an option over 
the Company’s shares. The option 
price can be set at a discount as 
permitted in accordance with the 
applicable legislation (currently 
up to 20% of the market value 
of shares at grant).
Executive Directors are also entitled 
to participate in a tax-qualifying 
all-employee Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’).
Participation limits are those set 
by the tax authorities from time 
to time.
Not applicable.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Policy table for Executive Directors continued
Annual Report 2016
52 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Circumstances in which malus and/or clawback may apply
• If the LTIP or Executive Bonus Scheme award has been granted or vested on the basis of any incorrect information relevant 
to the applicable performance conditions including a material misstatement in the Group’s results.
• Misconduct on the part of the participant.
Malus and clawback may be applied in respect of any tax-qualifying option part of a Qualifying LTIP award to the extent 
permitted in accordance with the applicable legislation and HMRC practice.
Non-executive Directors
Purpose and link to strategy Approach of the Company
To attract and retain 
high calibre Chairman 
and Non-executive 
Directors by offering 
a market competitive 
fee level.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are entitled to an annual fee. Supplementary fees may 
be paid for the chairmanship of Board Committees or holding the office of Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of travel and other 
reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
The level of fees will be reviewed annually by the Board. Fees are based on the level of fees paid 
to Non-executive Directors serving on boards of similar sized UK listed companies and the time 
commitment and contribution expected for the role. Typically, any fee increase will be in line with 
the increase in wider workforce salaries (in percentage terms). Fee increases may be awarded 
above this level in certain circumstances such as (but not limited to):
• where there is a need to realign a Non-executive Director’s fee with the market;
• where there has been a change in the size and complexity of the Company; or
• where there has been an increase in the Non-executive Director’s time commitment to the role.
Overall fees paid to Non-executive Directors will remain within the limits set by the Company’s 
Articles of Association.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Company’s share schemes or the 
Executive Bonus Scheme. 
Explanation of performance measures chosen
Performance measures are selected that are aligned with the performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders. 
Stretching performance targets are set each year for the bonus and LTIP awards. When setting these performance targets, 
the Committee will take into account a number of different reference points, which may include the Company’s business 
plans and strategy and the economic environment. Full vesting will only occur for what the Committee considers to be 
stretching performance. 
The bonus may be based on a mix of financial and strategic/individual targets. The measures are based on the financial, 
operational and strategic priorities of the business and may vary year-on-year to reflect the strategic direction of the business. 
For FY17, 100% of the bonus award will be based on underlying profit before tax, a critical financial KPI. 
Long term performance measures provide a robust and transparent basis on which to measure the Company’s performance 
over the longer term and provide further alignment with the business strategy. LTIP awards granted in FY17 will be based on 
earnings per share and relative TSR. EPS is another critical financial KPI for the business, supporting our focus on profitability 
and growth. Relative TSR provides a comparison of our growth profile against peers across the retail industry.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust or set different performance measures or targets if events occur (such as a change 
in strategy, a material acquisition and/or a divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions) which 
cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they 
achieve their original purpose.
Awards and options may be adjusted in the event of a variation of share capital in accordance with the rules of the LTIP and the DBP .
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
53
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Policy for the remuneration of employees more generally
The key principles of the remuneration philosophy are applied consistently across the Group below Board level, taking into account 
seniority and market practice. LTIP participation is extended to selected below-Board senior employees. The Board has also 
adopted all-employee share plans to enable the wider workforce to share in value created and further embed a team ethos.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
The charts below set out for Helen Connolly and Stephen Alldridge an illustration of the application for FY17 of the remuneration 
policy set out above. The charts show the split of remuneration between fixed pay, bonus (including any amount deferred under 
the DBP) and LTIP on the basis of minimum remuneration, remuneration receivable for performance in line with the Company’s 
expectations and maximum remuneration (not allowing for any share price appreciation). Beth Butterwick will serve as an 
Executive Director for part of FY17; however, in recognition of the fact that she will be standing down during FY17 no charts 
are included in relation to her. 
In illustrating the potential reward, the following assumptions have been made: 
Fixed pay
Executive Bonus Scheme (including 
any amount deferred under the DBP) LTIP
Minimum performance Fixed elements of remuneration 
only – base salary (being the 
salary as at 26 March 2016
2
), 
benefits (as disclosed in the 
single figure table for Stephen 
Alldridge on page 42 for FY16
1
) 
and a pension contribution of 
20% of the relevant salary.
No bonus award. No LTIP vesting.
Performance in line 
with expectations
50% of salary
2
 awarded 
for achieving target 
performance.
25% of maximum award 
vesting (equivalent to 12.5% 
of salary) for achieving target 
performance.
Maximum performance 100% of salary
2
 awarded. 100% of maximum award 
vesting (equivalent to 50% 
of salary) for achieving 
maximum performance.
1  As Helen Connolly did not serve as a Director during FY16, for the purposes of these charts her benefits have been assumed to be the same 
as Beth Butterwick’s.
2  For the purposes of these charts, Helen Connolly’s salary and bonus opportunities have been calculated on the assumption that she is an Executive Director 
on 26 March 2016 and, accordingly, the illustration reflects the salary and bonus she would earn from then until the end of FY17. Helen Connolly’s salary and 
bonus will be pro-rated based on actual time served as a Director during FY17.
Helen Connolly
£569k
£831k
£381k
Minimum 
performance
Performance in line 
with expectations
 Base salary, benefits and pension
 Annual bonus
 LTIP
Maximum 
performance
Stephen Alldridge
£390k
£569k
£263k 100% 100%
 67% 67%
 46% 46%
26% 26%
 36% 36% 18% 18%
7% 7%
Minimum 
performance
Performance in line 
with expectations
 Base salary, benefits and pension
 Annual bonus
 LTIP
Maximum 
performance
Annual Report 2016
54 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Recruitment remuneration
The policy aims to facilitate the appointment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business and execute the strategy 
effectively for the benefit of shareholders. When appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee seeks to ensure that 
arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and not to pay more than is appropriate.
The Committee will take into consideration a number of relevant factors, which may include the calibre of the individual, the 
candidate’s existing remuneration package and the specific circumstances of the individual including the jurisdiction from 
which the candidate was recruited.
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above policy. 
The Committee may include other elements of pay which it considers appropriate; however, this discretion is capped and 
is subject to the principles and the limits referred to below. 
• Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Executive Director being appointed. This may 
include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and/or responsibilities, subject 
to good performance, where it is considered appropriate.
• Pension and benefits will be provided in line with the above policy.
• The Committee will not offer non-performance-related incentive payments (for example a ‘guaranteed sign-on bonus’). 
• Other elements may be included in the following circumstances:
• an interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short term basis;
• if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-executive Director takes on an executive function 
on a short term basis;
• if an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long term 
incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance. Subject to the limit on variable 
remuneration set out below, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the 
subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis; and
• if the Executive Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Company’s policy to allow 
reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments. Any such payments will be at the discretion of the Committee. 
• The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period of the bonus, DBP or LTIP, 
if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration. The rationale will be clearly 
explained in the following Directors’ Remuneration Report.
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted (excluding ‘buyout’ awards as referred to below) is 300% 
of salary, all of which will be earned subject to the satisfaction of appropriate performance conditions. 
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share plans. If necessary, 
and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the 
Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to ‘buy out’ remuneration arrangements forfeited 
on leaving a previous employer. In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions 
attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested. The Committee will generally seek to 
structure buyout awards or payments on a like-for-like basis to the remuneration arrangements forfeited. Any such payments 
or awards are limited to the expected value of the forfeited awards. Where considered appropriate, such special recruitment 
awards will be liable to forfeiture or ‘malus’ and/or ‘clawback’ on early departure.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed 
to continue according to the original terms.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-executive Director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time 
of appointment.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
55
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Service agreements
Executive Directors’ service agreements
Executive Directors’ service contracts are on a rolling basis and notice periods are 12 months mutually. Service contracts 
for new Executive Directors will generally be limited to 12 months’ notice by the Company.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and notice periods are set out below. Although Beth Butterwick will serve as an 
Executive Director for part of FY17, in recognition of the fact that she will be standing down during FY17 her service contract 
is not referred to below.
Name Commencement Notice period by Company/Director
Helen Connolly
Chief Executive (designate)
During 2016 12 months 
(Three months during the first six months from the date of commencement)
Stephen Alldridge
Finance Director
3 March 2003 12 months
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but serve under letters of appointment and a consultancy agreement 
between the Company and Sun Capital Partners Management V, LLC in respect of Sergei Spiridonov. Each appointment is for up 
to three years and shareholders may vote on reappointment at Annual General Meetings. Notice periods are three months mutually. 
The appointments are also terminable with immediate effect if the Chairman or the Non-executive Director is not re-elected to their 
position as a Director of the Company by shareholders. 
Name Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Expiry of current term
John Coleman
Chairman
14 October 2013
(Chairman from 29 April 2015)
9 October 2013 13 October 2016
Ishbel Macpherson 14 October 2013 9 October 2013 13 October 2016
Mark McClennon 8 April 2016 8 April 2016 7 April 2019
Sergei Spiridonov 8 April 2016 8 April 2016 7 April 2019
Annual Report 2016
56 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Payments for loss of office
The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are set out below:
Policy
Payment in lieu of notice The Company has discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice. Such a payment would be equal to the 
Executive Director’s base salary and, if relevant, benefits for the unexpired period of notice. 
Executive Bonus Scheme This will be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and the decision as to whether or not to 
award a bonus award in full or in part will be dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances 
of the individual’s departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question. Any 
bonus award amounts paid will normally be pro-rated for time in service during the bonus period and will, 
subject to performance, be paid at the usual time (although the Committee retains discretion to pay the 
bonus award earlier in appropriate circumstances). Any bonus earned for the financial period of departure 
and, if relevant, for the prior financial period may be paid wholly in cash at the discretion of the Committee.
DBP The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of the DBP. 
Unvested awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment. However, if a participant leaves due to death, 
ill health, injury, disability, the sale of his employer or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, the 
Committee shall determine whether the award will vest at cessation or at the normal vesting date. In either 
case, the extent of vesting will be determined by the Committee, taking into account, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, the period of time elapsed from the date of grant to the date of cessation relative to 
the deferral period. Awards in the form of nil-cost options may then be exercised during such period as the 
Committee determines. 
Awards (in the form of nil-cost options) which have vested but remain unexercised at the date of cessation 
may be exercised if a participant leaves due to death, ill health, injury, disability, the sale of his employer or 
any other reason at the discretion of the Committee. Awards may then be exercised for such period as the 
Committee determines. 
LTIP The extent to which any unvested award will vest will be determined in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Unvested awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment. However, if a participant leaves due 
to ill health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy or the sale of his 
employer or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, the award will vest on the normal vesting 
date or on an earlier date determined by the Committee. In either case, the extent of vesting will be determined 
by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance condition is satisfied and the 
proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed at the date of cessation. Awards may then be exercised 
during such period as the Committee determines.
If a participant dies, any unvested award he or she holds will vest immediately in full.
Awards (in the form of nil-cost options) which have vested but remain unexercised at the date of cessation 
may be exercised for a period of six months (12 in the case of death) unless the participant’s employment is 
terminated for cause, in which case the award will lapse. 
Change of control The extent to which unvested awards under the DBP and LTIP will vest will be determined in accordance with 
the rules of the relevant plan. 
Awards under the DBP will vest in full in the event of a takeover, merger or other relevant corporate event. 
Awards under the LTIP will vest early on a takeover, merger or other relevant corporate event. The Committee 
will determine the level of vesting taking account of the Company’s performance since the grant date and the 
proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
Mitigation The Committee’s practice is that if an Executive Director’s employment is terminated any compensation 
payment will be calculated in accordance with normal legal principles including the application of mitigation 
to the extent appropriate to the circumstances of the termination. 
Other payments Payments may be made either in the event of a loss of office or a change of control under the SAYE plan 
or SIP, which are governed by their respective rules and the legislation relating to such tax-qualifying plans. 
There is no discretionary treatment for leavers or on a change of control under these plans.
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement 
and legal fees.
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
57
Corporate Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Payments for loss of office continued
Where a buy-out award is made under the Listing Rules, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge 
of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise 
of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment. 
Where the Committee retains discretion it will be used to provide flexibility in certain situations, taking into account the 
particular circumstances of the Director’s departure and performance.
The Company is entitled to make a payment in lieu of notice in the event of a Non-executive Director’s letter of appointment 
being terminated prior to the notice period. Such a payment would include fees for the unexpired period of notice. There is 
no entitlement to any compensation in the event of Non-executive Directors’ fixed term agreements not being renewed.
Existing contractual arrangements
The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in this report:
• where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect;
• where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in 
the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company; and
• to satisfy contractual arrangements under legacy remuneration arrangements, including any arrangements in place prior 
to admission to AIM.
For these purposes, ‘payment’ includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration, and in relation to an award over 
shares the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted. This discretion includes, in particular, discretion 
to satisfy any entitlement of Beth Butterwick or Stephen Alldridge under her or his Restricted Share Plan granted prior to the 
admission of the Company’s shares to trading on AIM (as amended from time to time). 
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee does not consult with employees on executive pay but receives periodic updates from the Group’s People 
Director in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Group. In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the 
Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Group and percentage salary increases will 
ordinarily be in line with those of the wider workforce.
Shareholder views
The Committee will seek to engage with shareholders and their representative bodies when it is proposed that any material 
changes are to be made to the remuneration policy. In addition, it will consider any shareholder feedback received.
Shareholding guidelines
In order to further to align the Executive Directors’ long term interests with those of shareholders, the Committee has 
introduced shareholding guidelines. The guidelines provide that Executive Directors are required to build up and maintain 
(as relevant) a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of annual salary. Executive Directors will be required 
to retain half of any shares resulting from the exercise of LTIP or DBP awards after tax until the guidelines have been met.
Annual Report 2016
58 Introduction
The Directors present their Annual Report 
and the audited consolidated financial 
statements of Bonmarché Holdings plc 
(the ‘Company’), together with its 
subsidiary undertakings (the ‘Group’), 
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016.
The disclosure requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and the Listing 
Rules and the UKLA Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules have been met by 
the contents of this Directors’ Report, 
along with the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, which 
should therefore be read in conjunction 
with this report.
The Company
Bonmarché Holdings plc is a company 
incorporated and domiciled in the UK, 
with the registered company number 
08638336. The registered office address 
is Jubilee Way, Grange Moor, Wakefield 
WF4 4SJ. Until 18 October 2015 the 
Company was listed on the AIM List 
of the London Stock Exchange. On 
19 October 2015 the Company’s 
shares were admitted to the Official 
List of the Main Market of the London 
Stock Exchange.
The immediate Parent Company of 
Bonmarché Holdings plc is BM Holdings 
S.à r.l., and the ultimate Parent Company 
is a private equity investment fund 
advised by an affiliate of Sun Capital 
Partners, Inc.
Articles of Association
Amendments to the Articles of 
Association of the Company may 
be made by special resolution of 
the shareholders.
Directors’ Report
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the 
Company are shown in note 24 of the 
financial statements. The Company’s 
share capital consists of one class of 
ordinary shares. As at 26 March 2016 
there were 50,018,150 ordinary shares 
of 1 pence each in issue.
The Company operates an Employee 
Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) which owns shares 
in order to satisfy the Group’s share 
incentive plans and to jointly hold shares 
with certain employees. The EBT 
purchased 203,000 shares during the 
year from departing employees who 
had been participants in the Restricted 
Share Plan at an average price of £0.08, 
which amounted to 0.4% of the issued 
ordinary shares of the Company. 
Further details of the shares held 
by the EBT can be found in note 26 
of the financial statements.
Other than the general provisions of the 
Articles (and prevailing legislation) there 
are no specific restrictions on the size 
of a holding or on the transfer of the 
ordinary shares.
The Directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may result in the 
restriction of the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights, other than those 
within the agreements of the Restricted 
Share Plan (the ‘Agreements’) whereby 
employees holding shares under the 
Agreements are unable to transfer, sell, 
assign or pledge unvested shares. The 
Agreements also place a restriction in 
relation to certain vested shares. No 
shareholder holds securities carrying 
any special rights or control over the 
Company’s share capital, the only 
exception to this being the Trustees of 
the Bonmarché EBT, who hold 911,844 
shares and have waived their rights to 
dividends and, in accordance with the 
Trust Deed, abstain from voting at 
general meetings.
Authority to issue new shares 
and purchase shares
At the AGM held on 30 July 2015, 
the Board was granted authority to 
allot shares in the Company of up to 
one-third of the Company’s issued 
share capital. At 10 June 2016, the 
Company had an unexpired authority 
to allot up to 16,672,700 shares with 
a nominal value of £166,727, with such 
authority due to expire at the 2016 AGM, 
at which shareholders will be asked to 
renew this authority for a further year. 
The Board also has an unexpired 
authority, granted at the 2015 AGM, 
to purchase in the market up to 10% 
of the Company’s issued ordinary 
share capital. This authority is renewable 
annually and, at the 2016 AGM, the 
Board will propose a resolution to 
renew it. The Directors will only use 
this authority if they consider it is in the 
best interests of the Company to do so.
No shares were purchased by the 
Company during the year.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 26 March 2016, and up to the latest 
practicable date prior to the publication 
of this report, the Company had been 
notified of the following shareholders 
each holding more than 3% of the 
issued share capital in the Company:
Percentage of issued 
share capital
Name
26 March 
2016
8 June 
2016
BM Holdings S.à r.l. 52.4 52.4
Hargreave Hale 10.6 9.9
River and 
Mercantile Asset 
Management 6.8 6.8
Miton Asset 
Management 5.2 4.8
Artemis 
Investment 
Management 3.6 3.6
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
59
Corporate Governance Directors’ Report continued
Change of control: 
significant agreements
There are no agreements that the Group 
considers significant and to which it or 
its subsidiaries are a party that would 
take effect, alter or terminate upon 
change of control of the Group, with the 
exception of the Group’s banking facility 
agreement which, upon a change of 
control of the Group, is terminable at 
the bank’s discretion.
The Company does not have any 
agreements with Directors or employees 
which provide for compensation for loss of 
office resulting from a change of control, 
other than where such compensation 
would be payable due to the normal 
operation of the contract of employment. 
There are change of control provisions 
under the agreements of the Restricted 
Share Plan (the ‘Agreements’) which 
provide for shares subject to that 
Agreements to vest immediately prior 
to a change in control, provided that 
the consideration due to Sun Capital 
Partners Management V, LLC is payable 
as to more than 50% in cash. All ordinary 
shares which have not then vested will 
vest in full. 
Directors
The Directors who held office throughout 
the period and up to the date of signing 
the financial statements were:
Executive
Beth Butterwick
Stephen Alldridge
Non-executive
John Coleman 
Michael Kalb (resigned 8 April 2016)
Ishbel Macpherson
Tim Mason (resigned 29 April 2015)
Mark McClennon (appointed 8 April 2016)
Sergei Spiridonov (appointed 8 April 2016)
Since the year end Mark McClennon 
was appointed as an independent 
Non-executive Director and he will 
stand for election at the AGM, as will 
Sergei Spiridonov, who was appointed 
as a non-independent Non-executive 
Director, being the nominee of 
BM Holdings S.à r.l. 
Biographical details of each of 
the Directors seeking election and 
re-election at the AGM can be found 
on pages 30 and 31.
Directors’ interests
Information about the Directors’ 
interests in the shares of the Company 
can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 44.
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Articles of Association, 
the Directors have the benefit of an 
indemnity which is a qualifying third 
party indemnity provision as defined 
by Section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006. The indemnity was in force 
throughout the financial period and 
at the date of approval of the financial 
statements. The Group has purchased, 
and maintained throughout the financial 
period, directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of itself and 
its Directors. 
Election and reappointment 
of Directors
In accordance with provision B.7.1 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Board has decided that John Coleman, 
Beth Butterwick, Ishbel Macpherson 
and Stephen Alldridge will each submit 
themselves for re-election at the AGM. 
Sergei Spiridonov and Mark McClennon 
will stand for election as Directors, 
both having been appointed since 
the previous AGM.
Powers of Directors
Subject to the Articles of Association, 
the Companies Act 2006 and any 
direction given by special resolution 
of the Company, the business of the 
Company shall be managed by the 
Board, which may exercise all of the 
powers of the Company whether 
relating to the management of the 
business or not.
Employee involvement
The Group’s policy is actively to involve 
its employees in the business and to 
ensure that matters of concern to them, 
including the Group’s aims and objectives 
and the financial and economic factors 
which impact thereon, are communicated 
in an open and regular manner. This is 
achieved principally through regular senior 
management meetings and briefings, 
both on a national and regional basis, 
and augmented by retail conferences 
held at appropriate intervals. 
A management equity plan exists 
to incentivise the Executive Directors 
and Senior Managers. A Save As 
You Earn scheme (‘SAYE’) and a Share 
Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) have been approved 
by shareholders. Once introduced, 
these schemes will give employees the 
opportunity to use potentially beneficial 
tax arrangements to acquire shares in 
the Company. 
The Directors are committed to delivering 
the highest standards of health and 
safety for employees and for others who 
may be affected by the Group’s activities, 
in particular, customers.
The Group is committed to employing 
the right people, training them well, and 
coaching and promoting from within 
wherever appropriate. Well trained and 
motivated people are key to the Group’s 
customer-oriented and profit-driven 
culture, and are fundamental to the long 
term success of the business.
Disabled employees
The Group’s policy is to give equal 
consideration to all applicants for 
employment and promotion, including 
disabled people. Career development 
and training are available to all 
employees and those who become 
disabled are afforded assistance to 
enable them to continue in their career, 
including retraining where necessary.
Annual Report 2016
60 Annual General Meetings 
and dividends
The Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’) will be held on 28 July 2016 
at the Company’s headquarters at 
Jubilee Way, Grange Moor, Wakefield, 
West Yorkshire WF4 4SJ.
The Directors have proposed a final 
dividend for 2016 of 4.64 pence per 
share (2015: 4.50 pence per share) 
which, subject to shareholder approval 
at the AGM, will be payable on 
5 August 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 24 June 2016. The proposed 
final dividend, together with the interim 
dividend of 2.50 pence per share 
(2015: 2.30 pence per share), results in 
a total dividend for FY16 of 7.14 pence 
per share (FY15: 6.80 pence per share). 
In line with the requirements of IAS 10 
‘Events After the Reporting Period’, 
this dividend has not been recognised 
as a liability in the financial statements.
There is a waiver in place in respect 
of all or any future rights to dividend 
payments on shares held in the 
Bonmarché EBT (911,844 shares 
as at 26 March 2016).
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to 
receive notice of and to attend and speak 
at general meetings. Each shareholder 
present in person or by proxy (or by duly 
authorised corporate representatives) shall, 
on a show of hands, have one vote. On a 
poll, each shareholder present in person 
or by proxy shall have one vote for each 
share held.
External auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has 
issued its independent report on these 
financial statements to the shareholders 
of Bonmarché Holdings plc. This report 
can be found on page 63.
Each of the persons who is a 
Director at the date of approval of 
this Annual Report confirms that, 
so far as they are aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware and the 
Director has taken all the steps that he 
or she ought to have taken in order 
to make himself or herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditor 
is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should 
be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Reappointment
The auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP, has indicated its willingness to 
continue in office and a resolution that 
the firm be reappointed will be proposed 
at the AGM.
Financial risk management
Financial risk management objectives 
and policies, including information 
on financial risks that could materially 
impact the Group, can be found in note 2 
of the financial statements. The policy 
for hedging forward foreign currency 
payments can be found within the 
‘Derivative financial instruments and 
hedging activities’ section of note 1 
of the financial statements. 
Other information
Political donations
The Group has made no political 
donations during the year and no 
political contributions were made to 
any non-EU political party. 
Overseas branches
The Company has no overseas branches.
Events after the year end
There were no material events to 
report between 26 March 2016 and the 
date of signing the financial statements. 
The Board confirms that in its opinion 
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position, performance, business model 
and strategy. The Strategic Report, the 
Directors’ Report and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report were approved 
by the Board.
On behalf of the Board
Stephen Alldridge
Director and Company Secretary
10 June 2016
Bonmarché Holdings Plc
61
Corporate Governance Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for each 
financial period. Under such law the 
Directors have prepared the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted 
by the European Union (‘EU’). 
Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Company and 
Group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Group or Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the 
Company and the Group and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Group’s 
website, www.bonmarcheplc.co.uk. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the 
Annual Report and financial statements, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names 
and functions are listed on pages 30 
and 31, confirm that, to the best of each 
person’s knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group; and
• the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report contained in the 
Annual Report on pages 1 to 27 and 
59 to 61 include a fair review of the 
development and performance of 
the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
Approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by:
Beth Butterwick
Chief Executive
Stephen Alldridge
Finance Director
10 June 2016
Annual Report 2016
62 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
63
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the members of Bonmarché Holdings plc
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Bonmarché Holdings plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 26 March 2016 and of the Group’s profit 
and the Group’s cash flows for the 52-week period (the ‘period’) then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
• the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 26 March 2016;
• the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended;
• the consolidated statement of cash flows for the period then ended;
• the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the period then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Context
The Company listed on the Official List of the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 19 October 2015; we did not 
identify any specific areas of focus as a result. However, the Company issued a profit warning in December 2015, due primarily 
to an unusually mild winter which impacted sales for the winter range. We considered the impact of this on stock recoverability 
as part of our area of focus on inventory provisioning. We also considered the impact of this on going concern but concluded 
that this was not significant and therefore it was not an area of focus. 
Overview
Materiality
• Overall Group materiality: £530,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Audit scope
• The Group engagement team performed a full scope audit of the Group’s trading company and its three holding companies. 
Together these companies represent the consolidated Group.
Areas of focus
• Gift voucher accounting.
• Inventory provisioning. Annual Report 2016
64
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Bonmarché Holdings plc
Our audit approach continued
Overview continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of 
bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific 
areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Gift voucher accounting
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements 
in note 1 to the financial statements on page 79 for 
further details.
The Group’s retail systems do not currently allow for 
direct matching of gift vouchers issued with redemptions. 
The liability for unredeemed gift vouchers represents the 
difference between the total value of vouchers issued and 
the total value of vouchers redeemed, less an adjustment for 
management’s best estimate of the vouchers not expected 
to be redeemed based on historic experience. However, 
actual redemptions could vary from the estimated amount.
To test the provision we performed the following:
• we reperformed management’s calculations of the 
gift voucher liability; and
• we tested the data included in the provision model and 
found them to be consistent with accounting records. 
We then compared management’s estimate based on 
historic experience to check that the assumptions used 
were appropriate based on this experience, finding that 
they were consistent. 
Inventory provisioning
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements 
in note 1 to the financial statements on page 79.
Given the seasonal nature of the Group’s trade there is a 
specific risk around the valuation of inventory that is out 
of season. In particular we focused on the carrying value 
of any remaining winter season inventory as a result of 
the trading caused by the milder winter. Provision is made 
for those items of inventory where the net realisable value 
is estimated to be lower than cost. The estimate of net 
realisable value is based on both historic experience 
and assumptions regarding future selling values, and 
is consequently a source of uncertainty. The provision 
is determined based on the choice of an appropriate 
percentage in accordance with the ageing of inventory 
which is categorised by season.
We reperformed management’s inventory provision 
calculations. Management’s calculation is largely based 
on the ageing of the inventory and we tested the ageing, 
by agreeing to third-party evidence of goods received, 
to verify this reflects a reliable basis for the calculation. 
We found the ageing of the inventory provision to be 
appropriate based on the dates of goods received.
We recalculated management’s provision in line with the 
policies described in the financial statements and agreed that 
the policy is consistent with prior years, albeit a larger number 
given the increase in winter season inventory this year.
We performed additional procedures to check the 
completeness of the provision including testing of sales 
post year end for goods sold at a loss and discussions held 
with those responsible for stock who are not directly involved 
in the financial reporting process. We also tested the stock 
listing to check stock recoding was appropriate and that 
all of the winter stock had been included appropriately. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
65
Financial Statements
Our audit approach continued
Overview continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
There are four legal entities consolidated within the Group, three holding companies and one trading entity. The Group’s trade 
is split into retail sales from stores and online sales. While the Group operates a large number of retail stores the accounting 
for transactions is centralised at Head Office and accounted for by a single finance team through the retail EPOS system. 
This meant that the whole Group could be audited by the Group engagement team. A full scope audit was performed 
on all four legal entities in the Group as all four entities require a statutory audit on their individual financial statements, 
and therefore this was considered to be the most efficient approach.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and 
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect 
of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £530,000 (2015: £620,000).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items is 
the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of 
the Group. The non-recurring exceptional items comprised the expenses in relation 
to the Company’s Main Market listing and we considered it appropriate to exclude 
these items as non-recurring in nature.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £26,000 
(2015: £31,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 74, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the Directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources 
to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements 
were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, 
because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Annual Report 2016
66
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Bonmarché Holdings plc
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 32 to 35 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• the statement given by the Directors on page 39, in accordance with provision C.1.1 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group 
and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 38, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention 
to in relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision 
C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are 
being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• the Directors’ explanation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision 
C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what 
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group. Our review 
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of: making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process 
supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and 
considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
67
Financial Statements
Other required reporting continued
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not 
been prepared by the Company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further 
provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept 
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. Annual Report 2016
68
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the members of Bonmarché Holdings plc
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit continued
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Arif Ahmad (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Leeds
10 June 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
69
Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000
Revenue 187,963 178,575
Cost of sales (143,033) (135,378)
Gross profit 44,930 43,197
Administrative expenses (26,572) (22,855)
Distribution costs (8,665) (7,728)
Operating profit 5a 9,693 12,614
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 10,735 12,614
Exceptional items 4 (1,042) —
Finance income 7 49 18
Finance costs 7 (184) (232)
Profit before taxation 9,558 12,400
Taxation 8 (1,783) (2,504)
Profit for the period 7,775 9,896
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic 10 16.1 20.7
Diluted 10 15.7 19.8
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Profit for the period 7,775 9,896
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Cash flow hedges:
– fair value movements in other comprehensive income 4,326 5,848
– transfer from cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss (3,508) 923
Tax on cash flow hedges (164) (1,438)
Total other comprehensive income for the period 654 5,333
Total comprehensive income for the period 8,429 15,229 Annual Report 2016
70
Group Company
As at As at As at As at
26 March 2016 28 March 2015 26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 14,488 12,809 — —
Intangible assets 13 3,163 2,943 — —
Investments in subsidiaries 14 — — 66,069 66,069
Deferred tax asset 22 118 86 — —
Total non-current assets 17,769 15,838 66,069 66,069
Current assets
Inventories 15 24,295 24,794 — —
Trade and other receivables 16 14,880 15,001 6,535 3,036
Cash and cash equivalents 17 13,001 11,059 — —
Derivative financial instruments 21 4,780 3,963 — —
Total current assets 56,956 54,817 6,535 3,036
Total assets 74,725 70,655 72,604 69,105
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (38,098) (37,256) (8,233) (3,682)
Financial liabilities 20 (210) (202) — —
Current taxation payable (1,008) (1,666) (13) (13)
Total current liabilities (39,316) (39,124) (8,246) (3,695)
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 19 (1,518) (2,459) — —
Financial liabilities 20 (415) (617) — —
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (1,276) (1,189) — —
Total non-current liabilities (3,209) (4,265) — —
Total liabilities (42,525) (43,389) (8,246) (3,695)
Net assets 32,200 27,266 64,358 65,410
Equity
Share capital 24 500 500 500 500
Share premium 25 1,496 1,496 1,496 1,496
EBT reserve 26 (1,265) (1,249) (1,265) (1,249)
Cash flow hedge reserve 3,824 3,170 — —
Retained earnings 27,645 23,349 63,627 64,663
Total equity 32,200 27,266 64,358 65,410
The financial statements of Bonmarché Holdings plc on pages 69 to 99 were approved by the Board of Directors on 
10 June 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Beth Butterwick   Stephen Alldridge  
Chief Executive   Finance Director
Company registration number: 08638336
Consolidated and Company balance sheets
as at 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
71
Financial Statements
Cash flow
Share Share EBT hedge Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity
Group Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 29 March 2014 500 1,496 (1,187) (2,163) 15,372 14,018
Profit for the period — — — — 9,896 9,896
Cash flow hedges:
–  fair value movements in other 
comprehensive income — — — 5,848 — 5,848
–  transfer from cash flow hedge reserve 
to profit or loss — — — 923 — 923
Tax on cash flow hedges — — — (1,438) — (1,438)
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — 5,333 9,896 15,229
Share-based payment reserves credit 23 — — — — 251 251
Purchase of own shares for EBT — — (62) — — (62)
Equity dividends paid 11 — — — — (2,170) (2,170)
Balance at 28 March 2015 500 1,496 (1,249) 3,170 23,349 27,266
Profit for the period — — — — 7,775 7,775
Cash flow hedges:
–  fair value movements in other 
comprehensive income — — — 4,326 — 4,326
–  transfer from cash flow hedge reserve 
to profit or loss — — — (3,508) — (3,508)
Tax on cash flow hedges — — — (164) — (164)
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — 654 7,775 8,429
Share-based payment reserves debit 23 — — — — (44) (44)
Purchase of own shares for EBT — — (16) — — (16)
Equity dividends paid 11 — — — — (3,435) (3,435)
Balance at 26 March 2016 500 1,496 (1,265) 3,824 27,645 32,200
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Annual Report 2016
72
Company statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
Share Share EBT Retained Total
capital premium reserve earnings equity
Company Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 29 March 2014 500 1,496 (1,187) 64,361 65,170
Profit for the period — — — 2,221 2,221
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — 2,221 2,221
Share-based payment reserves credit 23 — — — 251 251
Purchase of own shares for EBT — — (62) — (62)
Equity dividends paid 11 — — — (2,170) (2,170)
Balance at 28 March 2015 500 1,496 (1,249) 64,663 65,410
Profit for the period — — — 2,443 2,443
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — 2,443 2,443
Share-based payment reserves debit 23 — — — (44) (44)
Purchase of own shares for EBT — — (16) — (16)
Equity dividends paid 11 — — — (3,435) (3,435)
Balance at 26 March 2016 500 1,496 (1,265) 63,627 64,358 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
73
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 27 13,204 13,519
Interest paid (128) (204)
Tax paid (2,549) (2,209)
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,527 11,106
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (4,342) (6,411)
Purchases of intangible assets 13 (647) (63)
Interest received 49 16
Net cash used in investing activities (4,940) (6,458)
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of own shares for EBT (16) (62)
Dividends paid 11 (3,435) (2,170)
Proceeds from finance lease arrangements — 596
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (194) (175)
Net cash used in financing activities (3,645) (1,811)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,942 2,837
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 11,059 8,222
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 13,001 11,059
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net cash
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000
Opening net cash 10,240 7,825
Net cash inflow from activities 1,942 2,837
Decrease/(increase) in debt financing 194 (422)
Movement in net cash 2,136 2,415
Closing net cash 28 12,376 10,240 Annual Report 2016
74
1 Accounting policies
General information
Bonmarché Holdings plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK (company registration 
number: 08638336). The address of the registered office is Jubilee Way, Grange Moor, Wakefield, West Yorkshire WF4 4SJ. 
The Company and its subsidiaries’ (collectively, the ‘Group’) principal activity is as a multi-channel retailer of high quality, 
affordable womenswear and accessories.
The immediate Parent Company of Bonmarché Holdings plc is BM Holdings S.à r.l. The ultimate parent undertaking and ultimate 
controlling party of Bonmarché Holdings plc is a private equity investment fund advised by an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc.
Basis of preparation
The Group and the Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’) and IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRS IC’) interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with 
those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
These are the first financial statements for the Company prepared in accordance with IFRSs. The Company’s deemed transition 
date to IFRSs is 30 March 2014. The principles and requirements for first-time adoption of IFRSs are set out in IFRS 1. IFRS 1 
allows certain exemptions to the application of particular standards to the prior period comparatives in order to assist 
companies with the transition process. The Company has not applied any of these optional exemptions under IFRS 1.
The Group financial statements continue to be prepared in accordance with IFRSs. The Group’s transition to IFRSs was 
13 January 2012.
The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified 
for the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss. 
The Group’s accounting policies have been set by management, approved by the Audit Committee and consistently applied to 
all financial periods presented. The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses 
during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s reasonable assessments of the amount, 
event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
Bonmarché Holdings plc has not presented its own statement of comprehensive income and separate income statement as 
permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements of the Company do not include a statement of 
cash flows as the Company does not have any cash or cash equivalents. Transactions, including the payment of dividends, are 
settled on the Company’s behalf by other Group undertakings. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In order to reach the conclusion that the Group will 
continue as a going concern and therefore that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on this basis, the Directors 
have evaluated the Group’s current performance, position and other available information about the future of the Group for at 
least 12 months from the end of the reporting period. 
The Group had a positive cash balance at the end of the financial period of £13.0m and unused revolving credit facilities of 
£10.0m. The facilities require the Group to comply with a single financial covenant, which the Group has done throughout the 
financial period and since the year end. 
The financial statements are presented in thousands of Pounds Sterling (‘£’000’) except when otherwise indicated.
Accounting reference date
The accounting period of the Group ends on the Saturday falling nearest to 31 March each year. In some years this requires 
53 weeks to be reported. The accounting periods in these financial statements are the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 and 
the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016.
Notes to the financial statements
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
75
Financial Statements
1 Accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or 
has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the entity.
A list of all the subsidiary companies can be found in note 14 of the financial statements. All the Company’s subsidiaries 
are 100% owned and controlled by the Company, and there are no restrictions on its ability to access or use assets or settle 
liabilities of those subsidiaries. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated income statement from the date control passes. They are 
de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. The Bonmarché Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) is accounted for and consolidated 
on the basis that the Parent Company has control. The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the EBT are consolidated into 
the financial statements of the Company and the Group. Shares in the Company held by the EBT are included in the balance 
sheet at cost as a deduction from equity. 
On consolidation, intercompany transactions, balances, income, expenses and unrealised gains on transactions between 
Group companies are eliminated.
Segmental reporting
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires that operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting 
to the chief operating decision maker. The Board of Directors has been identified as the chief operating decision maker and 
consists of Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors. 
Revenue
a) Retail
The Group operates a chain of retail outlets for selling clothing and accessories. Sales of goods are recognised when a Group 
entity sells a product to a customer. Retail sales are usually for cash, or paid for by credit card. 
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the retail customer with a right to return within 28 days. 
b) Internet
Revenue from the sale of goods on the internet is recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory pass 
to customers, which is the point of despatch. Transactions are settled by credit or payment card.
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to internet customers with a right to return within 14 days of receipt, in addition 
to any rights customers may have pursuant to the consumer contracts regulations.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the return of goods from retail and internet customers at the 
time of sale.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide clearer 
understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have 
been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Finance income
Finance income comprises interest on funds invested. Income is recognised, as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective 
interest rate method. 
Finance costs
Finance costs are accounted for using the effective interest rate method. Annual Report 2016
76
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The Company has issued equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, as part of an incentivisation programme. 
The equity instruments are valued at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value is calculated using an appropriate option pricing 
model and is expensed on a straight line basis over each vesting period, with a corresponding increase to equity. The fair value 
is adjusted to reflect management’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, taking into account service conditions. 
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based 
on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of any such revisions in the consolidated income statement 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Current and deferred tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax, and any adjustments to prior period estimates. Tax is 
recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Tax liabilities are recorded in accordance with applicable tax laws and interpretations at the time the financial statements are 
approved. Where the relevant law or interpretation is uncertain, tax credits are only recognised when clearance has been 
obtained from the relevant authorities.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is 
accounted for using the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference 
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed 
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available 
to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets, when it is probable 
that these assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities.
Dividends
Final dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved by shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in 
the period in which they are paid.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets purchased separately are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic 
life. Intangible assets acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight 
line basis over their useful economic life. Fair value of the acquired intangible assets is calculated based on the estimated future 
benefits the Group will derive from the asset acquired, discounted at an appropriate weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’). 
The useful economic lives used are as follows:
Software    – 2 to 10 years
Brands    – 10 years
Customer relationships  – 10 years
Intangible assets that are not yet in use are not amortised until the asset has been brought into use. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
77
Financial Statements
1 Accounting policies continued
Software costs
Development costs that are directly attributable to identifiable and unique software products are recognised in intangible assets 
when the recognition criteria in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ are met.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment
The values of property, plant and equipment are stated at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual 
value, of the property, plant and equipment over their anticipated useful lives at the rates shown below on a straight line basis: 
Leasehold land and buildings  – over the lease term
Plant and equipment  – 2 to 10 years
Motor vehicles   – 4 to 5 years
Plant and equipment assets that are not yet in use are not depreciated until the asset has been brought into use. 
Residual values, remaining useful economic lives and depreciation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if 
appropriate. The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in 
circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by 
which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels, 
being individual stores, for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash generating units) discounted at an 
appropriate rate. 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and consist of finished goods held for resale. Cost is based 
on purchase price using the weighted average cost method. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further 
costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for obsolescence and shrinkage. 
Retirement benefits
The Group contributes to employees’ individual pension arrangements through a defined contribution pension plan, which is 
administered separately from the Group. The amount charged against profits represents the contributions payable in the period. 
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments 
in the balance sheet. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are 
classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. Annual Report 2016
78
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and cash in hand and carry insignificant risk of changes in value.
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they 
are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its risks associated 
with foreign currency fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value and subsequently 
re-measured at fair value. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward 
exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is 
recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in cost of sales in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to cost of sales in the income statement in the periods when the hedged 
item affects profit or loss, when the hedged transaction occurs. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is retained in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction 
is ultimately recognised in cost of sales in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as 
well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents 
its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging 
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Foreign currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Leases 
Leases in respect of which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified 
as operating leases. Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments 
are not made on such a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are recognised as 
deferred income and released over the term of the lease on a straight line basis.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s 
commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance 
charges, are included in other long term payables. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement 
over the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.  Bonmarché Holdings Plc
79
Financial Statements
1 Accounting policies continued
Share capital
The nominal value of ordinary shares is classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares 
are shown as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
New standards, amendments and interpretations 
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective and adopted by the Group
The following new standards, or amendments to standards, are effective for the first time for the 52-week financial period to 
26 March 2016:
Amendment to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of IFRSs’. This amendment clarifies which version of IFRSs is to be applied in the 
entity’s first financial statements under IFRSs, where a new or revised standard is issued that is not mandatory but could 
be early adopted. Bonmarché Holdings plc, the Company, has prepared its financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 
26 March 2016 under IFRSs for the first time and accordingly has applied this amendment.
Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’. These amendments clarify the definition of ‘vesting conditions’ to ensure 
the consistent classification of conditions attached to a share-based payment. ‘Performance condition’ and ‘service condition’ 
have been separately defined to make the description of each condition clearer. The amendments are applicable to the Group, 
but have not altered the accounting or disclosure in relation to the Group’s LTIPs or other share incentive schemes.
Amendment to IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. These amendments clarify that an entity providing key management 
personnel services to the reporting entity is a related party and should be disclosed. Bonmarché Holdings plc’s Executive 
Directors’ services are received by other Group companies. The related party disclosure has been updated to reflect 
the amendments to this standard.
Standards, amendments and interpretations which are not effective or early adopted by the Group
Standards or amendments that are applicable but that are not mandatory and have not been early adopted are as follows:
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. This amendment is effective for the 52-week financial period ending 1 April 2017. 
Narrow-scope amendments to IAS 1 include amended guidance on materiality and on the order of notes. As a result, there are 
no anticipated changes in disclosure. 
The Group has not early adopted any IFRSs or IFRS interpretations.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management must make judgements and estimates that may 
have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. These estimates and judgements are evaluated 
periodically and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events. The most critical 
of these accounting estimates and judgements are noted below.
Gift voucher liabilities. The Group sells gift vouchers. On such a transaction, no immediate revenue is recorded. The value is 
recorded as a deferred income liability. When a gift voucher is redeemed, revenue is recognised, and the deferred income balance 
is reduced. It is not currently possible to match individual gift voucher issues and redemptions, and the deferred income liability 
therefore includes liabilities in respect of some gift vouchers which are unlikely to be redeemed. Management uses its best 
estimates to determine what the balance should be. However, actual redemptions could vary from those estimates. The carrying 
amount of gift voucher liabilities at 26 March 2016 was £1,308,000. A movement of 1% in the accounting policy percentage 
applied to redemptions would result in a £119,000 change in the liability at 26 March 2016.
Inventory provisions. Provision is made for those items of inventory where the net realisable value is estimated to be lower than 
cost. The estimate of net realisable value is based on both historic experience and assumptions regarding future selling values, 
and is consequently a source of uncertainty. The provision is determined based on the choice of an appropriate percentage in 
accordance with the ageing of stock which is categorised by season. The carrying amount of inventory provisions at 26 March 2016 
was £338,000. A 1% change in the percentage applied to the most recent season would result in an £11,000 change in the 
provision at 26 March 2016. Annual Report 2016
80
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
2 Financial risk management and capital management
Financial risk factors
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash, trade receivables, finance leases, trade payables and derivatives. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide funds for the Group’s operations. The principal risks arising from 
financial instruments that the Group is exposed to are exchange rate, credit and liquidity risks.
a) Exchange rate risk
Exchange rate risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates will impact the Group’s costs or the value of its financial 
instruments. Exchange rate risk arises because it pays overseas suppliers for purchases of inventories in foreign currency, principally 
US Dollars. It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign currency contracts to cover up to 100% of forecast inventory 
purchases for up to 12 months. In certain circumstances, and subject to Board approval, the Group may purchase forward 
foreign currency contracts with a maturity date beyond 12 months. The Group does not engage in speculative currency trading 
and only secures the currency it requires to meet its trading liabilities.
As at 26 March 2016, the Group had £2,541,000 (2015: £5,565,000) of financial assets and £5,219,000 (2015: £6,579,000) 
of financial liabilities that were exposed to exchange rate risk. 
The effect of a 10% weakening of the US Dollar against Sterling at 26 March 2016 on the US Dollar-denominated financial 
assets and financial liabilities carried at that date would have resulted in an increase in pre-tax profit for the year and an 
increase in net assets of £234,000 (2015: £92,000). 
As at 26 March 2016, the Group had £4,780,000 (2015: £3,963,000) of derivative financial assets (forward foreign currency 
contracts) that were exposed to exchange rate risk.
The effect of a 10% weakening of the US Dollar against Sterling at 26 March 2016 on the forward foreign currency contracts 
carried at that date would have resulted in a decrease in net assets of £4,817,000 (2015: £3,645,000). There is no impact on 
the period’s pre-tax profit, as such a decrease would be treated as a movement within the cash flow hedge reserve.
Exposure to Euro exchange risk arises as Northern Ireland stores accept Euros as payment for goods. The sensitivity to a reasonably 
possible change (+/-10%) in the Euro exchange rate has been determined as being immaterial.
b) Credit risk
Credit risk arises from the Group’s cash balances held with counterparties and from trade receivables defaulting. All cash balances 
are held with reputable banks and the Board monitors its exposure to counterparty risk on an ongoing basis. 
Trade receivables include monies due from a payment processing supplier and (typically) low value transactions with subtenants 
and, by exception, certain concession partners and issuers of third-party shopping vouchers. Accordingly, the concentration 
of credit risk is limited. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and provision is made for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the carrying amount of trade receivables as disclosed in 
note 16. Cash and cash equivalents have no significant exposure to credit risk.
c) Liquidity risk 
The Group is exposed to the risk that it is unable to meet its debt obligations as they fall due. The Group finances its operations 
with cash, finance leases and committed undrawn bank credit facilities. Management monitors rolling forecasts of cash and 
undrawn borrowing facilities on the basis of expected cash flows. As at 26 March 2016, the Group’s exposure to liquidity risk 
was low, and amounts due under finance leases were relatively immaterial.
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Within 12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years
26 March 2016 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other payables 38,098 — —
Finance leases 210 218 197
Within 12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years
28 March 2015 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other payables 37,256 — —
Finance leases 202 210 407 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
81
Financial Statements
2 Financial risk management and capital management continued
Financial risk factors continued
d) Capital management 
The capital structure of the Group consists of net cash (as disclosed in note 28) and equity attributable to equity holders of 
the Company, comprising issued share capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the statement 
of changes in equity.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, and to minimise the 
cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the value of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the level of net cash. Net cash is calculated as 
cash and cash equivalents less finance lease liabilities. Short and long term cash flow forecasts are regularly produced to enable 
the Group to monitor its net cash and maintain sufficient liquidity headroom.
3 Segment information
Management has identified that the Board of Directors (the ‘Board’) is the chief operating decision maker in accordance with 
the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Segmental Reporting’. Management has determined the operating segments based on the operating 
reports reviewed by the Board that are used to assess performance and to inform strategic decisions.
The Board considers the business to be one main type of business generating revenue: retail of womenswear and accessories. 
Sales through the internet channel do not currently meet the quantitative threshold required by IFRS 8 for reportable segments.
All segment revenue, profit before taxation, assets and liabilities are attributable to the principal activity of the Group and other 
related services. All revenues are generated in the United Kingdom.
4 Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or nature, or that are non-recurring, are considered as exceptional items 
and are presented within the line items to which they best relate. The exceptional items as detailed below have been included 
in administrative expenses in the income statement.
Exceptional items comprise:
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Legal and professional fees
1
1,042 —
1  Legal and professional fees comprise costs incurred in relation to the admission of Bonmarché Holdings plc to the Official List of the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange on 19 October 2015. Annual Report 2016
82
5a Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging: 
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000
Share-based payment (credit)/charge 23 (44) 251
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
– owned 12 2,926 2,322
– held under finance lease 12 221 207
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 380 379
Operating lease payments:
– plant and machinery 401 379
– land and buildings 18,032 17,361
Rent-free amortisation (1,382) (1,286)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 177 34
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 47 —
Foreign exchange gains (773) (975)
5b Auditor’s remuneration
During the year the Group’s auditor provided the following services:
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Audit services
Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 35 25
Other services
Audit of subsidiary financial statements 35 25
Other services 271 4
341 54
The other services were work relating to the admission of Bonmarché Holdings plc to the Official List of the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange, and comprise part of the fees mentioned in note 4.
6a Employee benefit expense
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 36,139 33,105
Social security costs 2,254 2,070
Other pension costs 1,011 886
Share-based payments (credit)/charge (44) 251
Termination payments 76 23
Employee benefit expenses included in operating profit 39,436 36,335
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
83
Financial Statements
6b Average number of people employed 
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent (‘FTE’) people (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during 
the year was:
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
FTE FTE
Stores 1,519 1,434
Administration 198 174
Distribution 285 259
2,002 1,867
6c Directors’ and key management remuneration
Key management comprises the Executive and Non-executive Directors, and the members of the Trading Board. The costs 
of key management remuneration were as follows:
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Short term employee benefits 1,517 1,503
Post-employment benefits 209 203
Cost of share-based payments (44) 251
Termination payments 51 19
1,733 1,976
Information concerning Directors’ remuneration, interests in shares, share options and information regarding the highest paid 
Director is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 58, which forms part of these financial statements.
7 Finance income and costs
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest receivable 49 14
Other interest receivable — 4
Total finance income 49 18
Finance costs
Revolving credit facility costs 156 168
Finance lease interest 28 33
Other interest payable — 31
Total finance costs 184 232 Annual Report 2016
84
8 Taxation
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Current tax:
Current tax on profits for the period 2,295 2,736
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (403) (291)
Total current tax 1,892 2,445
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (128) 43
Adjustments in respect of prior periods — 62
Changes in tax rate 19 (46)
Total deferred tax (109) 59
Tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 1,783 2,504
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows:
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Profit before tax 9,558 12,400
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20%/21% 1,912 2,604
Tax effects of:
Other timing differences (92) 123
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 347 52
Effects of changes in tax rate 19 (46)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (403) (229)
Tax charge 1,783 2,504
Factors that may affect future tax charges:
In addition to the changes in rates of corporation tax disclosed above, further changes to the UK corporation tax rates were 
substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2015 on 8 July 2015. These include a reduction to the main rate to 19% from 
1 April 2017, and a further reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020. 
9 Trading profit and loss in the holding company
Of the Group’s profit for the year, a loss before tax and income from investments of £979,000 (2015: profit of £65,000) is dealt 
with in the accounts of Bonmarché Holdings plc and the statement of changes in equity. The Directors have taken advantage 
of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement and 
statement of comprehensive income for the Company alone.
The individual income statement of Bonmarché Holdings plc was approved by the Board on 10 June 2016.
Included in the Company’s retained earnings is £63,200,000 of reserves that are distributable (2015: £64,200,000).
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
85
Financial Statements
10 Earnings per share
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (£’000) 7,775 9,896
Basic earnings per share (pence) 16.1 20.7
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15.7 19.8
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue.
For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares excludes the general shares 
(i.e. not jointly owned shares) held by the Employee Benefit Trust. For the calculation of diluted earnings per share only, the weighted 
average number of shares in issue is further adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. These represent 
the unvested restricted shares and the shares granted under the FY16 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 50,018,150 50,018,150
Less: shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust (weighted average) (383,878) (128,069)
Weighted average number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 49,634,272 49,890,081
Weighted average number of potentially dilutive share awards (1,380,112) (2,173,433)
Weighted average number of shares for calculating basic earnings per share 48,254,160 47,716,648
Underlying earnings per share
The Directors have also chosen to present an alternative earnings per share measure, with profit adjusted for exceptional items, 
as in their opinion it better reflects the Group’s underlying performance. For the purposes of this measure, underlying profit is 
as follows:
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 7,775 9,896
Exceptional items 1,042 —
Underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 8,817 9,896
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Pence Pence
Underlying basic earnings per share (pence) 18.3 20.7
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence) 17.8 19.8
11 Dividends
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Equity – ordinary
Final dividend of 4.5 pence per share (2015: 2.1 pence per share) 2,219 1,038
Interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share (2015: 2.3 pence per share) 1,216 1,132
Dividends paid during the period 3,435 2,170
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 4.64 pence per share amounting to a dividend of £2.3m in respect of the 
52 weeks ended 26 March 2016. It will be paid on 5 August 2016 to shareholders on the register of members as at the close 
of business on 24 June 2016, subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 July 2016. 
In line with the requirements of IAS 10 ‘Events After the Reporting Period’, this dividend has not been recognised within 
these results. Annual Report 2016
86
12 Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold land Plant and Motor
and buildings equipment vehicles Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 30 March 2014 648 11,397 474 12,519
Additions 396 5,241 649 6,286
Disposals (12) (67) — (79)
At 28 March 2015 1,032 16,571 1,123 18,726
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 March 2014 152 3,222 59 3,433
Charge for the period 161 2,150 218 2,529
Disposals (7) (38) — (45)
At 28 March 2015 306 5,334 277 5,917
Net book value
At 28 March 2015 726 11,237 846 12,809
Cost
At 29 March 2015 1,032 16,571 1,123 18,726
Additions 336 4,521 146 5,003
Disposals (27) (219) (7) (253)
At 26 March 2016 1,341 20,873 1,262 23,476
Accumulated depreciation
At 29 March 2015 306 5,334 277 5,917
Charge for the period 233 2,664 250 3,147
Disposals (18) (54) (4) (76)
At 26 March 2016 521 7,944 523 8,988
Net book value
At 26 March 2016 820 12,929 739 14,488
Additions of plant and equipment include the following amounts in respect of assets not yet in use, which have not been depreciated:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Plant and equipment not yet in use 1,422 2,263
The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of assets held 
under finance leases:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Commercial vehicles:
Cost 1,110 1,110
Accumulated depreciation (496) (275)
Net book value 614 835
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
87
Financial Statements
13 Intangible assets
Customer
Software Brands relationships Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 30 March 2014 1,105 2,888 276 4,269
Additions 63 — — 63
At 28 March 2015 1,168 2,888 276 4,332
Accumulated amortisation
At 30 March 2014 121 828 61 1,010
Charge for the period 88 263 28 379
At 28 March 2015 209 1,091 89 1,389
Net book value
At 28 March 2015 959 1,797 187 2,943
Cost 
At 29 March 2015 1,168 2,888 276 4,332
Additions 647 — — 647
Disposals (47) — — (47)
At 26 March 2016 1,768 2,888 276 4,932
Accumulated amortisation
At 29 March 2015 209 1,091 89 1,389
Charge for the period 89 263 28 380
At 26 March 2016 298 1,354 117 1,769
Net book value
At 26 March 2016 1,470 1,534 159 3,163
Amortisation is charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
14 Investments in subsidiaries
Company
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Cost and net book value at beginning and end of period 66,069 66,069
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investment is supported by its underlying net assets and expected results 
from future trading.
The following is a list of all companies within the Group.
Company Proportion
registration of ordinary
Name Country of incorporation number Nature of the business shares held
Bluebird UK Topco England and Wales 07909406 Holding company 100%
Bluebird UK Holdco England and Wales 07909464 Holding company 100%
Bonmarché Limited England and Wales 07909526 Retail 100%
Bluebird UK Bidco 2 England and Wales 07918420 Dormant 100% Annual Report 2016
88
15 Inventories
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Goods for resale 24,295 24,794
The following amounts were recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Cost of inventories 80,334 76,114
Write down of inventories 612 744
16 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
26 March 2016 28 March 2015 26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
Trade receivables 107 138 — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables — (1) — —
Trade receivables – net 107 137 — —
Other receivables 1,667 1,494 143 264
Receivable from subsidiary undertaking — — 6,392 2,772
Prepayments 13,106 13,370 — —
Trade and other receivables 14,880 15,001 6,535 3,036
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are all denominated in Sterling.
Prepayments at 26 March 2016 include £9.1m of business rates charges relating to FY17 (28 March 2015 in respect of FY16: £9.1m). 
As of 28 March 2015 and 26 March 2016, trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired related to independent customers 
for whom there is no recent history of default. 
Impaired receivables are individually identified and represent amounts in dispute that are six months overdue.
The analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
Group Company
26 March 2016 28 March 2015 26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Neither past due nor impaired 107 137 — —
Impaired (over six months overdue) — 1 — —
107 138 — —
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
89
Financial Statements
16 Trade and other receivables continued
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
Group Company
26 March 2016 28 March 2015 26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period 1 10 — —
Recovered during the period — (10) — —
(Credited)/charged to the income statement (1) 1 — —
At end of period — 1 — —
Provisions are estimated based upon past default experience and the Directors’ assessment of the current economic 
environment. The creation and release of receivables is charged/(credited) to administrative expenses in the income statement.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. 
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
17 Cash and cash equivalents
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Cash at bank and on hand 13,001 11,059
Cash and cash equivalents 13,001 11,059
18 Trade and other payables
Group Company
26 March 2016 28 March 2015 26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
Trade payables 25,167 25,695 — —
Other taxes and social security 1,882 1,498 — —
Accruals and deferred income 8,425 7,670 — —
Rent-free deferred income 1,213 1,233 — —
Payable to subsidiary undertaking — — 8,233 3,682
Other payables 1,411 1,160 — —
Trade and other payables 38,098 37,256 8,233 3,682
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair values. Annual Report 2016
90
19 Other payables
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Non-current
Rent-free deferred income 1,518 2,459
Other payables 1,518 2,459
Rent-free deferred income represents the value not yet recognised in the income statement in relation to rent-free periods 
received at the beginning of certain property operating leases as an incentive to enter into the lease. The credit arising on 
these rent-free periods is released to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. At 26 March 2016, 
the total rent-free deferred income balance had an average remaining life of 30 months (28 March 2015: 40 months).
The ageing of rent-free deferred income is as follows:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Current 1,213 1,233
Non-current 1,518 2,459
Total rent-free deferred income 2,731 3,692
20 Financial liabilities
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Current
Finance leases 210 202
Non-current
Finance leases 415 617
Total financial liabilities 625 819
The carrying amount of borrowings approximates to their fair value.
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Committed revolving credit facility 10,000 10,000
At the end of the year, the Group had a committed revolving credit bank facility which matures on 13 November 2017. 
This facility contains a financial covenant in relation to which there have been no breaches in the year.
Finance lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments:
– no later than one year 230 230
– later than one year and no later than five years 423 653
Sub-total 653 883
Future finance charges on finance leases (28) (64)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 625 819
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
91
Financial Statements
20 Financial liabilities continued
The maturity profile of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
No later than one year 210 202
Later than one year and no later than five years 415 617
625 819
21 Financial instruments 
The Group’s financial risk management policy is as disclosed in note 2.
Financial assets
‘Trade and other receivables’ and ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ are designated as loans and receivables and carried at amortised 
cost as disclosed in notes 16 and 17 respectively. Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value and classified 
as financial assets designated on initial recognition as fair value movements through the profit and loss. The carrying value 
of derivative financial assets at 26 March 2016 was £4,780,000 (28 March 2015: £3,963,000).
Financial liabilities 
‘Trade and other payables’ and ‘Finance leases’ are designated as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost and the carrying 
value is disclosed in notes 18 and 20 respectively. Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value and classified 
as financial liabilities designated on initial recognition as fair value movements through the profit and loss. The carrying value 
of derivative financial liabilities at 26 March 2016 was £nil (28 March 2015: £nil).
Cash flow hedges
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedge (Level 2) asset 4,780 3,963
Forward foreign exchange contracts – notional principal amount 64,803 48,075
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk from highly probable forecast 
stock purchases in US Dollars. They are designated as cash flow hedges with fair value movements recognised directly in 
other comprehensive income. The amount recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement 
in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss. The income statement impact in relation to the cash flows 
hedged is expected to occur in the next 15 months.
The valuation of all financial derivative assets and liabilities carried at fair value by the Group is based on hierarchy Level 2. 
Fair value hierarchy levels are defined as follows:
• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
• Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined based on discounted market forward currency 
exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Annual Report 2016
92
22 Deferred tax
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Non-current deferred tax assets 118 86
Non-current deferred tax liabilities (1,276) (1,189)
Net deferred tax liabilities (1,158) (1,103)
Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets, when it is probable 
that these assets will be recovered.
The movement on the net deferred tax account is as follows:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
At beginning of period (1,103) 394
Income statement credit/(charge) 109 (59)
Tax charge relating to components of other comprehensive income (164) (1,438)
At end of period (1,158) (1,103)
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period, without taking into consideration the offsetting 
of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Other
Intangible Cash flow Share-based temporary
assets hedges payments differences Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 March 2014 (524) 646 62 210 394
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 127 — (62) (124) (59)
Charged to other comprehensive income — (1,438) — — (1,438)
Balance at 28 March 2015 (397) (792) — 86 (1,103)
Other
Intangible Cash flow Share-based temporary
assets hedges payments differences Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 29 March 2015 (397) (792) — 86 (1,103)
Credited to the income statement 77 — — 32 109
Charged to other comprehensive income — (164) — — (164)
Balance at 26 March 2016 (320) (956) — 118 (1,158)
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
93
Financial Statements
23 Share-based payments
The Company operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees which are intended to act as incentives to help the 
Company attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and other key employees over the long term. 
Restricted Share Plan
General conditions
A share incentive scheme was established by the Company’s majority shareholder prior to the IPO in 2013. A grant of restricted 
shares was made to certain employees in October 2012 and a grant to two further employees was made in October 2013. 
The shares vest as follows:
• 20% of the shares vest upon the first anniversary of the later of the employment commencement date and 20 January 2012; and
• the remaining shares vest at a rate of 20% on each anniversary thereafter for a further four years. 
Under the scheme arrangements, distributions in respect of vested shares are paid to the member. Distributions in respect 
of unvested shares are paid into an escrow account, to be released when the shares vest, other than an amount which is paid 
to the member immediately, in respect of any tax which would become due on the unvested element of the distribution. 
Fair value of shares
The fair values of the shares were determined by an independent third party using the Black-Scholes model. The valuations 
were prepared at the date the shares were issued, which, for all issues, was prior to the Company listing on the AIM market 
in November 2013. The fair values were measured taking into account terms and conditions of the share scheme at the time 
of issue (i.e. pre-listing) and includes consideration of dividends accrued over the vesting period, the minority interest status, 
the lack of marketability and the lack of voting rights. 
Issue date 18 October 2012 16 October 2013
Fair value of the shares issued £736,900 £444,358
Number of shares issued
1
7,950 2,900
1  The fair value was determined using the number of shares at the time of issue, which was prior to a share reorganisation which took place prior to admission 
to AIM in 2013.
Long Term Incentive Plan
General conditions
The Bonmarché Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the Company’s AGM on 30 July 2015. Individuals may 
be granted awards over shares worth up to 125% of their annual salary in any financial year. On 24 September 2015 nil-cost shares 
worth 50% of the participants’ annual salary were granted and will vest after three years subject to performance conditions being 
met and the employees’ continued employment in the Group. This is referred to as the ‘FY16 LTIP’.
Performance conditions
The Remuneration Committee agrees the performance conditions for each award. For the FY16 LTIP, the vesting of 25% 
is conditional upon Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) compared to a benchmark of general retailers, and the vesting of 75% 
is conditional upon earnings per share (‘EPS’) growth. Annual Report 2016
94
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
23 Share-based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan continued
Fair value of shares
The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of the shares granted in the period. 
The Black Scholes model has been used in determining the fair value of the EPS-related grant and the Monte Carlo model 
for the TSR-related grant. The inputs into the Black Scholes model and the Monte Carlo model were as follows:
Black Scholes Monte Carlo
Share price at valuation date (pence per share) 294p 294p
Exercise price (pence per share) 0p 0p
Expected volatility 24% 24%
Expected term 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 2.6% 2.6%
Risk-free interest rate 0.75% 0.75%
Fair value at valuation date (pence per share) 271.9p 152.9p
As the Company has only limited history of quoted share price volatility, expected volatility was determined with reference to the 
historic volatility for the constituents of the Company’s TSR comparator group over a period commensurate with the expected 
terms of the awards.
Movements in the number of shares outstanding
The movements in the shares under the Restricted Share Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan are as follows:
Restricted Long Term
Share Plan Incentive Plan
Number of shares Number of shares
Unvested at the beginning of the period 1,417,500 —
Granted — 220,234
Lapsed (707,000) (85,033)
Vested (304,500) —
Unvested/outstanding at the end of the period 406,000 135,201
Charge to the income statement
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Total (credit)/expense related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions (44) 251
24 Share capital
Group and Company
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
50,018,150 (2015: 50,018,150) ordinary shares of 1 pence (2015: 1 pence) 500 500 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
95
Financial Statements
25 Share premium
The share premium account consists of the premium paid on the purchase of shares at the time of the IPO in 2013 by the 
Bonmarché Employee Benefit Trust and other shareholders.
26 Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) reserve
An Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) facilitates the operation of the Group’s share incentive plans and jointly holds shares with 
certain employees. The Trust is resident in Jersey and has an independent professional Trustee.
The EBT reserve balance represents the amount paid by the EBT on the Company’s behalf to purchase the shares.
At 26 March 2016, the Company held in Trust 911,844 of its own shares (2015: 708,844) with a nominal value of £9,000 
(2015: £7,000). The market value of the shares at 26 March 2016 was £1,641,000 (2015: £1,974,000).
The Trust has waived its entitlement to receive dividends in respect of its holding of the Company’s ordinary shares.
27 Cash generated from operations
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000
Profit before tax 9,558 12,400
Adjustments for:
– depreciation 12 3,147 2,529
– amortisation of intangible assets 13 380 379
– loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 177 34
– loss on disposal of intangible assets 47 —
– share-based payment (credit)/debit 23 (44) 251
– net finance costs/income 7 135 214
– decrease/(increase) in inventories 499 (2,663)
– increase in trade and other receivables (56) (1,435)
– (decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (639) 1,810
Cash generated from operations 13,204 13,519
28 Analysis of net cash
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
Note £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 17 13,001 11,059
Finance lease liabilities 20 (625) (819)
Net cash 12,376 10,240 Annual Report 2016
96
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
29 Contingencies
During the year, the Group issued letters of credit to foreign suppliers. The settlement dates on these letters of credit range 
from 0 to 60 days after the title of goods purchased have passed to the Group. Letters of credit with the following aggregate 
value were outstanding at the period end:
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Letters of credit 1,675 3,147
The Company has no contingencies.
30 Commitments
a) Capital commitments
Group
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Capital expenditure: contracted but not recorded in the financial statements 1,462 1,412
The Company has no capital commitments.
b) Operating lease commitments
The Group leases stores, offices, a warehouse, cars and equipment. At the balance sheet date the future aggregate minimum 
lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were:
Land and buildings Other
26 March 28 March 26 March 28 March 
2016 2015 2016 2015
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year 16,056 15,978 312 291
Within two years to five years inclusive 29,284 36,837 251 291
After five years 6,892 11,932 — —
Total 52,232 64,747 563 582
The Company has no operating lease commitments.
31 Pension commitments
The Group contributes to employees’ individual pension arrangements through a defined contribution group personal pension 
plan. The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group and the Company to the scheme: 
Group
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Pension cost charge for the period 1,011 886 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
97
Financial Statements
32 Related parties
Transactions with subsidiaries
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, were:
Company
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Costs recharged to subsidiary undertakings 1,340 1,339
The transactions relate to management services and other costs recharged to subsidiaries.
The Company received dividend income from its subsidiary undertakings during the financial year.
During the financial period, the Company made a loan to the Bonmarché Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) of £16,000 (2015: £62,000) 
to purchase shares from departing participants of the Restricted Share Plan in order to satisfy existing and future grants of shares 
to participants in the Group’s FY16 LTIP scheme.
The amounts owed by and to these related parties with the Company at the end of the financial period were:
Company
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 6,392 2,772
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 8,233 3,682
Amounts owed by the EBT 78 62
Transactions with Parent Companies and affiliates of the Parent Companies
The immediate Parent Company of Bonmarché Holdings plc is BM Holdings S.à r.l. and the ultimate Parent Company 
is a private equity investment fund advised by an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc. Transactions with the immediate 
and ultimate Parent Companies occur within the Group.
a) Purchase of goods and services
Fees charged by Sun Capital Partners Management V, LLC and affiliates of the Parent Companies during the period in relation 
to services provided were as follows:
Group and Company
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Directors’ fees 54 100
Services in the normal course of business 86 —
At 26 March 2016, there was an accrual of £12,000 (28 March 2015: £145,000) in respect of fees payable to Sun Capital Partners V, LLC, 
for services provided by its Director nominee. No amounts were payable at 26 March 2016 to affiliates (2015: £nil). Annual Report 2016
98
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
32 Related parties continued
Transactions with key management
Key management and Directors’ remuneration for the Group is disclosed in note 6c. In addition, Executive Directors 
and key management participate in an incentive share scheme, further details of which can be found in note 23.
Information for the Company in respect of the Executive and Non-executive Directors’ remuneration can be found 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 58. 
The Directors and key management control 3,378,247 shares in Bonmarché Holdings plc, which represents 6.75% 
of the issued share capital.
Loans have been provided to certain employees in connection with the acquisition of shares. 
Group and Company
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
26 March 2016 28 March 2015
£’000 £’000
Outstanding at the start of the period 264 326
Amounts repaid during the period (121) (62)
Outstanding at the end of the period 143 264
33 Events after the reporting period
Between 26 March 2016 and the date of signing the financial statements, there have been no material events. 
34 Explanation of Company transition to IFRSs
These are the Company’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
The Company is required to explain how the transition from UK GAAP to IFRSs affected its reported financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows. There are no differences in accounting treatment for the Company between UK GAAP and IFRSs, 
and consequently there is no effect on the Company’s financial position, financial performance or cash flows. 
a) Initial elections upon adoption
Under IFRS 1, a number of exemptions are permitted in preparing the Company’s balance sheet as at the date of transition to IFRSs 
on 29 March 2014. No such exemptions have been elected.
b) Reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRSs
The following information shows the balance sheets of the Company prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and in accordance 
with IFRSs at the date of transition to IFRSs (29 March 2014), and at the end of the latest period presented in the Company’s most 
recent annual financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP (28 March 2015). Bonmarché Holdings Plc
99
Financial Statements
34 Explanation of Company transition to IFRSs continued
b) Reconciliation of UK GAAP to IFRSs continued
Company balance sheet at 29 March 2014 (transition date)
UK GAAP IFRS
£’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 66,069 66,069
Total non-current assets 66,069 66,069
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 326 326
Total current assets 326 326
Total assets 66,395 66,395
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (1,225) (1,225)
Total current liabilities (1,225) (1,225)
Total liabilities (1,225) (1,225)
Net assets 65,170 65,170
Equity
Share capital 500 500
Share premium 1,496 1,496
EBT reserve (1,187) (1,187)
Retained earnings 64,361 64,361
Total equity 65,170 65,170
Company balance sheet at 28 March 2015
UK GAAP IFRS
£’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 66,069 66,069
Total non-current assets 66,069 66,069
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 3,036 3,036
Total current assets 3,036 3,036
Total assets 69,105 69,105
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (3,682) (3,682)
Current taxation payable (13) (13)
Total current liabilities (3,695) (3,695)
Total liabilities (3,695) (3,695)
Net assets 65,410 65,410
Equity
Share capital 500 500
Share premium 1,496 1,496
EBT reserve (1,249) (1,249)
Retained earnings 64,663 64,663
Total equity 65,410 65,410 Annual Report 2016
100
Shareholders’ information
Investor contacts
Registered office
Bonmarché Holdings plc
Jubilee Way
Grange Moor
Wakefield
West Yorkshire
WF4 4SJ
Telephone: +44 1924 700100
Financial PR
FTI Consulting
200 Aldersgate Street
London
EC1A 4HD
Email: bonmarche.sc@fticonsulting.com
Telephone: +44 203 727 1109
Financial adviser and broker
Investec Bank PLC
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Telephone: +44 207 597 4000
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Benson House
33 Wellington Street
Leeds
LS1 4JP
Registrar
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Telephone (UK): 0871 664 0300
Telephone (international): +44 208 639 3399
Key dates
These dates are indicative and may be subject to change.
Dividend record date 24 June 2016
Annual General Meeting and trading update announcement 28 July 2016
Dividend payment date 5 August 2016 
Financial half-year end 24 September 2016
Half-yearly management statement November 2016
Christmas trading update January 2017
Financial year end 1 April 2017
Pre-close trading update April 2017
2017 final results announcement June 2017
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at Bonmarché’s headquarters, Jubilee Way, Grange Moor, Wakefield WF4 4SJ on Thursday 28 July 2016. 
The meeting will start at 12.00pm and registration will be available from 11.30am. Bonmarché Holdings plc is committed to 
environmental issues which are reflected 
in this Annual Report which has been printed 
on Novatech Digital Silk, which is an FSC
®
 
Mix Certified paper, ensuring that all virgin 
pulp is derived from well-managed forests 
and other responsible sources.
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities. BONMARCHÉ HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report 2016
BONMARCHÉ HOLDINGS PLC
Jubilee Way
Grange Moor
Wakefield
West Yorkshire
WF4 4SJ
