 Annual Report & Accounts 2016
(Formerly known as DJI Holdings plc)
BNN Technology Annual Report & Accounts 2016  Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Contents
02 Highlights
03 Financial and Operating Performance Highlights 
04 Officers and professional advisors 
05 Chairman’s Statement
06-13 Executive & Non-Executive Management 
14 Strategic Report
16-19 Chief Executive’s Review
20-21 Our Business Model
22 How we do it
23 2016 Key Achievements
24-25 Our Strategic Priorities
26-27 Market Overview
28-33 Corporate Governance 
34-37 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
38-47 Risk Management 
48-53 Directors’ Report 
54 Financial Statements
56  Independent Auditor’s Report
57  Consolidated Income Statement
58  C o n s o l id a te d S t a te m e n t of Comprehensive Income
59   C o n s o li d a t e d Balance Sheet
60   Parent Company Balance Sheet
61   C o n s o li d a t e d Statement of Changes in Equity
62   Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
63   Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
64   P ar en t C o m p an y Cash Flow Statement
65  Notes to the Financial Statements BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2
Our business areas in China
PAYMENTS
• We facilitate high volumes of mobile  
payments across 12 provinces
• Payments such as mobile phone and  
petrol top-ups, and utility bills
• Business to Business (“B2B”) 
and Business to Consumer 
“B2C”) partnerships to create  
scale and higher margin transactions 
CONTENT
• We create and distribute unique content  
to drive customer acquisition via online  
and mobile payments
• Partnerships include world renowned  
sports clubs, such as FC Barcelona & Arsenal
SERVICES
• We provide practical and value-added  
services to Chinese consumers online  
and on mobile
• Services include online sporting venue  
bookings, and are planned to include  
student recruitment and credit rating services
BNN Technology plc  
(formerly known as DJI Holdings plc) 
is a Chinese technology, services  
and content company
Underpinned by
Trusted  
partnerships
Robust  
technology
Compelling  
content
Founded  
2008
Headquarters  
UK
Operations  
China
Employees  
285
AIM Listing  
2014
BNN provides technology to 
provide online payments and 
services, and deliver digital 
content for partners across China 
through its Chinese technology 
partner, NewNet.
2008–2015
• Formerly known as DJI Holdings plc
• Processed high volume lottery transactions
• Developed robust & scalable  
technology platform
• Delivered unique sports content
PRESENT
• Rebrand to BNN Technology
• Partnership with Xinhua to facilitate  
mobile payments of traffic fines,  
utilities, and mobile top ups
• B2B partnerships for mobile top ups
• Unique sports content via mobile
NEXT PHASE
• Nasdaq listing in USA
• Develop B2C mobile payment  
opportunities
• Multiple service partnerships
• Further payment partnerships
+ +
Signed agreements  
in 12 provinces  
with Xinhua News
75%
Account for more 
than 75% of China’s 
total GDP
$235bn
Access to growing 
mobile payments 
market worth  
US$235 bn in 2016
700m
Total population
  C o ope r a t i on  
agreements
Highlights Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3
Financial and Operating  
Performance Highlights
Business and Operating Performance 
• Business pivoted from a lottery company into a technology  
company, beginning with its signing of the Xinhua News mobile  
app payments deal in April 2016, following the state mandated 
suspension of online sale as of lottery products in March 2015.
• Completed signing of all 12 targeted provinces before year end.
• Raised £51.2 million across three placings in the year, providing 
vital funding to grow our business and adding a number of high 
quality institutions into the share register. 
• Launched B2B mobile payments business in second half of 2016.
• Signed unique mobile content deal with FC Barcelona  
to be launched in first half of 2017.
• Completed a 10% Strategic investment in Xinhuatong, further 
strengthening the relationship between BNN and Xinhuatong, 
and ensuring BNN has access to opportunities to build additional 
revenue streams.
• Began secondary listing application for Nasdaq exchange.
• Rebranded the Group from DJI Holdings plc to BNN Technology 
plc to reflect our current business model and Chinese heritage 
(BNN referencing our main Chinese operating partner, Beijing 
NewNet).
• Formally moved sector classification on LSE AIM from  
‘Gambling’ to ‘Internet’.
• Sold BaiFa in Q4 2016, as business no longer fits with company 
strategic direction.
• Added three new directors to the Board, two of whom are 
Chinese, providing an appropriate balance of our operational 
scope. New directors were: Group CFO Scott Kennedy, China 
CEO Wei Qi and Non-Executive Dong Jinhua.
Key Performance Indicators
Business expected to deliver growth in 2017 in all three  
KPIs that the Board are planning to use to evaluate the 
Group’s financial and operating performance from 2017 
onwards: 
1. REVENUE GROWTH 
We anticipate revenues to grow as we rollout new B2B and 
B2C payments, receive advertising revenues from our unique 
content, and launch our new student and credit services 
propositions
2. GROSS TRANSACTION VOLUMES (“GTV”) 
We expect to grow GTVs, a lead indicator of revenue 
growth, fulfilled by our payments platform, to demonstrate 
the size and scope of our technology platform  
3. MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAU”) 
We expect to grow the number of average monthly active 
users on our platform.  The more we grow the user base 
(visiting our content and utilising our students platform), the 
greater amount of consumer data we collect and the greater 
the advertising revenues we expect to generate
Group Financial Performance
• Revenues for the Group were £2.1 million in 2016, down from 
£5.5 million in the prior year as a result of the suspension in online 
lottery sales and as the business transformed into a technology 
company.
• Operating loss widened from £9.3 million in 2015 to £16.5 million 
in 2016, as the business invested in people and technology, sought 
a secondary listing in the United States and the company entered 
into partnership with Xinhua in 12 provinces across China.
• 2016 saw the launch of BNN’s Business to Business (‘’B2B’’) mobile 
top up business, significantly increasing Gross Transaction Volumes 
(“GTV”) to £289.6 million.
• In 2016, exceptional costs have been incurred predominantly 
whilst preparing the business for, and in relation to, submitting a 
formal application for a secondary listing on the Nasdaq exchange.
• Cash and cash equivalents £28.0 million at year end 2016 versus 
£4.0 million at the 2015 year end. 
Group financial highlights
Reported Results (£’000)
Year ended
31 December 
2016
£’000
Year ended
31 December 
 2015
£’000
Revenue 2,064 5,519
Operating Loss before 
Exceptional Items
(15,794) (8,661)
Exceptional Items (677) (652)
Finance Costs (1,739) (1,395)
Loss before tax (18,210) (10,708)
Loss per share (Basic) 10.08 8.48
Loss per share (Diluted) 10.08 8.48
Cash and Cash Equivalents 28,028 4,028
Gross Transaction Volumes (“GTV”) from continuing operations
 Digital 285,020 74,039
 Land 4,599 5,379
Revenue 2,064 5,519
Margin 0.71% 6.95% BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4
Officers and professional advisors
Directors
D Mercer
Lord Mancroft
R Lerwill (retired 1 December 2016)
W Qi (appointed 1 July 2016) 
D Jinhua (appointed 1 July 2016) 
S Kennedy (appointed 8 August 2016)
UK Lawyers
Field Fisher
Riverbank House
2 Swan Lane
London
EC4R 3TT
US Lawyers
Cooleys
The Grace Building
1114 Avenue of the Americas
New York
10036-7798
China Lawyers
Global Law Office
Chaoyang District
Beijing 100025
China
 
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditor
2 Hardman Street
Manchester
M3 3HF
Nominated and Financial 
Advisor
Strand Hanson Limited
26 Mount Row
London
W1K 3SQ
10036-7798
Registrar
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS13 8AE
Broker
Mirabaud Securities LLP
33 Grosvenor Place
London
SW1X 7HY
Bankers
Bank of China
London
EC2R 7DB
Lloyds
42-46 Market Street
Manchester
M1 1PW 
Company Secretary
Gateleys Secretaries Limited 
(resigned 11 May 2016) 
P Owen  
(appointed 11 May 2016,  
resigned 28 February 2017)
Field Fisher  
(appointed 14 March 2017)
Registered office
First Floor Mallory House
Goostrey Way
Mobberley
Knutsford
Cheshire
WA16 7GY  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 5
Chairman’s Statement
2016 has been a year of transition and transformation for BNN 
Technology. Back in Q1 2016, before we signed the ground-
breaking deal with Xinhuatong and the Xinhua News Agency, I 
could not have predicted the diversity and number of opportunities 
that the Group now has, nor the variety of business models we 
have developed. The business had an uncertain future following the 
suspension of the online lottery in China in March 2015. However, 
in 2016, we successfully pivoted from a lottery company into a 
Chinese technology company offering mobile payments, unique 
content and value-added services to millions of Chinese consumers 
and started the journey of BNN Technology becoming a Chinese 
technology portal. This transition was formalised in September by 
changing the name of the company to BNN Technology and our 
LSE AIM industry classification benchmark from “Gambling” to 
“Internet”.
In 2016, we successfully raised a total of £51.2 million to build out our 
technology platform, allowing us to enter into key partnerships and 
develop and establish our three business areas: payments, content, 
and value-added services. In a relatively short period of time, we 
have made significant strides in growing each of these areas, and 
we demonstrated the potential of our new business model in 
September 2016 with the first revenues coming from mobile top-
ups. Entry into mobile payments, using our platform and the strong 
business relationships we developed in China, has opened up access 
to more opportunities in payments and services, which we are eager 
to explore in 2017.
To support our ambitious business development goals, we formally 
started our application for a secondary listing on Nasdaq. This listing 
will allow us access to a deeper pool of capital and attract investors 
with a greater understanding of our business to support us in our 
ambition to become a leading technology player in China.
With all the changes the Group has experienced and the 
developments in the pipeline, we will need a strong and diverse 
Board to support the business. In 2016, we strengthened the Board 
with the appointment of three Directors: Scott Kennedy as Group 
Chief Financial Officer, current China CEO and COO Wei Qi, and 
Xinhuatong CEO Dong Jinhua as a non-executive director. Scott’s 
financial background brings to the Group stability and focus in the 
Finance area, while the introduction of Wei Qi and Dong Jinhua to 
the Board better reflects our market focus and provides cultural 
balance and valuable local expertise. In particular, the appointment 
of Dong Jinhua demonstrates the strength and long-term nature of 
the relationship and partnership between NewNet, Xinhuatong and 
BNN.
In December 2016, Robert Lerwill, Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, announced his retirement from 
his position. Robert has been on the Board since before the IPO 
of the company and has provided enduring support during BNN’s 
evolution. I would like to thank Robert for the major contribution he 
has made to BNN Technology and for his invaluable counsel to the 
Board on regulatory and compliance matters throughout his tenure. 
I wish him the very best and a happy and enjoyable retirement.
Given our transformation to a technology company, the tremendous 
opportunities that lie ahead and the tougher regulatory environment 
we will face in the US as a Nasdaq listed company, corporate 
governance is a constant priority. We are already well advanced in 
our search for a new Audit Committee Chair and additional non-
executive board members to provide the right mix of regional, 
regulatory and industry expertise to match the company’s 
development ambitions. With the help of our advisors, we are making 
a number of improvements to strengthen corporate governance and 
regulatory oversight to support the Group through its development 
in 2017 and beyond.
Looking back at the significant progress we have made in 2016 to 
transform our business, I am proud of what the Group has achieved 
thus far and I would like to thank all of the BNN team in the UK and 
China for their dedication and hard work. The Nasdaq listing and 
reinforced Board will bolster our confidence and ability to capitalise 
on the rapid growth of China’s mobile payment and ancillary 
services. I am very excited about the new content and services we 
have planned for 2017, as well as the opportunities ahead.
Lord Mancroft
Chairman
“
Lord Mancroft
I am very excited about the 
new content and services we 
have planned for 2017, as well 
as the opportunities ahead.
” BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 6
 
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 6
Executive &  
Non-Executive 
Management  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 7
 
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 7 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 8
Chairman and Non-Executive Director
Lord Mancroft
Chairman and Non-Executive 
Director
Date of appointment:
20 June 2008
Date of expiry of current term:
21 July 2017
Lord Mancroft was appointed Non-Executive Director in 2014 and 
Chairman in 2015.
Benjamin leads BNN Technology’s Board and supports the CEO on 
leading the group’s strategic direction.
He has chaired several international businesses and has been a 
member of the UK’s House of Lords since 1997 – elected as one of 
90 hereditary peers in 1999.
He is presently the Chairman of Phoenix Gaming Limited, a lottery 
consultancy and service provider and has been the President of the 
UK Lotteries Council since 2005.
Benjamin has previously been Chairman of the PYX Financial Group 
Limited, a Hong Kong company licensed by ASIC until 2014 and was 
Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Fleurette Group until 2015.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 9
Executive Management
Darren Mercer founded BNN Technology as its Chief Executive in 
2008, as a provider of software solutions to the gaming industry, 
before pivoting the group’s business model in 2016.
In the last decade, Darren has built a considerable network of 
political and corporate contacts and has been responsible for BNN’s 
expansion in Beijing and into other provinces across China. In addition 
to being responsible for business and corporate development, 
Darren has led the identification and negotiation of all the Group’s 
commercial partnerships to date.
Prior to BNN, Darren spent many years working in the investment 
banking sector where he achieved considerable success specialising 
in the media and technology sectors in both private and publicly 
listed companies.
This period included serving as Director of Institutional Sales at 
Henry, Cooke Lumsden (now part of Brown Shipley) and then at 
Albert E Sharp (now Old Mutual).
Darren Mercer
Group Chief Executive
Date of appointment:
20 June 2008
Date of expiry of current term:
Not applicable BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10
Executive Management
continued
Scott Kennedy
Chief Financial Officer
Date of appointment:
08 August 2016
Date of expiry of current term:
Not applicable
Scott joined BNN as Chief Financial Officer in August 2016. He 
is a Chartered Management Accountant with sixteen years of 
experience of international finance roles in blue-chip US and UK 
listed companies.
He began his career with GE Capital, performing a range of roles 
across the finance function, culminating in his role as Profitability 
Initiatives Leader for GE Capital Solutions, in Danbury, Connecticut.
In 2009, he joined HSBC, beginning in the Group’s insurance division 
before becoming Global Head of Business Information, Planning and 
Analysis for the Commercial Bank.
In 2014, Scott moved to Willis Group Holdings plc, as Group Head of 
Financial Planning and Analysis. Following the merger of Willis Group 
Holdings plc and Towers Watson & Co. in 2016, he assumed the role 
of Finance Director, Corporate Risk and Broking for Willis Towers 
Watson plc. Scott also received an MBA from Manchester Business 
School in 2009.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 11
Wei Qi is the Chief Executive Officer of BNN’s operations in 
China. Having founded Beijing NewNet in 2002, Wei Qi left to 
resume his earlier career at Beijing Holdings Ltd, a Hong Kong listed 
conglomerate controlled by the Beijing municipal government, 
becoming Chief Executive Officer of the Company’s International 
Trade division, which had revenues in excess of US$1 billion.
Wei Qi joined BNN in 2009 as China CEO and has since worked 
closely with the Group CEO, Darren Mercer, building relationships 
and resources with both central and provincial government, as well as 
key channel partners from the banking, telecoms and retail sectors.
Wei Qi
Chief Operating Officer and 
China Chief Executive Officer
Date of appointment:
01 July 2016
Date of expiry of current term:
Not applicable BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12
Non-Executive Management
Dong Jinhua
Non-Executive Director
Date of appointment:
01 July 2016
Date of expiry of current term:
Not applicable
Appointed in 2016, Dong Jinhua is founder and CEO of BNN 
Technology’s key partner, Xinhuatong. In addition to representing 
our Company’s important relationship with China’s official Xinhua 
News Agency, Mr Dong brings valuable experience in establishing 
commercial agreements with blue-chip partners and key government 
departments in China.
Mr Dong owned and managed a number of businesses in China’s 
mobile telecoms and payments sectors before becoming, in 2006, 
founder and Chief Executive Officer of Xinhuatong Software 
Development (Beijing) Company (Xinhuatong), a key commercial 
partner of BNN.
Xinhuatong is a business which has exclusive rights for utility payment 
processing, payment facilitation, lottery promotion and barcode 
payment tools to support the Xinhua News Mobile App. Xinhuatong 
also enjoys a number of very significant relationships with some of 
China’s largest organisations.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 13
Robert Lerwill
Senior Independent Director and 
Audit Chair
Date of appointment:
8 May 2014
Date of expiry of current term:
Retired 1 December 2016
Robert, a Chartered Accountant, is an experienced board member 
and has held the positions of CFO, CEO and Non-Executive Director 
in a number of large blue-chip companies. He also has experience of 
chairing an entrepreneurial growth Company.
Robert has, until recently, been a Non-Executive Director of ITC 
Ltd, a large Indian conglomerate and associate of British American 
Tobacco, having served for 8 years as a Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Chair at British American Tobacco plc.
Robert was also a Non-Executive Director of Spire Healthcare 
Group plc, a private sector hospital operator in the UK, and a non-
executive Director of First Utility, a challenger energy reseller. He has 
previously been an Independent Director of the Payments Council, a 
trade organisation for banks and payment providers in the UK. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 14
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 14
BNN TECHNOLOGY
16 Chief Executive’s Review
20 Our Business Model
22 How we do it
23 2016 Key Achievements
24 Our Strategic Priorities
26 Market Overview
Strategic Report  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15
 
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 16
Chief Executive
’
s Review
Over the past year, we have made great strides in the transformation 
of BNN into a Chinese technology, content and value-added 
services company and started our journey to becoming a Chinese 
technology portal. We have come a long way since our days as 
a specialist provider to the Chinese lottery industry, and as 
China has evolved, so has the company. We made many changes 
throughout 2016 – from the ground-breaking Xinhua deal, our 
strategic rebrand to BNN, to becoming a regional sponsor of 
FC Barcelona and proving our B2B strategy in mobile payments. 
Yet we have stayed true to our core strengths: we continue to 
leverage our highly scalable and robust technology platform and 
are working with our partners to develop value-added services 
and engaging content.
Strategy
Our vision is to become a leading Chinese technology portal with 
three key business areas: payments, value-added services, and 
content. We will continue to build out our technology infrastructure, 
diversify our revenue mix, offer more services, build out our 
database, as well as delivering engaging content to our partners.
Payments
On payments, we secured B2B contracts with businesses across 
31 provinces in China to facilitate mobile top-up payments. As of 
now, the vast majority of our payments revenue is currently from B2B 
transactions, which are extremely high volume, though low margin, 
but this allows us to demonstrate the strength of our technology and 
provides us with valuable customer data. We are looking to develop 
more B2B partnerships, as we expand the portfolio of payments and 
diversify our revenue mix. As we announced in December 2016, we 
had over RMB 1 billion of mobile top-up transactions being facilitated 
though our platform in the month of November 2016.
Whilst the B2B model is an important entry point for us to prove our 
concept and refine our offering for the B2C model, the B2C model 
is where we want to grow the business strategically in the mid-term, 
as it is higher margin and provides richer customer data than the 
B2B model. We announced in December 2016 that our technology 
partner NewNet had signed all 12 of the targeted provinces under 
the Xinhua News Agency-Xinhuatong partnership. We have been 
working hard to build the infrastructure to support B2C payments 
on the Xinhua News app and our mobile top-up business went live 
in 10 provinces in the first quarter of 2017. Whilst volumes are low 
at this time, we will be using the launch of the FC Barcelona content 
on the Xinhua app to begin an aggressive marketing campaign to 
advertise the payments functionality and convert readers of Xinhua’s 
news into active users of the payments platform. Xinhua confirmed 
that 140 million users had downloaded their news app by October 
2016.
Strategically we aim to grow the GTVs our platform fulfils, 
demonstrating the size and scope of our technology. In 2016 we 
fulfilled £289.6 million in GTV on our platform. Growing the GTVs, 
which is a leading indicator of revenue growth and growth in our data 
platform, is a key operating metric that the Board and management 
will be focusing on in 2017.
“
Darren Mercer
Our vision is to become a leading 
Chinese technology portal 
with three key business areas; 
Payments, value-added services 
and content
GROSS TRANSACTION VOLUMES (“GTV”)
£289.6m 
2015: £79.4m
REVENUE
£2.1 m 
2015: £5.5m
“  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17
Content
We continue to use our strong relationships with international 
football clubs to develop unique engaging digital content for our 
mobile partners. Football in China is seeing explosive growth 
spurred by President Xi Jinping’s mission for the country to qualify 
for, host and win a World Cup. BNN is supporting China in achieving 
this ambitious goal by bringing world famous football clubs together 
with grassroots Chinese footballers to foster social participation. The 
partnership with FC Barcelona (‘’FCB’’), to deliver FCB content on 
the sports channel of the Xinhua News app, and to run a series of 
football camps to train hundreds of young football players, is the 
latest example of our commitment to China.
Since we announced the FC Barcelona deal, we have been actively 
building the content platform and are expecting to launch the FCB 
content on the Xinhua News app in the coming weeks. FCB has 5.5 
million registered fans in China and we are hopeful both these fans 
and new ones will sign up, on our platform, for access to unique FCB 
content and for the chance to be trained by FCB coaches, or travel 
to train at FCB’s facilities in Barcelona. These are opportunities that 
are not available anywhere else in China, so we are confident that 
we will attract high volumes of consumers to access the content. 
We have also been working with various partners to organise the 
first amateur training camps and expect to deliver those before the 
end of June 2017. With the development and delivery of this mobile 
content, we expect to further diversify our revenue streams, as this 
allows us to generate advertising revenues for the Group.
Post year end we have announced an extension of the deal we did 
with Arsenal football club. This deal is similar in nature to the FCB 
deal, providing content, competitions, and coaching opportunities 
that will offer unique content and opportunities for Chinese 
consumers. We are also launching a fantasy football game, tied in 
with the Chinese Super League, one of the first games of its type in 
China. The content will go live in the second quarter of 2017 and we 
are confident we will see growth in active users over the year, as we 
promote the content across a number of media outlets throughout 
China and increase the volume of unique content and competitions.
Strategically we aim to grow the number of active users on our 
platform, and measuring and reporting the number of consumers 
that regularly access content on the sports content we have 
introduced on the Xinhua News app, will be a key operating metric 
for the Board and management team in 2017. The more we grow 
the user base, the greater amount of consumer data we collect and 
the more we can grow our advertising revenues. Some of the largest 
technology companies in the world, such as Facebook, Snapchat and 
Tencent, all have active users as a key operating metric, and as an 
emerging technology portal, we also see active user growth as key to 
measuring our performance and a leading indicator of future revenue 
growth.
Value-added Services
In 2017 we will be announcing some new and exciting services that we 
will be developing alongside new and existing commercial partners, 
subject to agreeing final terms and financing where necessary.
The first is our student services platform that was announced 
post year end, providing a one stop-shop for students to find jobs, 
develop their business ideas and attract funding for those ideas and 
financial services.
One of the key initiatives in China’s 13th Five-Year plan (2016-2020) 
is to promote education. The plan encourages the cultivation of 
students’ entrepreneurship and innovation capabilities and practical 
skills. It also emphasizes the need for recruitment reforms. One of the 
key government initiatives is to ensure that students who complete 
higher education are either successful in getting an appropriate 
job upon graduation, or successfully launching a new business. To 
help the government achieve this goal, we expect to sign key new 
partnerships to launch our student services platform initially in one 
province later this year, though we have aspirations to roll it out 
nationally. Our platform will have three core services;
1.  A recruitment portal that will connect university students 
with potential employers, providing robust verification of both 
student and employers credentials.
2.  A business incubator platform where students can seek 
information on how to develop their business ideas and source 
funding from angel investors or crowdfunding.
3.  A financial services platform that allows students to access 
financing to support them through their studies by purchasing 
expensive equipment such as mobile phones and laptops.
We are delighted to be working on such an important initiative and 
are confident this will drive further growth of active users on our 
technology platform.
The second services platform is a credit rating platform that we also 
announced post year end. This is a tremendously exciting opportunity 
for the company to participate in a market that has been described as 
“probably the largest untapped consumer finance market globally,” 
by the founder and chief executive of China Rapid Finance, Zane 
Wang, who spent years as the head of analytics at the credit arm 
of Sears, the American retailer. In the western world, the large 
established credit rating companies, such as Equifax and Experian, 
compile borrowing and repayment records to create credit ratings 
or scores. Lending institutions, including banks, rely heavily on those 
scores to make lending decisions for both companies and individuals. 
China lacks a direct equivalent of this and there are no established 
credit rating companies operating in the country. The central bank’s 
main database includes personal credit history data on less than a 
third of the country’s population.
Aligning ourselves with another critical government initiative, where 
the government has announced the intention to establish a centralised 
“social credit system” for all citizens and companies by 2020, we have 
announced that, following the recent placing, we now have sufficient 
funding to be able to begin building out a credit rating platform and 
hire the relevant technical expertise in this field. In addition to the 
initial build-out phase where we will invest heavily in people and 
technology over the next few months, we will be reaching out to, 
and working with a number of companies, as a technology partner, 
to provide them access to our platform and expertise and begin to 
develop the commercial side of the business. This is a tremendously 
exciting opportunity for the company and is one which will notably 
support growth of our data platform. It is also an opportunity which  BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 18
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
we feel will add considerable value to the Group over the coming 
months and years.
We look forward to keeping the market abreast of how these new 
services evolve over the coming months.
Fundraising and Strategic Partnerships
During 2016, we completed a total of £51.2 million in fundraising to 
support our growth into payments, data, and advertising, as well as 
welcomed a number of high quality institutional investors onto our 
shareholder register. With this additional capital, we have recruited a 
highly-experienced specialist data team with analytic and data mining 
experience to enrich product development and generate advertising 
revenue potential with our partners. We are now classified as an 
internet company on the London Stock Exchange, placing us within 
the appropriate peer group for our business model.
In 2016, we completed a strategic investment and agreed to 
transfer NewNet’s legacy lottery related assets into Xinhuacai, 
our joint venture with Xinhuatong. This is in exchange for a 10% 
stake in Xinhuatong, which holds the exclusive rights for payment 
facilitation services on the Xinhua News app. This strategic 
investment strengthens our relationship with Xinhuatong, offering 
us the opportunity to work with them on a number of future 
commercial initiatives, as well as allow us to benefit from the return 
of the Chinese online lottery market if, and when, the suspension is 
lifted. As of today, the Chinese online lottery market is still under 
temporary suspension by Chinese authorities.
Nasdaq
I am pleased to report that we submitted our formal application 
for a secondary listing on the Nasdaq in the fourth quarter of 2016, 
and that process is progressing well towards a Q3 2017 listing. We 
continue to work with the Nasdaq exchange, our legal and financial 
advisers and the US Securities and Exchange Commission on the 
application and we will appraise the market when we have further 
updates.
Financial Review
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the company reported 
revenue from continuing operations of £2.1 million and an operating 
loss of £16.5 million versus £5.5 million and £9.3 million in 2015. The 
gross transaction volumes for the group grew from £79.4 million in 
2015 to £289.6 million in 2016. Whilst revenue declined year on year, 
this reflects the fact the business has transformed from a lottery 
provider in 2015 to a technology company in 2016, with the majority 
of transactions relating to its new mobile payments business in the 
latter half of 2016.
In December, GTVs grew approximately 3% versus November but 
in January we saw the volume of transactions jump 20%. Overall, 
we have seen Q1 2017 GTVs grow to £413.4 million versus £269.5 
million in the fourth quarter of 2016 and we anticipate continued 
growth in 2017 as new services come on line through the year.
Administration expenses before exceptional items in 2016 were 
£15.9 million (2015: £9.0 million). A further £0.7 million of costs were 
charged to the income statement relating to the formal application 
for a secondary listing on Nasdaq in 2016 (2015: £0.7 million relating 
to the issue of warrants, settlement agreements and placing costs). 
These have been treated as exceptional. In 2015 we downsized 
corporate overheads, restricting expenses where we could given 
the change in regulation and suspension of the online lottery. In 2016 
expenses have increased reflecting business investment in a number 
of key commercial developments.
We have grown headcount across the organisation from 226 in 
2015 to 285 employees in 2016. This increase reflected the ongoing 
investment being made in our technology and data teams, and 
finance and marketing functions, as we prepare for the Nasdaq and 
operationalising our Xinhua contracts respectively. The increase 
in headcount is reflected in the increase in wages and salaries that 
increased £0.8 million, (18.3%) to £5.0 million in 2016. The signing 
of the Xinhua News Agency deal in April 2016, and the speed by 
which we signed up our twelve targeted provinces, plus the signing of 
advertising rights on the Xinhua app, resulted in expenses increasing 
by £3.5 million versus the prior year. Under the terms of the Xinhua 
deal, we pay a profit share to each Xinhua province, subject to an 
agreed guaranteed minimum, which varies across the provinces, and 
thus these will be ongoing costs we expect to incur in future years. 
These investments made in 2016 have provided a foundation for 
growth and also opened up new commercial opportunities with key 
partners for 2017 and beyond.
In August 2015 Beijing NewNet Science and Technology 
Development Limited (“NewNet”), a Company within the Group, 
entered into an agreement with a Chinese national to develop and 
promote online sports lottery products in the Chinese province 
of Shandong. As part of the agreement a new company was 
formed, Qingdao BaiFa Technology Co,Limited (“BaiFa”), of which 
the Group owned 50%. However, in October 2016, due to the 
uncertainty surrounding the resumption of the online lottery and 
the repositioning of the group as a technology company, the Group 
decided to dispose of its interests in BaiFa. The associate had a loss 
on disposal of £0.2 million.
At year end, BNN had £28.0 million in cash and cash equivalents (£4.0 
million in 2015). The £24.0 million increase in cash can be accounted 
for as a net inflow of cash from fundraising of £48.3 million less 
approximately £24 million of cash outflow. The utilisation of cash can 
be explained by the £16.5 million operating loss recognised in 2016, 
together with capital required to invest strategically in Xinhuatong and 
Longti totalling £3.3 million. In common with many foreign companies 
operating in China the debt funding model we have adopted to 
move capital from the UK into China, via an established Asian bank, 
means we were required to provide a cash security deposit, which at 
31 December 2016 was £2.8 million higher than the loans received. 
This cash is fully refundable, held on deposit by the Asian bank and 
will become unrestricted on repayment of the borrowings. We 
purchased property, plant, equipment and intangibles to an amount 
of £1.3 million, as part of the Group’s ongoing investment in our 
technology platform.
Post Year End
In the first quarter of 2017, we announced the launch of a motorist 
services platform, which will offer a range of consumer services 
to Chinese motorists from pre-paid petrol card top-ups to motor   MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19
insurance, car park payments and car maintenance in the future. The 
motorist platform is another example of our efforts to diversify our 
revenue mix, as well as capture valuable consumer data to support 
further product development and additional revenue streams.
The market for motoring related services in China is substantial and 
set to grow. The market for pre-paid petrol cards is already large, 
worth RMB 2.4 trillion (£280.2 billion) in 2016 and forecast to grow 
to RMB 3.7 trillion (£399.3 billion) by 2020. Similarly, car insurance 
in China is forecast to grow from RMB 619.9 billion (£72.1 billion) in 
2016 to RMB 1 trillion (£116.3 billion) by 2020 and almost one-third 
of car insurance in China is purchased online. Car ownership rates 
are expected to increase from 75 vehicles per 1,000 people to 600 
per 1,000 by 2030, driven by rising incomes in China.
We announced a further content deal with Arsenal football club, 
further expanding our sports content portfolios and are confident 
this and new content deals we are seeking to sign in the first half of 
2017, will deliver active user growth and advertising revenues for the 
Group.
On 13 April 2017, we announced the intention to launch our student 
services platform and a funding of up to £25 million. We believe the 
Students “one-stop-shop” for their recruitment, financial services 
and business start-up needs will bring considerable user growth onto 
our platform, and will drive revenue growth for the business in the 
latter part of 2017. There are approximately 35 million students in 
higher education with around 8 million graduating each year. This 
is a group of people that are extremely comfortable with mobile 
technology, having grown up with it from a very young age, and 
frequent users of mobile content and platforms. Added to the 
fact that the 13th Five-Year growth plan for China, and specifically 
the Government, wanting to improve student’s chances of gaining 
employment, is providing a clear incentive for BNN to enter this 
space. We are confident this business area will add tremendous value 
to the Group.
We also announced the launch of our credit ratings business, where 
we will enter the market through the development of a credit rating 
platform and establishing a number of partnerships where, as a 
technology partner, we will begin to establish the commercial side 
of the business.
Outlook
China continues to invest heavily into upgrading its mobile internet 
infrastructure in rural areas, and it is expected that over 1 billion 
people will have smartphones by the end of 2017. In 2016, China’s 
mobile payment market was USD 5.5 trillion – almost 50 times 
greater than the US – and is expected to reach USD 13 trillion 
by 2019. Digital payment platforms are an important source of 
transaction and financial data that is increasingly being leveraged by 
payment companies for new fintech platforms, targeted advertising, 
product development and social credit scoring. It is these trends and 
other macro trends across China that we hope to take advantage of 
over the coming year.
During 2017, we will be broadening our B2B payments business, and 
building out our B2C service offering through our partnership with 
Xinhuatong and Xinhua News to take advantage of these digital 
payment trends. We also expect to utilise capital to take advantage 
of exciting new opportunities in our three key business areas: 
payments, value-added services, and content.
In 2017, we have already made a number of announcements marking 
further progress in our key areas of Payments, Content and Value-
added services, and expect to continue to do so. As we develop 
more services and content to drive user rates, we gather more 
data, assisting us with further product and content development to 
diversify our revenue base and attract new users to our partners’ 
platforms, increasing user stickiness. We anticipate that this virtuous 
cycle will drive the growth of our business.
2017 will be our first full year, as a fully-fledged technology company 
and we aim to grow into our ambition of being a Chinese technology 
portal. With the roll-out of content and advertising, extension of our 
payments platform and services, we anticipate growth in all three 
key performance indicators: revenue growth, gross transaction 
volumes and average active users. Like many high-growth emerging 
technology companies in a similar phase in their life cycle as to where 
we are, we will continue to see operating expenditure in the business 
grow, reflecting the necessary investments we will make in people 
and technology, especially as we look to build out our platform. 
Accordingly, the results for the first half of 2017 will reflect continued 
investment, whilst we remain hopeful we will generate an operating 
profit in the second half of 2017.
With the Nasdaq listing process underway, the establishment of our 
payments business in the second half of 2016, and the opportunities 
we have in the pipeline, I am extremely proud of the progress 
we have made in the last year and look forward to the exciting 
developments in 2017.
Darren Mercer
Group Chief Executive BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 20
Our Business Model
Cautionary statement
This Strategic report has been prepared solely to provide additional 
information to shareholders to assess the Company’s strategies and 
the potential for those strategies to succeed. The Strategic report 
contains certain forward-looking statements. These statements 
are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information 
available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and 
such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, 
underlying any such forward  looking information.
The Directors, in preparing this strategic report (which by reference 
includes the risks and uncertainties on pages 40 to 47), have complied 
with section 414C of the Companies Act 2006.
This Strategic report has been prepared for the Group as a whole 
and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are 
significant to BNN Technology PLC and its subsidiary undertakings 
when viewed as a whole.
Our vision is to become a Chinese 
technology, content and services 
company focused on becoming one 
of China’s leading internet portals.
Our mission
Our mission is to enrich the lives of Chinese citizens in partnership 
with public and private sector organisations by enabling more rural 
and urban communities across the country to access exclusive 
content and pay for services online.
BNN Technology plc is a Chinese technology, content and service 
provider and we aim to be one of the leading technology companies 
in China supplying the technology to support the rapidly growing 
mobile services and payments market.
At our core, we are a technology company that processes high 
volumes of transactions and delivers content. We have developed 
our platform from a pure lottery and gaming business to one that has 
the capability to deliver mobile content and processes transactions 
for partners ranging from public utility providers to banks.
Our transformation
The business was founded in 2008, initially as a software solutions 
provider to the Chinese gaming industry. Following the suspension 
of online lottery in China in March 2015, the Board took a strategic 
decision to diversify the business into high growth online and mobile 
markets.
Through the Group’s long-standing relationships with large Chinese 
e-commerce partners and government bodies at both national and 
provincial level, and utilising our robust technology platform that has 
proven its scalability and reliability in lottery fulfilment, the Group was 
able to announce three new agreements in the past twelve months 
that have cemented its position in these high-growth markets.
As part of the transformation, the group undertook a strategic 
rebranding to emphasise the change in classification from a gaming and 
lottery business to a technology, content and service provider.
Payments
Platform
E-wallet
Utilities
Mobile
Top-up
Online
Booking
Motorist
Platform
BNN Payments Platform
BNN’s partnership with Xinhuatong and branch offices of Xinhua, 
the national news agency in China, provides BNN with the ability 
to supply a technology platform and facilitate B2B and B2C mobile 
payments through the Xinhua News Mobile app for public utility 
bills including electricity, gas, water, mobile phone top up and traffic 
fines in 12 provinces in China. At the time of this document being 
published, mobile top up payments are live on the app in 10 provinces, 
with the company working to deliver the remaining payments onto 
the Xinhua mobile app in 2017.
As a member of the partnership, BNN will gather considerable data 
on customers that pay for services via the platform and this data 
is crucial to driving user growth. To drive user growth, we will be 
working with Xinhua to launch a promotional campaign in the first 
half of 2017, tied in to the offering launch of sports content, providing 
us with the opportunity to advertise the payments platform on 
the sports content pages, offering discounts and other incentives 
(such as loyalty points to be redeemed for sports memorabilia 
such as signed football shirts). We are utilising our experience of 
promotional campaigns in the lottery space, together with our key 
sports partnerships, to offer Chinese consumers incentives to use 
the Xinhua payments facility, as and when they go live across the 
country.
We will continue to work with third parties to provide B2B payments 
fulfilment, which is higher volume, lower margin and less data rich than 
the B2C model, but provides an income stream for the business whilst 
we grow our B2C business. We will continue to grow the B2B business 
in 2017, but, as the B2C business expands over the coming years, we 
anticipate converting customers that utilise third party platforms into 
customers that make their payments on the Xinhua app. As such, after 
an initial growth phase we anticipate the B2B volumes to plateau and 
decline, to be replaced by B2C volume.
Both the B2C and B2B models are transaction based revenue 
models. We receive a small commission for every transaction fulfilled 
through our platform, with the level of commission varying with the 
type of payment.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21
As at the time of publication, we have launched the mobile top up business and online bookings (through 
our associate Longti) and we aim to launch the remaining services in 2017.
Content
BNN develop unique digital content to drive greater utilisation of the mobile apps and online web pages 
of our commercial partners, with our core focus in sports and games. On the 12 December 2016, we 
announced the signing of a deal with FC Barcelona to provide exclusive digital content on the Xinhua 
News Mobile App. A further content deal has been signed with Arsenal Football club post year end. The 
Arsenal content deal includes manager interviews before games, pre-match press conferences, weekly 
news bulletin videos, weekly training footage, monthly bespoke coaching videos and three news articles per 
week. Chinese fans will be offered free competitions, including the chance to win paid VIP trips to watch 
Arsenal play at the club’s Emirates Stadium in London and football merchandise.
We signed an agreement with the Xinhua News Agency in 2016, giving us the rights to bring advertising 
onto the sports channel of the Xinhua News app. The unique content we are developing will be launched 
in the first half of 2017, and will include advertising banners and videos. As we add more content onto the 
sports channel of the Xinhua News Mobile app, we expect advertising revenues to increase.
We have successfully applied for and received the appropriate extension of our business licence to allow 
us to exploit this opportunity.
Content is a traffic based revenue model. Revenues are driven from digital advertising. An increase in 
active users viewing the content on the sports channels will generate the ability to earn greater advertising 
revenues. As such, we are incentivised to bring new and unique content, games and competitions to the 
Xinhua app to ensure active user growth.
Value Added Services
In 2017 we will be announcing some new and exciting services that we will be developing alongside new and 
existing commercial partners, subject to agreeing final terms and financing where necessary.
The first service to be launched will be the Student Services platform. The platform will have three main 
components:
1.  A recruitment portal that will connect university students with potential employers, providing robust 
verification of both student and employers credentials.
2.  A business incubator platform where students can seek information on how to develop their business 
ideas and source funding from angel investors or crowdfunding
3.  A platform that allows students to access financing to support them through their studies, by 
purchasing expensive equipment such as mobile phones and laptops.
The student services platform will be a fee based revenue model. We will charge employers a fee every time 
a successful student accepts a job through our recruitment platform, we will receive fees from students as 
a percentage of the funds they access from crowdfunding or angel investors, and we will receive a number 
of fees from providing financial services to students.
We expect to sign key new partnerships to launch our student services platform initially in one province later 
this year, though we have aspirations to roll it out nationally, allowing us to target the 35 million students in 
higher education across China.
We are working with provincial Xinhua branches, universities and a number of third parties to launch this 
platform and we anticipate to go live in the latter part of 2017.
The second service platform is a credit ratings platform. 2017 will be a year in which we will build out our 
platform and hire the necessary expertise in the company to grow the business.
Credit rating companies offer a multitude of products and services. Initially we will be focused on developing 
the capability to provide our partners with the technology to produce credit reports and specific credit 
related information on organisations across China. Later on, once the platform is well established and we 
have a number of commercial partnerships in place, we expect to evolve the product set. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 22
How we do it 
Key Strategic Relationships
In April 2016, BNN, through NewNet secured a partnership with 
Xinhuatong, the main operator of the Xinhua News Mobile App 
owned by China’s national news agency, for BNN to supply its 
technology platform to support the app. This deal was the first 
major step in BNN achieving the management’s ambition of BNN 
becoming a leading portal for mobile payments and information 
nationwide.
Agreements have been established with twelve provinces in China, 
allowing us the opportunity to facilitate payments through the app 
for public utility bills including electricity, gas and water, mobile phone 
top-ups and traffic fines.
Content agreements established with FCB and Arsenal football club, 
delivering unique mobile sports content on the Xinhua News Mobile 
app.
Strategic Investment
In September 2016, NewNet made a strategic investment in 
Xinhuatong, which entrenched the relationship between NewNet 
and Xinhuatong and positioned the Group for future mobile and 
online commercial opportunities with the Xinhua News Agency.
Our monetisation model
We are currently focussed around three primary areas: 
 
1. Payments
Transaction based revenue
• We provide technology that has the ability to support the 
transaction processing for a number of online/mobile services 
and payments across China.
• From each transaction, we receive a commission and collect 
some customer data.
2. Content
Traffic based revenue: Advertising is the monetisation of content
• We develop unique digital content to drive greater utilisation 
of the mobile apps and online web pages of our commercial 
partners, with our core focus in sports and games.
• In 2016 we signed a deal with the Xinhua News Agency that 
gives us the rights to bring advertising onto the sports channel of 
the Xinhua News Mobile app.
• The unique content will be launched early in 2017, including 
advertising banners and videos. The content will drive revenue 
via the advertising.
3. Value Added Services
Fee based revenue. We will operate a student services platform 
that students can utilise for recruitment, business ideas and financial 
services needs. We expect to generate revenues in the following 
ways:
• Success fees, paid by employers, from successfully placing 
students in a job.
• Fees from providing financial services to students.
• Fees charged as a percentage of capital received from angel 
investors or crowdfunding for students that raise money to build 
out their businesses.
Our Credit platform is also likely to be a fee based business, but, 
as we will be allowing our partners to utilise our technology and 
expertise, we are likely to agree a combination of both fixed and 
variable fees based around demand and usage of our technology.
Embrace China’s macro trends
• Race to Rural – Connect 98% of rural areas to the internet, and 
mobile broadband to reach 85% of the population by 2020.
• Shift to mobile – smartphone adoption.
• Immature credit market – an opportunity for non-bank 
institutions to fill the gap.
• “One stop shop” approach of the Chinese consumer.
Driving Growth and Returns
While our business is influenced by general factors affecting our 
industry, our growth comes from the following:
• Our ability to increase active customer accounts and repeat 
orders from customers. Growth in active customers on the 
Xinhua News app, specifically using the app to make payments, 
is a key driver of our future revenue growth expectations.
• Our ability to further increase and leverage our scale of business. 
As our business grows, and the volume of transactions being 
fulfilled by our platform increases, we will be in a stronger 
position with our partners to drive growth in profit margin.
• Our ability to effectively invest in our fulfilment infrastructure 
and technology platform. We understand it is critical to continue 
to invest and maintain our technology, ensuring robustness and 
highest service quality from our platform.
• Our ability to create attractive and unique content. Future 
growth in advertising revenue will come from our ability to drive 
consumers to access and utilise the sports channel on the Xinhua 
news app.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23
2016 Key Achievements
2016 Announcements
21 April
Signed a ground-breaking  
deal with Xinhua News  
Agency to provide payment 
fulfilment technology to the 
Xinhua News App.
Placing to raise £10.5 million.
30 June
Strengthened the Board with 
the appointment of Scott 
Kennedy as CFO, Mr Wei Qi  
as China CEO and Group  
COO and Mr Dong Jinhua as  
a Non-Executive Director.
1 July
Placing to raise £29.0 million.
19 July
Placing to raise £11.5 million.
22 August
Xinhuatong partnership now 
signed 10 provinces from the 12 
initially targeted.
22 September
Strategically rebranded to  
BNN Technology plc to reflect 
our Chinese heritage and 
refocus as a technology group.
Made a strategic investment 
into Xinhuatong, strengthening 
relationships with key partners.
September
Launch of the mobile  
top-up business.
28 October
Submitted a formal application 
for a secondary listing on the 
Nasdaq.
8 December
Signing of all 12 targeted 
provinces under Xinhuatong 
partnership.
12 December
Signing of a partnership with 
FC Barcelona, offering various 
football events, money-can’t-buy 
experiences and football camp 
content online via BNN’s partner 
NewNet on Xinhua News app.
2016
2017 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 24
Our Strategic Priorities 
Strategic Priorities Key Initiatives
Payments
Payments
Platform
E-wallet
Utilities
Mobile
Top-up
Online
Booking
Motorist
Platform
• Develop technology that is deployed as an interface or “bridge” 
between commercial partners to enable the fulfilment of online 
and mobile payments and other services
Content • Develop unique and differentiated digital content, displayed on 
our partner’s online websites and mobile apps
• Deliver exciting sports related content
• Promote money can’t buy competitions to drive users to the sites/
apps
• Bring advertising onto the sports channel of the Xinhua News 
Mobile app
• New sports related content will include advertising banners and 
videos
• Use incentives to encourage users to utilise Xinhua’s Mobile 
payments app to establish our B2C mobile payments business
Value Added Services
Students
• Develop a “one-stop-shop” platform for students to meet their 
recruitment, business ideas and financial services needs
• Develop a credit ratings platform and working with a number of 
partners across china to commercialise the business.
Vision 
A Chinese technology, content and services company focused on 
becoming one of China’s leading internet portals
702
CREDIT
SCORE  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25
Our Growth Strategy
Providing world-class, secure, robust platforms to our partners 
to fulfil high-volume payments to capture China’s migration to 
online payments
• We will continue to develop our platform to handle higher 
volumes of transactions for both B2B and B2C channels
• We will invest in the technology, and design and maintenance 
teams behind it, to ensure its flexibility and capabilities reflect the 
growing usage of the technology and variety of services it supports
Adapting our platform to provide a variety of mobile service 
offerings to consumers to simplify the consumer experience and 
create greater customer loyalty
• Our technology initially supported mobile top-up only, we are 
working with our partners to increase the number of services 
available to consumers on the Xinhua News app, providing an 
enhanced and simplified service
• We will drive customer loyalty by providing incentives for 
consumers to complete transactions on an ongoing basis
• Increasing services and customer loyalty will drive higher average 
spending per customer
Creating unique digital content to drive increasing amounts of 
daily active users onto our partner’s mobile apps
• We will continue to work with world class institutions such as FC 
Barcelona, to produce unique mobile and digital content to our 
customers
• This will drive growth in the daily user activity on our platform and 
encourage further migration from our B2B to our B2C businesses
Developing our technology to achieve outstanding data 
management and analytics
• Develop best in class technology to maximise and monetise the 
opportunity we have, as we collect customer data whilst they 
access content and we fulfil their payments
• The more sophisticated our technology becomes, the more 
bespoke our sales and marketing campaigns can become, driving 
higher revenues from targeted advertising
By building long term sustainable, mutually beneficial relationships 
with all our partners
• Crucial to sustainable success
• We will continue to develop strategic alliances where we believe it 
allows us to increase the variety of content or services we provide 
to our customers BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 26
Market Overview 
Market Opportunity
We believe by leveraging our long-term relationships and robust 
technology platform, we will see our business grow rapidly, as 
reflected by growth in the key markets that we are operating in 
across China. Our marketing opportunity is driven by the following 
factors;
• The roll out of 4G across China is central to the Chinese 
Government’s plans for bringing its urban and rural populations 
online
• The Xinhua News Group, has a national reach through its media 
channels and is a highly respected and established brand in China
• China’s rapid adoption of mobile payments to pay for a broad 
scope of services across the country
• The growth of low cost smartphones in China with over 1 billion 
of smartphones anticipated to be in circulation by the end of 
2018
• Key initiatives targeting an improvement in student recruitment 
and successful launch of new businesses, as laid out by the 
government in their 13th Five-Year plan
Growth in China mobile internet users
• It is expected there will be over 500 million 4G users in China 
by the end of 2016. The 13th Five-Year Plan set out by the 
Government calls for the improved national fibre optic coverage 
(extending rural coverage to 98% of villages), as well as the full 
roll-out of 4G mobile communication technology across the 
country. This would mean 1.3 billion people would have 4G 
mobile access
• In 2015 there were approximately 700 million smartphone users 
in China. This is projected to grow to nearly 1 billion by the end 
of 2017. The growth in access to smartphones, combined with 
the 4G rollout, will drive the growth of mobile services
• Mobile app usage in China is growing strongly. Smartphone 
owners downloaded 38 billion apps in 2015 and this annual figure 
is forecast to grow to 90 billion in 2020. Average daily mobile 
phone usage grew by 41% between 2014 and 2015. This growth 
is a key driver of the national market for mobile phone top up 
payments in China
• The government intends to have a 4G network to cover the 
whole of China by 2018
• Mobile network users will increase to 1.2 billion by 2020
• 80% of all Chinese people will be internet users by 2020, and 
70% of these will shop online
Competitive Strengths
• Robustness and scalability of our technology. We have worked 
with our partners to develop our technology platform to be able 
to deliver the reliable and scalable solutions, which are requested 
to handle large volumes of transactions
• Trusted Relationships. We have built a strong reputation and 
built excellent relationships originally stemming from our lottery 
business across both the Chinese provincial government and 
regulatory departments, and with businesses for whom we 
provide fulfilment services
• Differentiated strategy. We focus on addressing the critical 
gaps in the market for the Chinese consumer. The services and 
content we are developing with our partners are designed to 
better the lives of ordinary Chinese citizens by making their lives 
easier and more efficient
• Long term approach. Our philosophy in China is to build long 
standing sustainable relationships with multiple partners and 
government bodies. We have done this successfully over the past 
9 years and are committed to continue in this approach, as we 
move into the mobile payments and service sector
Our confidence in the growth of the internet in China is justified, as it 
is a key foundation of the Chinese government’s policy. “Internet plus’’ 
is the headline for a raft of policies that have been launched in the 
new 5 year plan announced this year. The aim of the ‘’Internet plus’’ 
policies is to digitise the economy, create accessibility for all including 
the poorer rural areas and, as a result, to push the economic growth 
to even higher levels. To achieve this major spending initiatives have 
been announced.
We believe our philosophy will allow us to continue to grasp 
opportunity in the future that will add a tremendous amount of 
shareholder value
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 
18 April 2017 and signed on behalf of the Board by:
D Mercer  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27
This page is intentionally left blank BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 28
 
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 28
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Corporate Governance  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 30
Chairman
’
s statement on corporate governance
Dear Shareholder
With the help of our advisors, we are making a number of 
improvements to strengthen corporate governance and regulatory 
oversight to support the Group through its accelerated development 
in 2017 and beyond.
I joined the Company in June 2008 and was appointed Chairman 
in September 2015. It has been an exciting year from the ground-
breaking Xinhua deal, our strategic rebrand to BNN, to becoming 
a regional sponsor of FC Barcelona, and proving our B2B strategy 
in mobile payments. The high growth and strategical repositioning 
of the business has led to challenges in ensuring that Corporate 
Governance standards are maintained.
In December 2016, Robert Lerwill, Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, announced his retirement from 
his position. Robert has been on the Board since before the IPO 
of the company and has provided enduring support during BNN’s 
evolution.
With all the changes the Group has experienced and the 
developments in the pipeline, we will need a strong and diverse 
Board to support the business. In 2016, we strengthened the Board 
with the appointment of three Directors: Scott Kennedy as Group 
Chief Financial Officer, current China CEO and COO Wei Qi, and 
Xinhuatong CEO Dong Jinhua as a non-executive director.
Board focus
The Board’s priority is to ensure that our corporate governance 
aligns with the high standards of both the UK and US. We are already 
well advanced in our search for a new Audit Committee Chair and 
additional non-executive board members to provide the right mix of 
regional, regulatory and industry expertise to match the company’s 
development ambitions.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the focus of the Board 
has been to manage and mitigate the transformation of the group 
from being a gaming and lottery business into a technology, service 
and content provider. To pivot the Group on to its new strategic 
path, we have looked to support working capital and growth with 3 
successful placings totalling £51.2 million.
We have focussed heavily on building and securing relationships in 
China that will offer us the opportunity to work with them on a 
number of future commercial initiatives.
We are focussed on further strengthening the board with additional 
independent non-executive directors and working with external 
advisors to support and develop the corporate governance and 
internal control systems.
The Board of Directors
Role
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of 
the Group. Its role is essentially threefold - to provide leadership, to 
oversee management and to ensure that the Company provides its 
stakeholders with a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s current position and prospects.
The Board’s leadership responsibilities involve working with 
management to set corporate values and to develop strategy, 
including deciding which risks it is prepared to take in pursuing 
its strategic objectives. Its oversight responsibilities involve it in 
providing constructive challenge to the management team in 
relation to operational aspects of the business, including approval of 
budgets, and probing whether risk management and internal controls 
are sound. Its responsibility to ensure that accurate, timely and 
understandable information is provided about the Group is not only 
focused on the contents of the Annual Report, the Interim Report 
at the half year and other statements, for instance in the context 
of the Annual General Meeting, but also in deciding whether it is 
appropriate at any given time to make a statement to the market, 
as well as in communications with regulators or in respect of other 
statutory obligations.
The Board has delegated responsibility for management of the Group 
to the Chief Executive and his executive management team. The 
main areas where decisions remain with the Board include approval 
of the annual strategy statement, the financial statements, budgets 
(including capital expenditure), acquisitions and dividends. The 
Board is also responsible for setting the Group’s risk management 
policy and risk appetite. The Board has delegated some of its 
responsibilities to Committees of the Board. The composition and 
activities of these Committees are detailed in their individual reports 
on pages 32-33. The Board receives reports at its meetings from the 
Chairman of each of the Committees on their current activities. A 
clear division of responsibility exists between the Chairman, who is 
non-executive, and the Chief Executive. Each of the responsibilities 
have been set out in writing and have been approved by the Board. 
There is an established procedure for Directors to take independent 
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if they consider 
this necessary.
Chairman
The Chairman’s primary responsibility is to lead the Board, to ensure 
that it has a common purpose, is effective as a Group and at individual 
Director level and that it upholds and promotes high standards of 
integrity, probity and corporate governance. The Chairman is the link 
between the Board and the Company. He is specifically responsible 
for establishing and maintaining an effective working relationship 
with the Chief Executive, for ensuring effective and appropriate 
communications with shareholders and for ensuring that members 
of the Board develop and maintain an understanding of the views 
of shareholders. Before the beginning of the financial year, having 
consulted with the other Directors and the Company Secretary, the 
Chairman sets a schedule of Board and Committee meetings to be 
held in the following twelve months, which includes the key agenda 
items for each meeting. Further details on these agenda items are 
outlined under ‘Board Meetings ‘on page 31. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Senior Independent Director
The duties of the Senior Independent Director are set out in writing 
and formally approved by the Board. The Senior Independent 
Director chairs meetings of the Board if the Chairman is unavailable 
or is conflicted in relation to any agenda item. He also leads the 
annual Board evaluation of the performance of the Chairman. The 
Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who may 
have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman or 
Chief Executive. Up until 1 December 2016, Robert Lerwill held the 
position of Senior Independent Director. The company is currently 
seeking a replacement following his retirement.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary’s responsibilities include ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed, assisting the Chairman in relation 
to corporate governance matters and ensuring compliance by the 
Company with its legal and regulatory requirements.
Membership and Composition
The Board currently consists of three executive and two non-
executive Directors. The composition of the Board and brief 
biographies of the Directors, which highlight the range of experience 
they bring to the Board table, are set out on pages 8 to 13. The 
Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, keeps 
Board composition under review to ensure that it includes the 
necessary mix of relevant skills and experience required to perform 
its role. The Board’s objective is to have the appropriate mix of skills, 
knowledge and experience, from a wide range of industries, regions 
and backgrounds, necessary to address the major challenges for the 
Company.
Appointment
The Nomination Committee formally agrees criteria for new non-
executive Director appointments, including experience of the 
industry sectors and geographies in which the Group operates, 
professional background, nationality and gender. The detailed 
appointment process is set out in the Nomination Committee 
Report on page 32. Following appointment by the Board, all 
Directors are, in accordance with the Articles of Association, subject 
to re-election at the next Annual General Meeting. The terms and 
conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are set out in 
their letters of appointment, which are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal office hours and at the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Independence
The Board has carried out its annual evaluation of the independence 
of each of its non-executive Directors, taking account of the relevant 
provisions of the listing authorities and governance requirements, 
namely whether the Directors are independent in character 
and judgment and free from relationships or circumstances 
which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors 
‘judgment. Each of the current non-executive Directors fulfilled the 
independence requirements of the relevant listing authorities and 
governance requirements.
Board Meetings
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Board held 12 
scheduled meetings. Individual attendance at these meetings is set 
out in the table below. Additional meetings are held on specific 
issues as necessary. There is regular contact as required between 
meetings in order to progress the Group’s business. A schedule of 
Board and Committee meetings is circulated to the Board in advance 
of the calendar year, which includes the key agenda items for each 
meeting. Board papers are circulated electronically as far as possible 
in the week preceding the meeting. The key recurrent Board agenda 
themes are divided into normal business (which includes budgets, 
financial statements, acquisitions, investor relations, human resources 
and governance, risk and compliance) and developmental issues, 
(which include strategy and succession planning).
The Board schedule includes a significant succession planning item 
once a year. Against a template agreed by the Chief Executive and the 
Nomination and Governance Committee, the Chief Executive brings 
a detailed plan for review by that Committee. At an immediately 
subsequent Board meeting the plan is presented to the Board, 
discussed and approved.
Table of Attendance
Executive Directors
Board
(maximum 15)
Audit Committee
(Maximum 3)
Remuneration Committee
(Maximum -)
Nomination Committee**
(Maximum -)
Darren Mercer 15 2 — —
Wei Qi 5 — — —
Scott Kennedy 4 1 — —
Non-Executive Directors
Board
(maximum 15)
Audit Committee
(Maximum 3)
Remuneration Committee
(Maximum 1)
Nomination Committee**
(Maximum -)
Lord Mancroft 15 3 1 —
Robert Lerwill* 9 3 1 —
Dong Jinhua 2 — — —
*Robert Lerwill left the Board effective 1 December 2016
** During 2016, nomination matters were covered during main Board meetings BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 32
Chairman’s statement on corporate governance
continued
Remuneration Committee
Up until the 1 December 2016, the Remuneration Committee 
comprised of two independent non-executive Directors, Lord 
Mancroft and Robert Lerwill. Since the departure of Robert, the 
Group is searching for new independent non-executive directors. 
Once an individual has been identified, they will be appointed to 
the Remuneration committee in due course. The Committee will 
meet at least twice per year and will agree further meetings at its 
discretion.
The Chairman of the Committee has the power to call a meeting. 
The Chairman of the Committee was appointed by the Board. The 
quorum of the Committee is two.
The duties of the Committee are to:
• determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad 
policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and executive 
Directors;
• within the terms of the agreed policy, determine individual 
remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive payments, 
share options, pension arrangements and any other benefits;
• in determining individual packages and arrangements, give due 
regard to the comments and recommendations of the relevant 
listing authorities and governance requirements;
• advise the Board on any major changes in employee benefit 
structures in the Company;
• renew the ongoing appropriateness of the remuneration policy;
• agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from 
Directors; and
• review the design of all share incentive plans.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
• seek any information it requires from any employee of the 
Company in order to perform its duties;
• be responsible for establishing the selection criteria and then for 
selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any 
remuneration consultants providing advice to the Committee, at 
Company’s expense; and
• obtain, at the Company’s expense, outside legal or other 
professional advice where necessary in the course of its activities
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises at least two members, at 
least half of whom are independent non-executive Directors of the 
Company. The current Committee members are Lord Mancroft and 
Darren Mercer.
The Committee will meet at least twice per year and will agree 
further meetings at its discretion. During 2016, nomination matters 
were covered during the main Board meetings. The Chairman of the 
Committee has the power to call a meeting. The Chairman of the 
Committee will be appointed by the Board and in the absence of the 
Chairman, the other members present shall choose one of them to 
chair the meeting.
The duties of the Committee are to:
• regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and make recommendations with regard to changes;
• identify and nominate candidates to fill board vacancies when 
they arise;
• for the appointment of the Chairman, prepare a job specification;
• ensure that, on appointment to the Board, non-executive 
Directors receive a letter of appointment;
• review annually the time required for non-executive Directors;
• make recommendations as to the membership of the Audit and 
Remuneration committees; and
• make recommendations as to the re-appointment of non-
executive Directors and re-election by Shareholders of 
Directors.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the 
Company’s expense, outside legal or other professional advice 
where necessary in the course of its activities.
Audit Committee
Up until the 1 December 2016, the Audit Committee comprised of 
two independent non-executive Directors of the Company, Lord 
Mancroft and Robert Lerwill. Since the departure of Robert, the 
group are searching for new independent non-executive directors. 
Once an individual has been identified, they will be appointed to the 
Audit Committee in due course. Generally the executive Directors 
and the external auditor attends by invitation.
The Committee will meet at least twice per year and will agree 
further meetings at its discretion. The Committee has at least part of 
one meeting where the external auditor is present and management 
are not. The Chairman of the Committee has the power to call a 
meeting.
Meetings are typically arranged to tie in to the publication of the 
Company’s financial statements and are held in advance of any 
meeting of the Board at which accounts or financial statements are 
to be approved.
The Chairman of the Committee was appointed by the Board. The 
quorum of the Committee requires two and in the absence of the 
Chairman, the other members present shall choose one of them to 
chair the meeting. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The duties of the Committee are to:
• review and challenge the financial statements and policies of the 
company where necessary;
• review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
reporting and internal control policies to ensure the management 
of risk conforms with the risk appetite determined by the Board;
• consider and make recommendations to the Board about the 
re-appointment and removal of the Company’s external auditor;
• review the Company’s policy on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services;
• oversee the relationship with the external auditor and meet 
regularly with them;
• confirm to the Board that the financial statements taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, to ensure the 
narrative sections of the report are consistent with the financial 
performance and accurately reflect the Group’s performance;
• review and approve the annual audit plan and ensure that it is 
consistent with the scope of the audit engagement; and
• review the findings of the external audit with the external 
auditor.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
• seek any information it requires from any employee of the 
Company in order to perform its duties, obtain, at the 
Company’s expense, outside legal or other professional advice 
where necessary in the course of its activities; and
• publish in the Company’s annual report details of any issues that 
cannot be resolved between the Committee and the Board.
Effectiveness
In assessing Director independence, the Board considers the extent 
of active participation in day to day management of the business, 
alignment with shareholder interests and ability to separate personal 
interests with the broader interests of the Company, among 
other things. Individual Director shareholdings are provided in the 
Directors’ Remuneration section of this Annual Report. After careful 
consideration by the Board the shareholdings of the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Chairman are considered important in aligning 
interests with those of the shareholders and are not considered to 
impair independence.
The Board also seeks to strike an appropriate balance between 
continuity of experience and succession, taking into account the 
underlying principles of the relevant governance requirements 
regarding tenure and refreshing of the Board.
Each member of the Board is subject to an annual performance 
review process using a peer review process seeking 360 input from 
all Board members under the direction of the peer conducting each 
individual review.
The Board considers that the performance review serves as a check that 
each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates 
commitment to the role. The review showed that there was a 
requirement to strengthen the Board following the transition from a 
lottery business to a technology company, resulting in 3 new board 
appointments throughout the year. The Board are looking to expand 
the skills and independence further, by appointing additional non-
executive directors. This will provide the Board with an appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge 
of the Company to enable the Directors to discharge their respective 
duties and responsibilities effectively. Commitment of time by all 
Directors for Board and Committee meetings and other duties was 
also considered sufficient for the effective discharge of responsibilities.
There has been a continued focus on the quality of information being 
sent and presented to the Board to optimise its effectiveness.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts 
of interest. The Company’s Articles of Association also contain 
provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of 
interest so that a Director is not in breach of his or her duty under 
company law. Should a Director become aware that they have an 
interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction 
with BNN, they should notify same in line with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. Directors have a continuing duty to update 
any changes to their conflicts of interests. During the year there were 
no identified conflicts of interest raised at Board Meetings.
Board engagement with investors and relations with shareholders
The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the opportunity 
to communicate directly with the Board and BNN encourages their 
participation. The CEO has held meetings with shareholders to help 
maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of 
major shareholders. He has updated the whole Board on the results 
of these meetings and on the opinions of investors. The Company 
also maintains an email account; investors@bnntechnology.
com dedicated to receiving shareholder feedback on a variety of 
issues. All mails received on this address are reviewed by executive 
management and, where appropriate, mails are forward along with 
responses to the full Board for consideration and feedback.
Lord Mancroft
Non-Executive Chairman BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 34
 
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 34
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35
 
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 36
Statement of Directors
’
 Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the European Union and have also chosen to prepare company 
financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the financial and corporate information as provided on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37
This page is intentionally left blank
030_c112933.indd   37 20/04/2017   12:49 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 38
 
Risk Management
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 38  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  BNN TECHNOLOGY
Risk Management 
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent 
of risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. 
The updating of the Risk Register is incorporated into the Audit 
Committee’s standing agenda and is regularly reviewed and refined 
according to up to data information derived from continuous reviews 
of the operating, competitive, regulatory, political and economic 
environments.
Risk Management
To ensure the risk is managed effectively, regular meetings are held, 
under the leadership of the Executive Directors, including, but not 
limited to:
• monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms that are 
embedded into the business operations. Key monitoring reviews 
include those conducted continuously in weekly operational 
meetings;
• regular commercial, financial and IT functional meetings are held 
to review performance and to consider key issues and risks; and
• the Executive Management Team meets regularly to consider 
significant risks and overall business performance.
The Directors review the effectiveness of internal control, including 
operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which 
mitigate the significant risks identified. The mechanisms used by the 
Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include the 
following:
• reports from management are structured to ensure that 
key issues are escalated through the management team and 
ultimately to the Board as appropriate;
• discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company;
• consideration by the Audit Committee of external audit reports; 
and
• review by management of controls, which mitigate or minimise 
high-level risks, to ensure that they are in operation. The results 
of this review are reported to the Audit Committee and the 
Board which considers whether these high-level risks are being 
effectively controlled.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to have 
the most significant effect on BNN’s business, financial results and 
prospects. This list is not intended to be exhaustive.
The audit committee of the Board carries out a detailed risk 
management process to ensure the risks are identified and mitigated 
where possible. Many risks, however, remain outside of BNN’s full 
control, for example, competitor reaction, foreign exchange rates, 
government regulation and macroeconomic issues.
40 Annual Report & Accounts 2016  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 41
Risk Management 
Operational Risks
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
Dependence on third party service providers
BNN has entered into agreements with third party service providers 
to facilitate the delivery of mobile payments covering a significant 
proportion of its expected revenues. The Group is also dependent 
on external service providers with respect to other services.
Failure to obtain adequate services from such providers could lead 
to financial loss and damage to the Group’s reputation and could 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition 
and prospects.
Loss of these contracts or inability to renew or negotiate favourable 
replacement contracts could have an adverse effect on revenues 
and/ or future operating costs.
BNN only uses reliable and established industry suppliers and ensures 
that contractual agreements with key partners are adequate to offer 
protection to the Group.
BNN works closely with its partners to ensure continuity of service, 
ensuring that partner’s expectations are met. We regularly seek 
feedback from our partners on our performance and attempt to 
outperform our partners expectations. To ensure continuity of service 
we continue to invest in our technology, and provide appropriate IT 
and data protection of payments and services that we fulfil on our 
platform.
Dependence on PRC Government agencies
BNN’s business model is highly dependent on our successful 
cooperation with the Chinese state news agency, Xinhua News, as 
well as its provincial agencies. Our future business generated from 
such contracts may be materially adversely affected if:
• our reputation or relationship with government agencies is 
impaired.
• we are suspended or otherwise prohibited from contracting 
with any significant government agency.
• levels of government expenditure decrease or shift to areas 
where we do not provide services.
• we are prevented from entering into new government contracts 
or extending existing government contracts based on violations 
of laws or regulations.
• there is a change in political climate that adversely affects our 
existing or prospective relationships.
Maintaining a successful working relationship with Xinhua is critical to 
our current and future business. As such BNN management regularly 
review our business to ensure that we are doing everything we can 
to maintain that relationship. Actions include, but is not exclusive of:
 — reviews of key controls and processes within the company to 
ensure we are fully compliant with all PRC rules and regulations.
 — Ensuring the business has all the necessary business licences and 
permits it needs to continue operating.
 — Meeting our Chinese legal and tax obligations, including regular 
reporting to the Chinese authorities as and when required.
 — Proactively seeking regular feedback from Xinhua on our 
performance and making any necessary improvements as quickly 
as possible. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 42
Risk Management 
Operational Risks
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
Ability to recruit, train and retain qualified staff
The Group need to hire additional qualified employees to support 
business operations and planned expansion.
Future success depends on the Group’s ability to recruit, train 
and retain qualified personnel, particularly technical, fulfilment, 
marketing and other operational personnel with experience in the 
online, digital technology industry.
The industry is characterised by high demand and intense 
competition for talent and labour, hence it is difficult to attract 
and retain staff. There has been an overall tightening of the labour 
market and emerging trend of shortage of labour supply.
China’s labour costs have increased with the economic development, 
particularly in the large cities where BNN’s China head office is 
located
We regularly scan the market for talent across China and the UK and 
in 2016 we have been investing heavily in data and technology experts 
to ensure we can deliver on our ambitious growth plans. We have 
looked across the whole of China to ensure we give ourselves the best 
opportunity to hire the talented people into the company.
As the business grows, and the complexity of the business increases, 
we are conscious we need to bring different types of expertise into 
the organisation and we appropriately evolve our hiring plans as the 
business needs us to.
Damage to our reputation and brand
BNN’s reputation in the industry, particularly underpinning our 
relationships with government departments and commercial 
partners as a leading, reliable and trustworthy service provider is of 
significant importance to the success of the business.
The online service market is highly competitive. Our ability to remain 
one of the market leaders in China depends largely on maintaining 
and enhancing reputation and brand, which may be difficult and 
expensive.
Any negative publicity in relation to our services or products could 
harm BNN’s reputation and, in turn, have adverse effects on 
customer loyalty
BNN have developed their reputation and established a leading 
position by providing users with what we believe are superior and 
trustworthy services.
Conducted various marketing and promotion activities to show 
success and ability to achieve activity enhancement goals.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 43
Risk Management 
IT System Failure Risks
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
Dependency on systems and processing
Systems and processes operated at key facilities in Beijing, Shanghai, 
Chongqing and other provincial centres. A loss of systems and 
access to facilities, could lead to significant disruption and could have 
an adverse operational, reputational and financial impact.
Key systems are hosted across two data centres in two distinct 
locations with failover arrangements between them. A business 
continuity program, including disaster recovery arrangements, is in 
place. This is reviewed continuously to identify areas for improvement 
and to ensure that arrangements are adequate and appropriate, 
specifically to monitor and guard against cyber security attacks.
Scalability and flexibility of key IT systems
Although for much of 2015 the Company’s IT platform was 
underutilised, significant upgrade and development work was 
undertaken in 2016 to improve its functionality, particularly in its 
ability to inter connect into other systems. If not managed effectively, 
the core applications could lose their flexibility and create issues 
of scalability, which could adversely affect sales, increase cost and 
cause delays when implementing required business change.
With the volume of data expected to be captured from users 
accessing the contents pages and competitions, we require a 
database scalable and robust enough to securely hold the large 
quantity of consumer data.
Enterprise architecture is reviewed continuously and improvements 
are made as and when considered necessary.
Structured testing is in place for key systems where required.
Systems are continuously monitored for performance and remedial 
action is taken as needed.
Integration with third party systems is managed closely and all 
upgrades and new releases are tested and approved prior to live 
implementation.
Identified and engaged experienced data analytic specialists, capable 
of scoping designing and building a database capable of secure high 
traffic data storage.
User behaviour on mobile devices is rapidly evolving
Users are increasingly using mobile devices in China for a wide range 
of purposes, including for online payments. If we fail to successfully 
adapt to these changes, our competitiveness and market position 
may suffer.
The variety of technical and other configurations across different 
mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated 
with this environment
If we are unable to attract significant numbers of new mobile buyers 
and increase levels of mobile engagement, our ability to maintain or 
grow our business would be materially and adversely affected.
Hiring technical experts in this field into the company, and, where 
appropriate, utilising third party providers or advisers, is critical to 
ensuring we are fully up to speed on all the technical changes in the 
mobile space.
We are working very closely with our football club partners and games 
suppliers to ensure we bring unique content, competitions and games 
onto the Xinhua News app. Regularly refreshing and updating this 
content, and bringing new and unique product to the Chinese market 
is something we work on daily and are very committed to doing, to 
ensure we drive active user growth.
Failure to protect user account information
The Group processes user’s personal data as part of its business and 
therefore must comply with data protection laws in China.
Notwithstanding our IT and data security systems, we may not be 
effective in detecting any intrusion or other security breaches, or 
safeguarding against sabotage, hackers, viruses and cyber-crime.
If we or any of the third-party service providers whom we rely on 
fail to transmit users information and payment details online in a 
secure manner, or if any data is lost/stolen, it could subject us to 
liabilities under the data protection laws
Any losses/breaches in data security could result in the loss of the 
goodwill of our users.
Protection of customer data is paramount to continued operations 
of the company and we regularly review our security and protection 
measures.
We have input data security and protection measures that meet both 
the Chinese legal requirements and, through the use of Amazon cloud 
technology, protection that meets US legal standards. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 44
Risk Management 
Risks related to doing business in China
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
Complexities, uncertainties and rapid change in PRC regulation
The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, 
including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit 
requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry.
These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new 
and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve 
significant uncertainty.
As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine 
what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation.
Uncertainties relating to regulation means that permits, licences or 
operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, 
denied or un-renewed.
New laws and regulations that regulate internet activities, may 
be promulgated, if so, additional licenses may be required for our 
operations
As the relevant rules and regulations are relatively new, the Group 
faces uncertainties in the implementation of such rules and regulations 
by the authorities.
Through our Group CEO and China CEO, the Company is actively 
engaged at multiple levels throughout the provincial and regulatory 
agencies that affect our business. We have consistently applied for and 
achieved the necessary licences and contracts to ensure we operate 
within the proper interpretation of industry regulations and work 
closely with our China legal counsel to ensure we are compliant in 
every aspect.
Going forward, we fully expect to continue to invest in understanding 
and properly interpreting the regulations and we will urgently apply for 
any new licences or other requirements that may arise as a result of 
any future regulatory activity that affects our industry.
Group structure results in indirect beneficial ownership of the 
Group’s interests in China
In common with many international groups operating in China, 
the Group conducts its operations in China principally through 
contractual arrangements among its wholly owned PRC subsidiary, 
Beijing Brookfield, its contractually controlled entities in the PRC 
and their respective shareholders, which:
(i)  enable the Group to exercise effective control over these 
entities; and
(ii)  give the Group the economic obligation to absorb losses and 
the right to receive benefits of these entities, requiring the 
Group to treat them as its contractually controlled entities 
and to consolidate their operating results.
Although the Directors believe that the Group is in compliance 
with current PRC regulations, PRC laws and regulations governing 
the validity of these contractual arrangements are open to varying 
interpretations and the relevant government authorities have broad 
discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations.
If the PRC government determines that the Group is not in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, it could revoke 
the Group’s business and operating licences, require the Group 
to discontinue or restrict its operations, restrict its right to collect 
revenues, block its websites, require it to restructure its operations, 
impose additional conditions or requirements with which it may 
not be able to comply, or take other regulatory or enforcement 
actions against the Group that could be harmful to its business. The 
imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and 
adverse effect on the Group’s ability to conduct its business.
The Group regularly reviews its legal structure and all related legal 
agreements with China and UK counsel to ensure the current 
structure remains the appropriate structure for its business.
The Group also requests that China counsel regularly reviews the 
emerging corporate and foreign investment related laws as well as 
regulations and laws affecting technology and lottery companies.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 45
Risk Management 
Risks related to doing business in China
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit 
the legal protections available to investors and the Group
As the Group’s main operating entities and a substantial majority of 
its assets are located in China, PRC laws and the PRC legal system 
in general may have a significant impact on its business operations. 
Although China’s legal system has developed over the last several 
decades, PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements remain 
underdeveloped relative to England and Wales. Moreover, PRC 
laws and regulations change frequently and their interpretation and 
enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, the interpretation 
or enforcement of PRC laws and regulations may be subject to 
government rules or policies, some of which are not published on a 
timely basis or at all. In addition, the relative inexperience of China’s 
judiciary in some cases may create uncertainty as to the outcome 
of litigation. These uncertainties could limit the Group’s ability to 
enforce its legal or contractual rights or otherwise adversely affect 
its business and operations. Furthermore, due to the existence of 
unpublished rules and policies, and since newly issued PRC laws 
and regulations may have retrospective effect, the Group may not 
be aware of a violation of certain PRC laws, regulations, policies or 
rules until after the event.
The Group requests that China counsel regularly reviews the emerging 
corporate and foreign investment related laws as well as regulations 
and laws affecting technology and lottery companies and proactively 
advises the Group on legal aspects of its operations and compliance 
with all applicable Chinese laws.
  BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 46
Risk Management 
External/Economic Risk
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
Fluctuations in exchange rates of the Renminbi could materially 
affect the Group’s financial results
The exchange rates between the Renminbi and the British pound 
and other foreign currencies is affected by, among other things, 
changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The People’s 
Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market 
to limit fluctuations in Renminbi exchange rates and achieve policy 
goals. As the Company may rely on dividends and other fees paid 
to it by its subsidiaries and affiliated consolidated entities in China, 
any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and 
adversely affect the Group’s cash flows, net revenues, earnings and 
financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, the 
Ordinary Shares in British pounds.
The Group may consider, on a case by case basis, implementing 
policies to limit its currency exposure, if appropriate, which could 
include currency hedging instruments when they prove to be available 
and cost effective.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 47
Risk Management 
Reputational Risk
Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation
Bribery Act
The Bribery Act came into force in July 201 1. To date, there have only 
been a few precedents set in respect to how this will be enforced 
with respect to corporations (although no corporate prosecutions 
have been made as at 31 December 2016). As with all companies, 
if BNN were found to be in breach of the Act, this could adversely 
affect BNN’s reputation and financial performance.
BNN has a strong ethical tone from the top. The adoption of 
appropriate anti-bribery controls has been a key point of focus for the 
legal compliance programme at BNN. These have included:
• Completion of risk assessments to determine specific compliance 
needs;
• Introduction of new policies, including an anti-bribery and 
corruption policy;
• Inclusion of anti-bribery policies in the standard employee 
handbook issued to all employees as part of orientation upon 
joining the organization;
• Targeted face-to-face training for employee Groups perceived as 
higher risk;
• Implementation of a gifts and hospitality policy; and
• Annual assessment of anti-bribery compliance.
Ineffective or non-delivery of the business strategy
The Group’s operating results may fluctuate significantly in the 
future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside its 
control.
Factors that may affect the Group’s operating results include 
increased competition, an increased level of expenses, technological 
change necessitating additional capital expenditure, slower than 
expected sales and changes to the statutory and regulatory regime 
in which it operates. It is possible that, in the future, the Group’s 
operating results may fall below the expectations of the Directors 
or investors.
The executives meet regularly to consider performance against budget 
and take necessary actions to achieve performance expectations.
The Board has incorporated business updates and review of results 
against plan as a standard item on Board agendas. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48
 
Directors’ Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48
BNN TECHNOLOGY  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 49
 
49 Annual Report & Accounts 2016
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 50
Directors
’
 Report
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the 
Group, together with the financial statements and auditor’s report, 
for the year ended 31 December 2016. An indication of likely future 
developments in the business of the Group are included in the 
Strategic Report.
Change of name
On the 10 October 2016, the Company’s name was changed from 
DJI Holdings plc to BNN Technology plc.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend the payment of an ordinary 
dividend (2015: £nil).
Capital Structure
Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the 
movements in the Company’s issued share capital during the year 
are shown in note 25. The Company has one class of ordinary shares 
which carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to 
one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
With the exception of executive and non-executive Directors 
subject to orderly market lockups which expired on 24th July 2016, 
the Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or on voting rights. No person has any special rights of 
control over the Company’s share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30 and details 
of the shares in BNN Technology plc, which are held by the Group’s 
Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”) are set out in note 26. The EBT 
has abstained from voting.
Chinese law and regulations restrict foreign investment in internet 
businesses. Accordingly, the Company’s Chinese business operations 
are conducted through a series of arrangements with Chinese 
incorporated entities and the nominee shareholders of these 
contractually controlled entities.
These arrangements provide the Group with effective control over 
the Chinese operations, further details are contained in note 17 to 
the financial statements.
Directors
The Directors who served throughout the year and thereafter, 
except as noted, were as follows:
D Mercer
Lord Mancroft
R Lerwill (retired 1 December 2016)
W Qi (appointed 1 July 2016)
D Jinhua (appointed 1 July 2016)
S Kennedy (appointed 8 August 2016)
Directors’ Indemnities
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Political Contributions
During the year, the Group did not make any political donations 
(2015: £nil).
Disabled Employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. 
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and 
that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that 
the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons 
should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee Consultation
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters 
affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting 
the performance of the Group. This is achieved through formal 
and informal meetings, with Company employees. Employee 
representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters 
affecting their current and future interests. In addition, key employees 
receive an annual bonus related to their overall contribution to the 
Group.
Auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
annual report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a resolution will be 
proposed to appoint our auditor for the 2017 financial year.
Going concern basis
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial 
statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the 
Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable   MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 51
future; that is for at least 12 months from the date of signing of the 
financial statements.
As described in the Strategic Report, the Group has undergone a 
year of transition, away from reliance on the Chinese lottery. We 
successfully raised £51.2 million in 2016 to build out our technology 
platform, enter into key relationships and develop and establish our 
three business areas.
We have proved our new payments model in September 2016 with 
the first revenues coming from mobile top-ups.
Revenue and profitability growth in 2017 is dependent on a number 
of new commercial developments, including:
• The launch of the petrol card top-up business with strategic 
partners.
• The commencement of the B2C business across the Xinhua app.
• The launch of the unique content and generating advertising 
revenues.
The Directors have reviewed trading and cash flow forecasts, 
subjecting the assumptions underpinning the forecasts to extreme 
stress scenarios. The cash proceeds of the subsequent placing, in 
April 2017, were not taken into consideration when conducting the 
going concern review, neither were the proceeds included within the 
forecasted assumptions.
As a result of the going concern review, the Group has the 
reasonable expectation of profitable trading contributing to cash 
flow generation, and even under an extreme stress scenario, has 
sufficient cash resources such that there is no risk of a liquidity issue 
within the next 12 months. In addition, there are no factors of which 
the management are aware that could lead to the Group having to 
cease trading. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 52
Directors’ Report
continued
Report on Director’s Remuneration
BNN prides itself on offering competitive compensation to its staff in line with prevailing market conditions. This practice is also applied by 
the Remuneration Committee in determining remuneration policy for recommendation to the Board.
Name of Director
Fees/Basic 
salary
Benefits 
in kind
Annual
bonuses
2016 
total
2015 
total
Executive
Darren Mercer 386 14 180 580 302
Wei Qi 268 51 250 569 —
Scott Kennedy 97 7 — 104 —
Rodney Davis* — — — — 190
Non-executive
Robert Lerwill*** 46 — — 46 50
Lord Mancroft 150 4 20 174 66
Simon Prior Palmer** — — — — 72
Dong Jinhua 67 — — 67 —
Aggregate Emoluments 1,014 76 450 1,540 680
* Rodney Davis departed from the board effective 28 October 2015
** Simon Prior-Palmer departed from the board effective 11 September 2015
*** Robert Lerwill departed from the board effective 1 December 2016
£000’s
Name of Director
31 Dec 
2015 Granted Cancelled
31 Dec 
2016
Exercise 
Price (p)
Date from 
which 
exercisable
Expiry 
date
Darren Mercer 4,000 — — 4,000 35 10-Dec-15 09-Dec-18
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board of Directors
on 18 April 2017 and signed on behalf of the Board by
D Mercer  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 53
This page is intentionally left blank
030_c112933.indd   53 20/04/2017   12:49 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54
 
continued
As at 31 December 2016
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54
Financial Statements
BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54
56  Independent Auditor’s Report
57  Consolidated Income Statement
58  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
59   Consolidated Balance Sheet
60   Parent Company Balance Sheet
61   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
62   Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
63   Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
64   Parent Company Cash Flow Statement
65  Notes to the Financial Statements  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55
 
 MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 55 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56
Independent Auditor
’
s Report to the Members 
of BNN Technology PLC
We have audited the financial statements of BNN Technology 
PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow 
Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements 
of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)   
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent 
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland)  . Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements 
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by 
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2016 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the 
audit:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been 
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and 
its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not 
identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where 
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Anthony Farnworth, BA Hons ACA (Senior statutory auditor)  
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom
18 April 2017  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 57
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated Income Statement
Note 2016 2015
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 2,064 5,519
Cost of sales (1,138)  (4,297)  Gross profit 926 1,222
Administrative expenses before exceptional items (15,908)  (9,035)  Exceptional items 9 (677)   (652)  Administrative expenses after exceptional items (16,585)  (9,687)  Share of results of associates 18 (812)  (848)  Operating loss (16,471)  (9,313)  Finance costs 11 (1,739 )  (1,395)  Loss before tax (18,210)  (10,708)  Tax 12 — (157)  Loss for the year from continuing operations (18,210)  (10,865)  Discontinued operations
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 13 — (583)  Loss for the year 6 (18,210)  (11,448)  Attributable to:
Owners of the Company (18,062)  (11,366)  Non-controlling interests (148)  (82)  (18,210)  (11,448)  Earnings per share
From continuing and discontinued operations:
Basic loss per share 7 10.08 pence 8.48 pence
Diluted loss per share 7 10.08 pence 8.48 pence
From continuing operations:
Basic loss per share 7 10.08 pence 8.05 pence
Diluted loss per share 7 10.08 pence 8.05 pence BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
2016 2015
Loss for the year (18,210 )  (11,448)  Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1,406 )  156
Income Tax relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss — —
Total comprehensive loss for the year (19,916 )  (11,292)  Attributable to:
Owners of the Company (19,490 )  (11,206)  Non-controlling interests (126)  (86)  (19,616 )  (11,292)    MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 59
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Note 2016 2015
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 4,383 3,919
Other intangible assets 15 949 192
Property, plant and equipment 16 663 383
Investments in associates 18 6,322 5,218
Other investments 19 2,342 —
Other receivables 21 7,600 —
22,259 9,712
Current assets
Inventories 20 5 19
Trade and other receivables 21 14,767 4,449
Cash and cash equivalents 28,028 4,028
42,800 8,496
Total assets 65,059 18,208
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 5,262 5,626
Borrowings 23 6,110 —
11,372 5,626
Net current assets 31,428 2,870
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 13,564 5,978
13,564 5,978
Total liabilities 24,936 11,604
Net assets 40,123 6,604
Equity
Share capital 25 20,527 14,431
Share premium 26 65,394 22,432
EBT Reserve 26 (575)    (575)    Accumulated deficit 26 (45,353)    (29,940)    Equity attributable to owner of the Company 39,993 6,348
Non-controlling interests 26 130 256
Total equity 40,123 6,604
The financial statements of BNN Technology PLC (Company registration number 06624900)   were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 18 April 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
S Kennedy
Chief Financial Officer BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 60
As at 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Parent Company Balance Sheet
Note 2016 2015
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 17 11 11
Other receivables 21 15,350 —
15,361 11
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 21 54,614 45,474
Cash and cash equivalents 24,935 2,453
79,549 47,927
Total assets 94,910 47,938
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 1,194 2,218
1,194 2,218
Net current assets 78,355 45,709
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 7,709 5,978
7,709 5,978
Total liabilities 8,903 8,196
Net assets 86,007 39,742
Equity
Share capital 25 20,527 14,431
Share premium account 26 65,394 22,432
EBT reserve 26 (575)  (575)  Retained earnings 26 661 3,454
Total equity 86,007 39,742
The financial statements of BNN Technology PLC (Company registration number 06624900)   were approved by the Board of Directors and 
authorised for issue on 18 April 2017.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
S Kennedy
Chief Financial Officer  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 61
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
EBT 
reserve
Accumulated 
deficit
Equity 
attributable to 
the owners of 
the Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total 
equity
Balance at 1 January 2015 13,052 19,433 (575)    (17,473)    14,437 686 15,123
Loss for the year — — — (11,366)    (11,366)    (82)    (11,448)    Exchange differences — — — 160 160 (4)    156
Total comprehensive loss for the year — — — (11,206)    (11,206)    (86)    (11,292)    Issue of share capital 1,379 2,999 — 178 4,556 — 4,556
Credit to equity for equity-settled share 
based payments — — — 455 455 — 455
Disposal of subsidiary — — — (2,382)    (2,382)    (344)    (2,726)    Proceeds for shares not yet issued — — — 488 488 — 488
Balance at 31 December 2015 14,431 22,432 (575)    (29,940)    6,348 256 6,604
Loss for the year — — — (18,062)    (18,062 )    (148)    (18,210)    
Exchange differences — — — (1,428 )    (1,428 )    22 (1,406 )    
Total comprehensive loss for the year — — — (19,490)    (19,490 )    (126)    (19,616)    
Issue of share capital 6,328 42,962 — (488)    48,802 — 48,802
Credit to equity for equity-settled share 
based payments — — — 129 129 — 129
Cancellation of shares (232)    — 232 — — —
Equity component of convertible debt — — — 4,204 4,204 — 4,204
Balance at 31 December 2016 20,527 65,394 (575)    (45,353)    39,993 130 40,123 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 62
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Share  
capital
Share 
premium 
account EBT reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Balance at 1 January 2015 13,052 19,433 (575)  7,948 39,858
Loss for the year — — — (3,504)  (3,504)  
Total comprehensive loss for the year — — — (3,504)  (3,504)  
Issue of share capital 1,379 2,999 — 178 4,556
Credit to equity for equity settled share 
based payments — — — 455 455
Disposal of subsidiary — — — (2,111)  (2,111)  
Proceeds for shares not yet issued — — — 488 488
Balance at 31 December 2015 14,431 22,432 (575)  3,454 39,742
Loss for the year — — — (6,870)  (6,870)  
Total comprehensive loss for the year — — — (6,870)  (6,870)  
Issue of share capital 6,328 42,962 — (488)  48,802
Credit to equity for equity settled share 
based payments — — — 129 129
Cancellation of shares (232)  — — 232 —
Equity component of convertible debt — — — 4,204 4,204
Balance at 31 December 2016 20,527 65,394 (575)  661 86,007  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 63
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Note 2016 2015
Net cash used in operating activities 27 (16,975)  (8,831 )  
Investing activities:
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (481)  (252)  Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment — 19
Investment in associate (1,136 )  (1,342)  Other investments (2,212 )  —
Purchase of other intangible assets (865)  —
Disposal of subsidiary net of cash disposed 13 — (178)  Restricted cash deposits (14,211 )  —
Net cash used in investing activities (18,905)  (1,753 )  
Financing activities:
Proceeds on issue of shares 48,341 4,401
Proceeds on shares not yet issued — 488
Payment of contingent consideration — (1,167 )  
Proceeds from borrowings 11,387 —
Net cash generated by financing activities 59,728 3,722
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 23,848 (6,862)  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 27 4,028 10,834
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 152 56
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 28,028 4,028 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 64
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
Parent Company Cash Flow Statement
Note 2016 2015
Operating activities:
Loss for the year (6,870 )  (3,504)  Adjustments for:
Finance costs 4,349 1,393
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations — 28
Share based payments 129 611
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital (2,392)  (1,472)  Increase in receivables (8,678)  (7,282)  Increase in payables 786 294
Net cash used by operations (10,284 )  (8,460 )  
Interest paid (225 )  —
Net cash used in operating activities (10,509 )  (8,460)  Investing activities:
Loan to subsidiaries (15,350 )  —
Net cash used in investing activities (15,350 )  —
Financing activities:
Proceeds on issue of shares 48,341 4,401
Proceeds on shares not yet issued — 488
Net cash generated by financing activities 48,341 4,889
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 22,482 (3,571)  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 27 2,453 6,024
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 24,935 2,453  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 65
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. General information
BNN Technology Plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The Company is a public company limited by shares and is registered in England and Wales. The address of the registered office is given on 
page 4. The nature of the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) operations and its principal activities are set out in 
the strategic report on pages 14 to 27.
These financial statements are presented in pound sterling because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
parent Company operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) 
that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2016, as summarised below. Their adoption has not 
had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements..
• Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception
• Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations
• Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
• Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers
• IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
• Amendments to IAS 7 (Jan 2016): Disclosure Initiative
• Amendments to IAS 12 (Jan 2016): Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (Sept 2014): Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
With the exception of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 16 ‘Leases; for which an assessment is ongoing, the 
Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group 
in future periods. Beyond this, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review 
has been completed.
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board. The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the 
European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are measured at fair 
values at the end of each reporting period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the 
instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating 
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take 
those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure 
purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are 
within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value 
but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated) BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 66
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the 
inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which 
are described as follows:
• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 
measurement date;
• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
or indirectly; and
• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Parent Company financial statements
As permitted by s408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account or statement of 
comprehensive income for the year. The Parent Company reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of £6,870 thousand 
(2015: £3,504 thousand).
Going concern
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group 
can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future; that is for at least 12 months from the date of signing of the financial 
statements.
As described in the Strategic Report, the Group has undergone a year of transition, away from reliance on the Chinese lottery. It successfully 
raised £51 million in 2016 to build out its technology platform, enter into key relationships and develop and establish its three business areas.
The Company has proved its new payments model in September 2016 with the first revenues coming from mobile top-ups.
Revenue and profitability growth in 2017 is dependent on a number of new commercial developments, including:
• The launch of the petrol card top-up business with strategic partners
• The commencement of the B2C business across the Xinhua app
• The launch of the Student Services platform, unique content and generating advertising revenues
The Directors have reviewed trading and cash flow forecasts, subjecting the assumptions underpinning the forecasts to reasonable downside 
scenarios.
After making the appropriate enquiries and, considering the Group’s existing cash reserves and forecasts, the Directors have concluded that 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) as at 31 December each year. Control is achieved when the Company:
• has power over the investee;
• is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more 
of the three elements of control listed above. When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it considers 
that it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the 
investee unilaterally.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 67
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
The Company considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are 
sufficient to give it power, including:
• the size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;
• potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
• rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
• any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date 
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and 
expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Those interests of non-controlling 
shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation may initially 
be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition  by-acquisition basis. Other non-controlling interests are initially measured at fair value. 
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non  
controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this 
results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying 
amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration 
paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair 
value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including 
goodwill), less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in 
relation to the subsidiary are accounted for (i.e. Reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings) in the same manner 
as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities are disposed of. The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at 
the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments 
Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the costs on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Business combinations
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair 
values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they 
qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified 
as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRS. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as 
equity are not recognised.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value 
at the acquisition date (i.e. the date the Group attains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts 
arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 68
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3(2008) are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
• Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
• Liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured 
in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments; and
• Assets (or disposal Groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the 
Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during 
the measurement period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. 
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control 
over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an 
associate in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the 
Group’s net investment in the associate) are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the 
investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The requirements of IAS 36 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the Group’s 
investment in an associate. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in 
accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less 
costs of disposal) with its carrying amount, Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal 
of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently 
increases.
The Group discontinues the use of the equity method from the date when the investment ceases to be an associate, or when the investment 
is classified as held for sale. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and the retained interest is a financial asset, the Group 
measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition in accordance with 
IAS 39. The difference between the carrying amount of the associate at the date the equity method was discontinued, and the fair value of 
any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in the associate is included in the determination of the gain or loss 
on disposal of the associate. In addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation 
to that associate on the same basis as would be required if that associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, 
if a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal 
of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when 
the equity method is discontinued.
Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in 
the relevant associate.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition date). Goodwill is 
measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair 
value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the 
unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a 
subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group’s policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described above.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of 
business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The Group’s revenues principally arise from the sale of mobile phone top-ups, lottery tickets and related services. The group has determined 
that for its mobile top-ups and related businesses that its role in the relationship does not satisfy that of principal as determined by IAS 18 
and therefore treats its revenues from this stream on net commission basis as an agent. The lottery tickets revenue stream and its related 
products that are generated through multiple channels are recognised at the point of sale as the commission from the lottery commission 
receivable from the lottery centres by the Group. Commissions payable by the Group to third parties are recognised as a cost of sale.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of “ownership” to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a 
finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where 
another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed. 
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate benefit 
of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group Company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
it operates (its functional currency).
For the purpose of the financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group Company are expressed in pound sterling, which 
is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency 
(foreign currencies) are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 70
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing 
at that date. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange 
differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
For the purpose of presenting financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at exchange 
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange 
differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (attributed to non-controlling interests 
as appropriate).
On the disposal of a foreign operation all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation attributable to the Group 
are reclassified to profit or loss.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate.
Operating loss
Operating loss is stated after exceptional items and the share of results of associates but before investment income and finance costs. 
Exceptional items are those that are of such significance that the Directors believe separate disclosure is required to avoid distortion of the 
underlying performance of the Group.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered service 
entitling them to the contributions. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined 
contribution schemes where the group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement 
benefit scheme.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such 
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting 
profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt within other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 71
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Current tax and deferred tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included 
in the accounting for the business combination.
Property, plant and equipment and software intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Similarly, software 
intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation or amortisation is recognised so as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over their useful lives, using the 
straight-line method, on the following bases:
Leasehold improvements 33%
Fixtures and equipment 20%-33%
Motor vehicles 33%
Software 10%-20%
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over 
the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to 
determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset 
may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless 
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment 
loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated using the 
weighted average method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated cost of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Financial assets
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose 
terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, 
plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ (FVTPL),’held-to-
maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and 
purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
The Group does not currently hold any assets classified as either FVTPL, ‘held to maturity’ or AFS.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid 
or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is
(i) contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination to which IFRS 3 applies, 
(ii) held for trading, or 
(iii) it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:
• it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; or
• on initial recognition it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual 
pattern of short-term profit-taking; or
• it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading or contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business 
combination may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
• such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or
• the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is 
evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information 
about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or
• it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net gain 
or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the ‘other gains and 
losses’ line item in the income statement. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 29.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified 
as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment. 
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would 
be immaterial.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired 
where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the 
estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are, in addition, 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s past 
experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 60 days, 
as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the 
allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest 
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the 
proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Compound instruments
The component parts of compound instruments (convertible loan notes) issued by the Group are classified separately as financial liabilities 
and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component 
is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non  convertible instrument. This amount is recorded as a liability on an 
amortised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished upon conversion or at the instrument’s maturity date.
The equity component is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument 
as a whole. This is included in equity net of the tax effect, and is not subsequently remeasured.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities
Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL are subsequently measured 
at the higher of:
• The amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent 
assets; and
• The amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition 
policies set out above.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is (i) contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part 
of a business combination to which IFRS 3 applies, (ii) held for trading, or (iii) it is designated as at FVTPL. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if:
• it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or
• on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual 
pattern of short-term profit-taking; or
• it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading or contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a 
business combination may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:
• such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or
• the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is 
evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information 
about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or
• it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss. The net 
gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ 
line item in the income statement. Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 29.
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method with interest expense recognised 
on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the 
financial liability or where appropriate a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired. The 
difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in profit 
or loss.
When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument into another one with the substantially different terms, such 
exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. Similarly, the 
Group accounts for substantial modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original financial liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. It is assumed that the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows 
under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective rate is at least 10 per cent 
different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability.
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL. An embedded 
derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hybrid instrument to which the 
embedded derivative relates is more than 12 months and is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are 
presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity 
instruments at the grant date. The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Details regarding the determination 
of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 30.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date the Group revises its 
estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. The impact 
of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 75
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
3. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees are measured at the fair value of the goods or services 
received, except where that fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which case they are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments 
granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the counterparty renders the service.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the 
liability. At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with 
any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately below), that the Directors 
have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in 
financial statements.
Control
Chinese law and regulations restrict foreign ownership and investment in, among other areas, value-added telecommunications services, 
which include Internet content providers, or ICPs. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, the Group currently conducts substantially all 
of its business through two contractually controlled entities (Beijing Hulian Xincai Culture Development Co., Limited (“Hulian Xincai”) and 
Beijing NewNet Science & Technology Development Co., Limited (“NewNet”)) and their subsidiaries.
The relevant contractually controlled entities, which are owned by PRC citizens or by PRC entities owned by PRC citizens, hold the software 
licenses and operate the various platforms that underpin our businesses. Specifically, our contractually controlled entities are majority-owned 
by one of our Directors, Mr Wei Qi, and minority holdings are held by two of our employees, Ms. Wu Yulan and Ms. Wang Qian.
Beijing Brookfield Interactive Science & Technology Co. Limited (“WFOE”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, entered into a series 
of contractual arrangements with Hulian Xincai, NewNet and their shareholders. These contractual arrangements enable the Group to:
• receive substantially all of the economic benefits from the entities in consideration for the services provided by WFOE;
• exercise effective control over the entities; and
• hold an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in the entities when and to the extent permitted by PRC laws.
In making the conclusion that the Group receives substantially all of the economic benefits from Hulian Xincai and NewNet, the Group 
believes its rights under the terms of the exclusive business cooperation agreement, exclusive option agreement, equity pledge agreement 
and power of attorney are substantive given the rights to income and dividends from the entities, the substantive participating rights held 
by WFOE as it relates to operating matters and the substantive rights to replace the shareholders in the contractually controlled entities.
More specifically, the Group believes that the terms of the contractual agreements are valid, binding and enforceable under PRC laws and 
regulations current in effect. In particular the Group also believes that the minimum amount of consideration permitted by the applicable 
PRC law to exercise the exclusive option does not represent a financial barrier or disincentive for the Group to currently exercise its rights 
under the exclusive option agreement. A simple majority vote of the Group’s board of directors is required to pass a resolution to exercise 
the Group’s rights under the exclusive option agreement, for which the consent from Mr Wei Qi who is a shareholder of the contractually 
controlled companies and a director of the Company, is not required. The Group’s rights under the exclusive option agreement and equity 
pledge agreement give the Group the power to control the shareholders of the contractually controlled entities and thus the power to 
direct the activities that most significantly impact those entities economic performance. In addition, the Group’s rights under the powers 
of attorney also reinforce the Group’s abilities to direct the activities that most significantly impact the contractually controlled companies’ 
economic performance. The Group also believes that this ability to exercise control ensures that the contractually controlled companies will 
continue to execute and renew service agreements and pay service fees to the Group. By charging services fees, and by ensuring that the 
service agreements are executed and renewed indefinitely, the Group has the rights to receive substantially all of the economic benefits from 
the contractually controlled entities. This is reinforced by the equity pledge agreement which provides the Group with the right to collect 
dividends generated by the contractually controlled entities. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
The following contractual agreements were entered into by the WFOE (Beijing Brookfield Interactive Science & Technology Development 
Co., Ltd., or “Beijing Brookfield”) with each of Hulian Xincai and NewNet (collectively, the “Contractually Controlled Entities”) and its 
respective shareholders (except the loan agreement described below which was entered into with Hulian Xincai only):
Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement
Beijing Brookfield entered into an Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement with Hulian Xincai on December 14, 2012, pursuant to which 
Hulian Xincai agreed to engage Beijing Brookfield as its exclusive service provider.  Accordingly, Beijing Brookfield shall provide services to 
Hulian Xincai, including without limitation, technical services, business consulting, equipment or property leasing, marketing consultancy 
and product research.  Hulian Xincai shall pay to Beijing Brookfield a service fee that equals to 80% of the net income of Hulian Xincai.  
The Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement is for a term of ten (10) years commencing from the date of this agreement and may be 
automatically extended at the discretion of Beijing Brookfield.  The Exclusive Business Cooperation may be terminated by Beijing Brookfield 
by giving Hulian Xincai a 30 days’ prior written notice of termination and Hulian Xincai is not contractually entitled to terminate the Exclusive 
Business Cooperation Agreement.
Moreover, Beijing Brookfield entered into an Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement with NewNet, Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan, the 
shareholders of Hulian Xincai.  This agreement follows the same terms with the above Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement, except 
that Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan (the “Guarantors”) agree to take all necessary measures (including without limitation signing all necessary 
documents) to ensure that NewNet will perform its obligations under this agreement.  Otherwise, Beijing Brookfield may demand the 
Guarantors to transfer their equity interests in Hulian Xincai to Beijing Brookfield or Beijing Brookfield’s designated persons (legal or natural 
persons) with no consideration or at the lowest price permitted by the PRC Laws and regulations.
Exclusive Option Agreement
Beijing Brookfield entered into an Exclusive Option Agreement with Hulian Xincai, Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan on December 14, 2012, 
pursuant to which Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan granted to Beijing Brookfield or the designated representatives of Beijing Brookfield 
irrevocable options to purchase, to the extent permitted by PRC Laws and regulations, their equity interest in Hulian Xincai, entirely or 
partially, at a price being the registered capital corresponding to their equity interest, or at a minimum purchase price permitted under 
PRC Laws and regulations.  The parties agree that in case of the following circumstances, Beijing Brookfield shall designate other entities 
to purchase all the equity interest held by Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan in Hulian Xincai and all the equity interest held by Ms. Wang 
Qian in NewNet within 30 working days after Beijing Brookfield learns of such situation: (i) Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan or Ms. Wang Qian 
decides to leave their position in Hulian Xincai or NewNet; (ii) Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan or Ms. Wang Qian does not have full capacity for 
civil conduct; or (iii) the PRC laws denied the VIE structure.  After such equity transfer being completed (subject to the registration with 
competent authority), the rights and obligations of Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan and Ms. Wang Qian under this agreement will be terminated.  
The Exclusive Option Agreement is for a term of ten years commencing from the date of this agreement and are renewable at Beijing 
Brookfield’s discretion.
Moreover, Beijing Brookfield entered into an Exclusive Option Agreement with Hulian Xincai, NewNet, Ms. Wang Qian, Mr. Wei Qi and 
Ms. Wu Yulan.  This agreement follows the same terms with the above Exclusive Option Agreement, except that Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu 
Yulan agree to take all necessary measures (including without limitation signing all necessary documents) to ensure that Hulian Xincai and 
NewNet will perform their obligations under this agreement.  Otherwise, Beijing Brookfield may demand Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan to 
transfer their equity interests in Hulian Xincai to Beijing Brookfield or Beijing Brookfield’s designated persons (legal or natural persons) with 
no consideration or at the lowest price permitted by the PRC Laws and regulations.
Equity Pledge Agreement
Beijing Brookfield entered into an Equity Pledge Agreement with Hulian Xincai, Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan on December 14, 2012, 
pursuant to which each of Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan agreed to pledge all of their respective equity interests and any dividend rights in 
Hulian Xincai to Beijing Brookfield to secure performance of all their obligations and the obligations of Hulian Xincai under the Exclusive 
Business Cooperation Agreement.  Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan also have agreed not to transfer, place or permit the existence of any 
security interest or other encumbrance on their respective equity interest, without prior written consent of Beijing Brookfield.  Upon 
the full payment of the consulting and service fees under the Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement and upon termination of Hulian 
Xincai’s obligations under the Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement and termination of Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan and Hulian Xincai’s 
obligations under the Exclusive Option Agreement, this agreement shall be terminated, and Beijing Brookfield shall terminate this agreement 
as soon as reasonably practicable.
Moreover, Beijing Brookfield entered into an Equity Pledge Agreement with Hulian Xincai, NewNet, Ms. Wang Qian, Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. 
Wu Yulan.  This agreement follows the same terms with the above Equity Pledge Agreement, except that Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan 
agree to take all necessary measures (including without limitation signing all necessary documents) to ensure that Hulian Xincai and NewNet 
will perform their obligations under this agreement.  Otherwise, Beijing Brookfield may demand Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan to transfer 
their equity interests in Hulian Xincai to Beijing Brookfield or Beijing Brookfield’s designated persons (legal or natural persons) with no 
consideration or at the lowest price permitted by the PRC Laws and regulations.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 77
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Loan Agreement
Beijing Brookfield entered into a Loan Agreement with Hulian Xincai, Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan on December 14, 2012, pursuant to 
which Beijing Brookfield agrees to lend RMB10 million to Hulian Xincai in order to satisfy the funding needs of Hulian Xincai.  If Hulian Xincai 
fails to perform its obligations under this agreement, Mr. Wei Qi and Ms. Wu Yulan shall transfer their equity interests in Hulian Xincai to 
Beijing Brookfield or Beijing Brookfield’s designated persons (legal or natural persons) with no consideration or at the lowest price permitted 
by the PRC Laws and regulations.
During the term of the Loan Agreement,  Hulian Xincai shall immediately repay the full amount of the loan in the event any one or more 
of the following circumstances occur: (i) 30 days elapse after Hulian Xincai receives a written notice from Beijing Brookfield requesting 
repayment of the loan; (ii) Hulian Xincai is bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or wind-up; (iii) any third party filed a claim against Hulian 
Xincai that exceeds RMB500,000; (iv) according to the PRC applicable laws, foreign investors are permitted to invest in the industry Hulian 
Xincai engaged in, and Beijing Brookfield exercises the exclusive option under the Exclusive Option Agreement.  The term of the Loan 
agreement is ten years and it is renewable upon the written consent of Beijing Brookfield.
Power of Attorney
On December 14, 2012, each of Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan, Ms. Wang Qian and Hulian Xincai has executed a power of attorney.  Under 
each of the power of attorney, each of Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan, Ms. Wang Qian and Hulian Xincai irrevocably confirmed that the power of 
attorney shall remain in full force and effect from the date of its execution, so long as each of Mr. Wei Qi, Ms. Wu Yulan, Ms. Wang Qian and 
Hulian Xincai remains the shareholder of the Contractually Controlled Entities.  Pursuant to the power of attorney, each of the shareholders 
of the contractually controlled entities agrees to authorize any individuals appointed by Beijing Brookfield to exercise all of their rights and 
powers as shareholders of the Contractually Controlled Entities.  These include the rights to (i) attend shareholders’ meetings; (ii) exercise 
voting rights and other shareholders’ rights as stipulated under applicable PRC Laws and regulations and the articles of association, including 
but not limited to, the sale, transfer or pledge the equity interests the shareholders held in the Contractually Controlled Entities.
Risks in relation to the structure
The Group believes that the contractual arrangements with Hulian Xincai and NewNet and its current shareholders are in compliance with 
PRC laws and regulations and are legally enforceable. However, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the Group’s ability to enforce 
the contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, it 
could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, 
block our websites, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able 
to comply, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these 
penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business.
Furthermore, the interests of the shareholders in Hulian Xincai or NewNet may diverge from that of the Group and that may potentially 
increase the risk that they would seek to act contrary to the contractual terms, for example by influencing Hulian Xincai or NewNet not to 
pay the service fees when required to do so. The Group cannot assure that when conflicts of interest arise, shareholders in Hulian Xincai or 
NewNet will act in the best interests of the Group or that conflicts will be resolved in the Group’s favour. Currently, the Group does not have 
existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest the shareholders of the contractually controlled companies may encounter 
in their capacity as beneficial owners and directors of the contractually controlled entities. The Group believes the shareholders of the 
contractually controlled entities will not act contrary to any of the contractual arrangements and the exclusive option agreements provide 
the Group with a mechanism to remove the current shareholders of the contractually controlled entities as beneficial shareholders of the 
companies should they act to the detriment of the Group. The Group relies on the current shareholders of the contractually controlled 
entities, some of whom are also directors and executive officers of the Group, to fulfill their fiduciary duties and abide by the PRC and act in 
the best interests of the Group. If the Group cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between the Group and the shareholders 
of Hulian Xincai or NewNet, the Group would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business, and there 
is substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings.
Currently there is no contractual arrangement which requires the Company to provide financial support to our contractually controlled 
entities. However, as the Company conducts its businesses primarily based on the licenses and approvals held by its contractually controlled 
entities, the Company has provided and will continue to provide financial support to the contractually controlled entities considering the 
business requirements of the entities as well as the Company’s own business objectives in the future.
Revenue recognition
During the year the Group entered into new business to business (B2B) mobile top-up contracts with various upstream and downstream 
partners in various provinces in China. The Group has reviewed these signed upstream and downstream contracts and also the substance of 
the transactions and determined that for this B2B revenue stream that the Group acts as ‘agent’ as defined in IAS 18 and therefore accounts 
for its revenue from this stream on a net commissions basis. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating 
unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Where the actual future cash flows are less than expected, a material 
impairment loss may arise. The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was £4,383 thousand (2015: £3,919 thousand).
As described in note 14, key assumptions underpinning the Company’s assessment of goodwill are those regarding the discount rate and 
market share attainable through the Xinhua News Mobile App and related channels. Failure to obtain and expand the necessary contracts 
with our business partners to facilitate mobile payments, or delays in launching components of our payment processing platform and new 
revenue streams in line with our business plans could negatively affect the key assumptions used in determining the recoverable amount of 
our Chinese operations CGU.
Recoverability of software and other tangible assets
During the year ended December 31, 2016, management considered the recoverability of its software and other tangible assets which is 
included in its balance sheet at £1,612 thousand (2015: £575 thousand). The diversification away from the Group’s dependence on lottery 
revenues along with the development and improvement of the Group’s technology platform has provided management with confidence that 
future revenues will arise that will make a return on the Group’s investments.
Sensitivity analysis has been carried out and management is confident that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered in full, even if 
returns are reduced. This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments made in future periods if future market activity indicates that 
such adjustments are appropriate.
Compound instruments
In April 2016, the Company agreed with the note holder to cancel the existing convertible loan note of £6,000 thousand and accrued interest 
of £2,403 thousand and to issue two new convertible loan notes. On 17 May 2016, these new notes were issued, one of £6,000 thousand 
carrying an interest rate of 6% effective from 17 May 2016 and the other for £2,403 thousand carrying an interest rate of 20% effective from 
15 February 2017. Both of these loan notes carry an option for the noteholder, and in some instances the Company, to convert the loan notes 
into equity. At inception, the conversion options did not qualify as equity instruments and therefore management have recognised them as 
embedded derivatives and have accounted for them at fair value through profit and loss. The derivative element of both instruments were 
valued at their effective date of 17 May 2016 with any subsequent remeasurment of the fair value to balance sheet date being recognised 
at FVTPL in finance costs in the income statement. The value of this fair value movement at the balance sheet date can be seen in note 11.
Furthermore, with effect from 31 December 2016, the conversion price became fixed based upon the lower of the Company’s share price 
on that date and 115 pence. From this date, the conversion option qualified as an equity instrument and the Company has determined the 
absence of a variable pricing feature from 31 December 2016 represents a change in the contractual terms applicable to the loan note and 
the classification of the conversion option feature has been reclassified to equity.
Recognition of deferred tax assets
At 31 December 2016, the Group had unrecognised deferred tax assets of £9,886 thousand (2015: £7,510 thousand) principally in relation 
to carried forward tax losses (see note 24). The ability of the Group to utilise these losses is dependent on future profits. This is inherently 
uncertain and therefore the determination of the appropriate level of deferred tax assets to recognise is a key source of estimation 
uncertainty.
Parent Company judgements and estimations
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and actual results may differ from these estimates. Included within Parent Company debtors 
(note 21) are amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings of £69,041 thousand (2015: £45,344 thousand) and as these subsidiaries have net 
liabilities, the recoverability of this debtor is uncertain. However, based on current forecasts, the Directors expect these subsidiaries to be 
able to repay these balances as they execute their business plans and therefore the debtor has been recognised in full at 31 December 2016.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 79
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
5. Revenue
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires the segmental information presented in the financial statements to be that used by the chief operating 
decision maker to evaluate the performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources. The Group has identified the Group’s 
Chief Executive Officer as its chief operating decision maker. The Group’s Chief Executive Officer considers the results of the business as a 
whole when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources. Accordingly the Group has 
one operating segment and therefore the results of the segment are the same as the results for the Group.
The Group’s revenues principally relate to commissions receivable by the Group from the sale of mobile top ups, lottery tickets and related 
products.
The Group’s revenue is analysed between the Land and Digital as this information is provided to the Group’s chief operating decision maker. 
Land revenues relate to terminal lottery ticket machine sales and scratch cards whilst Digital revenues include both the historic online lottery 
revenues in addition to the new mobile payments businesses. An analysis of the Group’s revenue by channel, all of which arose from the 
Group’s operations in China, is as follows:
2016 2015
Continuing operations:
Land 266 258
Digital 1,798 5,261
2,064 5,519
Discontinued operations:
Digital — 932
Total 2,064 6,451
Included in revenues arising from the Digital businesses are revenues of approximately £614 thousand (2015: £880 thousand) which arose 
from sales to the Group’s largest customer in the year. No other single customer contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenue in either 
2016 or 2015.
Gross transaction volumes (GTV) represents the total transaction value of all payments or services that our technology fulfils, net of VAT 
and other sales related taxes. This should not be construed as an alternative or superior to revenue as determined in accordance with IFRS, 
similarly our use of gross transaction volumes may not be consistent with similarly described measures used by other companies.
Gross transaction volumes
2016 2015
Continuing operations:
Land 4,599 5,379
Digital 285,020 74,039
289,619 79,418
Discontinued operations:
Digital — 25,228
Total 289,619 104,646 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
5. Revenue (continued)
Geographical information
The Group’s revenue from external customers is generated entirely in China. Information about its segment assets (non-current assets 
excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets and other financial assets) by geographical location are detailed below:
2016 2015
Non-current assets
China 11,616 9,600
United Kingdom 701 112
12,317 9,712
6. Loss for the year
Loss for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
2016 2015
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss (2,955)  73
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 252 201
Amortisation of other intangible assets 132 77
Loss on disposal or property, plant and equipment 1 1
Staff costs (see note 10) 4,994 4,221
The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 8.
7. Loss per share
The calculation of basic and diluted loss per share is based on the following information:
From continuing and discontinued operations
2016 2015
Losses for the purposes of basic and diluted loss per share being net losses attributable to the owners of the Company (18,062)  (11,366)  2016
No.
2015
No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic loss per share 179,260,542 134,022,373
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares
– Share warrants — —
– Convertible loan notes — —
Weighted average ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted loss per share 179,260,542 134,022,373  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 81
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
7. Loss per share (continued)
The Company incurred losses in the current and prior years and therefore all potentially issuable shares are anti-dilutive.
2016
pence
2015
pence
Basic loss per share 10.08 8.48
Diluted loss per share 10.08 8.48
From continuing operations
Losses for the purposes of basic and diluted loss per share:
2016 2015
Net losses attributable to the owners of the Company (18,062)  (11,366)  Adjustments to exclude loss for the year from discontinued operations — 583
Loss for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (18,062)  (10,783)  pence pence
Basic loss per share 10.08 8.05
Diluted loss per share 10.08 8.05
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and discontinued 
operations.
From discontinued operations
2016
pence
2015
pence
Basic loss per share — 0.44
Diluted loss per share — 0.44
8. Auditor’s remuneration
2016 2015
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 145 32
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 183 163
– the audit of the 2015 annual financial statements 288 —
Total audit fees 616 195
Audit related assurance services 40 —
Tax compliance and advisory services 19 37
Other non-audit services — 2
Total non-audit fees 59 39
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the 
consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 82
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
9. Exceptional items
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which management consider to be of such significance they require separate disclosure in the financial 
statements to enable readers of the financial statements to better assess the Company’s performance. Exceptional items included within 
administrative expenses in 2016 principally related to costs associated with the planned NASDAQ listing. Costs in 2015 principally relate to 
historic claims made by former advisers of the Company (which have been settled through the issuance of 255,000 shares in the Company), 
the fair value of share warrants granted to Company Director D Mercer and external consultant White & Company (see note 30 for further 
details) and costs associated with the Company’s planned NASDAQ listing. Exceptional items incurred were:
2016 2015
Settlement agreement — (156)  Share warrant — (455)  Listing fees (677)  (40)  Other fees — (1)  (677)  (652)  Included in the balance at 31 December 2016 were accruals and other creditors of £302 thousand. There was no tax charge related to the 
above transactions.
10. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive Directors) was: 285 (2015: 226)
2016 2015
Administration 285 226
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2016 2015
Wages and salaries 4,149 3,398
Social security costs 716 823
Share based payments 129 —
4,994 4,221
Remuneration in respect of the Directors is included in note 31.
11. Finance costs
2016 2015
Interest on convertible loans 1,108 1,379
Loss on de-recognition of convertible loan notes 2,449 —
Change of fair value of embedded derivative 806 —
Other interest 331 2
Foreign exchange gains (2,955 )  —
Debt issue costs — 14
1,739 1,395  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 83
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
12. Tax
2016 2015
Corporation tax:
Current year — 157
— 157
Deferred tax — —
Total tax expense — 157
Corporation tax is calculated at 20% (2015: 20.25%) of the estimated taxable loss for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at 
the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss in the income statement as follows:
2016 2015
Loss before tax on continuing operations (18,210)  (10,708)  Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.25%) (3,642)  (2,169)  Effect of foreign tax rates — 55
Tax effect of non-deductible expenses 439 309
Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 43 470
Carry-forward of unrecognised tax losses 3,160 1,492
Tax expense for the year — 157
13. Discontinued operations
As reported last year, the Group obtained control of I Will Win Limited and its subsidiaries (‘Woying’) from WinFast Global Limited and its 
controlling parties (the ‘sellers’) with effect from 31 March 2014. Subsequent to the acquisition, and as a result of the suspension of online 
lottery sales in China during the first quarter of 2015, the Group and the sellers (some of whom were key management of Woying) were 
unable to complete certain post-closing commitments relating to the transfers of licences and other assets between Woying and the Group’s 
pre-existing subsidiaries, and the full operational integration of the business.
The Directors continued negotiations with the sellers throughout 2015 in the hope that the regulations covering online lotteries would have 
been restarted by the Ministry of Finance and that both the Group and the sellers would meet their respective post  closing commitments. 
However it became clear that the sellers were not able to satisfy those commitments, therefore, the Group determined that, in light of 
other substantial opportunities available to it and because of its expectation of developments in the lottery market as a result of changes 
in regulation as and when the suspension is lifted, the Group’s interests are better served by focussing on these other opportunities and 
preparations for the lifting of the lottery suspension without Woying. The Company in 2015 therefore exercised its rights under the 
agreement to cancel the acquisition and has treated Woying as having been disposed of during 2015. The consolidated financial statements 
show Woying as a discontinued operation during the prior year and the assets and liabilities of Woying have been derecognised. The results 
of the discontinued operations were as follows:
2016 2015
Revenue — 932
Expenses — (124)  Profit before tax — 808
Attributable tax expense — —
— 808
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations — (1,661)  Reclassification of translation adjustments — 270
— (583)  Net (loss)/income attributable to discontinued operations
– attributable to owners of the Company — (583)  – attributable to non-controlling interest — —
— (583)   BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 84
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
13. Discontinued operations (continued)
During the year, Woying contributed £nil (2015: £nil) to the Group’s net operating cash flows, paid £nil (2015: £nil) in respect of investing 
activities and paid £nil (2015: £nil) in respect of financing activities. A loss of £1,661 thousand arose in 2015 on the disposal of Woying, being 
the difference between the fair value of the BNN shares surrendered by the sellers (the proceeds of disposal) and the carrying amount of 
the subsidiary’s net assets and attributable goodwill.
The net assets of Woying at the date of deemed disposal were as follows:
Property, plant and equipment 20
Trade receivables 1,844
Prepayments and other receivables 471
Bank balances and cash 178
Trade and other payables (293)  
2,220
Attributable goodwill 8,617
Contingent consideration (6,721)  Non-controlling interest (344)  
3,772
Loss on disposal (1,661)  Total consideration 2,111
Satisfied by:
Share consideration 2,111
Total consideration 2,111
Net cash flow arising on disposal:
Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents —
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of (178)  (178)  The sellers held 2,321,300 shares in BNN Technology PLC (with an estimated fair value of £2,1 11 thousands) which were issued in connection 
with the acquisition of Woying. These shares have been returned by the sellers and have been valued at the closing share price of the 
Company on 1 March 2015 for the purpose of accounting for the disposal. The shares were returned to the Company on 9 May 2016, 
consequently the shares receivable from the sellers have been shown as a deduction within equity.
14. Goodwill
2016 2015
Cost and carrying amount
At 1 January 3,919 12,193
Disposals — (8,617)  Exchange differences 464 343
As at 31 December 4,383 3,919
Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 85
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
14. Goodwill (continued)
Allocation to CGU’s
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows:
2016 2015
Allocation to cash generating units
Chinese operations 4,383 3,919
Total 4,383 3,919
Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable 
amount of the Chinese operations CGU is determined from a value in use calculation. Underpinning future revenues is the development 
and provision of the Group’s technology and related channels to support the introduction of mobile payments through the Xinhua News 
Mobile App and related channels. The key assumptions for the value in use calculation are therefore those regarding the discount rate and 
market share attainable. The Directors have assessed the total market size based upon external market research and used this, along with 
their experience and discussions with the Group’s business partners, to estimate likely market shares. Commission rates have been estimated 
based on existing agreements and the current status of negotiations with the Group’s business partners.
Management estimates an appropriate discount rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the CGU. The rate used to discount the future cashflows from the Chinese operations is 12.41%, which is based on 
the weighted average cost of capital to the Company. In the prior year the discount rate used was 60%, based upon research of venture 
capital rates for early stage development companies to reflect the fact that at 31 December 2015 our new mobile payments business had 
not launched and certain contracts remained under negotiation. A lower discount rate, based upon the weighted average cost of capital, is 
considered to be more appropriate for the year ended 31 December 2016 as many of these prior year uncertainties have been removed 
now the mobile payments business has launched and is generating revenues.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next four years 
(2015: five years) and extrapolates cash flows thereafter with 3 percent (2015: zero percent) growth rate as a proxy for inflation. This rate 
does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on its impairment results both in terms of the key assumptions underlying the business model 
and the inputs into the weighted average cost of capital calculation. In all cases in this sensitivity analysis the fair value of the goodwill exceeded 
the carrying value and therefore management believes that any reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would not cause 
the aggregate carrying amount of the Chinese operations to exceed the recoverable amount. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 86
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
15. Other intangible assets
Software
2016 2015
Cost
At 1 January 471 522
Additions 865 —
Disposals (317)  —
Reclassification — (52)  
Foreign exchange 30 1
At 31 December 1,049 471
Amortisation
At 1 January 279 202
Charge for the year 132 77
Disposals (317)  —
Foreign exchange 6 —
At 31 December 100 279
Carrying amount
At 31 December 949 192
Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is disclosed in note 3. All amortisation is included within 
administrative expenses.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 87
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
16. Property, plant and equipment
Motor  
vehicles
Leasehold 
improvements
Fixtures and 
equipment Total
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2015 2 330 797 1,129
Additions 68 57 127 252
Reclassification — 16 — 16
Disposals — — (74)  (74)  Exchange differences — 2 5 7
Disposal of subsidiary — — (35)  (35)  At 31 December 2015 70 405 820 1,295
Additions 99 24 358 481
Disposals — — (1)  (1)  Exchange differences — — 111 111
As at 31 December 2016 169 429 1,288 1,886
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 (2)  (305)  (463)  (770)  Charge for the year (5)  (26)  (170)  (201)  Reclassification — (7)  — (7)  Disposals — — 55 55
Exchange differences — (2)  (2)  (4)  Disposal of subsidiary — — 15 15
As at 31 December 2015 (7)  (340)  (565)  (912)  Charge for the year (27)  (68)  (157)  (252)  Exchange differences — 3 (62)  (59)  As at 31 December 2016 (34)  (405)  (784)  (1,223)  Carrying amount
At 31 December 2016 135 24 504 663
At 31 December 2015 63 65 255 383 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 88
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
17. Investment in subsidiaries
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
Cost and net book value 2016 2015
At 1 January 11 2,152
Disposals — (2,141)  At 31 December 11 11
During the prior year the Company has treated its 80% interest in I Will Win Limited as having been disposed. Further details are included 
in note 13 to the financial statements.
Subsidiaries
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 31 December 2016 are as follows:
Company
Country of registration  
or incorporation Principal Activity
Proportion of 
ownership 
interest %
Proportion of 
voting 
power held %
Brookfield Interactive Systems Limited * England and Wales Software development 100.00 100.00
Brookfield Interactive (Travel Entertainment)  
Limited *
England and Wales Dormant 100.00 100.00
Brookfield Interactive (Asia) Limited * England and Wales Development of payment services 
technology and operations
100.00 100.00
Newei Limited * England and Wales Dormant 100.00 100.00
Beijing Brookfield Interactive Science & Technology 
Co. Limited*
China Investment company 100.00 100.00
Xinhuacai Trading Hong Kong Limited* Hong Kong Investment company 100.00 100.00
DJI Holding Limited England and Wales Dormant 100.00 100.00
Newnet Group Limited England and Wales Dormant 100.00 100.00
* Directly owned subsidiary of BNN Technology plc
Chinese law and regulations restrict foreign investment in lottery businesses. Accordingly, the Company’s Chinese business operations 
are conducted through a series of arrangements between the relevant operating Company and Beijing Brookfield Interactive Science & 
Technology Limited. These arrangements enable the Group to:
• receive substantially all of the economic benefits from the affiliated entities in consideration for the services provided by the wholly-
owned subsidiary Beijing Brookfield Interactive Science &Technology Limited;
• exercise effective control over the affiliated entities; and
• hold an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in the Company’s affiliated entities when and to the extent 
permitted by PRC laws.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 89
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
17. Investment in subsidiaries (continued)
The Group does not have any equity interest in the affiliated entities. However, as a result of the arrangements in place, the Company has 
effective control over and has a variable interest in the returns from these companies, and for this reason the Directors consider the affiliated 
entities to be contractually controlled entities. At 31 December 2016, the Group had control over the following subsidiaries through these 
agreements:
Company
Country of registration
or incorporation Principal Activity
Proportion 
of ownership 
interest %
Proportion of 
voting power 
held %
Beijing Hulian Xincai Culture Development Co., 
Limited
China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
100.00 100.00
Beijing New Net Science & Technology Development 
Co., Limited
China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
100.00 100.00
Beijing Lucky Lottery Science & Technology 
Development Co., Ltd.
China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
75.00 75.00
Chongqing Chuangyang Science & Technology Co., 
Limited
China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
100.00 100.00
Shanghai Xinguan Systems Engineering Co., Limited China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
80.00 80.00
Beijing Hulian YiCai Technology Development Co., 
Limited
China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
100.00 100.00
Harbin Tengcai Science & Technology Co., Limited China Payment fulfilment services and 
technology development
80.00 80.00
The table below shows details of non-wholly owned subsidiaries or contractually controlled entities of the Group that have material non-
controlling interests: 
Profit/(loss)   allocated to  
non-controlling interest
Accumulated  
non-controlling interest
2016 2015 2016 2015
Company
Beijing Lucky Lottery Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. (73)  (52)  (426)  (310)  
Shanghai Xinguan Systems Engineering Co., Limited (61)  (9)  383 397
Harbin Tengcai Science & Technology Co., Limited (14)  (21)  (3)  13
Beijing New Net Science & Technology Development Co., Limited — — 59 52
Beijing Hulian Xincai Culture Development Co., Limited — — 117 104
(148)  (82)  130 256 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 90
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
18. Investment in associates
All associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Associate 1: On 7 July 2014 Beijing New Net Science and Technology Development Limited (“NewNet”), a company within the Group, 
entered into an agreement with Xinhautong Software Development (Beijing) Co., Limited, to develop and promote new lottery products. 
As part of the agreement, a new company was formed, Beijing Xinhaucai Technology Co., Limited (“Xinhuacai”), of which NewNet owns 
49%. During the year Xinhuacai entered into an agreement with a Hua Shu Digital, Hangzhou Shu Tou and Hangzhou Shi Cai, to develop 
the digital business and related services revenue stream and as part of that agreement, Xinhuacai invested into Xinhua Shi Cai Science and 
Technology Co Ltd (“Xinhua Shi Cai”) of which Xinhuacai owns 45%. During 2015, Xinhuacai entered into an agreement with Beijing Shen 
Cai and Sheng Shi Hua Shuo, to develop an online lottery game, as part of that agreement, Xinhuacai invested into Xinhua Shen Cai Science 
and Technology Co Ltd (Xinhua Shen Cai) of which Xinhuacai owns 45%.
2016 2015
ASSOCIATE 1:
Summarised financial information in respect of Xinhuacai is set out below:
Investments 1,317 —
Non-current assets 111 267
Current assets 1,530 2,924
Total assets 2,958 3,191
Total liabilities (81)  (48)  Net assets 2,877 3,143
Total revenue — —
Loss and other comprehensive loss for the year (1,194)  (1,706)  Group’s share of net assets of associates 49% 49%
Associate 2: In December 2015, Harbin TengCai Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd (“TengCai”), a newly formed company which 
is majority owned (80%) by NewNet, entered into an agreement with HeiLongJiang sports bureau, to develop and promote new lottery 
products and sports facility bookings. As part of the agreement, a new company was formed, HeiLongJiang LongTi Technology Co, Ltd 
(“LongTi”), of which TengCai owns 40%.
2016 2015
ASSOCIATE 2:
Summarised financial information in respect of LongTi is set out below:
Non-current assets 122 43
Current assets 2,741 1,504
Total assets 2,863 1,547
Total liabilities (57)  (17)  Net assets 2,806 1,530
Total revenue 69 8
Loss and other comprehensive loss for the year (282)  (29)  Group’s share of net assets of associates 40% 40%  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 91
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
18. Investment in associates (continued)
Associate 3: On 6 August 2015 NewNet, a Company within the Group, entered into an agreement with a Chinese national to develop 
and promote online sports lottery products in the Chinese province of Shandong. As part of the agreement a new company was formed, 
Qingdao BaiFa Technology Co, Limited (“BaiFa”), of which the Group owned 50%. In October 2016 the Group decided to dispose of it 
interests in BaiFa as it was felt that its ownership no longer fitted in with the Group’s overall strategy. The associate was disposed of for £nil 
proceeds and a loss on disposal of £181 thousands was recognised.
2016 2015
ASSOCIATE 3:
Summarised financial information in respect of BaiFa is set out below:
Non-current assets — —
Current assets — 24
Total assets — 24
Total liabilities — (9)  Net assets — 15
Total revenue 25 —
Loss and other comprehensive loss for the year (228)  —
Group’s share of net assets of associates 50% 50%
Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amounts in the Group financial statements is shown below:
2016 2015
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in associate 1 (49%) 1,410 1,540
Goodwill 3,269 2,598
Total associate 1 (49%) 4,679 4,138
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in associate 2 (40%) 1,122 612
Goodwill 521 416
Total associate 2 (40%) 1,643 1,028
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in associate 3 (50%) — 7
Goodwill — 45
Total associate 3 (50%) — 52
Total proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in associates 2,532 2,159
Total Goodwill 3,790 3,059
Total associates 6,322 5,218
Group’s share of loss of associates:
Associate 1 585 836
Associate 2 113 12
Associate 3 114 —
812 848 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 92
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
19. Other investments
2016 2015
Other investments 2,342 —
Other investments relates to the Company investments in Xinhuatong Network Co., Ltd, a privately owned company. These shares are not 
held for trading and are recognised at historic cost because fair value cannot be reliably determined.
20. Inventories
2016 2015
Finished goods 5 19
21. Trade and other receivables
Note to the Consolidated Balance Sheet
2016 2015
Current
Trade receivables 94 23
Unpaid share capital 473 11
Amounts owed by related parties (note 31) 761 61
Restricted cash deposits (note 23) 6,611 —
Other receivables 1,865 1,084
VAT receivable 1,429 980
Prepayments 3,534 2,290
14,767 4,449
Non-current
Restricted cash deposits (note 23) 7,600 —
7,600 —
Note to the Parent Company Balance Sheet
2016 2015
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 53,691 45,344
Unpaid share capital 473 11
Prepayments and other debtors 352 13
VAT receivable 98 106
54,614 45,474
Non-current
Loan to subsidiaries 15,350 —
15,350 —
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables disclosed above are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost. The 
Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the 
date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and 
unrelated. There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor, with the exception of the secured 
bank facility described further in note 23, does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 93
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
22. Trade and other payables
Note to the Consolidated Balance Sheet
2016 2015
Current
Trade creditors 198 538
Amounts owed to related parties (note 31) 163 686
Accruals 1,013 2,144
Income tax payable 53 48
Other taxes and social security 361 27
Contingent consideration 837 850
Other payables 2,637 1,333
5,262 5,626
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period 
taken for purchases is 64 days (2015: 50 days). For most suppliers, no interest is charged on the trade payables. The Group has financial risk 
management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Note to the Parent Company Balance Sheet
2016 2015
Current
Accruals 868 1,924
Other payables 326 294
1,194 2,218
23. Borrowings
Note to the Consolidated Balance Sheet
2016 2015
Secured borrowing at amortised cost:
Bank loans 11,555 —
Unsecured borrowing at amortised cost:
Convertible loan notes 7,709 5,978
Loans from related parties (note 31) 410 —
19,674 5,978
Total borrowings
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 6,110 —
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 13,564 5,978
19,674 5,978
Note to the Parent Company Balance Sheet
2016 2015
Unsecured borrowing at amortised cost:
Convertible loan notes 7,709 5,978
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 7,709 5,978 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 94
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
23. Borrowings (continued)
Sterling Renminbi Total
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
December 31, 2016
Bank loans — 11,555 11,555
Loans from related parties (note 31) — 410 410
Convertible loan notes 7,709 — 7,709
7,709 11,965 19,674
December 31, 2015
Convertible loan notes 5,978 — 5,978
Bank loans
On June 1, 2016 BNN Technology plc established a financing relationship with China Everbright Bank in order to efficiently provide working 
capital funding to its trading subsidiary Beijing NewNet Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. Under the arrangements, the China 
Everbright Bank Hong Kong Branch provided Beijing NewNet Science & Technology Development Co., Ltd. with a Chinese Renminbi 
denominated loan which carries an interest rate in the range of 4.6 to 4.7 percent. This was secured by a sterling cash deposit of the Company 
with the China Everbright Bank Hong Kong Branch. These cash security deposits are shown as restricted cash within the consolidated 
balance sheet, as disclosed in note 21.
At December 31, 2016 the Company had drawn-down RMB 99,200 thousand (c. £11,555 thousand) which was repayable as follows:
2016 2015
May 31, 2017 3,358 —
July 25, 2017 2,342 —
October 10, 2018 5,855 —
11,555 —
The weighted average interest rates paid during the year were as follows:
2016
%
2015
%
Bank loans 4.6 —
Convertible loan notes
On April 20, 2016 the Company agreed with the noteholder, Stadium Parkgate Limited, to cancel the previously existing Convertible Loan 
Notes and to issue New Notes for the same principal amount of £6,000 thousand, but carrying an interest rate of 6 per cent. The previously 
existing Convertible Loan Notes were cancelled on 17 May 2016 and the New Notes issued on the same date. This has been accounted 
for as an extinguishment of the previously existing notes, which were derecognised on cancellation and an issuance of the new convertible 
loan notes. At the date of extinguishment, the Convertible Loan Notes including accrued interest had a carrying value of £8,403 thousand 
and a loss of £2,449 thousand arose on cancellation related to the difference between the amortised cost of the previous loan notes and 
the estimated fair value of the new notes.
The New Notes (£6,000 thousand as mentioned above), together with accrued interest, are capable of conversion at the option of the 
noteholder to Ordinary Shares at any time after December 31, 2016 and prior to July 17, 2018, other than in circumstances of certain changes 
of control where the new notes will be capable of conversion to Ordinary Shares prior to December 31, 2016. The conversion price of 
the new notes will be the lower of 115p and the closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share on December 31, 2016 provided that the 
conversion price cannot be less than 60p, other than in circumstances of certain changes of control where the conversion price of the new 
notes will be 115p.
In addition, further New Interest Notes were issued for the sum of £2,403 thousand, this being the accrued interest to the date of 
cancellation of the previous Convertible Loan Notes. The New Interest Notes are capable of conversion at the option of the Company to 
Ordinary Shares at any time after December 31, 2016 and prior to January 31, 2017 at the lower of 115p and the closing mid-market price 
of an Ordinary Share on December 31, 2016 provided that the conversion price cannot be less than 60p. The New Interest Notes carry an 
interest rate of 20 per cent from February 17, 2017. Furthermore, the noteholder has the option of conversion to Ordinary Shares at any time 
after January 31, 2017 and prior to July 17, 2018 at the lower of 115p and the closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share on December 
31, 2016.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 95
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
23. Borrowings (continued)
Separately, at any time after January 31, 2017 or prior to December 31, 2016 in the event of certain changes of control, the New Interest 
Notes are capable of conversion at the option of the noteholder to Ordinary Shares at the lower of 1 15p and the closing mid-market price of 
an Ordinary Share on December 31, 2016 provided that the conversion price cannot be less than 60p, other than in circumstances of certain 
changes of control where the conversion price of the new notes will be 115p.
The New Notes and New Interest Notes were initially recognised as a liability of their estimated fair value of £7,868 thousand and £2,984 
thousand respectively. Since the conversion option is in respect of a variable number of shares it did not meet the definition of equity at 
inception but represents an embedded derivative liability which is accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value (gains or losses) 
recognised as financing income / (costs).
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible loan notes have been split between the financial liability element and a derivative 
financial instrument, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the financial liability into equity of the Company, as 
follows:
New Interest 
Notes New Notes
Fair value of convertible loan notes 2,984 7,868
Debt issue costs — (44)  Derivative liability (652)  (2,746)  Liability component at date of issue 2,332 5,078
Interest charged 62 462
Interest paid — (225)  Liability component at 31 December 2016 2,394 5,315
The liability component is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. The difference between the carrying amount 
of the liability component at the date of issue and the amount reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 represents the effective 
interest rate less interest paid to that date.
24. Deferred tax
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £46,714 thousand (2015: £32,104 thousand) available for offset against future 
profits. No deferred tax assets have been recognised as it is not considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available. Losses 
may be carried forward indefinitely.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are as follows:
2016 2015
Tax losses 9,864 6,849
Accelerated tax depreciation 8 9
Other 14 652
9,886 7,510
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where the group has a legally enforceable right to do so and where the assets and liabilities 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity or another entity within the group.
Finance Act No. 2 2015, which was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015, includes provisions to reduce the corporation tax to 19% with 
effect from 1 April 2017 and 18% with effect from 1 April 2020. In addition, the Finance Bill 2016 was substantively enacted on 6 September 
2016 which introduced a further reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 18% to 17% from 1 April 2020. Accordingly these rates 
have been applied when calculating deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016.
There is no expiry date on timing differences, unused tax losses or tax credits. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 96
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
25. Share capital
2016 2015
Authorised, issued and fully paid
205,272,707 ordinary shares of 10p each (2015: 144,306,820) 20,527 14,431
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
During the year, the Company issued 61,894,327 ordinary shares of 10p each for cash consideration of £51,153,367 giving rise to a share 
premium of £42,613,415, which is net of £2,350,519 share placing costs. Furthermore, during the year, the Company issued 1,392,860 
ordinary shares of 10p each for which proceeds of £487,500 were received in the prior year giving rise to a share premium of £348,214.
In May 2016 2,321,300 ordinary shares were returned to the Company as part of the Woying discontinued operation (see note 13).
Included in the 61,894,327 ordinary shares issued during the year were 652,616 new ordinary shares of 10p were issued to North Square 
Blue Oak Ltd on 27 September 2016 on the exercise of 652,616 share warrants with an exercise price of 100p.
At December 31, 2016, the Company had 4,500,000 warrants in issue with an exercise price at 35p each which expire in March 2018, 
655,892 warrants in issue with an exercise price of 35p each which expire in October 2018 and 652,616 warrants in issue with an exercise 
price of 100p each which expire in July 2019.
26. Reserves
Consolidated
Share  
premium
EBT  
reserve
Accumulated 
deficit
Non-
controlling 
interests
Balance at 1 January 2015 19,433 (575)  (17,473)  686
Loss for the year — — (11,366)  (82)  Exchange differences — — 160 (4)  Premium arising on issue of share capital 3,513 — 178 —
Expense of issue of equity (514)  — — —
Credit to equity for equity-settled share based payments — — 455 —
Disposals — — (2,382)  (344)  Proceeds from shares not yet issued — — 488 —
As 31 December 2015 22,432 (575)  (29,940)  256
Loss for the year — — (18,062)  (148)  Exchange differences — — (1,428 )  22
Premium arising on issue of share capital 45,313 — (488)  —
Expense of issue of equity (2,351)  — — —
Credit to equity for equity-settled share based payments — — 129 —
Cancellation of shares — — 232 —
Equity component of convertible debt — — 4,204 —
As at 31 December 2016 65,394 (575)  (45,353)  130
Included within the accumulated deficit in 2015 is an amount of £454,750 that represents the share warrant valuation granted to D Mercer 
and White & Company Limited.
The EBT reserve represents the cost of shares in BNN Technology PLC which are held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy 
options and other awards to the Group’s employees. The number of ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust at 31 December 
2016 was 1,215,234 (2015: 1,215,234).
The cancellation of shares relates to the Woying discontinued operations. See note 13 for further details.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 97
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
26. Reserves (continued)
At 31 December, 2016 the conversion price in respect of the convertible loan notes became fixed at 115 pence per share, and accordingly 
the conversion option (which was initially accounted for as an embedded derivative) now met, the definition of equity under IAS 39. The 
Company has determined the absence of a variable pricing feature from 31 December 2016 represents a change in the contractual terms 
applicable to the convertible loan note and the classification of the option feature has been modified to equity and the fair value of the 
embedded derivative at 31 December 2016 reclassified to the accumulated deficit in equity.
Restricted assets
Under PRC laws and regulations, the Company’s subsidiaries and contractually controlled entities may only pay dividends out of their retained 
earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. The results of operations reflected in the 
financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS may differ from those reflected in the statutory financial statements of the Company’s 
subsidiaries and contractually controlled entities.
In accordance with PRC laws and regulations, WFOE, as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in the PRC is required to set aside at least 10% 
of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve fund, until the aggregate amount of such fund reaches 50% 
of its registered capital. At its discretion, it may allocate a further portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff 
welfare and bonus funds. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends.
Additionally, in accordance with the Company Law of the PRC, a domestic enterprise is required to provide a statutory surplus fund at least 
equal to 10% of its accumulated after-tax profits each year until the aggregate amount of such a fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. A 
domestic enterprise is also required to provide a discretionary surplus fund, at the discretion of the board of directors, from the net profits 
reported in the enterprise’s PRC statutory financial statements. The aforementioned reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes 
and are not distributable as cash dividends.
As a result of these PRC laws and regulations that require annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax profits to be set aside prior to payment of 
dividends as a general reserve fund or statutory surplus fund, the Group’s PRC subsidiaries and contractually controlled entities are restricted 
in their ability to transfer net assets to the Company. At December 31, 2016 statutory surplus funds, which cannot be distributed by the 
Company’s contractually controlled entities and their subsidiaries, were £116 thousand, (2015: £88 thousand).
Parent Company
Share  
premium
EBT  
reserve
Accumulated 
deficit
Balance at 1 January 2015 19,433 (575)  7,948
Loss for the year — — (3,504)  Premium arising on issue of share capital 3,513 — 178
Expense of issue of equity (514)  — —
Credit to equity for equity-settled share based payments — — 455
Disposals — — (2,111)  
Equity component of convertible debt — — 488
As 31 December 2015 22,432 (575)  3,454
Loss for the year — — (6,870)  
Premium arising on issue of share capital 45,313 — (488)  Expense of issue of equity (2,351)  — —
Credit to equity for equity-settled share based payments — — 129
Cancellation of shares — — 232
Equity component of convertible debt — — 4,204
As at 31 December 2016 65,394 (575)  661
The cancellation of shares relates to the Woying discontinued operations. See note 13 for further details. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 98
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
27. Notes to the cash flow statement
2016 2015
Loss for the year after discontinued operations (18,210)  (11,448)  Adjustments for:
Share of results of associates 631 848
Loss of disposal of associates 181 —
Income tax expense — 157
Finance costs 1,739 1,395
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations — 1,661
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1
Depreciation of property plant and equipment 252 201
Amortisation of intangible assets 132 77
Share based payments 129 610
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (15,145)  (6,498 )  
Decrease in inventories 16 134
Increase in receivables (3,029)  (2,206)  Increase in payables 1,678 116
Net cash used by operations (16,480)  (8,454 )  
Income taxes paid 103 (375)  Interest paid (59 8 )  (2)  Net cash used by operating activities (16,975  )  (8,831 )  
Significant non-cash transactions include the extinguishment and issue of loan notes (described in note 23), fair value movement of the 
embedded derivative on the convertible loan notes (described in note 23), employee share based payments (described in note 30) and 
interest accruals.
2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 28,028 4,028
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding 
bank overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets is approximately equal to their fair value.
Parent Company
2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 24,935 2,453  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 99
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
28. Operating lease arrangements
2016 2015
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year: 964 848
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows: 
2016 2015
Within one year 832 1,113
In the second to fifth years inclusive 536 704
1,368 1,817
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties. Leases are negotiated for an average 
term of 5 years.
29. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from prior year.
The capital structure of the Group is primarily equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and 
retained earnings as disclosed in notes 25 and 26. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group’s board reviews the capital structure on a periodic basis. As part of this review, the committee considers the cost of capital 
and the risks associated with each class of capital. Due to the stage of the Group’s operations, the business is equity funded through a 
combination of equity and convertible loan notes.
Categories of financial instruments
2016 2015
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 28,028 4,028
Restricted cash deposits 14,211 —
Loans and receivables 3,193 1,179
Other investments 2,342 —
Financial liabilities:
Convertible loan notes 7,709 5,978
Amortised cost (including trade payables) 2,998 2,557
Secured loans 11,555 —
Loans from related parties 410 —
Contingent consideration 837 850
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group 
has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of 
mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The maximum credit risk is the carrying amount of the instrument.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. On-going credit evaluation 
is performed on the financial condition of financial statements receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover is 
purchased.
Apart from The Bank of China (who holds the majority of the Group’s cash), the Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure 
to any single counterparty or any Group of counterparties having similar characteristics. The Group defines counterparties as having similar 
characteristics if they are related entities. Concentration of credit risk to any other counterparty did not exceed five per cent of gross 
monetary assets at any time during the year. The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit  
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 100
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s Board reviews the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group. These risks include foreign currency risk, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group’s major subsidiaries are based in China and principally trade in Chinese Yuan Renminbi (“RMB”). Foreign currency transactions 
(with the exception of inter-Company funding) are limited and therefore the Group’s exchange rate exposures are limited.
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of Directors, which has established an appropriate liquidity risk 
management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash 
flows, and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. The Group has no undrawn borrowing facilities at its disposal. 
With the exception of the Convertible Loan Notes disclosed in note 23 and the secured borrowings disclosed in note 23, all financial assets 
and liabilities are due within one year.
Fair value measurements
The information set out below provides information about how the Group determines fair values of various financial assets and financial 
liabilities.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into 
Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for 
the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Fair value of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The following 
table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined (in particular, the valuation 
technique(s) and inputs used).
Financial assets/ 
financial liabilities Fair value as at
Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation technique(s) and 
key input(s)
Significant unobservable 
input(s)
Relationship of 
unobservable inputs to fair 
value
December 
31, 2016
December 
31, 2015
1) Contingent 
consideration 
in a business 
combination
Liability 
of £837 
thousand
Liability 
of £850 
thousand
Level 3 Discounted cash flow 
method was used to 
capture the present value of 
the Group arising from the 
contingent consideration.
Discount rate of 12.4 per 
cent determined using a 
Capital Asset Pricing Model.
The higher the discount 
rate, the lower the fair value.
If the discount rate was 1 
per cent higher/lower while 
all other variables were 
held constant, the carrying 
amount would decrease/
increase by £5 thousand 
(2015: decrease/increase by 
£5 thousand).  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 101
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
29. Financial instruments (continued)
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial liabilities
FVTPL
Contingent 
consideration
Embedded 
derivative Total
Balance at January 1, 2015 8,350 — 8,350
Total gains or losses:
– in profit or loss 107 — 107
– in other comprehensive income 281 — 281
Payments (1,167)  — (1,167)  Disposal (note 13) (6,721)  — (6,721)  Balance at January 1, 2016 850 — 850
Total gains or losses:
– in profit or loss (107)  806 699
– in other comprehensive income 94 — 94
Issuances — 3,398 3,398
Reclassification to equity — (4,204 )  (4,204 )  
Balance at December 31, 2016 837 — 837
30. Share based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Company has a share option scheme for certain employees of the Group. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the estimated fair 
value of the Company’s shares at the date of grant. The vesting period is between one and three years. If the options remain unexercised 
after a period of ten years from the date of grant the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the 
options vest.
2016 2015
Number of 
share options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number of 
share options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Outstanding at beginning of year — — — —
Granted during the year 980,000 0.100 — —
Forfeited during the year — — — —
Outstanding at end of the year 980,000 0.100 — —
Exercisable at end of the year — — — —
The Group recognised total expenses of £129 thousand in relation to employee share option scheme (2015: £nil).
The options outstanding at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.72 years. In 2016, options were granted 
to employees of the Company. The aggregate of the estimated fair value of the options granted is £1,153 thousand. The inputs into the Black-
Scholes model are as follows:
Employee share scheme
Weighted average share price £1.41
Weighted average exercise price £0.10
Expected volatility 88.80%
Expected life 1-3 years
Risk-free rate 1.50%
Expected dividend yield 0.00% BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 102
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
30. Share based payments (continued)
Warrants
In conjunction with the issue of shares in the prior year (see note 25) the Company issued 654 thousand warrants to the Company’s Broker 
and to its Nominated Advisor at an exercise price of 35 pence, these have a remaining contractual life of 4.7 years. In addition the Company 
granted 4,000 thousand warrants to the Company’s CEO D Mercer and 500 thousand warrants to an external consultant White & Co. Ltd. 
on 10 December 2015 which are exercisable at any time up to 9 December 2018 at an exercise price of 35 pence, and have a remaining 
contractual life of 3 years. 
Details of the share options and warrants outstanding during the year are as follows:
2016 2015
Number of 
share warrants
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number of 
share warrants
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Outstanding at beginning of year 6,459,124 0.481 2,933,482 0.957
Granted during the year — — 5,153,892 0.432
Exercised during the year (652,616)  1.000 — —
Forfeited during the year — — (1,628  ,250) 0.922
Outstanding at end of the year 5,806,508 0.423 6,459,124 0.481
Exercisable at end of the year 5,806,508 0.423 6,459,124 0.481
During the prior year 1,628,250 share options granted in 2014 to the Group’s previous CFO Rodney Davis were forfeited as a result of him 
leaving the Company.
Additionally, in 2015 the Group recognised total expenses of £455 thousand in respect of the warrants above and £156 thousand in respect 
of the settlement agreement as disclosed in note 9. Furthermore, the fair value of the Broker and Nominated Advisor warrants of £179 
thousand was recognised as a deduction from the share premium arising on the share issue in the prior year.
The aggregate estimated fair value of the warrants granted to D Mercer and to White & Co. Ltd is £455 thousand and for the warrants 
issued to the Broker and Nominated Advisor is £l79 thousand. The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for those warrants granted during 
2015 are as follows:
D Mercer/
White & Co.
Broker/ 
Nominated 
Advisor
Weighted average share price £ 0.30 £ 0.48
Weighted average exercise price £ 0.35 £ 0.35
Expected volatility 58.40 % 56.20
Expected life 3 years 5 years
Risk-free rate 0.81% 1.19
Expected dividend yield 0.00% 0.00%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous year. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and 
behavioural considerations.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 103
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
31. Related party transactions
Consolidated
Balances and transactions and its subsidiaries, which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this 
note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Trading transactions
During the year, the Group made the following payments to related parties:
2016 2015
Wei Qi (a Director of Beijing New Science & Technology Development Co. Limited) Fees of: — 154
Xinhuatong Software Development (Beijing) Co. Ltd: RMB 20,000,000 in 2016 2,226 243
Heilongjiang LongTi: Stage investment RMB 10,000,000 (2015: RMB 10,000,000) 1,113 —
QingDao Shandong BaiFa Network Technology Co. Ltd: Stage investment RMB 500,000 — 52
GLMC Consultancy Ltd (company owned by Grant Mercer, the brother of Darren Mercer) 182 —
Peover Inns Ltd (company owned by Darren Mercer) 20 —
Xinhua Shicai: RMB 9,000,000 1,002 1,035
Hulian Xincai Information Technology Co. Ltd: RMB 2,900,000 323 —
Loans to related parties
Maximum 
outstanding 
during year 2016 2015
Loans by related parties (included in creditors)
W Yulan — —
Xinhuatong Software Development (Beijing) Co. Ltd — 686
Hulian Xincai Hangzhou Sport Culture Communication Ltd. 163 —
163 686
Loans by related parties (including borrowings)
Xinhuatong Software Development (Beijing) Co. Ltd 410 —
410 —
Loans to related parties (included in debtors)
D Mercer* 438 438 61
Hulian Xincai Information Technology Co. Ltd: RMB 2,900,000 323 323 —
761 761 61
* The year on year increase is largely driven by a tax bill and the full directors loan balance will be cleared by 30th June 2017.
The loans included in the company’s debtors are repayable on demand and are not subject to interest charges. The aggregated amount of 
repayments made in the year were £nil.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2016 2015
Short-term employee benefits 1,540 680
Total short term employee benefits 1,540 680 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 104
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
31. Related party transactions (continued)
Remuneration disclosed above include the following amounts paid to the highest paid Director.
2016 2015
D Mercer
Remuneration for qualifying services 502 40
Amounts payable to third parties in respect of Directors’ services 64 255
Other 14 7
Total short term employee benefits 580 302
Parent Company
Trading transactions
Inter-company balances
31 Dec 2015 movements 31 Dec 2016
Brookfield Interactive (Asia) Limited 27,936 220 28,156
Brookfield Interactive Systems Limited 15,928 4,292 20,220
Beijing New Net Science & Technology Development Co., Limited 1,480 3,835 5,315
Xinhuacai Trading Hong Kong Limited — 15,350 15,350
Total Balances 45,344 23,697 69,041
Movements on inter-company balances were to fund the working capital and investment requirements made by Group companies.
Directors’ emoluments
Name of Director
Fees/Basic  
salary
Benefits in  
kind
Annual  
bonuses 2016 total 2015 total
Executive
Darren Mercer 386 14 180 580 302
Wei Qi 268 51 250 569 —
Scott Kennedy 97 7 — 104 —
Rodney Davis — — — — 190
Non-executive
Robert Lerwill 46 — — 46 50
Lord Mancroft 150 4 20 174 66
Simon Prior Palmer — — — — 72
Dong Jinhua 67 — — 67 —
Aggregate Emoluments 1,014 76 450 1,540 680
Directors’ share options
Details of options for Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Name of Director 31 Dec 2015 Granted Cancelled 31 Dec 2016
Exercise Price  
(p)
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
Darren Mercer 4,000 — — 4,000 35 10-Dec-15 09-Dec-18
The shares of the Company are widely held and no one party has a majority shareholding. The Company is therefore under the control of 
the Board of Directors. The largest and smallest Group of which the Company is a member and for which Group financial statements are 
drawn up is the Group headed by this Company.  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 105
For the year ended 31 December 2016
(all figures reported in £’000 sterling unless otherwise stated)
32. Subsequent events
1. Conversion of convertible loan notes
The Company announced on 26 January 2017 that it had exercised its conversion rights in respect of the full outstanding balance of 
£2,403,288 New Interest Notes (as described in note 23).
The Convertible Notes were capable of conversion into new ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company at any time after 
31 December 2016 and prior to 31 January 2017 at the lower of 1 15p and the closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share on 31 December 
2016. As such 2,089,816 new Ordinary shares were issued at a conversion price of 115p to Stadium Parkgate (Holdings) Limited.
2. Placing of £25 million
The Company announced on 13 April 2017 the successful completion of the proposed placing, raising gross proceeds of £25 million. A total 
of 31,250,000 new ordinary shares of par value £0.10 each in the Company have been conditionally placed at a price of 80 pence per Placing 
Share. The Placing Shares will, when issued, be credited as fully paid and will rank pari passu in all respects with the existing Ordinary Shares, 
including the right to receive all dividends or other distributions made, paid or declared in respect of such shares after the date of issue of 
the Placing Shares.
The Placing Shares are to be issued in two tranches, the second of which is conditional, inter alia, on the approval of BNN shareholders. 
A first tranche of 15,625,000 new Ordinary Shares will be issued and admitted to trading on AIM on 21 April 2017, raising gross proceeds 
of approximately £12.5 million. A second tranche of 15,625,000 new Ordinary Shares will be issued and admitted to trading on or around 
15 May 2017, raising gross proceeds of approximately £12.5 million, subject to, inter alia, the receipt of shareholder approval of the necessary 
resolutions to enable the issue of the Second Placing Shares.  BNN Technology Annual Report & Accounts 2016
