  Performance driven
Annual report 2010
Year ended 31 March 2010
 identify
invest
involve
 Caledonia Investments plc tel 020 7802 8080
Cayzer House fax 020 7802 8090
30 Buckingham Gate email enquiries@caledonia.com
London SW1E 6NN web www.caledonia.com
 Caledonia Investments Annual report 2010 01 Financial highlights
 Business review
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Chief Executive’s report
07 Objectives and strategy
08 Portfolio information
10 Twenty largest investments
15 Valuation methodology
16 Financial review
20 Historic performance
21 Risks and uncertainties
 Directors’ reports
22 Board of directors
24 Directors’ report
27 Directors’ statement of responsibility
52 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Corporate governance report
 Financial statements
28 Independent auditors’ report
29 Statement of comprehensive income
30 Statement of ﬁ nancial position
31 Statement of changes in equity
32 Statements of cash ﬂ ows
33 Accounting policies
37 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
64 Information for shareholders
Caledonia is one of the UK’s largest investment 
trusts and is self-managed. We aim to be a core 
investment for those seeking a store of increasing 
value, by investing for the longer term in a range 
of assets.
Our ability to identify opportunities through 
our extensive network, invest in signiﬁ cant stakes 
for the longer term and involve ourselves with 
the managements of investee companies underpins 
our investment approach, through which we seek 
to deliver shareholder value.
We are performance driven.
65 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Information for shareholders
Chairman
James R H Loudon 
2
Executive directors
Timothy C W Ingram (Chief Executive)
Stephen A King (Finance Director)
Jamie M B Cayzer-Colvin
The Hon Charles W Cayzer
John M May
William P Wyatt
Non-executive directors
Charles M Allen-Jones (Senior Independent) 
1,2,3,4
Mark E T Davies 
2,3,4
Charles H Gregson 
1,2,3,4
Richard Goblet d’Alviella 
1
David G F Thompson 
1,2,3,4
1. Member of the Audit Committee
2. Member of the Nomination Committee
3. Member of the Remuneration Committee
4. Member of the Governance Committee
Associate directors
Graeme P Denison
Jonathan R Hale
Anthony E G Hambro
Mathew S D Masters
Sheena D McNeill
Paul M Whiteley
Secretary
Graeme P Denison
Registered ofﬁ ce
Cayzer House
30 Buckingham Gate
London SW1E 6NN
Registered number
Registered in England no 235481
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute including VAT, plus network extras)
or: +44 20 8639 3399 if calling from overseas
Computershare Investor Services Ltd
Private Bag 921 19
Auckland 1 142
New Zealand
Tel: +64 9 488 8777
Brokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
First NZ Capital Securities
PO Box 3394
Level 10, Fujitsu Tower
282-292 Lambton Quay
Wellington 6140
New Zealand
Solicitors
Freshﬁ elds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
 This report has been printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print. Under the framework of ISO 14001, Royle takes a structured approach to 
measure, improve and audit their environmental status on an ongoing basis. The main areas targeted for continual reduction arise from the 
use of solvents, energy consumption and waste generation. Royle is a Carbon Neutral printing company and also Forestry Stewardship Council 
(FSC) Chain of Custody Certiﬁ ed. All inks used are vegetable based. This paper is environmentally-friendly ECF (elemental chlorine free), wood 
free and with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully FSC certiﬁ ed. The paper is also completely 
bio-degradable and recyclable.
 Page 10 British Empire Securities image copyright © Swire Paciﬁ c Ltd.
Page 1 1 London & Stamford Property image copyright © Arsenal FC.
Designed and produced by The College
www.thecollege.uk.com
TT-COC-002228 01 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Financial highlights
Results summary
 31 March 31 March Change
 2010 2009 %
T otal equity £1,182m £906m 30.5
Diluted NAV per share 2034p 1559p 30.5
Annual dividend per share 35.3p 33.8p 4.4
Share price 1625p 1289p 26.1
Discount 20.1% 17.3% 
FTSE All-Share index 2910 1984 46.7
T otal return performance
  5 year 10 year
  % %
Share price  32.1 196.7
FTSE All-Share index  41.3 29.7
Relative performance  -9.2 167.0






 References to net asset value (‘NAV’) refer to the company statement of ﬁ nancial position, rather than that of the group, as the directors 
consider this to be the most appropriate measure of performance.



 Financial highlights 02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Results
Caledonia’s net asset value per share recovered by 30.5% in the year 
to 31 March 2010, having fallen by some 28% in the previous year’s 
turbulent equity markets. The fact that this recovery lagged that 
of the FTSE All-Share index should be seen in the context of our 
relative outperformance in the previous year and, over a prolonged 
period, in each of the years before that.
 Our share price total return has continued to outperform 
the index signiﬁ cantly over a ten year period. However, over the 
last ﬁ ve years we are now showing some underperformance due to 
the recent widening of our share price discount to net asset value. 
Tim Ingram gives a detailed analysis, in his Chief Executive’s report, 
of Caledonia’s performance track record.
Dividend
The board declared a second interim dividend in February of 24.7p, 
which was paid on 30 March 2010. As stated at the time, the board 
believed that it was in the shareholders’ interests to accelerate the 
timing of this year’s ﬁ nal dividend. The second interim dividend has 
therefore replaced the ﬁ nal dividend that would normally have 
been paid in August 2010. The directors do not recommend the 
payment of a ﬁ nal dividend.
 The second interim dividend gave a 5. 1% increase of 1.2p over 
the 2009 ﬁ nal dividend, resulting in a total dividend for the year 
of 35.3p per share, an overall increase of 4.4%. This represents the 
43rd successive year of annual dividend increases.
Investment strategy
During the year, I have had the opportunity to visit the 
management teams of most of our major investee companies, 
accompanying the responsible Caledonia executive director. 
From these visits I have been able to appreciate just how much 
our investee companies value having Caledonia as a signiﬁ cant 
shareholder, given our good investment reputation. It is also clear 
to me that having a Caledonia representative as a non-executive 
director on most of our investee company boards gives us an 
invaluable insight into the affairs of those companies. It not only 
enables us to gain a deeper understanding of our investments, 
but also allows our investee companies to beneﬁ t from the skills 
of our investment team.
 
Our own board has an important role to play in reviewing 
Caledonia’s investment strategy. We have normally found it 
appropriate to undertake such a review every other year, but last 
year we decided to hold an interim review in the light of the 
exceptionally difﬁ cult global economic conditions which persisted 
for much of the year. We examined in detail the geographic mix of 
our investments, where a notable change over the last several years 
has been our increased exposure to Asia. We re-afﬁ rmed our belief 
that this exposure will continue to give us good growth 
opportunities, while recognising that it does require a signiﬁ cant 
input of investment management resources on our part. We also 
examined the mix of quoted and unquoted investments in our 
overall portfolio and concluded that a signiﬁ cant weighting of 
unquoted investments with strong growth potential remains 
appropriate, but again we recognise the greater investment 
management time these require compared with quoted 
investments.
 In addition, we speciﬁ cally examined our experiences of 
investing in India, including a review of our current investments. 
Caledonia has been invested in India for over ﬁ ve years, during 
which we have learnt a great deal and, we believe, have built a 
good reputation in the Indian market. While appreciating the risks 
associated with investing in India, we continue to believe that India 
is likely to offer an attractive level of growth over the coming years.
AIFM Directive
Caledonia has spent much time over the past few months seeking 
to persuade EU policy makers to exclude investment trusts from 
the scope of the proposed Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
Directive. The Directive was drafted in response to the EU’s 
perception of the role played by hedge funds and private equity 
ﬁ rms in the recent ﬁ nancial crisis and its main objective is to subject 
these to greater transparency and accountability. However, the 
Directive has included investment trusts within its deﬁ nition of an 
alternative investment fund and, in doing so, has failed to recognise 
their totally different nature and structure, led as they are by 
boards fully accountable to shareholders, subject to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and transparency and with 
their shares freely tradeable on the London Stock Exchange.
 Amendments to the Directive are being proposed to 
recognise the distinctive nature of investment trusts, but we shall 
continue to press for their total exclusion from its scope, since 
otherwise there remains a risk of signiﬁ cant cost and compliance 
burdens, with no beneﬁ ts whatsoever.
Chairman’s statement
Share price total return outperformance against the FTSE All-Share Total Return 
over ten years
16 7%
Increase in the annual dividend
4. 4% 03 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Staff
All our staff have once more fulﬁ lled their duties with considerable 
professionalism and dedication and I give them my thanks for their 
hard work throughout the year.
Outlook
Equity markets have recovered from their steep falls of the recent 
past and overall market valuations now look more challenging, 
with the likely prospect of sluggish economic growth ahead in 
the developed world. In the US and much of Europe, ﬁ scal 
retrenchment will need to be severe and that will be notably so 
in the UK. We now look forward to the new Government taking 
timely and appropriate steps, however hard the decisions may be, 
to reduce the level of public borrowing and to pursue concomitant 
measures to reshape our public services.
 Nearly all of our investment activity last year was in existing 
investee companies, supporting the capital needs of sound 
businesses which we know well. Our focus is likely to be similar over 
the year ahead, though we shall remain alert for new opportunities 
which provide sufﬁ cient value potential.
James Loudon
Chairman
Board
The board has seen a number of changes over the past year. In 
September 2009, we were pleased to appoint Charles Gregson as 
an additional independent non-executive director. His experience 
from having been an executive director at United Business Media 
and from his current role as the non-executive Chairman of ICAP 
provides a valuable additional resource to our board.
 In December 2009, Stephen King joined the board as Finance 
Director in succession to Jonathan Cartwright. Jonathan made a 
considerable contribution to Caledonia’s affairs over some twenty 
years both as Finance Director and as a Caledonia representative on 
a number of investee company boards. I would like to thank him on 
behalf of the board and shareholders for his diligent and dedicated 
service. Stephen joined us from De La Rue, where he had been 
Group Finance Director, and has already brought to bear his wide 
ranging skills to Caledonia’s beneﬁ t.
 In January 2010, we announced that Tim Ingram will retire 
as Chief Executive following the AGM on 21 July after eight years 
at the helm. Tim has delivered an outstanding performance for 
Caledonia and its shareholders – over that period the share price 
total return has been more than double that of the FTSE All-Share 
index, a tribute to his exceptionally astute investment judgement. 
In addition, he has successfully exercised the wider skills of a chief 
executive and has been an excellent communicator both with the 
board and the investment community. I would like to thank him 
very much indeed on behalf of the board and shareholders for 
all that he has done for Caledonia.
 In his place we welcome Will Wyatt as Chief Executive. 
Will has been an executive director of Caledonia since 2005 and has 
consistently delivered an excellent investment performance from 
his portfolio of investee companies. We are conﬁ dent that he will 
be a worthy successor as Chief Executive.
“ We have again outperformed 
against our ten year benchmark, 
delivering a total shareholder return 
over the period of 197%. ” 04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Performance over the year
After two years of falling market values, the year ended 
31 March 2010 saw a strong rebound in equity values. As a result, 
our own diluted net asset value (‘NAV’) per share increased by 
30.5%, largely offsetting the previous year’s fall. However it is 
disappointing to report that this gain nonetheless represented 
an underperformance of 16.2%, compared with the spectacular rise 
in the FTSE All-Share index of 46.7%. This is the ﬁ rst time that we 
have underperformed in the seven years since we converted to 
investment trust status in 2003. The principal cause for this relative 
underperformance has been our consistently conservative, but 
robust, approach to investing, speciﬁ cally directed towards long 
term performance. Our philosophy is to take signiﬁ cant long term 
stakes, usually with a board seat, in sound, well run companies. The 
value of our holdings in such companies fell signiﬁ cantly less than 
the equity market as a whole during the downturn, and hence had 
less ground to make up in the recovery phase. Nevertheless, over 
the longer term we continue to expect the total shareholder 
returns (‘TSR’) of such companies to outperform their peers.
 Our one year performance has also been restrained to 
the extent that we have held cash and other low yield liquid 
investments. Although such investments showed positive returns 
for the year, this was plainly much lower than the FTSE All-Share 
index gain of 46.7%. In addition, we have had no investment 
exposure to the clearing banks (which showed spectacular 
recovery gains), nor to the mining sector (whose index showed 
a gain of 105% in the year). 
 We have maintained our progressive dividend policy by 
increasing our annual dividend for the 43rd successive year.
Medium and long term performance
Over the ﬁ ve year period to 31 March 2010, our NAV per share 
increased in value by 32.9%, thereby showing both a positive 
absolute gain, and outperformance compared with the FTSE 
All-Share index which increased by 18.4%. However, as at 
31 March 2010, the discount of our share price to NAV had 
widened to 20.1% and, as a consequence, our ﬁ ve year TSR 
of 32. 1% was below the FTSE All-Share TSR of 41.3%.
 As illustrated in the chart on page 1, our ten year TSR of 
196.7% shows 167 .0% outperformance when compared with 
the FTSE All-Share TSR of only 29.7% over this period.
 
Since we converted to investment trust status in April 2003, we 
have measured our NAV on a consistent basis. Our diluted NAV 
per share over this period has signiﬁ cantly outperformed the FTSE 
All-Share index in the last six out of seven years, with NAV per share 
increasing by more than the index in growth years and declining 
by less in the two years when markets have fallen. This relative 
performance, in both bull and bear markets over the seven years, 
is shown in the chart below.
Signiﬁ cant changes in value over the year
Most of our investments have shown substantial gains during the 
year. Those gains of particular signiﬁ cance, where there has been 
both a percentage gain of 50% or more, and an absolute gain of 
over £10m, are shown in the table below (again measured on a 
total return basis):
 Gain in value
Investment    £m  % 
Close Brothers    54.3  53 
Avanti Communications    24.6  99 
Bristow Group    24.1  66 
Dewan Housing Finance    20.6  31 1 
Alok Industries    15.6  112 
Satellite Information Services    13.3  70 
TGE Marine    12.9  231 
AG Barr    12.7  60 
Serica Energy    10.9  99 
Close Brothers is a specialist ﬁ nancial services group active in 
banking, securities trading and asset management. It is our largest 
investment by value with a 13.6% shareholding. During the year 
Preben Prebensen was appointed as the new CEO, and the group 
has taken advantage of favourable conditions, particularly for 
its specialist lending activities and its trading business, 
Winterﬂ ood Securities.
  



 Chief Executive’s report
Increase in diluted NAV per share over the year
30.5% 05 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Avanti Communications is a UK listed satellite communications 
business, in which we hold a 16.4% equity stake. It has advanced 
plans and full funding for two geo-stationary communications 
satellites, and with the signing of further client contracts the 
substantial potential value creation is becoming reﬂ ected in the 
share price.
 Bristow Group is a US listed helicopter operating business 
mainly serving the offshore oil and gas sector, in which Caledonia 
holds a 6.6% stake. The business is progressing well with 
international expansion, higher oil prices and the strengthening 
of the US dollar against sterling all helping to increase its value.
 Dewan Housing Finance, in which we have an 1 1.0% stake, 
is an Indian listed housing ﬁ nance company. With strong growth 
in its business and earnings per share, the share price has increased. 
Alok Industries, in which we have a 12. 1% stake, is an Indian listed 
business whose principal activity is textile manufacturing. The 
previous year had seen a signiﬁ cant fall in its share price, but with 
a large increase in its revenues and earnings as more manufacturing 
capacity came on stream, the share price has strengthened over 
the year. The gains from these two Indian investments were 
also aided by the relative appreciation of the Indian rupee 
against sterling.
 Satellite Information Services is an unquoted business, in 
which we have a 22.5% shareholding, provides outside broadcast, 
production and satellite transmission services to UK and overseas 
media customers, as well as being a major supplier of data to the 
UK and Irish betting industries. The company delivered another 
year of increased proﬁ ts.
 We now have a 49.9% stake in TGE Marine, as a result of the 
company being taken private during the course of the year. TGE 
is a Bonn-based business specialising in the design and build of 
liquid gas tankers for ship owners and, with the recovering world 
economy and rising energy prices, the prospects for this company 
have increased signiﬁ cantly.
 AG Barr is a UK listed soft drinks business in which we are an 
8.8% shareholder. The company recently reported another year 
of strong proﬁ t growth and encouraging current trading.
 Serica Energy is an oil and gas exploration and production 
company in which we have a 14.4% stake. During the year, the 
company sold down some of its Asian assets, substantially reducing 
its debt. This, coupled with rising oil prices, has led to a welcome gain 
in the share price and a reduction in its discount to net asset value.
 
The table below shows those investments which fell in value 
by £1m or more, measured on a total return basis, over the year 
to 31 March 2010.
 Fall in value
Investment    £m  % 
FTSE put options    14.4  84 
Begbies Traynor    4.2  32 
Celerant Consulting    4.0  18 
Ermitage    3.7  34 
Novae Group    1.6  9 
Tribal Group    1.6  16 
During the year, and once we were conﬁ dent that the economic 
recovery had begun, we closed out all of our FTSE put options. We 
ﬁ rst commenced this value protection programme in June 2007 
when we had major concerns over the economy as a whole. Since 
then we invested a total of £13.0m and realised £30.6m 
(both ﬁ gures excluding any re-investment of realisation proceeds), 
producing a net pre-tax gain of £17 .6m. This policy has therefore 
been beneﬁ cial for shareholders during these tumultuous times in 
both providing a degree of protection against falling markets and 
producing positive absolute returns. However, with hindsight, 
ideally we should have closed out these protective options a few 
months earlier.
 We have a 15.7% stake in Begbies Traynor, a UK listed 
corporate recovery and insolvency practitioner. Over the year 
its share price dropped by nearly 35% as the anticipated large 
increased trading activity derived from corporate bankruptcies 
failed to materialise. However earnings from insolvency work is a 
protracted process and we believe the outlook for Begbies Traynor 
to be good.
 Celerant Consulting, which is an unlisted UK based company 
providing consultancy assistance in business efﬁ ciency, and in 
which our equity stake is 47 .3%, had shown a large gain in value in 
our previous ﬁ nancial year. A marked slow-down in revenues in the 
European side of its business has caused the reduction in value.
 Ermitage is a Jersey-based fund of hedge funds business in 
which we currently have an equity stake of 91.7%. Like most other 
similar businesses, the year saw a signiﬁ cant diminution in assets 
under management, leading to a drop in value. 
 Novae is a UK listed Lloyd’s insurance business in which 
we have a 7 .2% stake. Disappointing underwriting results for the 
ﬁ rst half of 2009 led to a fall in the share price.
 Tribal Group is a UK listed company providing public sector 
services in the UK and internationally, in which we have an 1 1.0% 
stake. Uncertainty over the impact of forthcoming cutbacks in 
government expenditure has led to the fall in its share price.
“  Our philosophy of taking signiﬁ cant 
stakes in well run companies continues 
to deliver long term performance. ” 06 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Chief Executive’s report
Investment activity
We started the year in a strong ﬁ nancial position with £55m of 
cash and £100m of term facilities committed to July 2013. In view 
of the uncertain economic conditions, we believed we should give 
priority to investing at attractive prices in our existing portfolio 
investments where we know the company and management well, 
and where there were likely to be needs for further capital. As a 
consequence, we invested about £1 14m in follow-on investments, 
and although we examined 80 new opportunities, we made only 
one new investment at an initial cost of about £2m. This total 
investment ﬁ gure of £1 16m represented a signiﬁ cant (84%) 
increase over the £63m invested in the previous year.
 Most (nearly 70%) of our realisations were in the second half of 
our ﬁ nancial year when equity markets had considerably improved. 
Over the full 12 month period, we realised a total of around £84m 
which was lower than the £99m we had realised in the previous 
year. Further details on investments and realisations are shown in 
the ﬁ nancial review on page 19.
 Our cash position at the end of the ﬁ nancial year was 
approximately £8m, and the £100m of committed term bank 
facilities remained undrawn.
Costs
We continue to keep a tight rein on costs, and once again our 
pre-tax total expenses ratio at 0.96% has been kept below our 
target of 1% and is well below the investment trust average of 1.2%.
Business philosophy
Our core business philosophy of being a signiﬁ cant long term 
supportive and constructively involved shareholder has continued. 
During the year, we have had board representation in 18 of our top 
20 investments, a demonstration of real shareholder involvement 
which, sadly, so often does not seem to happen elsewhere. 
Nonetheless, it is time consuming and can pose logistical challenges.
 For some time we have believed that economic growth 
prospects are looking more attractive in Asia and the Far East, 
than in the West. As mentioned in the Chairman’s statement, over 
the last ﬁ ve years we have built up considerable experience in this 
region, both directly and indirectly through our 40% stake in IAP 
Group, an investment advisory and fund management business 
with operations in Mumbai and London. In China, most of our 
investing has been through the private equity funds of Capital 
Today. However, a Caledonia executive chairs the advisory boards 
of those funds, which again enhances our knowledge and 
understanding. We believe therefore that we are becoming better 
placed to take advantage of value creating opportunities in these 
fast growing regions.
 
Outlook
Although we have seen a tremendous rally in equity prices, the 
global economy continues to look fragile. In the West, particularly 
the US and UK, governments are running huge deﬁ cits which 
are clearly unsustainable. There is simply not going to be the 
resurgence of economic growth in this part of the world to mask 
those deﬁ cits. Indeed, the necessary medicine of government 
expenditure cuts and/or taxation increases will have a further 
deleterious effect on growth. There may well in time be a 
resurgence of signiﬁ cant inﬂ ation. In Asia and the Far East, the 
situation looks better, but we should not forget that much of their 
growth has been export led and fuelled by inward foreign 
investment, and the rate of inﬂ ation in India remains a concern.
 In short, although we anticipate there to be continuing good 
investment opportunities, we need to maintain our cautious 
stance. It will be very difﬁ cult for us to achieve the same degree 
of TSR in real terms over the next ten years that we have achieved 
over the past decade. We will, nevertheless, continue to aspire to 
relative outperformance over the medium to long term, while 
also producing positive absolute returns.
My retirement
As the Chairman’s statement has already mentioned, I will be 
retiring after the AGM in July having spent just over eight years 
as Caledonia’s chief executive and therefore this will be my last 
report. I have particularly enjoyed this role and have been 
privileged to have worked with so much talent in our investee 
companies. I would like to take this opportunity to thank every 
one of my colleagues at Caledonia who, together with all the 
managements of our investee companies, have been the people 
who have created the shareholder value, and thereby made my 
job so enjoyable.
 My successor, Will Wyatt, has worked for the Caledonia 
group for 13 years and has established an outstanding record in 
investment performance – he is an exceptionally astute investor. 
He will, of course, be supported by a very able and experienced 
management team. I will therefore be leaving the company in good 
hands and I would underline my conﬁ dence in its future by adding 
that I have no intention after my retirement of selling any of my 
personal shareholdings in Caledonia!
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive 07 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Objectives and strategy
Objectives
Caledonia aims to achieve a long term total shareholder return in 
excess of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, whilst maintaining 
a progressive annual dividend, through a focused portfolio of 
signiﬁ cant stakes in companies where we believe there to be good 
opportunities for building value.
 Caledonia measures its performance over the long term by 
comparing its total shareholder return against the FTSE All-Share 
Total Return index over ﬁ ve and ten year periods.
 In addition, Caledonia aims to achieve a positive total return 
over rolling ﬁ ve year periods.
Strategy
Caledonia’s strategy is to invest in and actively manage signiﬁ cant 
stakes in 30 to 40 companies and situations where we believe there 
to be good opportunities for building value. Active management 
will usually be achieved by working closely and constructively with 
the investee managements, and usually with board representation, 
as a long term supportive shareholder. We self-manage our 
portfolio, using in-house expertise, as well as occasionally using 
third party managers who specialise in particular asset classes or 
geographical areas.
 Caledonia seeks new investments with a typical size of £10m 
to £25m, although we may invest up to £100m in exceptional 
circumstances. Although Caledonia usually aims to have an 
inﬂ uential minority stake, we will, on occasion, be prepared to take 
a controlling interest where we believe that this will maximise 
shareholder value. When considering an investment opportunity, 
we take particular care in appraising the capabilities and commitment 
of the management team of the prospective investee company. 
The anticipated total return from the investment, the strategy in 
relation to it, and the overall risks, are carefully analysed as part 
of the investment process.
 
Caledonia will invest part of its portfolio in third party managed 
funds. Again, a core skill is our ability to assess the capabilities and 
commitment of the fund management team and we will often seek 
to obtain a signiﬁ cant stake in the management company, thereby 
potentially enhancing returns to shareholders.
 Caledonia seeks to work closely and constructively with 
the managements of companies that it has backed and to make 
available the considerable experience of its team to help the 
investee companies’ managements to address their business 
issues. The strategy for each investment, including the returns and 
the timing of eventual disposal, is reviewed regularly. Investments 
are realised when we believe that the funds released can provide 
better long term returns, but in a manner consistent with 
Caledonia’s reputation as a supportive, long term investor.
 Whilst the source of funding for new investments generally 
comes from its own resources, Caledonia may at times seek to 
enhance returns by taking on moderate levels of gearing.
 Tight control is exercised over costs, notwithstanding 
Caledonia’s active and participative management style. Cost 
containment is signiﬁ cantly aided by managing the large majority 
of investments through our in-house management team. 08 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Portfolio information
Investment portfolio holdings of over 1% of net assets at 31 March 2010:
   Equity           
  holding     Total  Net assets 
Name %  Domicile Sector Business £m   % 
Close Brothers
1,2
 13.6  UK Financial Merchant banking 152. 1  12.9 
British Empire Securities
1,2
 17 . 1  UK Funds Investment trust 121.9  10.3 
Cobepa
2
 10. 1  Belgium Funds Investment company 72.9  6.2 
Bristow Group
1,2
 6.6  US Oil and gas Helicopter services 60.7  5. 1 
Avanti Communications
1,2
 16.4  UK Consumer Satellite communications services 55.5  4.7 
Oval
2
 24.3  UK Financial Insurance broking 43.9  3.7 
London & Stamford Property
1
 6.3  Guernsey Property Property investment 37 .4  3.2 
Eddington Capital funds
3
 – Cayman Funds Funds of hedge funds 35.8  3.0 
Melrose Resources
1,2
 10.3  UK Oil and gas Oil and gas exploration and production 35.0  3.0 
AG Barr
1
 8.8  UK Consumer Soft drinks 32.3  2.7 
Alok Industries
1,2
 12. 1  India Consumer Textiles manufacturer 31.7  2.7 
Quintain Estates
1,2
 10.6  UK Property Property development 31.4  2.6 
Rathbone Brothers
1,2
 8. 1  UK Financial Fund management 30.6  2.6 
Satellite Information Services
2
 22.5  UK Consumer Betting information distribution 30.5  2.6 
Dewan Housing Finance
1,2
 1 1.0  India Financial Housing ﬁ nance 27.1  2.3 
TGE Marine
2
 49.9  Germany Industrial Gas engineering 22.8  1.9 
Nova Springboard
3
 –  Guernsey Funds Investment fund 22.8  1.9 
Serica Energy
1,2
 14.4  UK Oil and gas Oil and gas exploration and production 21.9  1.9 
Celerant Consulting
2
 47 .3  UK Industrial Management consulting 18.9  1.6 
The Sloane Club
2
 100  UK Consumer Residential club owner and operator 17 .0  1.4 
Sterling Industries
2
 100  UK Industrial Engineering 15.6  1.3 
Amber Chemicals
2
 100  UK Industrial Specialty chemicals 15.4  1.3 
Novae Group
1,2
 7 .2  UK Financial Insurance services 15.3  1.3 
Pragma – France Funds Investment funds 12.8  1. 1 
Varun Shipping
1,2
 1 1.2  India Industrial Shipping services 12.0  1.0 
Other investments
4
     211.3  17.9 
Investment portfolio         1, 184.6  100.2 
Cash and other net liabilities         (3.0) (0.2)
Net assets         1, 181.6  100.0 
1. Equity securities quoted on UK or overseas stock exchanges.
2. Board representation during the year.
3. Caledonia also has a shareholding in, and representation on the board of, the management company.
4. Comprised 60 investments of less than 1% of net assets each. 09 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review







































The following charts show an analysis of net assets at 31 March 2010 
by sector, asset class, region and currency. 
The following charts show an analysis of the investment portfolio 
at 31 March 2010 by age and valuation method. 







 10 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Twenty largest investments
Sector Oil and gas
Geography US
Initial investment Nov 1991
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £36.8m
Equity held 6.6%
Valuation £60.7m
Income £0.2m
Year end 31 Mar 09
Revenue $1,133.8m
Earnings $111.7m
Net assets $1,21 1.6m
Sector Funds
Geography Global
Initial investment Jan 1991
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £15.3m
Equity held 17 . 1%
Valuation £121.9m
Income £2.1m
Year end 30 Sep 09
Revenue £20.7m
Earnings £113.0m
Net assets £735.2m
Close Brothers
Close Brothers is the UK’s leading independent 
merchant bank with a long and successful track 
record. It provides investment funds, wealth 
management, securities trading, lending services 
and deposits and treasury services. Close Brothers 
is quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Sector Financial
Geography UK
Initial investment Jan 1987
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £43. 1m
Equity held 13.6%
Valuation £152.1m
Income £7.7m
Year end 31 Jul 09
Revenue £502.1m
Earnings £71.7m
Net assets £697 .7m
British Empire Securities
British Empire Securities is a UK quoted 
investment trust company. Managed by Asset 
Value Investors, its investment objective is to 
achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio 
of investments, particularly in companies whose 
share prices stand at a discount to estimated 
underlying net asset value.
Cobepa
Cobepa is a Belgian investment company, with a 
history stretching back to 1957 . It seeks to invest 
in companies with long term growth prospects 
throughout Europe and its shareholder base of 
longer term investors and families gives it the 
ﬂ exibility to take the medium term approach. 
Cobepa will invest in both minority and majority 
owned situations with a minimum investment 
of €20m.
Bristow Group
Bristow Group is one of the world’s largest 
providers of helicopter services, providing 
helicopter transportation, maintenance and 
aviation support worldwide, principally to 
all major offshore and onshore oil and gas 
producing regions. Bristow Group is quoted 
on the New York Stock Exchange.
Sector Funds
Geography Europe
Initial investment Apr 2004
Valuation basis Net assets
Residual cost £34.6m
Equity held 10. 1%
Valuation £72.9m
Income £1.3m
Year end 31 Dec 09
Revenue N/A
Earnings N/A
Net assets €933. 1m
1.  Geography is based on the country of listing, country of domicile for unquoted investments 
and underlying regional analysis for funds.
2.  Income in the year represents dividends received (inclusive of any overseas withholding tax) 
and gross interest receivable in the year to 31 March 2010.
3.  Revenue, earnings and net assets ﬁ gures are taken from the most recent audited ﬁ nancial 
statements of the investee businesses. The ﬁ gures shown are the total earnings on ordinary 
activities after tax and net assets of each business. Due to the varying rights attaching to the 
classes of shares held, it could be misleading to attribute a certain proportion of earnings 
and net assets to the proportion of equity capital held.
4. For investment funds, equity held, revenue, earnings and net assets are not applicable. 11 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Caledonia’s reputation and successful long term record have 
been built upon two principles that we believe set us apart: 
a long term investment horizon and close involvement with 
investee managements.
Sector Funds
Geography Global
Initial investment Aug 2003
Valuation basis Manager’s NAV
Residual cost £38.4m
Equity held N/A
Valuation £35.8m
Income –
Year end N/A
Revenue N/A
Earnings N/A
Net assets N/A
Sector Property
Geography UK
Initial investment Nov 2007
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £32. 1m
Equity held 6.3%
Valuation £37.4m
Income £1.8m
Year end 31 Mar 09
Revenue £3.1m
Earnings £24.0m
Net assets £291.7m
Sector Financial
Geography UK
Initial investment Nov 2003
Valuation basis Earnings
Residual cost £41.3m
Equity held 24.3%
Valuation £43.9m
Income £1.3m
Year end 31 May 09
Revenue £104.6m
Earnings -£3.2m
Net assets £47 .0m
Sector Consumer
Geography UK
Initial investment Nov 2005
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £30.6m
Equity held 16.4%
Valuation £55.5m
Income £1.5m
Year end 30 Jun 09
Revenue £8.0m
Earnings £1.0m
Net assets £122.6m
Avanti Communications
Avanti Communications supplies satellite 
communications services for business, 
institutional and residential customers across 
Europe directly or via a comprehensive network 
of resellers and maintainers. Avanti will be 
launching its ﬁ rst satellite into orbit in 2010. 
Avanti is quoted in the UK on AIM.
Oval
Oval is a leading provider of insurance broking 
and ﬁ nancial services in the UK. It has created a 
national group by acquiring some of the UK’s best 
regional companies, with excellent reputations in 
their areas, strong relationships with providers, 
and sector-leading specialists on their teams.
London & Stamford Property
London & Stamford Property is a Guernsey 
registered property investment company quoted 
in the UK on AIM. It invests in commercial 
property, including ofﬁ ce, retail and distribution 
real estate assets, principally in the UK.
Eddington Capital funds
The Eddington Capital funds comprise a range 
of funds of hedge funds managed by Eddington 
Capital, in which Caledonia has a 50% stake. 
The Eddington Triple Alpha Fund is a diversiﬁ ed 
multi-strategy fund and the Eddington Macro 
Opportunities Fund a fund of macro-based or 
macro-related hedge funds with a variety of 
styles and strategies. 12 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Twenty largest investments
Melrose Resources
Melrose Resources is a UK quoted oil and gas 
exploration and production company with 
interests in Egypt, Bulgaria, United States, 
France and Turkey. Melrose has a balanced 
portfolio of producing assets, development 
projects and exploration interests.
Sector Oil and gas
Geography UK
Initial investment Aug 2003
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £28. 1m
Equity held 10.3%
Valuation £35.0m
Income £0.2m
Year end 31 Dec 09
Revenue $224.4m
Earnings -$23.9m
Net assets $329. 1m
AG Barr
Founded in 1875, AG Barr is the now the largest 
manufacturer of soft drinks in the UK. Based in 
Scotland, the company is particularly notable for 
the manufacture of Irn-Bru, but also produces 
a variety of other soft drinks and holds the 
manufacturing franchise for the Orangina soft 
drink range. AG Barr is quoted in the UK.
Alok Industries
Alok Industries is a fully integrated textile 
company and one of India’s largest textile 
manufacturers. Headquartered in Mumbai, 
the company produces cotton yarn, apparel 
fabric, home textiles, garments and polyester 
yarn. Alok Industries is quoted in India.
Quintain Estates
Quintain Estates is a UK quoted property 
company comprising fund management, 
investment and urban regeneration businesses. 
A specialist in regeneration, the company is 
developing Wembley City, Greenwich Peninsula 
and various regional projects, including building 
zero carbon communities.
Sector Consumer
Geography UK
Initial investment Apr 1987
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £1.2m
Equity held 8.8%
Valuation £32.3m
Income £0.8m
Year end 31 Jan 10
Revenue £201.4m
Earnings £17.9m
Net assets £100.5m
Sector Consumer
Geography India
Initial investment Jul 2004
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £32.5m
Equity held 12. 1%
Valuation £31.7m
Income £0.3m
Year end 31 Mar 09
Revenue Rs33.83bn
Earnings Rs1.88bn
Net assets Rs17 .55bn
Sector Property
Geography UK
Initial investment Mar 1994
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £62.4m
Equity held 10.6%
Valuation £31.4m
Income –
Year end 31 Mar 09
Revenue £66.0m 
Earnings -£106.2m 
Net assets £444.8m 
1.  Geography is based on the country of listing, country of domicile for unquoted investments 
and underlying regional analysis for funds.
2.  Income in the year represents dividends received (inclusive of any overseas withholding tax) 
and gross interest receivable in the year to 31 March 2010.
3.  Revenue, earnings and net assets ﬁ gures are taken from the most recent audited ﬁ nancial 
statements of the investee businesses. The ﬁ gures shown are the total earnings on ordinary 
activities after tax and net assets of each business. Due to the varying rights attaching to the 
classes of shares held, it could be misleading to attribute a certain proportion of earnings 
and net assets to the proportion of equity capital held.
4.  For investment funds, equity held, revenue, earnings and net assets are not applicable. 13 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Caledonia has a long term investment horizon, underpinned 
by its strong ﬁ nancial position and stable ownership structure. 
This enables the management teams we back to pursue their 
strategies, conﬁ dent that we are able to resist short term 
market pressures.
Rathbone Brothers
Rathbone Brothers is a leading, independent 
provider of investment and wealth management 
services for private investors and trustees, 
including discretionary asset management, 
tax planning, trust and company management, 
pensions advice and banking services. Rathbone 
Brothers is quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Sector Financial
Geography UK
Initial investment Mar 1995
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £1 1.5m
Equity held 8. 1%
Valuation £30.6m
Income £2.9m
Year end 31 Dec 09
Revenue £116.8m
Earnings £19.6m
Net assets £182.5m
Satellite Information Services
Satellite Information Services is a long-
established media business focussing on 
television production, broadcasting and the 
provision of live pictures and data via satellite. 
It is the foremost supplier of television 
programming and data services to the UK 
and Irish betting industries.
Dewan Housing Finance
Dewan Housing Finance is an Indian quoted 
company providing house ﬁ nancing to lower 
and middle income purchasers. It has grown 
to be India’s second largest private sector 
house ﬁ nancing company.
TGE Marine
TGE Marine is a Germany-based provider 
of engineering services for the design and 
supply of liquid gas carriers and offshore units, 
providing marine gas handling and storage 
systems as well as vessel designs to shipyards 
across Europe, Asia and South America.
Sector Consumer
Geography UK
Initial investment May 2005
Valuation basis Earnings 
Residual cost £16.7m
Equity held 22.5%
Valuation £30.5m
Income £3.2m
Year end 31 Mar 09
Revenue £192.9m
Earnings £15.1m
Net assets £38.2m
Sector Financial
Geography India
Initial investment Mar 2005
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £8.3m
Equity held 1 1.0%
Valuation £27.1m
Income £0.3m
Year end 31 Mar 09
Revenue Rs7.36bn
Earnings Rs0.90bn
Net assets Rs4.66bn
Sector Industrial
Geography Germany
Initial investment Apr 2006
Valuation basis Recent trans
Residual cost £9.0m
Equity held 49.9%
Valuation £22.8m
Income –
Year end 30 Jun 09
Revenue €71.5m
Earnings €8.3m
Net assets €12.5m 14 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Twenty largest investments
Nova Springboard
Nova Springboard is a fund managed by Nova 
Capital Management, in which Caledonia has a 
32% stake. Springboard plc was an AIM quoted 
investment company in relation to which 
Caledonia funded a public to private transaction 
in 2006. Investments include MeetingZone, a 
provider of audio and video conferencing services.
Sector Funds
Geography UK
Initial investment Feb 2006
Valuation basis Manager’s NAV
Residual cost £13.6m
Equity held N/A
Valuation £22.8m
Income –
Year end N/A
Revenue N/A
Earnings N/A
Net assets N/A
Serica Energy
Serica Energy is an AIM quoted oil and gas 
exploration and production company with 
activities focussed on Western Europe and 
South East Asia. The company has operations 
in the UK North Sea, Ireland, Spain, Morocco 
and Indonesia and has built a portfolio of 
exploration, appraisal and development projects. 
Celerant Consulting
Celerant Consulting provides change 
management services to a global client base 
in a range of industries including chemicals, 
energy, manufacturing, telecoms, government 
and private equity.
The Sloane Club
The Sloane Club is a residential club situated 
in central London. Along with 138 bedrooms 
and 20 serviced apartments, it offers a restaurant 
and private event facilities.
Sector Oil and gas
Geography UK
Initial investment Jul 2006
Valuation basis Market price
Residual cost £24.6m
Equity held 14.4%
Valuation £21.9m
Income –
Year end 31 Dec 09
Revenue £7.6m
Earnings £5.8m
Net assets £173.0m
Sector Industrial
Geography UK
Initial investment May 2006
Valuation basis Earnings
Residual cost £10.3m
Equity held 47 .3%
Valuation £18.9m
Income £1.6m
Year end 31 Dec 08
Revenue £105.6m
Earnings -£1.6m
Net assets -£5. 1m
Sector Consumer
Geography UK
Initial investment Aug 1991
Valuation basis Net assets
Residual cost –
Equity held 100.0%
Valuation £17.0m
Income –
Year end 31 Mar 10
Revenue £7.3m
Earnings £1.3m
Net assets –
1.  Geography is based on the country of listing, country of domicile for unquoted investments 
and underlying regional analysis for funds.
2.  Income in the year represents dividends received (inclusive of any overseas withholding tax) 
and gross interest receivable in the year to 31 March 2010.
3.  Revenue, earnings and net assets ﬁ gures are taken from the most recent audited ﬁ nancial 
statements of the investee businesses. The ﬁ gures shown are the total earnings on ordinary 
activities after tax and net assets of each business. Due to the varying rights attaching to the 
classes of shares held, it could be misleading to attribute a certain proportion of earnings 
and net assets to the proportion of equity capital held.
4.  For investment funds, equity held, revenue, earnings and net assets are not applicable.
 
Caledonia seeks close involvement with investee managements 
through board representation and strong and supportive 
working relationships. This leads to a clear understanding of the 
objectives and motivations of our management partners and 
enables us to help them realise their goals. 15 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Valuation methodology
Investments are measured at the directors’ estimate of fair 
value at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ . Fair value is the 
amount for which an asset could be exchanged between 
knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction.
Publicly traded securities
Investments quoted in an active market are valued at their bid 
price on the reporting date. When a bid price is unavailable, the 
price of the most recent transaction will normally be used.
Unquoted companies 
Unquoted company investments are valued by applying an 
appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum use 
of market-based information, is consistent with models generally 
used by market participants and is applied consistently from period 
to period, except where a change would result in a better 
estimation of fair value.
 The value of an unquoted company investment is generally 
crystallised through the sale or ﬂ otation of the entire business, 
rather than the sale of an individual instrument. Therefore, the 
estimation of fair value is based on the assumed realisation of 
the underlying business at the reporting date, based on the 
International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation 
Guidelines (September 2009), using the following model:
•  Determine the enterprise value using an appropriate 
valuation methodology.
•  Adjust for surplus assets, excess or unrecorded liabilities 
and other relevant factors.
•  Deduct any ﬁ nancial instruments ranking ahead of the highest 
ranking instrument held by the company.
•  Apportion the attributable enterprise value between the 
relevant ﬁ nancial instruments according to their rankings.
•  Allocate to the company’s holding in each of these 
ﬁ nancial instruments.
Recognition is given to the uncertainties inherent in estimating the 
fair value of unquoted companies and appropriate caution is applied 
in exercising judgments and making the necessary estimates.
 Enterprise value is normally determined using one of the 
following valuation methodologies:
Price of recent investment
Where the investment being valued was made recently, its cost 
will generally provide a good indication of fair value. Where there 
has been any recent investment in the investee company, the 
price of that investment will provide a basis of the valuation. This 
methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period 
after the date of the relevant transaction.
Multiples
This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple 
to the maintainable earnings of the business and is likely to be 
appropriate for an investment in an established business with an 
identiﬁ able stream of continuing earnings that can be considered 
to be maintainable.
 
The earnings multiple used is determined by reference to market-
based multiples appropriate for the business and correlating to the 
period and calculation of earnings of the company being valued. 
The aim is to identify companies that are similar in terms of risk and 
growth prospects to the company being valued, which is more 
likely to be the case where there are similarities of business activities, 
markets served, size, geography and applicable tax rate. Earnings 
multiples are adjusted for points of difference between the 
comparator and the company being valued where appropriate, 
including the ability of Caledonia to effect change in the company 
and risks associated with holding an unquoted share. In determining 
an appropriate earnings multiple, reference may be made to a 
single comparator company or a number of companies or the 
earnings multiple of a quoted stock market sector or sub-sector.
 Maintainable earnings should balance reliability and 
relevance. Generally, the latest historical accounts are used 
unless reliable forecast results for the current year are available. 
Earnings are adjusted where appropriate for exceptional or 
non-recurring items.
Net assets
The net assets methodology involves deriving the value of a 
business by reference to the fair value of its net assets. This is likely 
to be appropriate for a business whose value derives mainly from 
the underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, such as a 
property holding company and an investment business. It may also 
be appropriate for a business that is not making an adequate return 
on assets and for which a greater value can be realised by liquidating 
the business and selling its assets. A third party valuation may be 
used to give the fair value of a certain asset or group of assets. 
Fund interests
Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements to create a 
designated pool of capital to invest in a wider range of assets than is 
feasible for an individual investor and to share the costs and beneﬁ ts.
 Open-ended funds, including investment companies with 
variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, which 
usually provide a reliable basis to estimate the fair value. If the price 
reported by the fund is not available at the reporting date, the 
latest available price is used and may be adjusted to take account 
of changes or events to the reporting date.
 Closed-ended funds include unquoted investment companies 
and limited partnerships. For these investments, the fair value 
estimate is based on a summation of the estimated fair value of the 
underlying investments. Fund manager valuation reports may be 
used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived using fair 
value principles and may be adjusted to take account of changes or 
events to the reporting date. Adjustment may also be necessary for 
features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation 
report, such as performance fees or carried interest.
Other investments
Other investments include preference shares, loan notes or 
facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments that are not 
publicly traded and do not form part of an investment in an 
unquoted company. For such investments, appropriate valuation 
techniques are adopted and used consistently. 16 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
The ﬁ nancial review discusses the results of the company for 
the ﬁ nancial year and refers to the company’s statement of 
comprehensive income and statement of ﬁ nancial position. In 
addition to holding non-controlling stakes in investee businesses, 
the company holds controlling stakes in a number of companies. 
The results of these companies are included in the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements. However, management views these 
controlling stakes as part of the company’s investment portfolio 
and they are included in the discussion below in this context.
Key performance indicators
The company’s key performance indicators are as follows:
•  diluted net asset value per share performance against the 
FTSE All-Share index over one and ﬁ ve years
•  share price total return performance against the FTSE All-Share 
Total Return index over ﬁ ve and ten years
•  share price total return over ﬁ ve years
• total expenses ratio
• dividends per share
• deal ﬂ ow.
Diluted net asset value performance
The chart below illustrates diluted net asset value (‘NAV’) per share 
performance against the FTSE All-Share over one and ﬁ ve years:
 
As discussed in the Chief Executive’s report, the underperformance 
in the year of 16% against the FTSE All-Share is principally due to 
Caledonia’s conservative, but robust investment approach, which 
is more suited to long term performance. By comparison, in the 
previous year, whilst the FTSE All-Share fell by 32%, diluted NAV per 
share fell by only 28%.
 





15%
FTSE All-Share 
Relative performance 
Diluted net asset value
Share price total return performance
The company measures longer term performance by comparing its 
share price total return against the FTSE All-Share Total Return index 
over ﬁ ve and ten year periods. The total return measure assumes the 
re-investment of dividends on the ex-dividend date at the closing 
mid-market share price on that date.
 Whilst the share price total return provides an accurate 
measure of investors’ returns, it should be noted that it is based on 
the company’s share price, which is not within the company’s direct 
control.
 The chart below shows that shares in Caledonia have produced 
a total return to investors of 32% over ﬁ ve years and 197% over ten 
years, compared with total returns of 41% and 30% respectively from 
the FTSE All-Share – relative performance of -9% and 167%.
 
As well as seeking to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return 
index over ﬁ ve and ten year periods, the company also aims to 
deliver positive total return on a rolling ﬁ ve year basis. This measure 
is illustrated in the following chart.
 
Over the last ten years, the company has made a positive total return 
over rolling ﬁ ve year periods, except for a short period in late March 
and early April 2003.
 




167%
FTSE All-Share Total Return 
Relative performance 
Share price total return


 Financial review 17 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Total expenses ratio
The calculation of the company’s pre-tax total expenses ratio 
(‘TER’) is based on the adjusted annualised management expenses, 
divided by closing net assets. Management expenses reﬂ ect the 
cost of managing the investment portfolio and exclude third 
party performance fees, investment transaction costs and 
restructuring costs.
 For the purposes of calculating the TER, management 
expenses reported in the statement of comprehensive income are 
adjusted to expense the fair value of equity rights granted under 
the deferred bonus plan in the year to which the awards relate. This 
differs from the accounting treatment, which expenses some of 
the entitlements over the three year vesting period. The effect of 
this adjustment is to reduce reported management expenses by 
£0.8m to £1 1.3m (2009 – decrease by £1.0m to £8.6m).
 
Dividends
Caledonia maintains a progressive dividend policy and has an 
unbroken consecutive record of annual dividend increases over 
the last 43 years.
 



Under 1%


 43
Dividend (p/share)
Adjusted for splits and bonus issues
Gross of any tax deductions



A key measure of the company’s performance is its ability to cover 
the dividend with revenue earnings. The following chart compares 
revenue earnings with dividends payable over the last ﬁ ve years.
 
Deal ﬂ ow
The company’s ability to access attractive investment opportunities 
is crucial to its strategy of being a long term, supportive investor. 
Deal ﬂ ow is measured according to the number of opportunities 
that have passed an initial screening process and warrant further 
investigation. During the year, the company actively considered 
80 new investment opportunities, the same number as in 2009.
Diluted net asset value per share
Net asset value (‘NAV’) per share, on a diluted basis, was 2034p 
at 31 March 2010, compared with 1559p at the same date in 2009 
and 2155p in 2008. The increase over the year of 475p (30.5%) 
resulted principally from the movement in portfolio value (31.2%) 
less annual dividends paid (-3.8%). The diluted NAV per share 
increase over the year of 30.5% compared with an increase in 
the FTSE All-Share index of 46.7%.
 The chart on page 1 compares diluted NAV per share to the 
FTSE All-Share index over ﬁ ve years. Over this period, diluted NAV 
per share has increased by 32.9%, compared with an increase in the 
FTSE All-Share index of 18.4%, an outperformance of 14.5%.
 The table below shows the components of the movement in 
diluted NAV per share over the year.
    Number Dilution Diluted
    Net assets  of shares  adjustment
1
 NAV 
    £m  000’s  000’s  p/share 
At 31 March 2009   906.2  57 ,579  549  1559 
Total return   31 1.7  –  –  523 
Annual dividends
2
   (34.0) –  –  (59)
Treasury shares   (0.8) (19) 17  (1)
Employee share options   (2.6) 154  (188) 10 
Share-based payments   1. 1  –  –  2 
At 31 March 2010   1, 181.6  57 ,714  378  2034 
1.  The dilution adjustment is the number of free shares equivalent to achieve the same 
dilution effect as issuing treasury shares at market price, exercising of share options, 
calling of deferred bonus shares and releasing restricted shares.
2. NAV per share movement is taken as the dividends per share.


 Net revenue (p/share)
Annual dividend (p/share) 18 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Financial review
The company’s NAV at 31 March 2010 of £1, 181.6m (2009 – 
£906.2m) differs from the group’s consolidated NAV of £1, 189.6m 
(2009 – £929.3m), due to the inclusion of investments in subsidiaries 
at fair value in the company statement of ﬁ nancial position and at 
share of net assets in the group.
Total return
Caledonia’s total return for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 
£31 1.7m equates to 34.4% on opening equity, compared with 
26.3% in 2009. The key components were net gains on investments 
and investment income recognised over the year. Total return, 
which is equivalent to total comprehensive income, is summarised 
in the table below.
      2010 2009 
      £m  £m 
Gains and losses on investments and derivatives  295.3 (351.7)
Investment provisions    (5.4) 10.0
Investment and other income, net of impairment  33.0  32. 1 
Gross portfolio return    322.9  (309.6)
Management expenses    (12.1) (9.6)
Other expenses    (1.0) (0.5)
Net portfolio return    309.8  (319.7)
Treasury net income/(expense)    (0.2) 0.3 
Taxation    2.8  (6.1)
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year    312.4  (325.5)
Other comprehensive income    (0.7) (4.2)
Total return    311.7  (329.7)
Gross portfolio return
Gross portfolio return principally comprises gains and losses on 
investments and investment income. The increased performance 
in 2010, compared with 2009, reﬂ ected the increase in equity prices.
 Net gains on investments and derivatives, net of provisions, 
for the year amounted to £289.9m, compared with a net loss of 
£341.7m for 2009. Investment and other income of £33.0m was 
2.8% higher than the £32. 1m booked in 2009. The principal 
contributors to the gross portfolio return are discussed in the 
Chief Executive’s report.
Expenses
Management expenses comprised the costs incurred in managing 
the operations of the company and totalled £12. 1m for the year, 
compared with £9.6m in 2009. The increase principally related to 
bonuses payable to directors and staff in 2010, which were not paid 
in 2009, and other staff related costs.
 Other expenses of £1 .0m (2009 – £0.5m) comprised transaction 
costs of potential and completed investments, performance fees 
to third party managers and other costs.
Treasury income and expenses
Treasury income and expenses, totalling £0.2m net expense 
(2009 – £0.3m net income), principally reﬂ ected lower interest 
rates on cash deposits. The company held net liquidity in term 
deposits, averaging £17 .5m over the year. Also included were 
exchange losses of £0.3m (2009 – £0.8m), which arose from 
holding foreign currency balances.
Taxation
The tax credit of £2.8m included a prior year and deferred tax 
net credit of £1.0m. The charge in 2009 included £6.5m for 
one-off items.
Dividends
During the year, the company paid dividends of 58.8p per 
share (2009 – 32.9p), amounting to £34.0m (2009 – £19.0m), 
representing the ﬁ nal dividend in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2009 of 23.5p per share and the interim and second 
interim dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010 
of 10.6p and 24.7p per share respectively. The second interim 
dividend was paid in the year instead of proposing a ﬁ nal dividend, 
as the company believed that it was in the shareholders’ interests 
to accelerate the timing of the dividend payment.
Treasury and employee trust shares
Shares held in treasury, by the employee share trust and as 
‘restricted’ shares are excluded from the undiluted NAV per 
share calculations.
 At 31 March 2010, 686,306 shares were accounted as held 
in treasury, of which 51,001 shares were bought during the year at 
a cost of £0.8m and 123,076 shares were subject to a buy-back 
arrangement whereby, for the duration of the close period from 
1 April to 18 May 2010, being the day before the ﬁ nal results 
announcement, the company had given an irrevocable 
undertaking to J.P . Morgan Securities to purchase Caledonia’s 
shares on its behalf, within certain parameters. This instruction was 
subject to a maximum of £2.0m or 250,000 shares. At 31 March 
2010, £2.0m represented the equivalent value of 123,076 shares 
at the closing mid-market price on that day.
 Caledonia operates an employee share trust to hold shares 
pending transfer to employees as a result of the exercise of share 
options or calling of deferred bonus awards. At 31 March 2010, 
350,293 shares were held by the trust, decreased from 547 ,910 
shares held at the end of the previous year. During the year, the 
trust transferred 586,024 shares to staff on exercise of share 
options and calling of deferred bonus shares and bought 388,407 
shares. These transactions resulted in a net payment by the trust 
of £2.6m.
 During the year, employees waived their rights to certain 
deferred bonus awards for no consideration and were subsequently 
granted vested restricted share awards over an equivalent number 
of Caledonia shares, with sufﬁ cient shares being sold to discharge  19 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
tax liabilities and dealing costs. The remaining restricted shares 
must be retained until the vesting date of the original deferred 
share awards to which they relate. At 31 March 2010, there were 
43,672 restricted shares held by employees.
NAV per share dilution
The NAV per share dilution adjustment measures the effect of 
re-issuing treasury shares at a discount to NAV per share and from 
the exercise of executive share options and the calling of deferred 
bonus shares by assuming that these events take place at the year 
end. The adjustment is expressed as a free shares equivalent.
 At 31 March 2010, re-issuing the 686,306 shares (2009 –
667 ,388 shares) accounted as held in treasury at the closing 
mid-market price would have yielded proceeds of £1 1.2m (2009 – 
£8.6m). In addition, the exercise of the 502,308 (2009 – 691,275) 
in-the-money executive share options would have yielded proceeds 
of £7 . 1m (2009 – £4. 1m).
 The NAV dilution adjustment of 378,000 (2009 – 549,000) 
represented the equivalent number of shares for no consideration 
to achieve the same dilution effect.
Cash ﬂ ows
The principal cash ﬂ ows during the year comprised an aggregate 
inﬂ ow of £81. 1m (2009 – £1 10.3m) from the realisation of 
investments and outﬂ ow of £109.9m (2009 – £63.6m) for the 
purchase of investments.
 At the year end, the company held cash equivalents totalling 
£8.3m (2009 – £55.5m).
Gearing
The company itself had no debt at 31 March 2010 or 2009 and did 
not draw on its facilities during the year.
 Subsidiary companies had borrowings totalling £86.2m 
at 31 March 2010 (2009 – £81.4m) to ﬁ nance operations. Caledonia 
provided bank guarantees and letters of comfort in respect of 
£76.7m of these borrowings (2009 – £76.7m).
Investment portfolio
The value of the investment portfolio (including derivatives) 
at 31 March 2010 was £1, 184.6m, compared with £856.3m 
at 31 March 2009.
Movement
Movement in the value of investments, including FTSE put options, 
over the year was as follows:
      2010  2009 
      £m  £m 
Opening investment portfolio     856.3  1,248.1 
Investment     116.1  63.3 
Realisation proceeds     (83.9) (99.0)
Gains and losses on investments and derivatives  295.3  (351.7)
Rolled-up interest     0.8  (4.4)
Closing investment portfolio     1,184.6  856.3 
Investment
Caledonia invested a total of £1 16. 1m in the year, compared with 
£63.3m in 2009. A summary of the principal investments is given 
in the table below.
       
    Country of  Cost 
Name   Category domicile Business £m 
New investments    
Brookshire  Capital UK Property trading/ 
     investment 2.0 
      2.0 
Follow-on investments   
Quintain Estates  Equity UK Property developer 20.3 
London & Stamford  Equity Guernsey Property 
     investment 12.6 
Alok Industries  Equity India T extiles 1 1 .8 
Avanti Communications Equity UK Satellite 
     communications 11.5 
Oval  Loans UK Insurance broking 7.5 
Cobepa  Equity Belgium Investment company 7.1 
TGE Marine  Equity Germany Gas engineering 6.7 
Ermitage  Loans Jersey Funds management 5.5 
Other investments     31. 1 
      114.1 
      116.1 
‘Other investments’ comprised a number of follow-on investments 
of less than £5.0m each.
Realisations
Caledonia made full and partial realisations of holdings during the year 
with total proceeds of £83.9m (2009 – £99.0m), a summary of which 
is given in the table below.
   Realised 
  Proceeds  gain 
Name Nature of realisation £m  £m 
Polar Capital funds Redemptions   13.5  3.3 
FTSE put options Close-out of options  10.8  2.9 
Rathbone Brothers Part sale of equity  9.0  5.5 
Caledonia EL Distribution Capital distribution  6.5  6.5 
GIC Housing Finance Sale of equity   6.4  3.4 
Novera Energy Sale of equity   6.4  0. 1 
British Empire Part sale of equity  6.3  5.5 
Cazenove Group Sale of equity   6.0  1.9 
Other realisations     19.0  2.6 
      83.9  31.7 
‘Other realisations’ comprised a number of realisations with proceeds 
or realised gains or losses of less than £5.0m each. 20 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Historic performance
The following table shows Caledonia’s cumulative total return and annual dividends over the last ten years: 
      Cumulative performance based on 2000
  Share  Annual  Special     FTSE   
  price  dividend  dividend
1
   Share price  All-Share  Annual  Retail 
Years ended 31 March p/share  p/share  p/share   total return  Total Return  dividend  Prices Index 
2000 771.5  23.0  70.0  100  100  100  100 
2001 797 .5  24.0  –  1 17  89  104  102 
2002 847 .5  25.0  –  128  86  109  104 
2003 642.5  26.0  –  100  61  1 13  107 
2004 1017 .0  27 .0  –  163  79  1 17  1 10 
2005 1367 .0  28.2  –  225  92  123  1 13 
2006 1980.0  29.6  –  331  1 18  129  1 16 
2007 2066.0  31. 1  –  351  131  135  121 
2008 2050.0  32.5  –  354  121  141  126 
2009 1289.0  33.8  –  227  85  147  125 
2010 1625.0  35.3  –  297  130  153  131 
Compound annual returns       
5 year    5.7  7 .2  4.6  3.0 
10 year    1 1.5  2.6  4.4  2.7 
1. Annual dividends are based on the years to which they relate, rather than the years in which they are recognised as required under IFRS.
2. The elective special dividends paid in July 2004 and July 2006 and consequent cancellations of shares are not included above.
The following table shows Caledonia’s share price, diluted net asset value (‘NAV’) per share and discount for each month of the year ended 
31 March 2010: 
        Cumulative performance
  Diluted  Share   Discount   based on March 2009
  NAV  price  FTSE  share price   Diluted  Share  FTSE 
Month p/share  p/share  All-Share  to NAV %   NAV/share  price  All-Share 
Mar 2009 1559  1289  1984  17 .3   100  100  100 
Apr 2009 1648  1335  2173  19.0   106  104  1 10 
May 2009 1725  1498  2253  13.2   1 1 1  1 16  1 14 
Jun 2009 1706  1552  2172  9.0   109  120  109 
Jul 2009 1736  1537  2354  1 1.5   1 1 1  1 19  1 19 
Aug 2009 1841  1634  2521  1 1.2   1 18  127  127 
Sep 2009 1945  1667  2635  14.3   125  129  133 
Oct 2009 1894  1650  2585  12.9   121  128  130 
Nov 2009 1883  1609  2648  14.6   121  125  133 
Dec 2009 1901  1598  2761  15.9   122  124  139 
Jan 2010 1920  1560  2661  18.8   123  121  134 
Feb 2010 1908  1583  2737  17 .0   122  123  138 
Mar 2010 2034  1625  2910  20. 1   130  126  147 
1. NAV includes deductions for dividends on the ex-dividend date. 21 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Risks and uncertainties
Caledonia has a risk management framework that provides a 
structured process for identifying, assessing and managing risks 
associated with the company’s business objectives and strategy. 
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out below.
External risk
External risks arise from political, legal, regulatory and economic 
changes. Failure to comply with regulations could result in the 
company losing its listing and/or being subjected to UK corporation 
tax on its capital gains.
 The company seeks to operate within applicable legal and 
regulatory frameworks. The Compliance Committee meets weekly 
and reviews current business for regulatory compliance, as well as 
considering investment proposals from a compliance perspective. 
The board reviews regular reports on the controls in place to ensure 
compliance by the company with rules and regulations.
Strategic risk
Strategic risks arise from the conception, design and 
implementation of the company’s business model and key 
decisions on investment levels and capital allocations. An 
inappropriate investment strategy could result in poor returns 
for shareholders. The board reviews strategy periodically.
Investment risk
Investment risk occurs in respect of speciﬁ c investment decisions, 
subsequent performance of an investment or concentration 
of exposure to an economic sector or geographical region.
 In addition to ﬁ nancial, legal and market due diligence, 
investment appraisal includes a rigorous assessment of investee 
management’s track record of success, commitment to growing 
their business and ethical standards. All potential investments are 
presented to the Investment Management Committee, which 
comprises executive directors and other senior managers and 
meets weekly. Any individual investment of £20m or more, or 
follow-on investment where the existing holding is valued at over 
£20m, requires board approval.
 Having made the investment decision, a process is put in 
place for managing the relationship with the investee company for 
the period through to realisation. This will usually include board 
representation by an investment executive. The executives will 
make regular reports to the Investment Management Committee 
on issues relevant to the investments for which they are responsible 
and there is an annual process of cyclical reporting to the board.
 Caledonia invests in a range of economic sectors and regions. 
The portfolio is monitored monthly against board approved 
guidelines to ensure that there is no undue exposure.
 Investment values may fall as a result of market factors, 
including equity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates. 
In seeking to achieve its investment objectives, the company, from 
time to time, may seek to reduce its exposure to price risk by taking 
positions in index futures and options. These instruments are used 
for the purpose of hedging some or all of the existing exposure 
within the investment portfolio.
Treasury and funding risk
Treasury risks principally comprise counterparty risk, uncertainty 
in market prices and rates and the requirement to access adequate 
funds to meet investment needs or other obligations as they fall due.
 The main funding risks faced by Caledonia are liquidity 
availability, interest rate risk exchange rate risk and counterparty risk. 
The level of these risks is addressed by the overall funding objective 
and the board regularly reviews and approves policies on the 
approach to each of these risks.
 Liquidity risk is managed through the maintenance of 
committed facilities, which are reviewed to ensure a continuous 
access to funds.
 The exposure to interest rate movements on treasury assets 
is managed through the use of term deposits and other treasury 
instruments. Where there are group borrowings, exposure to 
interest rate movements is managed through the use of 
derivatives, such as caps and collars, where appropriate.
 Caledonia’s foreign exchange risk management policy allows 
for exposure to structural and transactional currency movements. 
In the event that there is an exit plan for a foreign currency 
denominated investment, a view will be taken of likely currency 
movements over the period to expected realisation and part or 
all of the exposure may be hedged using foreign currency contracts 
or currency derivatives.
 Counterparty risk is managed through an approved list of 
counterparties with maximum exposures agreed by the board.
 Management of treasury activities is delegated to executive 
directors and to the Group Treasurer. A report on liquid assets and 
cash ﬂ ow projections is submitted to the Investment Management 
Committee on a weekly basis. Monthly reports on the funding 
position and cash ﬂ ow forecasts are considered by the board.
Operational risk
Operational risk arises from potentially inadequate or failed 
controls, processes, people and systems, or from external factors.
 Inadequate or failed processes could result in the 
misappropriation of assets, loss of income and recovery of 
receivables and misreporting of NAV per share. The board regularly 
reviews internal controls and risk management procedures and 
subjects the books and records of the company to an annual 
external audit. In addition, the Audit Committee regularly reviews 
risks and the appropriateness of the control environment.
 The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable people is 
of fundamental importance to Caledonia’s strategy and the loss of 
key staff could adversely affect investment returns. The company 
operates in a competitive industry and aims to remunerate staff in 
line with market practice, to provide development opportunities 
and to encourage staff motivation and retention.
 A business continuity strategy is in place to ensure that 
operations can continue in the event of disruption.
  22 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
01 James Loudon
 Chairman
Having served as a non-executive director of Caledonia since 
1995 and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman since 2001, he was 
appointed Chairman in December 2008. He is also Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee. He was Group Finance Director of 
Blue Circle Industries from 1987 to 2001, a non-executive director 
of Lafarge Malayan Cement from 1989 to 2004 and a non-executive 
director of James Hardie Industries NV from 2002 to 2008. He 
is also Deputy Chairman of the Governors of the University of 
Greenwich and of Canterbury Cathedral Trust and a trustee 
of Kent Air Ambulance. Age 67 .
02 Tim Ingram
 Chief Executive
After an early career in international banking, he was Finance 
Director and later Chief Executive of First National Finance 
Corporation from 1992 and a managing director of Abbey National 
from 1996 to 2002. He was appointed Chief Executive of Caledonia 
in 2002 and is also Chairman of Collins Stewart and a non-executive 
director of Alok Industries, ANZ Bank (Europe), Sage Group and 
Savills. Age 62.
03 Stephen King
 Finance Director
After qualifying as a chartered accountant, he held senior ﬁ nancial 
positions with Lonhro, Lucas Industries, Seeboard and was Group 
Finance Director of Midlands Electricity before his appointment 
as Group Finance Director of De La Rue from 2003 to March 2009. 
He joined Caledonia as Finance Director on 9 December 2009. 
He is also a non-executive director of Weir Group, where he is 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Age 49.
04 The Hon Charles Cayzer
 Executive Director
Having gained experience of merchant banking, commercial 
banking and corporate and project ﬁ nance with Baring Brothers, 
Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Ltd, he was appointed a director of 
Caledonia in 1985. He is Chairman of Easybox, Edinmore and 
The Sloane Club and a non-executive director of Eredene Capital, 
Quintain Estates & Development and Varun Shipping. Age 53.
 
Board of directors
01
02
03
04 23 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
05 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin 
 Executive Director
He joined the Caledonia group in 1995, initially working at its 
Amber specialty chemicals subsidiary before becoming an 
investment executive at Caledonia in 1999. He was appointed 
an associate director in 2002 and a director in 2005. He is a 
non-executive director of Celerant, Close Brothers, Eddington 
Capital Management, Ermitage, India Capital Growth Fund and 
Polar Capital Holdings. Age 45.
06 John May
 Executive Director
Appointed an executive director of Caledonia in 2003, he worked 
for the Hambros Group for over 20 years until 1999, where he was 
an executive director of Hambros Bank and Joint Managing Director 
of Hambro Countrywide. He then ran his own private equity 
investment and consultancy business. He is Chairman of Amber 
Chemicals and a non-executive director of Begbies Traynor, Bristow 
Group, British Empire Securities, Oval, Rathbone Brothers and 
Satellite Information Services. Age 55.
07 Will Wyatt
 Executive Director
He joined the Caledonia group in 1997 from Close Brothers 
Corporate Finance, working at Sterling Industries before 
transferring to Caledonia’s head ofﬁ ce in 1999 as an investment 
executive. He was appointed an associate director in 2002 and 
a director in 2005. He is a non-executive director of Avanti 
Communications Group, Bristow Group, Cobepa, Melrose 
Resources, Terrace Hill, TGE Marine and Chairman of Sterling 
Industries. Age 41.
08 Charles Allen-Jones
 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2001, 
he is Chairman of the Audit and Governance Committees and 
a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees. 
He was a partner of the international law ﬁ rm, Linklaters, for 
33 years, including ﬁ ve years as Senior Partner until his retirement 
in 2001. He is also a non-executive director of Hongkong Land 
Holdings and Jardine Strategic Holdings, a member of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel and Vice-Chairman of the 
Council of the Royal College of Art. Age 70.
 
09 Mark Davies
 Non-Executive Director
Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2002, he is 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Governance and Nomination Committees. He founded Inter 
Commodities in 1972, became Chief Executive of Gerrard Group in 
1995 and was an executive director of Old Mutual Financial Services 
(UK) from 2000 to 2001. He is currently Chief Executive of Fleming 
Family & Partners. Age 61.
10 Richard Goblet d’Alviella
 Non-Executive Director
A Belgian national, he was appointed a non-executive director 
of Caledonia in 2005 and is a member of the Audit Committee. 
He has been Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer of Soﬁ na, a quoted Belgian 
ﬁ nancial holding company, since 1989, prior to which he was a 
managing director of the Paine Webber Group with a background 
in international investment banking in London and New York. 
He is a non-executive director of Group Danone, Delhaize, 
Eurazeo and Suez, in which Soﬁ na has interests. Age 61.
11 Charles Gregson 
 Non-Executive Director
Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia on 16 September 
2009, he is a member of the Audit, Governance, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. He has spent his career at United 
Business Media and its predecessor companies in a number of 
divisional and head ofﬁ ce roles, most recently as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁ cer of US headquartered, PR Newswire. He is also Chairman 
of ICAP and a non-executive director of St James’s Place. Age 62.
12 David Thompson 
 Non-Executive Director
Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2003, he is a 
member of the Audit, Governance, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. He is Chairman of Marston’s, having served as its 
Managing Director from 1986 to 2001, and is also a non-executive 
director of Persimmon. Age 55.
 
05
06
09
10 12
07
08
11 24 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 
31 March 2010. The directors’ remuneration report and the corporate 
governance report form part of this report.
Principal activities and results
Caledonia is an investment trust company. A review of the activities 
of the company, together with the results for the year, is given in the 
business review, which should be regarded as part of this report. 
There have been no signiﬁ cant changes in the activities of its operating 
subsidiaries.
 The company has been approved by Her Majesty’s Revenue and 
Customs (‘HMRC’) as an investment trust for its relevant ﬁ nancial years 
up to 31 March 2007 and continues to manage its affairs so as to comply 
with the requirements for investment trust status. Conﬁ rmation of 
investment trust status is granted retrospectively by HMRC for each 
ﬁ nancial year. Applications for approval for the years ended 31 March 
2008 and 2009 have been made to HMRC and an application for 
approval for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be made subsequent 
to the approval of these accounts by shareholders of the company.
Dividends
On 30 March 2010, the company paid a second interim dividend of 
24.7p per share (2009 – ﬁ nal dividend of 23.5p), which, together with 
the interim dividend of 10.6p per share (2009 – 10.3p), resulted in total 
dividends for the year of 34.3p per share (2009 – 33.8p). The directors 
do not recommend the payment of a ﬁ nal dividend.
Annual general meeting
The eighty-ﬁ rst annual general meeting of the company will be 
held at Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN on 
Wednesday, 21 July 2010 at 1 1.30 am. The notice of the annual general 
meeting and details of all of the resolutions to be put to shareholders 
are set out in a separate circular which accompanies this annual report.
Directors and their interests
The directors of the company are shown on pages 22 and 23. All of 
the directors served throughout the year other than Mr C H Gregson 
and Mr S A King, who were appointed on 16 September 2009 and 
9 December 2009 respectively. Mr J H Cartwright also served as a 
director of the company until his resignation on 8 December 2009.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary share 
capital of the company as at 31 March 2010 were as follows:
 Beneﬁ cial Non-beneﬁ cial
   2010  2009
1
  2010  2009
1
 
   No  No  No  No 
J R H Loudon  13,564  13,564  9,930  9,930 
T C W Ingram
2
  140,805  108,510  –  – 
S A King  –  –  –  – 
The Hon C W Cayzer
2,3
  40,892  50,555  47 ,527  28,505 
J M B Cayzer-Colvin
2
  408,498  385,771  7 ,053  7 ,053 
J M May
2
  48,218  16,793  –  – 
W P Wyatt
2,4
  1 17 ,940  99,724  19,093  17 ,093 
C M Allen-Jones  7 ,500  7 ,500  –  – 
M E T Davies  2,500  2,500  –  – 
R Goblet d’Alviella  –  –  –  – 
C H Gregson  610  –  –  – 
D G F Thompson  3,000  3,000  3,000  3,000 
1. Or date of appointment if later.
2.  Included in the beneﬁ cial interests of Messrs Cayzer, Cayzer-Colvin, Ingram, May and Wyatt 
are vested restricted shares granted following the waiver by them on 30 March 2010 of certain 
deferred bonus awards granted in May 2007 and June 2008. Further details of these vested 
restricted shares are given in the directors’ remuneration report on page 56.
3.  The Hon C W Cayzer’s non-beneﬁ cial interests included 12,500 shares in which Mr Wyatt also 
had a non-beneﬁ cial interest (2009 – The Hon C W Cayzer’s beneﬁ cial interests included 
17,093 shares in which Mr Wyatt had a non-beneﬁ cial interest).
4.  Mr Wyatt’s beneﬁ cial interests included 35,027 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer had 
a non-beneﬁ cial interest (2009 – 28,505 shares).
On 12 April 2010, Mr Ingram’s beneﬁ cial interests increased by 
27 shares as a result of the automatic reinvestment of the company’s 
second interim dividend received on shares held in his and his wife’s 
Caledonia ISAs. There have been no other changes in the directors’ 
interests shown above notiﬁ ed up to the date of approval of 
these accounts.
 Details of the directors’ options to acquire ordinary shares 
in the company and awards over ordinary shares under the company’s 
deferred bonus plan as at 31 March 2010 are set out in the directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 52 to 59.
Directors’ indemnity
Each of the directors has the beneﬁ t, under the company’s articles 
of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the 
Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him for 
negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation 
to the affairs of the company.
Share capital structure
The company has two classes of share capital – ordinary shares 
of 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
 The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote 
per share at meetings of the company. All voting rights are however 
suspended in respect of the company’s shares that are held in treasury 
or by group companies.
 The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not 
redeemable. They carry the right to a ﬁ xed cumulative preference 
dividend of 1% per annum (exclusive of any associated tax credit) of the 
nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being 0.05p per share, 
or £4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in issue. The 
company is required to pay the dividend to the extent that it has 
distributable proﬁ ts. On a winding-up or other return of capital, the 
deferred ordinary shares carry the right to the payment of the amount 
paid up on such shares only after holders of the ordinary shares have 
received the sum of £100,000 in respect of each such ordinary share. 
All of the deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling Industries PLC, 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
 At 31 March 2010, 58,794,781 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 
deferred ordinary shares were in issue. The ordinary shares therefore 
represented approximately 88%, and the deferred ordinary shares 
approximately 12%, of the total issued share capital. Of the ordinary 
shares in issue at 31 March 2010, 563,230 shares were held in treasury 
and 3,000 shares held by a group company. As stated above, all voting 
rights are suspended on these shares.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares
There are no speciﬁ c restrictions on the transfer of the company’s 
shares, although the articles of association contain provisions whereby 
the directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certiﬁ cated share 
which is not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent 
dealings in the share from taking place on an open and proper basis. 
The directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certiﬁ cated 
share unless it is (i) lodged, duly stamped, at the registered ofﬁ ce or at 
such other place as the directors may appoint, accompanied by the 
certiﬁ cate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as 
the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor 
to make the transfer; (ii) in respect of only one class of shares; and (iii) in 
favour of not more than four transferees.
 The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a 
shareholder has not supplied information to the company in default of 
a request duly served under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 
and such shares represent at least 0.25% of the class of shares 
concerned.
Directors’ report 25 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
Substantial interests
As at 18 May 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the date 
of this report, the following had notiﬁ ed the company that they held 
3% or more of the voting rights of the company:
    Number of  Percentage of 
    voting rights  voting rights 
The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd   19,593,072  33.7% 
Soﬁ na sa   2,746,777  4.7% 
Employee share schemes
The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires and 
holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent transfer to 
employees exercising options under the company’s executive share 
option schemes or calling for awards vesting under the company’s 
deferred bonus plan. The voting rights of shares held by the trust are 
exercisable by the independent trustee. The trustee has also waived 
all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary shares held by the trust, 
except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends. At 31 March 2010, 
the trust held 350,293 ordinary shares.
Restrictions on voting rights
The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled to 
attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise any other 
right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings of the 
company in respect of some or all of the shares held by him, if he or 
any person with an interest in such shares has been duly served with 
a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and is in default 
for the prescribed period in supplying to the company the information 
required or, in purported compliance with such a notice, has made 
a statement which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares or 
exercise of voting rights
Certain directors and employees have been awarded vested restricted 
shares following the waiver of certain deferred bonus awards granted 
in 2007 and 2008. These shares must be retained until the end of the 
relevant three year retention period of the original deferred share 
awards to which they relate.
 The company is not aware of any other arrangements which 
may restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any 
voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors 
and articles of association
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the 
company’s articles of association and prevailing company law. 
 The articles of association provide that at every annual general 
meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, the 
number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and therefore be 
required to seek re-election by shareholders. In addition, in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Combined Code, the company 
requires that any non-executive director who has served on the board 
for over nine years retires and seeks re-election annually. New directors 
may be appointed by the board, but are subject to election by 
shareholders at the next annual general meeting of the company 
following their appointment. Shareholders may also appoint new 
directors by ordinary resolution. The articles of association limit the 
number of directors to not less than two and not more than twelve, 
unless the shareholders resolve otherwise.
 A director may be removed from ofﬁ ce if requested to resign by 
not less than three-quarters of the other directors or by an ordinary 
resolution of the shareholders.
 Any amendment of the articles of association requires the 
approval of shareholders by a special resolution.
Authority to allot and purchase shares
At the annual general meeting of the company held on 23 July 2009, 
shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot ordinary 
shares up to a nominal amount of £971,375, representing 
approximately one-third of the ordinary share capital then in issue, 
excluding ordinary shares held in treasury, with authority to allot 
additional ordinary shares up to a nominal value of £971,376, 
representing approximately a further one-third of the issued ordinary 
share capital then in issue, excluding ordinary shares then held in 
treasury, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with 
guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers. The directors 
were further authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal 
amount of £145,706 other than pro rata to existing ordinary 
shareholders. These authorities last until the next annual general 
meeting or 23 October 2010, if earlier. 
 At the annual general meeting held on 23 July 2009, 
shareholders also granted authority for the company to make 
market purchases of up to 5,828,255 of its own ordinary shares, 
being approximately 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, 
excluding ordinary shares held in treasury, at a price not more than 
the higher of: (a) 5% greater than the average of the middle market 
quotations for such ordinary shares during the ﬁ ve business days 
preceding any such purchase; and (b) the higher of: (i) the price of the 
last independent trade in such ordinary shares; and (ii) the highest 
current independent bid relating thereto on the trading venue where 
the purchase is carried out, nor at a price less than 5p, being the 
nominal value of an ordinary share. This authority lasts until 1 January 
201 1 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting. 
At the same time, shareholders who were not members of the Cayzer 
family concert party (‘Cayzer Concert Party’) gave their approval for 
a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the obligation that 
could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party under Rule 9 of the City Code 
on Takeovers and Mergers to make a general offer for Caledonia on 
the implementation by the company of the above authority to 
purchase its own shares. The approval was subject to the maximum 
percentage of voting rights in which the Cayzer Concert Party is 
interested not exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by the 
company. This waiver expires on 1 January 201 1 or, if earlier, the 
conclusion at the next annual general meeting.
Change of control agreements
There are no special control rights in relation to the company’s shares.
 Options granted under the company’s executive share option 
schemes and awards made under the company’s deferred bonus plan 
may become exercisable or vest as a result of a change of control, 
although the number of shares comprised in those options or awards 
may be reduced. The service contracts of certain directors and 
associate directors also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum 
is payable by the company in the event of termination within one year 
following a change of control. Any such liquidated sum would be 
equivalent to no more than one year’s total emoluments. 
Customers and suppliers
The group’s policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the 
terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction. The 
group will abide by those terms on condition that it is satisﬁ ed that 
the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with 
the agreed terms and conditions. The group does not follow any code 
or statement on payment practice and Caledonia itself does not have 
any trade payables. 26 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
Directors’ report
Corporate responsibility
Caledonia considers the impact of its business in the following areas:
Workplace
Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect employees 
from unlawful discrimination, offer them a working environment 
where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and 
respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance. 
These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable 
health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in 
accordance with its statutory obligations. These policies are 
communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided 
at the time of joining and periodically thereafter.
 In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees 
to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal 
whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members 
of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety 
in the conduct of the company’s business conﬁ dentially and 
independently of line management.
 A formal performance appraisal process, through which 
employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their 
achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the 
period, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their 
performance and the ability to develop their potential within the 
company through additional training where necessary. Together 
with team meetings and companywide brieﬁ ngs, this provides the 
employees with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success 
of the business.
Community and political donations
Caledonia encourages employees to support local voluntary 
organisations and charitable causes and provides matched 
sponsorship to their fundraising activities. This and other charitable 
donations in the year amounted to £43,000.
 The company also supports the work of the Royal Horticultural 
Society and contributions to the RHS’s campaigns to promote 
gardening through sponsorship of the RHS Chelsea Flower Show 
Charity Gala Preview amounted to £85,000 in the year.
 Political donations totalling £75,000 were made to the 
Conservative Party during the year.
Environment
Caledonia’s environmental impact is limited. However, any 
measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate the company’s 
commitment to improve the environment and can have direct 
beneﬁ ts through reductions in costs for energy and consumables. 
A number of measures have been and will be taken in this area:
•  encouragement of the use of electronic communications to save 
paper, printing consumables and energy
•  usage of video-conferencing and telephone conference calls 
rather than travelling to meetings
•  recycling of ofﬁ ce waste, used paper and other consumables.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
 Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁ nancial 
statements for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law the directors are 
required to prepare the group ﬁ nancial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
also chosen to prepare the parent company ﬁ nancial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under company law the directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisﬁ ed that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the 
proﬁ t or loss of the company for that period. In preparing these 
ﬁ nancial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁ c 
requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁ cient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s ﬁ nancial position and ﬁ nancial performance
•  make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁ cient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁ nancial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the 
ﬁ nancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and ﬁ nancial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁ nancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern
The company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Chief Executive’s report on pages 4 to 6. The ﬁ nancial position 
of the company, its cash ﬂ ows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the ﬁ nancial review on pages 16 to 19. In 
addition, note 22 to the ﬁ nancial statements includes the company’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
ﬁ nancial risk management objectives; details of its ﬁ nancial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to currency 
risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
 The company has cash resources and committed bank facilities 
available to meet existing and new investment commitments. As a 
consequence, the directors believe that the company is well placed 
to manage its business risks successfully.
 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the company and the group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Auditors
Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to 
re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the company and to authorise 
the directors to agree their remuneration. A description of how the 
Audit Committee ensures the objectivity and independence of the 
auditors is set out on page 61 within the corporate governance report. 
 The directors who held ofﬁ ce at the date of approval of this 
directors’ report conﬁ rm that, so far as each is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the company’s auditors are 
unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware 
of that information. 
By order of the board
Graeme Denison
Secretary
19 May 2010
  27 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
We conﬁ rm that, to the best of our knowledge:
1.  the ﬁ nancial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and proﬁ t or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole
2.  the management report, which is incorporated into the directors’ 
report, includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
they face.
Signed on behalf of the board by:
Tim Ingram Stephen King
Chief Executive Finance Director
19 May 2010 19 May 2010
Directors’ reports
Directors’ statement of responsibility 28 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
We have audited the ﬁ nancial statements of Caledonia Investments 
plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the group and 
company statements of comprehensive income, the group and 
company statements of ﬁ nancial position, the group and company 
statements of changes in equity, the group and company statements 
of cash ﬂ ows, and the related notes 1 to 34. The ﬁ nancial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted 
by the European Union.
 This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁ nancial 
statements and for being satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁ nancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements sufﬁ cient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of signiﬁ cant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the ﬁ nancial statements.
Opinion on ﬁ nancial statements
In our opinion:
•  the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2010 
and of the group’s and the parent company’s proﬁ t for the year 
then ended;
•  the ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
•  the ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the parts of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•  the information given in the directors’ report for the ﬁ nancial year 
for which the ﬁ nancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the ﬁ nancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of the 
directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by law are 
not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statement contained within directors’ report in 
relation to going concern; and
•  the part of the corporate governance report relating to the 
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code speciﬁ ed for our review.
Calum Thomson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, United Kingdom
19 May 2010
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Caledonia Investments plc
  29 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
 Company Group
     2010  2009  2010  2009 
    Note £m  £m  £m  £m 
Gains and losses on investments held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss   9 302.8  (350.4) 294.2  (350.8)
Gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value of investments   (7.5) (1.3) (19.2) 26.1 
Investment provisions   21 (5.4) 10.0  –  10.0 
Investment and other income   1 33.0  34.6  34.1  38.9 
Investment income impairment   2  –  (2.5) –  (2.5)
Gross portfolio return    322.9  (309.6) 309.1  (278.3)
Management expenses   3 (12.1) (9.6) (12.1) (9.6)
Other expenses   3 (1.0) (0.5) (1.0) (0.5)
Net portfolio return    309.8  (319.7) 296.0  (288.4)
Revenue from sales of goods and services    –  –  116.0  131.0 
Operating expenses   3 –  –  (111.5) (135.5)
Gain/(loss) on disposal of operations   25 –  –  1.4  (0.3)
Gain on investment property   12 –  –  0.3  0.3 
Share of results of joint ventures   13 –  –  (0.3) 0.8 
Proﬁ t/(loss) before ﬁ nance costs    309.8  (319.7) 301.9  (292.1)
Treasury interest receivable   4 0.5  1.6  0.3  1.7 
Exchange movements    (0.3) (0.8) (0.5) 1.2 
Finance costs   5 (0.4) (0.5) (2.6) (4.7)
Proﬁ t/(loss) before tax    309.6  (319.4) 299.1  (293.9)
Taxation   6 2.8  (6.1) (0.7) (6.9)
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year    312.4  (325.5) 298.4  (300.8)
Other comprehensive income     
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations    –  –  (1.2) 6.9 
Transfer to proﬁ t or loss on disposal of foreign operations   25 –  –  (1.1) (0.4)
Actuarial losses on deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes   20 (1.0) (3.5) (0.4) (8.6)
Tax on other comprehensive income   6 0.3  (0.7) –  0.6 
Total comprehensive income    311.7  (329.7) 295.7  (302.3)
     
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the period attributable to     
Equity holders of the parent    312.4  (325.5) 299.3  (300.6)
Non-controlling interest    –  –  (0.9) (0.2)
     312.4  (325.5) 298.4  (300.8)
T otal comprehensive income attributable to     
Equity holders of the parent    311.7  (329.7) 296.6  (302.6)
Non-controlling interest    –  –  (0.9) 0.3 
     311.7  (329.7) 295.7  (302.3)
     
Basic earnings per share   8 541.0p  -564.1p  518.4p  -521.0p 
Diluted earnings per share   8 539.6p  -564.1p  517.0p  -521.0p 
The accounting policies and notes to the ﬁ nancial statements on pages 33 to 51 are an integral part of these ﬁ nancial statements.
Statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2010 30 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
 Company Group
     2010  2009  2010  2009 
    Note £m  £m  £m  £m 
Non-current assets     
Investments held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss   9 1,183.8  848.9  1,105.7  773.2 
Investments in subsidiaries held at cost   9 0.8  0.8  –  – 
Available for sale investments   9 –  –  0.8  0.8 
Intangible assets   10 –  –  25.0  28.8 
Property, plant and equipment   1 1 –  –  87.0  90.4 
Investment property   12 –  –  12.3  0.5 
Interests in joint ventures   13 –  –  7.6  8.1 
Deferred tax assets   14 –  2.0  6.0  7.9 
Non-current assets    1,184.6  851.7  1,244.4  909.7 
Current assets     
Inventories   15 –  –  14.7  17.3 
Derivatives    –  6.6  –  29.2 
Trade and other receivables   16 5.2  4.0  32.5  38.5 
Current tax assets   6 0.7  –  2.6  0.4 
Money market funds held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss   9 –  –  –  1.0 
Cash and cash equivalents   17 8.3  55.5  30.5  74.2 
Current assets    14.2  66.1  80.3  160.6 
Total assets    1,198.8  917.8  1,324.7  1,070.3 
Current liabilities     
Bank overdrafts   17 –  –  –  (0.3)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   18 –  –  –  (1.6)
Trade and other payables   19 (7.3) (2.4) (27.9) (32.8)
Employee beneﬁ ts   20 –  –  (3.9) (3.5)
Current tax liabilities    –  (4.0) (0.5) (3.8)
Provisions   21 (8.9) (3.5) (4.0) (4.2)
Current liabilities    (16.2) (9.9) (36.3) (46.2)
Non-current liabilities     
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings   18 –  –  (86.2) (79.5)
Employee beneﬁ ts   20 –  (1.5) (9.0) (11.1)
Deferred tax liabilities   14 (1.0) (0.2) (2.2) (1.5)
Non-current liabilities    (1.0) (1.7) (97.4) (92.1)
T otal liabilities    (17.2) (11.6) (133.7) (138.3)
Net assets    1,181.6  906.2  1,191.0  932.0 
Equity     
Share capital   23 3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3 
Share premium   23 1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3 
Capital redemption reserve   23 1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2 
Capital reserve   23 932.1  643.5  –  – 
Retained earnings   23 271.7  281.5  1,206.4  940.4 
Foreign exchange translation reserve   23 –  –  5.4  7.7 
Own shares   23 (28.0) (24.6) (28.0) (24.6)
Equity attributable to owners of the parent    1,181.6  906.2  1,189.6  929.3 
Non-controlling interest   23 –  –  1.4  2.7 
T otal equity    1,181.6  906.2  1,191.0  932.0 
     
Undiluted net asset value per share   8 2047p  1574p   
Diluted net asset value per share   8 2034p  1559p   
The ﬁ nancial statements on pages 29 to 51 were approved by the board and authorised for issue on 19 May 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tim Ingram Stephen King 
Chief Executive Finance Director
The accounting policies and notes to the ﬁ nancial statements on pages 33 to 51 are an integral part of these ﬁ nancial statements. 
Statement of ﬁ nancial position
at 31 March 2010 31 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
    Capital    Currency   Non-  
  Share  Share  redemption  Capital  Retained  translation  Own  controlling  Total 
  capital  premium  reserve  reserve  earnings  reserve  shares  interest equity 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Company
Balance at 1 April 2008 3.3  1.3  1.2  998.1  274.3  –  (26.3) –  1,251.9 
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  (354.6) 24.9  –  –  –  (329.7)
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  1.3  –  –  –  1.3 
Exercise of share options –  –  –  –  –  –  2.2  –  2.2 
Own shares repurchased –  –  –  –  –  –  (3.5) –  (3.5)
Share buy-back arrangements –  –  –  –  –  –  3.0  –  3.0 
Dividends to shareholders –  –  –  –  (19.0) –  –  –  (19.0)
Balance at 31 March 2009 3.3  1.3  1.2  643.5  281.5  –  (24.6) –  906.2 
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  288.6  23.1  –  –  –  311.7 
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  1.1  –  –  –  1.1 
Exercise of share options –  –  –  –  –  –  3.8  –  3.8 
Own shares repurchased –  –  –  –  –  –  (7.2) –  (7.2)
Dividends to shareholders –  –  –  –  (34.0) –  –  –  (34.0)
Balance at 31 March 2010 3.3  1.3  1.2  932.1  271.7 –  (28.0) –  1,181.6 
Group
Balance at 1 April 2008 3.3  1.3  1.2  –  1,266.7  1.7  (26.3) 3.4  1,251.3 
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  –  (308.6) 6.0  –  0.3  (302.3)
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  1.3  –  –  –  1.3 
Exercise of share options –  –  –  –  –  –  2.2  –  2.2 
Own shares repurchased –  –  –  –  –  –  (3.5) –  (3.5)
Share buy-back arrangements –  –  –  –  –  –  3.0  –  3.0 
Dividends to shareholders –  –  –  –  (19.0) –  –  (1.0) (20.0)
Balance at 31 March 2009 3.3  1.3  1.2  –  940.4  7.7  (24.6) 2.7  932.0 
Total comprehensive income –  –  –  –  298.9  (2.3) –  (0.9) 295.7 
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  1.1  –  –  –  1.1 
Exercise of share options –  –  –  –  –  –  3.8  –  3.8 
Own shares repurchased –  –  –  –  –  –  (7.2) –  (7.2)
Capital contribution –  –  –  –  –  –  –  0.5  0.5 
Dividends to shareholders –  –  –  –  (34.0) –  –  (0.9) (34.9)
Balance at 31 March 2010 3.3  1.3  1.2  –  1,206.4  5.4  (28.0) 1.4  1,191.0 
The accounting policies and notes to the ﬁ nancial statements on pages 33 to 51 are an integral part of these ﬁ nancial statements.
Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2010 32 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
 Company Group
     2010  2009  2010  2009 
    Note £m  £m  £m  £m 
Operating activities
Dividends received    27.2  27.3  24.9  25.3 
Interest received    3.3  9.2  3.3  8.6 
Cash received from customers    –  –  125.8  134.1 
Cash paid to suppliers and employees    (12.0) (16.3) (119.9) (130.3)
Taxes received/(paid)    0.7  (6.7) (3.5) (13.7)
Group relief received/(paid)    (0.4) 0.7  –  – 
Net cash ﬂ ow from operating activities    18.8  14.2  30.6  24.0 
Investing activities     
Purchases of investments    (109.9) (63.6) (100.3) (55.0)
Proceeds from disposal of investments    81.1  110.3  66.0  62.7 
Purchases of money market funds    –  –  –  (1.0)
Proceeds from disposal of money market funds    –  –  1.0  – 
Net receipts/(payments) from derivatives    (0.9) (7.9) 9.2  17.7 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment    –  –  (3.4) (6.2)
Purchases of investment property    –  –  (12.1) – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment    –  –  –  2.4 
Proceeds from disposal of joint ventures    –  –  0.2  0.4 
Proceeds from disposal of investment property    –  –  –  6.3 
Purchases of subsidiaries net of cash acquired   24 –  –  (3.1) (4.3)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries net of cash disposed   25 –  –  0.7  (0.2)
Net cash ﬂ ow from/(used in) investing activities    (29.7) 38.8  (41.8) 22.8 
Financing activities     
Interest paid    (0.3) (0.7) (2.2) (4.5)
Distributions paid to holders of equity shares    (34.0) (19.0) (34.0) (19.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest    –  –  (0.9) (1.0)
Proceeds from new borrowings    –  50.0  8.2  60.0 
Repayment of borrowings    –  (50.0) (1.5) (52.9)
Purchase of treasury stock    –  (50.4) –  (50.4)
Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock    –  50.4  –  50.4 
Capital contribution by non-controlling interest    –  –  0.5  – 
Exercise of share options    3.8  2.2  3.8  2.2 
Repurchase of own shares    (5.8) (3.5) (5.8) (3.5)
Net cash ﬂ ow used in ﬁ nancing activities    (36.3) (21.0) (31.9) (18.7)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents    (47.2) 32.0  (43.1) 28.1 
Cash and cash equivalents at year start    55.5  23.5  73.9  42.7 
Exchange movements on cash and cash equivalents    –  –  (0.3) 3.1 
Cash and cash equivalents at year end   17 8.3  55.5  30.5  73.9 
The accounting policies and notes to the ﬁ nancial statements on pages 33 to 51 are an integral part of these ﬁ nancial statements.
Statement of cash ﬂ ows
for the year ended 31 March 2010 33 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Accounting policies
General information
Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company domiciled 
in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England in 1928, under 
the Companies Acts 1908 to 1917 . The address of its registered ofﬁ ce 
is Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN. The 
ordinary shares of the company are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and the New Zealand Exchange.
 These ﬁ nancial statements were authorised for issue by the 
directors on 19 May 2010. 
 These ﬁ nancial statements are presented in pounds sterling 
because that is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which Caledonia operates.
 In the current year, the group has adopted:
•  IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’, which requires ﬁ nancial information 
to be presented on the same basis as used for internal performance 
measurement
•  IAS 1 (Revised 2007) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’, which 
requires the presentation of a statement of comprehensive income
•  IFRS 3 (Revised 2008) ‘Business Combinations’, which introduced 
changes in the accounting for business combinations that impact 
the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the 
period that an acquisition occurs and future reported results
•  IAS 20 (Revised 2008) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements’, which requires that a change in the ownership interest 
of a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction.
The adoption of these Standards had no material impact on these 
ﬁ nancial statements, except for additional segment disclosures and 
non-controlling interest.
 At the date of authorisation of these ﬁ nancial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied 
in these ﬁ nancial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:
• IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’
• IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Interpretations 
in future periods will have no material impact on the ﬁ nancial 
statements of the company.
Signiﬁ cant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted for 
use in the EU and therefore the group ﬁ nancial statements comply 
with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. IFRSs comprise accounting 
standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(‘IASB’) and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by 
the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(‘IFRIC’) and its predecessor body.
 Caledonia is an investment trust company. However, because 
it holds majority stakes and therefore has the power to control, it is 
required to prepare group accounts that consolidate the results of 
such investments. In order to present information that is comparable 
with other investment trust companies, Caledonia also publishes 
ﬁ nancial statements of the company, which include investments 
in subsidiaries regarded as part of the company’s investing business 
at fair value.
 The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared on an historical 
cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain ﬁ nancial instruments 
and properties.
 Under the Combined Code and applicable regulations, the 
directors are required to satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to 
presume that the company is a going concern. After making 
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
company and the group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future, as discussed in the 
directors’ report on page 26. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of preparing the ﬁ nancial statements.
 The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are 
translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at the reporting date. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the 
functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the 
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to the 
functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates 
the fair values were determined.
 Assets and liabilities of the group’s overseas operations are 
measured using their functional currency, being the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which they operate.
 On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the group’s 
overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on 
the reporting date. Income and expense items are translated at 
the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates 
ﬂ uctuate signiﬁ cantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are 
classiﬁ ed as equity and transferred to the group’s foreign exchange 
translation reserve. Such exchange differences are recognised in 
the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the 
operation is sold.
 Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where 
a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established 
by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, 
excluding transaction costs.
 Investments held as part of the group’s business of investing 
in ﬁ nancial assets are designated as measured at fair value through 
proﬁ t or loss in both the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements and the 
company ﬁ nancial statements. Other investments held by 
subsidiaries are designated as available for sale in the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements. Other investments in subsidiaries held by the 
company are accounted for at cost in the ﬁ nancial statements of the 
company.
 Investments designated as held at fair value through proﬁ t or 
loss or as available for sale are measured at subsequent reporting 
dates at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the value 
of investments designated as held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss, 
including foreign exchange movements, are included in net proﬁ t or 
loss for the period. For available for sale investments, gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other 
comprehensive income until the investment is disposed of or is 
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included in 
the net proﬁ t or loss for the period. If, in the subsequent period, the 
fair value of the available for sale investments, for which impairment 
was previously recognised, increases in value, the impairment loss is 
reversed through the statement of comprehensive income. 34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Accounting policies
Quoted investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price 
when a bid price is not available. Unquoted investments are valued 
using recognised valuation methodologies, based on the 
International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines, which 
reﬂ ect the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between 
knowledgeable, willing parties on an arm’s length basis. The portfolio 
valuation methodology is detailed on page 15.
 Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated 
as disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of the 
distribution. Any surplus capital distributions after repaying any 
partner’s loans and capital are treated as realised gains.
Income
Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue 
when the shareholders’ right to receive payment has been 
established, normally the ex-dividend date. Where no ex-dividend 
date is available, dividends receivable on or before the period end are 
treated as revenue for the period. Provision is made for any dividends 
not expected to be received.
 The ﬁ xed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity 
shares are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the ﬁ nancial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount.
 For trading subsidiaries, revenue comprises the fair value of 
the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and 
discounts and after eliminating sales within the group. Sales of goods 
are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed. Sales 
of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the 
services are rendered, by reference to completion of the speciﬁ c 
transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as 
a proportion of the total services to be provided.
 The company’s share of net income from limited partnerships 
is recognised as revenue when received.
 Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount 
already included in income, the uncollectible amount or the amount 
in respect of which the recovery has ceased to be probable, is 
recognised as an expense. When the uncertainty over collectability 
is removed, normally on receipt, the income is recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income.
Expenses
All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis. Expenses of 
acquisition of an investment designated as held at fair value through 
proﬁ t or loss or expenses of an aborted acquisition or disposal of an 
investment are presented as transaction costs and expenses of 
disposal of an investment are deducted from the disposal proceeds.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and 
deferred tax.
 The tax currently payable is based on the taxable proﬁ t for 
the period. Taxable proﬁ t differs from net proﬁ t as reported in the 
statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of 
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and 
it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that were 
applicable at the reporting date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the ﬁ nancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the 
computation of taxable proﬁ t, and is accounted for using the liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁ ts will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Investment 
trust companies that have approval as such under section 1 159 of the 
Corporation Tax Act 2010 (formerly section 842 of the Income and 
Corporation T axes Act 1988) are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that 
sufﬁ cient taxable proﬁ ts will be available to allow all or part of the 
asset to be recovered.
Dividend distribution
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are 
appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity. 
For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they 
are paid and, for ﬁ nal dividends, the date on which they are approved 
in general meeting.
Employee beneﬁ ts
Pension schemes
Payments to deﬁ ned contribution schemes are charged as an 
expense as they fall due.
 For deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁ ts is 
determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each reporting date. Actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. 
They are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented 
in the statement of comprehensive income.
 Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent 
that the beneﬁ ts are already vested and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the average period until the beneﬁ ts 
become vested.
 The retirement beneﬁ t obligation recognised in the statement 
of ﬁ nancial position represents the present value of the deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost and 
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from 
this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of 
available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Proﬁ t-sharing and bonus plans
The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and 
proﬁ t-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the 
proﬁ t attributable to the company’s shareholders after certain 
adjustments. The group recognises a provision where contractually 
obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a 
constructive obligation.
Share-based payments
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at 
fair value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
 Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity 
instruments of its parent as consideration for the services provided to 
the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equity settled share-based 
payment transaction expense with a corresponding increase 
recognised in equity representing a contribution from the parent. 35 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
An employee share trust is used for distributing option shares and 
deferred bonus awards to employees under Caledonia’s share 
remuneration schemes. The trustee purchases shares with money 
lent interest free by Caledonia and transfers shares to participating 
employees on receipt of the requisite consideration or calling 
of awards.
 The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are 
considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia. 
The transactions of the employee share trust are included in the 
separate ﬁ nancial statements of the parent company and, following 
the requirements of SIC 12, in the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 
as if they arose in that company. Own shares held by the employee 
share trust as at the reporting date are accounted for as if they were 
treasury shares.
National Insurance on share option scheme gains and deferred bonus 
awards
National Insurance contributions payable on the exercise of certain 
employee share options at the date of exercise and deferred bonus 
awards at the date of call have been charged as an expense spread 
over the respective vesting periods. The charge is based on the 
difference between the market value of the underlying shares at the 
reporting date and the exercise price for share options or £nil for 
deferred bonus awards and calculated at the latest enacted National 
Insurance contributions rate.
Capital reserve
The company maintains a capital reserve, which it is prohibited from 
distributing by virtue of its articles of association. The following items 
are transferred into the capital reserve from proﬁ t or loss:
•  gains and losses on investments held at fair value through proﬁ t
or loss
•  gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value 
of investments
•  expenses and ﬁ nance costs incurred directly in relation to 
capital transactions
• taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
 Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, 
other than land or properties under construction, over their 
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the 
following bases:
Property 25-40 years
Plant 10-15 years
Equipment 3-8 years
 Assets held under ﬁ nance leases are depreciated over their 
expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where 
shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
 The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is 
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and/or for 
capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value at the reporting date. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment 
property are included in the statement of comprehensive income for 
the period in which they arise.
Intangible assets
Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships
Brands, trademarks, computer software and customer relationships 
acquired by the group are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. Where such items are not 
deemed to have an indeﬁ nite life, amortisation is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the group’s interest in the fair value of the identiﬁ able 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or 
jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
 Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment 
at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in proﬁ t 
or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
 On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, 
the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination 
of the proﬁ t or loss on disposal.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of 
its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any 
such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount 
by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, 
if any. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, 
intangible assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are 
separately identiﬁ able cash ﬂ ows (cash-generating units).
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour 
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated 
using the ﬁ rst-in, ﬁ rst-out method. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and 
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
 Properties that are held for sale in the ordinary course of business 
or are being developed for future sale are classiﬁ ed as inventories.
Receivables
Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal 
value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits. Cash equivalents 
are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insigniﬁ cant risk 
of changes in value.
Borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct 
issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the statement of 
comprehensive income using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise. The effective 
interest method allocates the interest expense over the life of the 
instrument so as to reﬂ ect a constant return on the carrying amount 
of the liability.
 Borrowings include a component of the company’s deferred 
ordinary shares and preference shares in subsidiaries held by third 
parties that fall under the deﬁ nition of ﬁ nancial liabilities under IAS 32. 36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the statement of ﬁ nancial position when 
the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event, and it is probable that an outﬂ ow of economic beneﬁ ts 
will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at 
the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present value 
where the effect is material.
Leasing
Leases are classiﬁ ed as ﬁ nance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classiﬁ ed as operating leases.
Lessor
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying 
amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis.
 
Lessee
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases are recognised as assets of the group 
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The 
corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the statement of 
ﬁ nancial position as a ﬁ nance lease obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between ﬁ nance charges and reduction of the lease 
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against 
income.
 Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
 Beneﬁ ts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into 
an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
Share capital
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
 Where any group company and the Caledonia Investments plc 
Employee Share Trust purchases the company’s equity share capital 
or the company buys shares into treasury, the consideration paid, 
including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income 
taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the company’s equity 
holders until the shares are cancelled or transferred. Where such shares 
are subsequently transferred, any consideration received, net of any 
directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the company’s 
equity holders.
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is 
entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
 Hedge accounting is not applied. Changes in the fair value of 
derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income as they arise.
Operating segments
Operating segments are based the ﬁ nancial information reported 
to the chief operating decision maker.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
The consolidated ﬁ nancial statements include the ﬁ nancial 
statements of the company and entities controlled by the company 
(its subsidiaries) made up to the reporting date. Control is achieved 
where the company has the power to govern the ﬁ nancial and 
operating policies of the investee entity so as to obtain economic 
beneﬁ ts from its activities.
 On acquisition, the identiﬁ able assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values 
of the identiﬁ able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. 
Any deﬁ ciency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the 
identiﬁ able net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited 
to the statement of comprehensive income in the period of acquisition. 
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-
controlled proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities 
recognised. 
 The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the 
period are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective 
date of disposal, as appropriate.
 Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁ nancial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line 
with those used by the group.
 All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
Associates
An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise 
signiﬁ cant inﬂ uence, but not control or joint control, through the 
ﬁ nancial and operating policy decisions of the investee entity.
 As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its investments 
held in associates are designated as held at fair value through proﬁ t or 
loss, the provisions of IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates’ do not apply. 
Such investments are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value 
recognised in proﬁ t or loss in the period in which they occur.
 No other group company held investments in associates.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more 
parties undertake an economic activity that is the subject of joint 
control.
 As Caledonia is an investment trust company, and its interests 
in joint ventures are designated as held at fair value through proﬁ t or 
loss, the provisions of IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’ do not apply. 
Such interests are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value 
recognised in proﬁ t or loss in the period in which they occur. However, 
the provisions of IAS 31 do apply to interests in joint ventures held by 
other companies in the group, as set out below.
 The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures held by 
subsidiaries are incorporated in these ﬁ nancial statements using the 
equity method of accounting, except when classiﬁ ed as held for sale. 
Interests in joint ventures are carried in the statement of ﬁ nancial 
position at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the group’s 
share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment in the 
value of individual investments. Losses of the joint ventures in excess 
of the group’s interest in those joint ventures are not recognised.
 Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the group’s share of the 
fair values of the identiﬁ able net assets of the joint ventures at the date 
of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. Any deﬁ ciency in the cost of 
acquisition below the group’s share of the fair values of the identiﬁ able 
net assets at the date of acquisition is credited in proﬁ t or loss in the 
period of acquisition.
 Where a group company transacts with joint ventures of the 
group, proﬁ ts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the group’s 
interest in the relevant joint ventures. Losses may provide evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate 
provision is made for impairment.
Accounting policies 37 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
1. Investment and other income
 Company Group
   2010 2009 2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Investment income
Dividends from equity shares
 Quoted UK  18.5  16.9  18.5  16.9 
 Quoted non-UK  1.5  2.8  1.5  2.8 
 Unquoted  5.6  6. 1  5.6  6. 1 
 Subsidiaries  2.3  1.8  –  – 
Interest on loan investments    
 Unquoted  3.5  5.9  7.3  12.8 
 Subsidiaries  0.4  0.8  –  – 
   31.8  34.3  32.9  38.6 
Other income    
Sub-underwriting commission  1.2  0.2  1.2  0.2 
Deal fees  –  0. 1  –  0. 1 
   33.0  34.6  34. 1  38.9 
2. Investment income impairment
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Loan investments
Unquoted  –  2.5  –  2.5 
The investment income impairment on loan investments comprised 
the amount of interest previously included in revenue and over which 
an uncertainty of collectability had arisen.
3. Expenses
Investing operations
Management expenses
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Personnel expenses  8.8  6.3  8.8  6.3 
Depreciation  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
Auditors’ remuneration  0. 1  0. 1  0. 1  0. 1 
Other administrative expenses  3. 1  3. 1  3. 1  3. 1 
   12. 1  9.6  12. 1  9.6 
Caledonia Group Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary, provides 
management services to the company and charges for its services on 
the basis of net expenses incurred. The table includes both an analysis 
of this expense and Caledonia’s own management expenses.
Other expenses
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Transaction costs  0.5  0.2  0.5  0.2 
Performance fees  0.3  –  0.3  – 
Other expenses  0.2  0.3  0.2  0.3 
   1.0  0.5  1.0  0.5 
Transaction costs were expenses incidental to the acquisition of 
investments held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss and expenses 
incurred as part of aborted investment purchases or sales.
Trading operations
Operating expenses
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Cost of sales    67 .5  74.8 
Distribution expenses    13.0  13.7 
Administrative expenses    31.0  47 .0 
     111.5  135.5 
Operating expenses included the following items:
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Depreciation    4.4  4.6 
Amortisation    1.4  1.6 
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment  –  5.4 
Impairment loss on goodwill    –  1 1. 1 
Impairment loss on customer relationships  1.9  – 
Direct operating expenses of investment property
that generated rental income    0. 1  0. 1 
Auditors’ remuneration    0.2  0.2 
Further information
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Audit services
Company audit  0. 1  0. 1  0. 1  0. 1 
Consolidation audit  –  –  0. 1  0. 1 
Annual report  0. 1  0. 1  0.2  0.2 
Subsidiaries’ audit  –  –  0. 1  0. 1 
   0. 1  0. 1  0.3  0.3 
Other services
Taxation advice  0.2  0.3  0.2  0.3 
   0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6 
Personnel expenses
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Wages and salaries  6.2  4.4  36.6  37 .0 
Compulsory social security 
contributions  0.7  0.6  5. 1  4.6 
Contributions to deﬁ ned 
contribution plans  0.2  0.3  0.6  1. 1 
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension 
plans expense
1
  0.2  –  1.0  0.2 
Increase in liability for long 
service leave  –  –  0. 1  0. 1 
Equity-settled share-based
payments
1
  1. 1  1.3  1. 1  1.3 
National Insurance on share awards 0.4  (0.3) 0.4  (0.3)
   8.8  6.3  44.9  44.0 
1. See note 20 ‘Employee beneﬁ ts’.
The average number of employees, including executive directors, 
throughout the year was as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   No  No  No  No 
Average number of employees  42  41  790  882  38 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
4. Treasury interest receivable
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Interest on bank deposits  0. 1  1. 1  0.2  1.6 
Other interest receivable  –  0. 1  0. 1  0. 1 
Guarantee fees  0.4  0.4  –  – 
   0.5  1.6  0.3  1.7 
5. Finance costs
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 0.4  0.5  2.5  4.6 
Other interest costs  –  –  0.1  0.1 
   0.4  0.5  2.6  4.7 
6. Taxation
Recognised in comprehensive income
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Current tax expense    
Current year  (1.8) 5.6  1.2  8.9 
Adjustments for prior years  (3.5) 1.3  (2.9) 1.3 
   (5.3) 6.9  (1.7) 10.2 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of 
timing differences  2.5  (0.8) 3.5  (3.5)
Beneﬁ t of tax losses recognised  –  –  (1.1) 0.2 
   2.5  (0.8) 2.4  (3.3)
Total tax expense/(income)  (2.8) 6. 1  0.7  6.9 
Reconciliation of effective tax expense
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Proﬁ t/(loss) before tax  309.6  (319.4) 299.1  (293.9)
Tax at the domestic rate 
of 28% (2009 – 28%)  86.7  (89.4) 83.7  (82.3)
Effect of tax rate in foreign 
jurisdictions  –  –  2.3  3.7 
Non-deductible expenses  0. 1  –  0.9  1.4 
Utilisation of tax losses  –  –  (1.6) (0.2)
Losses for the year unrelieved  –  –  1.0  0.7 
Non-taxable (gains)/losses 
on investments  (78.5) 101.2  (75.1) 91.3 
Non-taxable UK dividend income (7 .3) (6.7) (6.7) (6.2)
Tax exempt revenues  (0.3) –  (0.3) – 
Other timing differences  –  (0.3) (0.6) (2.8)
Under/(over) provided in prior years (3.5) 1.3  (2.9) 1.3 
Tax expense/(income)  (2.8) 6. 1  0.7  6.9 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Deferred tax expense
Relating to actuarial losses on 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes (0.3) (1.0) –  (2.3)
Relating to share options and 
deferred bonus awards  –  1.7  –  1.7 
   (0.3) 0.7  –  (0.6)
Current tax assets
Current tax assets of £0.7m and £2.6m in the company and group 
respectively (2009 – £nil and £0.4m) represented the amount of 
income taxes recoverable in respect of current and prior years that 
exceeded payments.
7 . Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year were 
as follows:
   2010  2010  2009  2009 
   p/share  £m  p/share  £m 
Final dividend for the year ended 
31 March 2009 (2008)  23.5  13.6  22.6  13.0 
Interim dividend for the year ended 
31 March 2010 (2009)  10.6  6. 1  10.3  6.0 
Second interim dividend for the 
year ended 31 March 2010 (2009) 24.7  14.3  –  – 
   58.8  34.0  32.9  19.0 
For the purposes of section 1 159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, the 
dividends payable for the year ended 31 March 2010 are the interim 
and second interim dividends paid for that year, amounting to £20.4m 
(2009 – £19.6m).
8. Earnings and net asset value per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share of the company and of the 
group was based on the proﬁ t attributable to shareholders and the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share of the company and of 
the group was based on proﬁ t attributable to shareholders and the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year, after 
adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential shares.
 The proﬁ t attributable to shareholders was as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Proﬁ t/(loss) attributable to 
shareholders (basic and diluted)  312.4  (325.5) 299.3  (300.6)
The weighted average number of shares was as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   000’s  000’s  000’s  000’s 
Issued shares at year start  58,795  58,795  58,795  58,795 
Effect of shares held in treasury  (563) (487) (563) (487)
Effect of shares held by the
employee share trust  (489) (608) (489) (608)
Shares held by a subsidiary  –  –  (3) (3)
Basic weighted average number 
of shares during the year  57 ,743  57 ,700  57 ,740  57 ,697 
Effect of share options and 
deferred bonus awards  151  –  151  – 
Diluted weighted average number 
of shares during the year  57 ,894  57 ,700  57,891  57,697  39 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Net asset value per share
The company’s undiluted net asset value per share is based on the net 
assets of the company at the year end and on the number of shares in 
issue at the year end less shares held by the Caledonia Investments plc 
Employee Share Trust, restricted shares, shares held by a subsidiary and 
shares accounted as held in treasury. The company’s diluted net asset 
value per share assumes the re-issue of shares accounted as held in 
treasury at the closing mid-market price on the reporting date, the 
exercise of all outstanding in-the-money share options and the calling 
of deferred bonus awards.
  Net Number    Net Number   
  assets  of shares  NAV  assets  of shares  NAV 
  2010  2010  2010  2009  2009  2009 
  £m  000’s  p/share  £m  000’s  p/share 
Undiluted 1, 181.6  57 ,714  2047  906.2  57 ,579  1574 
Adjustments 18.3  1,278  (13) 12.7  1,359  (15)
Diluted 1, 199.9  58,992  2034  918.9  58,938  1559 
9. Investments
Company
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Non-current investments
Investments held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss  1, 183.8  848.9 
Investments in subsidiaries held at cost   0.8  0.8 
     1,184.6  849.7 
The movements in non-current investments were as follows:
  UK  Non-UK   Subsid-  
  quoted  quoted  Unquoted  iaries  Total 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Balance at 31 March 2008 581.9  1 15.8  427 .5  122.9  1,248. 1 
Purchases at cost 14.4  8.8  33. 1  10.0  66.3 
Disposal proceeds (3.2) (0.5) (58.9) (47 .3) (109.9)
Reclassiﬁ cations 2.4  6.3  (8.7) –  – 
Gains/(losses) on
investments (188.4) (61.7) (100.7) 0.4  (350.4)
Rolled-up interest –  –  (4.0) (0.4) (4.4)
Balance at 31 March 2009 407 . 1  68.7  288.3  85.6  849.7 
Purchases at cost 61.9  12.6  27 .4  13.2  1 15. 1 
Disposal proceeds (26.5) (1 1.8) (27 .2) (18.3) (83.8)
Reclassiﬁ cations (22.8) 0.6 22.2 – –
Gains on investments 176.2  73.5  44.5  8.6  302.8 
Rolled-up interest –  –  0.8  –  0.8 
Balance at 31 March 2010 595.9  143.6  356.0  89. 1  1, 184.6 
Rolled-up interest is the movement in the fair value of loan instruments 
attributable to investment income.
Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Non-current investments
Investments held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss
 UK quoted securities    618.7  407 . 1 
 Non-UK quoted securities    143.4  68.7 
 Unquoted securities    343.6  297.4 
     1,105.7  773.2 
Available for sale investments
 Unquoted securities    0.8  0.8 
     1,106.5  774.0 
Current investments
Money market funds    –  1.0 
10. Intangible assets
Group
    Customer   
    relation-   
   Goodwill  ships  Other  Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Cost
Balance at 31 March 2008  35.0  1 1.8  1. 1  47 .9 
Acquisition of operations  –  1.8  –  1.8 
Other acquisitions  –  –  0. 1  0. 1 
Disposals  (0.5) –  –  (0.5)
Exchange movements   1.5  –  –  1.5 
Balance at 31 March 2009  36.0  13.6  1.2  50.8 
Disposal of operations  (0.4) –  –  (0.4)
Exchange movements   (0.3) –  –  (0.3)
Balance at 31 March 2010  35.3  13.6  1.2  50. 1 
Amortisation and impairment
Balance at 31 March 2008  6.2  1.5  0.7  8.4 
Amortisation  –  1.3  0.3  1.6 
Impairment  1 1. 1  –  –  1 1. 1 
Exchange movements   0.9  –  –  0.9 
Balance at 31 March 2009  18.2  2.8  1.0  22.0 
Amortisation  –  1.2  0.2  1.4 
Impairment  –  1.9  –  1.9 
Exchange movements   (0.2) –  –  (0.2)
Balance at 31 March 2010  18.0  5.9  1.2  25. 1 
Carrying amounts
At 31 March 2008  28.8  10.3  0.4  39.5 
At 31 March 2009  17 .8  10.8  0.2  28.8 
At 31 March 2010  17 .3  7 .7  –  25.0 
Customer relationships primarily relate to identiﬁ able customer related 
intangible assets acquired on the purchase of the Ermitage group in 
2007 . During 2008, the useful economic life of client relationships was 
revised from indeﬁ nite to ten years.
 Other intangible assets included brands and trademarks, recipes 
and formulae and computer software.
Impairment charge
The impairment charge for the year of £1.9m (2009 – £1 1. 1m) was 
recognised in operating expenses of trading operations in the 
statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment tests for goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill was predominantly attributable to a 
single cash generating unit, Ermitage group. The recoverable amount 
of the unit has been determined on the basis of the fair value less costs 
to sell based on recent forecasts from the unit management’s business 
plan and comparable market transactions. 40 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
1 1. Property, plant and equipment
Group
     Equip-  
   Property  Plant  ment  Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Cost
Balance at 31 March 2008  92.7  5.0  10.6  108.3 
Acquisition of operations  –  0.2  –  0.2 
Other acquisitions  2.2  2.4  2.0  6.6 
Disposal of operations  –  (1.4) (0.5) (1.9)
Other disposals  (1.7) (0.5) (0.4) (2.6)
Exchange movements   7 .7  2.9  1. 1  1 1.7 
Balance at 31 March 2009  100.9  8.6  12.8  122.3 
Other acquisitions  0.2  0.9  2.2  3.3 
Disposal of operations  –  (0. 1) –  (0. 1)
Other disposals  –  (0.2) (0.8) (1.0)
Exchange movements   (2.1) (0.7) (0.3) (3.1)
Balance at 31 March 2010  99.0  8.5  13.9  121.4 
Depreciation and impairment
Balance at 31 March 2008  15. 1 2.3  2.6  20.0 
Impairment   5.4  –  –  5.4 
Depreciation   2.0  1.5  1.2  4.7 
Disposal of operations  –  (1. 1) (0.5) (1.6)
Other disposals  –  (0.5) (0.2) (0.7)
Exchange movements   1.5  1.7  0.9  4. 1 
Balance at 31 March 2009  24.0  3.9  4.0  31.9 
Depreciation   2.0  1.3  1.2  4.5 
Disposal of operations  –  (0. 1) –  (0. 1)
Other disposals  –  (0.2) (0.7) (0.9)
Exchange movements   (0.4) (0.4) (0.2) (1.0)
Balance at 31 March 2010  25.6  4.5  4.3  34.4 
Carrying amounts
At 31 March 2008  77 .6  2.7  8.0  88.3 
At 31 March 2009  76.9  4.7  8.8  90.4 
At 31 March 2010  73.4  4.0  9.6  87 .0 
Security
At 31 March 2010, properties with a carrying amount of £36.6m (2009 – 
£38.8m) were subject to charges to secure bank loans (note 18).
12. Investment property
Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Balance at the year start    0.5  5.4 
Additions    11.5  –
Disposals    –  (4.9)
Fair value adjustments    0.3  – 
Balance at the year end    12.3  0.5 
The carrying value of investment property was the fair value of the 
property as determined by a registered independent appraiser, having 
an appropriate recognised qualiﬁ cation and recent experience in the 
location and category of the property being valued. Fair values were 
determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar 
properties in the same location. Investment property comprises 
commercial property that is leased out over 10 to 20 years (note 26) 
and vacant freehold land.
 During the prior year, an investment property was sold for £5.5m, 
which had been leased for £0.3m per annum over a ﬁ ve year period.
Security
At 31 March 2010, investment properties with a carrying value of 
£1 1.8m (2009 – £nil) were subject to charges to secure bank loans 
(note 18).
13. Interests in joint ventures
The group had the following interests in joint ventures:
    Ownership
  Country of  2010  2009 
  domicile  %  % 
Moredun LP UK  33  33 
Willmoreton Properties Ltd UK  50  50 
York Investors LLP UK  25  25 
GPG Premises LLP UK  25  25 
The group’s share of post-acquisition total recognised proﬁ t or loss in 
the above joint ventures for the year ended 31 March 2010 was £0.3m 
loss (2009 – £0.8m proﬁ t).
 Summarised ﬁ nancial information of joint ventures was 
as follows:
      Proﬁ t/
  Assets  Liabilities  Equity  Revenue  (loss) 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
2010
Moredun LP 39.0  (22.8) 16.2  2.7  1.9 
Willmoreton Properties Ltd 9.9  (7 .4) 2.5  0.9  (1.4)
York Investors LLP 6.6  (3. 1) 3.5  0.3  (0.9)
GPG Premises LLP 0.2  (0. 1) 0. 1  0.4  – 
  55.7  (33.4) 22.3  4.3  (0.4)
2009     
Moredun LP 39.3  (25.0) 14.3  3.2  0.7 
Willmoreton Properties Ltd 1 1.9  (8.0) 3.9  0.9  0.5 
York Investors LLP 7 .5  (3.2) 4.3  0.4  – 
GPG Premises LLP 1.6  (0.5) 1. 1  2.8  1.4 
  60.3  (36.7) 23.6  7 .3  2.6 
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Company
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were attributable to the following:
    Assets  Liabilities  Net 
    £m  £m  £m 
2010
Investments   –  (1.0) (1.0)
2009
Investments   1.6  (0.2) 1.4 
Employee beneﬁ ts   0.4  –  0.4 
    2.0  (0.2) 1.8 
Movement in temporary differences during the year
   Recognised in
    Other
  Balance  Compre-  compre-  Transfer to  Balance
  at year  hensive  hensive  group  at year 
  start  income  income  company end 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
2010 
Investments 1.4  (2.4) –  –  (1.0)
Employee beneﬁ ts 0.4  (0. 1) 0.3  (0.6) – 
  1.8  (2.5) 0.3  (0.6) (1.0)
2009
Investments (3.7) 5. 1  –  –  1.4 
Employee beneﬁ ts 2.6  (1.5) (0.7) –  0.4 
Provisions 2.8  (2.8) –  –  – 
  1.7  0.8  (0.7) –  1.8  41 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Group
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities were attributable to the following:
    Assets  Liabilities  Net 
    £m  £m  £m 
2010
Investments   –  (1.0) (1.0)
Employee beneﬁ ts   3.9  –  3.9 
Tax losses   1.6  –  1.6 
Other items   0.5  (1.2) (0.7)
    6.0  (2.2) 3.8 
2009   
Investments   1.6  (0.2) 1.4 
Employee beneﬁ ts   4.9  –  4.9 
Tax losses   0.5  –  0.5 
Other items   0.9  (1.3) (0.4)
    7.9  (1.5) 6.4 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets were not recognised in respect of the following 
items:
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Tax losses    3.3  4.3 
A deferred tax asset was not recognised in respect of the tax losses 
because it was not probable that future taxable proﬁ t would be 
available against which the company could utilise the beneﬁ ts.
 Tax losses of £1.6m (2009 – £2.6m) expire within ﬁ ve years and 
the balance does not expire.
Movement in temporary differences during the year
    Recog-   
    nised in   Recognised in other 
  Balance  compre-   comprehensive income Balance
  at year  hensive   Exchange  at year 
  start  income  Taxation  movements end 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
2010
Investments 1.4  (2.4) –  –  (1.0)
Employee beneﬁ ts 4.9  (0.8) –  (0.2) 3.9 
Tax losses 0.5  1. 1  –  –  1.6 
Other items (0.4) (0.3) –  –  (0.7)
  6.4  (2.4) –  (0.2) 3.8 
2009
Investments (3.7) 5. 1  –  –  1.4 
Employee beneﬁ ts 4.3  (0.4) 0.6  0.4  4.9 
Provisions 2.8  (2.8) –  –  – 
Tax losses 0.7  (0.2) –  –  0.5 
Other items (2. 1) 1.6  –  0. 1  (0.4)
  2.0  3.3  0.6  0.5  6.4 
15. Inventories
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Raw materials and consumables    3.9  4.9 
Work in progress    0.5  1.6 
Finished goods    2.6  3.2 
Properties held for sale    7.7  7.6 
     14.7  17 .3 
Inventories included properties with a cost of £nil (2009 – £0.9m) that 
were not expected to be realised within one year.
16. Trade and other receivables
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Trade receivables and prepayments 5.2  4.0  32.5  38.5 
Group trade receivables included an amount of £nil (2009 – £0.9m) 
that was expected to be settled after more than one year.
17 . Net cash and cash equivalents
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Bank balances  8.3  0.4  30.5  17 .3 
Short term deposits  –  55. 1  –  56.9 
Cash and cash equivalents  8.3  55.5  30.5  74.2 
Bank overdrafts  –  –  –  (0.3)
   8.3  55.5  30.5  73.9 
Bank overdrafts were included in current liabilities in the statement of 
ﬁ nancial position.
 
18. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Non-current liabilities
Secured bank loans    28.9  23.2 
Unsecured loans    54.7  53.8 
Finance leases    0.2  0.2 
Cumulative preference shares    0. 1  0. 1 
Unsecured bond issues    2.3  2.2 
     86.2  79.5 
Current liabilities
Current portion of unsecured loans   –  1.5 
Finance leases    –  0. 1 
     –  1.6 
Bank loans of £28.9m (2009 – £23.2m) were secured by a charge over 
certain properties of the group. 42 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
19. Trade and other payables
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Trade payables  3. 1  0.3  7.4  9.9 
Non-trade payables and 
accrued expenses  4.2  2. 1  19.9  21.6 
Derivatives  –  –  0.6  1.3 
   7 .3  2.4  27 .9  32.8 
20. Employee beneﬁ ts
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Current liabilities
Short term compensated absences –  –  (0.6) (0.6)
Proﬁ t-sharing bonus  –  –  (3.3) (2.9)
   –  –  (3.9) (3.5)
Non-current liabilities
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension obligations –  (1.5) (7.9) (9.1)
National Insurance on share options
and deferred bonus awards  –  –  (0.2) (0.5)
Proﬁ t-sharing bonus  –  –  (0.1) (0.8)
Liability for long term service leave –  –  (0.8) (0.7)
   –  (1.5) (9.0) (11.1)
Total employee liabilities  –  (1.5) (12.9) (14.6)
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension obligations
During the year, the company had a constructive obligation for a 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension plan that was transferred to a group company 
on 31 March 2010. The group makes contributions to four (2009 – four) 
plans in the UK and US that provide pension beneﬁ ts for employees 
upon retirement.
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Present value of funded obligations –  19.9  67 .9  56.5 
Fair value of plan assets  –  (18.4) (60.0) (47.4)
Present value of net obligations  –  1.5  7.9  9. 1 
Changes in the present value of deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligations were 
as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Balance at year start  19.9  20.6  56.5  57 .0 
Service cost  0.3  0.3  0.8  0.8 
Interest cost  1. 1  1.4  3.3  3.6 
Employee contributions  –  –  –  0. 1 
Actuarial (gain)/loss  6. 1  (2.0) 14.9  (7.7)
Actual beneﬁ t payments  (4.8) (0.4) (6.8) (2.1)
Exchange movements  –  –  (0.8) 4.8 
Transferred to group company  (22.6) –  –  – 
Balance at year end  –  19.9  67 .9  56.5 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Balance at year start  18.4  22.6  47.4  56.0 
Expected return on assets  1.2  1.7  3. 1  4.2 
Actuarial gain/(loss)  5. 1  (5.5) 14.5  (16.3)
Employer contributions  0.6  –  2.2  1.6 
Employee contributions  –  –  –  0. 1 
Actual beneﬁ t payments  (4.8) (0.4) (6.8) (2.1)
Exchange movements  –  –  (0.4) 3.9 
Transferred to group company  (20.5) –  –  – 
Balance at year end  –  18.4  60.0  47 .4 
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income were 
as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Current service cost  0.3  0.3  0.8  0.8 
Interest on obligations  1. 1  1.4  3.3  3.6 
Expected return on plan assets  (1.2) (1.7) (3.1) (4.2)
   0.2  –  1.0  0.2 
The expense was recognised in the following lines in the statement 
of comprehensive income:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Management expenses of 
investing activities  0.2  –  0.2  – 
Operating expenses of 
trading activities  –  –  0.8  0.2 
   0.2  –  1.0  0.2 
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Actuarial losses in the year  1.0  3.5  0.4  8.6
Cumulative actuarial losses  3.2  2.2  8.1 7.7 
 
An analysis of plan assets and expected returns at the end of the year 
(expressed as weighted averages) was as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Plan assets
Equities  –  15.7  39.8  37 .9 
Bonds  –  1. 1  10.2  4. 1 
Other assets  –  1.6  10.0  5.4 
   –  18.4  60.0  47 .4 
Expected returns
Equities  –  8.1% 8. 1%  7 .8%
Bonds  –  4.9% 5.2%  5.4%
Other assets  –  5.0% 3.9%  4.7%
   –  7.6% 6.9%  7 .2% 43 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as 
weighted averages) were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   %  %  %  % 
Discount rate at year end  –  6.6  5.5  6.5 
Future salary increases  –  4.9  4.2  3.9 
Future pension increases  –  2.7  3.5  3.3 
Price inﬂ ation  –  2.9  3.3  2.9 
Mortality rates are assumed to follow the Self Administered Pension 
Schemes ‘Series 1’ light tables applicable to each member’s year of 
birth, projected to calendar year 2009 in line with medium cohort 
improvements. Allowance has also been made for further 
improvements in line with medium cohort improvement rates with 
a minimum improvement of 1.5%pa. Life expectancy on retirement 
in normal heath is assumed to be 26.5 years for males and 28.0 years 
for females who are currently 62 years of age.
 Expected contributions to company and group post-
employment beneﬁ t plans for the year ended 31 March 2010 were £nil 
and £2.4m respectively. 
 Amounts for the current and previous four years were as follows:
  2010  2009  2008  2007  2006 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Company
Present value of deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t obligations –  19.9  20.6  23.0  21.9 
Fair value of plan assets –  (18.4) (22.6) (23.0) (21.5)
Deﬁ cit/(surplus) in the plan –  1.5  (2.0) –  0.4 
Experience adjustment 
on plan liabilities (0.2) (1.0) (0. 1) 0.9  0.6 
Experience adjustment 
on plan assets 5. 1  (5.5) (1.9) (0.6) 3.3 
Group     
Present value of deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t obligations 67 .9  56.5  57 .0  60.7  65.9 
Fair value of plan assets (60.0) (47.4) (56.0) (56.5) (59.2)
Deﬁ cit in the plan 7 .9  9. 1  1.0 4.2 6.7
Experience adjustment 
on plan liabilities (0. 1) (2. 1) 0.2  1.0  0.7 
Experience adjustment 
on plan assets 14.5  (16.3) (4.6) –  7 .9 
Share-based payments
The company currently has two executive share option schemes, 
a 1998 scheme and a 2005 scheme. These schemes entitle senior 
employees to purchase shares in the company at the market price of 
the shares at the date of grant and on similar terms, subject to service 
and company performance criteria. Under the terms of the schemes, 
options may be exercised between three and ten years after the date 
of grant, although only one-third of the options may be exercised after 
three years from grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming 
exercisable six years after grant. A number of grants have been made 
under these schemes.
 The company also has a deferred bonus plan under which senior 
employees compulsorily defer part of their annual bonus, being any 
bonus in excess of 50% of their basic salary for the bonus year, into 
shares and may voluntarily defer up to 50% of their remaining cash 
bonus into shares. The company will match the number of shares 
comprised in both compulsory (in respect of bonus for ﬁ nancial years 
ended 31 March 2008 and onwards) and voluntary deferral, subject 
to service and company performance criteria.
The terms and conditions of the grants outstanding as at 31 March 
2010 were as follows, whereby all grants are settled by physical delivery 
of shares:
   Number  Vesting
Grant date Entitlement of shares  conditions
Share options 
05.07 .02 Option grant to senior staff 10,556  Note 1
20. 1 1.03 Option grant to senior staff 30,867  Note 1
26.05.04 Option grant to senior staff 23,092  Note 2
19.08.05 Option grant to senior staff 151,292  Note 3
01.06.06 Option grant to senior staff 86,348  Note 3
03.06.08 Option grant to senior staff 207 ,517  Note 3
29.05.09 Option grant to senior staff 286,501  Note 3
   796,173  
Deferred bonus awards  
03.06.08 Matching shares 15,903  Note 4
29.07 .08 Matching shares 29,607  Note 4
   45,510  
Vesting conditions are as follows:
1.  Three/six years of service and NAV outperforms RPI by 9% or FTSE 
All-Share.
2.  Three/six years of service and 50% vests if NAV outperforms RPI 
by 9% and/or 50% vests if NAV outperforms FTSE All-Share.
3.  Three/six years of service and 50% vests if NAV outperforms RPI 
by 9% and/or 50% vests if NAV outperforms FTSE All-Share by 3%.
4.  Three years of service and 50% vests if NAV outperforms RPI by 9% 
and/or 50% vests if NAV outperforms FTSE All-Share by 3%.
All share options have a life of ten years and all deferred bonus awards 
have a life of four years.
 The number and weighted average exercise prices of share 
options were as follows:
   Weighted   Weighted  
   average   average  
   exercise  Number  exercise  Number 
   price  of options  price  of options 
   2010  2010  2009  2009 
   p/share  000’s  p/share  000’s 
Outstanding at the year start  1503  1,085  1296  1,235 
Granted during the year  1446  287  1980  207 
Exercised during the year  949  (400) 806  (271)
Lapsed during the year  2149  (176) 1878  (86)
Outstanding at the year end  1618  796  1503  1,085 
The options outstanding at 31 March 2010 have an exercise price in 
the range of 722.5p to 1980p and a weighted average contractual life 
of ten years.
 The fair value of services received in return for share options 
granted were measured indirectly, by reference to the fair value of 
share options granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services 
received was measured based on the Hull-White Employee Stock 
Option Valuation lattice model. This takes account of the impact of 
future events, such as early exercise by employees and employee exit 
rates after vesting. Also, the Hull-White model deﬁ nes the conditions 
under which employees are expected to exercise their options after 
vesting in terms of the share price reaching a certain multiple of the 
exercise price. 44 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
The weighted average fair value at the measurement date of share 
options granted during the year and parameters used to derive the fair 
value, were as follows:
     Senior  Senior 
     staff  staff 
     2010  2009 
Fair value at measurement date    392p  523p 
Share price    1446p  1980p 
Exercise price    1446p  1980p 
Expected volatility    32.2%  22.4% 
Exercise multiple    2.0  2.0 
Expected dividends    2.9%  2. 1% 
Risk-free interest rate 
(based on UK Government bonds)   3.2%  5.0% 
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility, calculated as 
the average volatility over a period equal to the expected life of the 
share options.
 Share options are granted under a service condition and 
non-market performance conditions. Such conditions are not taken 
into account in the grant date fair value measurement of the services 
received. There are no market conditions associated with the share 
option grants.
 The fair value of services received in return for deferred share 
awards were measured directly, by reference to the fair value of 
services received during the period. This was based on the amount 
of annual bonus that was compulsorily and voluntarily deferred in 
accordance with the rules of the company’s deferred bonus plan.
 Employee expenses were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Share options granted in 2006  0. 1  –  0. 1  – 
Share options granted in 2007  0. 1  (0. 1) 0. 1  (0. 1)
Share options granted in 2008  (0.4) 0.2  (0.4) 0.2 
Share options granted in 2009  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2 
Share options granted in 2010  0.2  –  0.2  – 
Deferred bonus awards for 2006 0. 1  0.2  0. 1  0.2 
Deferred bonus awards for 2007 –  0.3  –  0.3 
Deferred bonus awards for 2008 0.7  0.5  0.7  0.5 
Deferred bonus awards for 2010  0. 1  –  0. 1  – 
   1. 1  1.3  1. 1  1.3 
21. Provisions
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Balance at the year start  3.5  13.5  4.2  14. 1 
Investment provisions
Released during the year  –  (10.0) –  (10.0)
Increased during the year  5.4  –  –  – 
Other provisions
Released during the year  –  –  (0.2) –
Increased during the year  –  –  –  0.1 
Balance at the year end  8.9  3.5  4.0  4.2 
Current  8.9  3.5  4.0  4.2 
During the year, the company recognised an investment provision 
relating to a solvency guarantee given to a subsidiary. In the prior year, 
an investment provision relating to a disposal in 2007 was released. The 
solvency guarantee was related to the disposal of investments and the 
expense was included in the statement of comprehensive income as 
gains and losses on investments held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss. 
Other provisions in the group relate to warranty claims. Provisions are 
based on an estimate of the expenditure to be incurred as a result of 
past events. The matters giving rise to the provisions are expected to 
be resolved over the next year.
22. Financial instruments
Financial instruments comprise securities and other investments, cash 
balances, borrowings and receivables and payables that arise from 
operations. The investment portfolio includes quoted and unquoted 
equity investments, debt instruments and investments in funds that 
are intended to be held for the long term.
Risk analysis
The main types of ﬁ nancial risk to which the group is exposed are 
market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 
 The nature and extent of the ﬁ nancial instruments outstanding 
at the reporting date and the risk management policies employed are 
discussed below.
Market risk
Market risk embodies the potential for both losses and gains and 
includes price risk, currency risk and fair value interest rate risk.
The strategy for managing market risk is driven by the investment 
objective, which is to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return index 
over ﬁ ve and ten years and to achieve a positive total return over rolling 
ﬁ ve year periods. Investments are made in a range of instruments, 
including quoted and unquoted equities, debt and non-equity 
investment funds, in a range of sectors and regions.
 The board monitors the investment exposure against guidelines 
set from time to time by the board, specifying the maximum 
proportion of total assets that may be invested in sectors, regions and 
currencies. The board also reviews the position, prospects and exit 
strategy for all substantial investments at least once a year.
 Details of the investment portfolio at the reporting date are 
shown on pages 8 to 14.
Price risk
Price risk may affect the value of quoted and unquoted investments as 
a result of changes in market prices (other than arising from interest 
rate risk or currency risk), whether caused by factors speciﬁ c to an 
individual investment, its issuer or factors affecting all instruments 
traded in the market.
 As the majority of ﬁ nancial instruments are carried at fair value, 
with fair value changes recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income, all changes in market conditions will directly affect reported 
portfolio returns.
 Price risk is managed by constructing a diversiﬁ ed portfolio of 
instruments traded on various markets and hedging where appropriate. 45 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
The exposures of quoted and unquoted equity investments, equity 
linked bonds, funds and options on indices to price risk were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Investments held at fair value 
through proﬁ t or loss  1, 122.9  804.7  1,042.2  746.3 
The following table details the sensitivity to a 10% variation in equity 
prices. The sensitivity analysis includes all equity and fund investments 
held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss and adjusts their valuation at 
the year end for a 10% change in value. The valuation movement is 
aggregated with the expected movement in the valuation of the 
options on indices to provide a net increase or decrease in proﬁ t or loss.
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Increase in prices  1 12.3  71. 1  104.2  65.3 
Decrease in prices  (1 12.3) (69.8) (104.2) (64.0)
The sensitivity to equity and fund investments has increased during 
the year due to the market movement in the year.
 In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is 
unrepresentative of the inherent price risk as the year end exposure 
does not reﬂ ect the exposure throughout the year as a whole.
Currency risk
Investments in ﬁ nancial instruments and other transactions may 
be denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. 
Consequently, there is exposure to the risk that the exchange rate of 
the functional currency may change relative to other currencies in a 
manner that has an adverse effect on the value of that portion of assets 
and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency.
 The policy is not to enter into any structural currency hedging 
transactions. However, when a decision is taken to realise a foreign 
currency denominated investment, derivatives may be used to hedge 
against currency ﬂ uctuations to the expected date of realisation, 
depending on the directors’ view of the likely movement in the 
exchange rate to anticipated disposal. At 31 March 2010 and 2009, 
the company and group had no currency hedging positions.
 The fair values of the monetary items that have foreign currency 
exposure were as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Cash and cash equivalents  0.2  0.3  1.3  1.5 
Trade and other receivables  –  –  2.4  4.0 
Trade and other payables  –  –  (0.2) (1.1)
The following table details the sensitivity to a 10% variation in exchange 
rates. This level of change is considered to be reasonable, based on 
observation of market conditions and historic trends. The sensitivity 
analysis includes all foreign denominated investments.
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Sterling depreciates (weakens)  –  –  0.3  0.4 
Sterling appreciates (strengthens) –  –  (0.2) (0.3)
The exposure to foreign currency has reduced during the year due to 
the reduction in foreign trade and other receivable balances.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate movements may affect the fair value of investments in 
ﬁ xed interest securities and the level of income receivable from ﬁ xed 
income securities and cash at bank and on deposit.
 The company and group held ﬁ xed rate, interest-bearing ﬁ nancial 
assets, with maturity of up to ﬁ ve years, cash at bank and on term 
deposits, with the term to maturity of up to three months, and ﬂ oating 
rate, interest-bearing ﬁ nancial assets. The group also had ﬂ oating rate, 
interest-bearing borrowings.
 The exposure to interest rate risk on ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities 
was as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Fixed rate
Investments in debt instruments 18.0  19.3  19.8  17.8 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings –  –  (2.6) (2.6)
Floating rate
Investments in debt instruments 43.7  37 .2  43.7  38.4 
Money market funds  –  –  –  1.0 
Cash and cash equivalents  8.3  55.5  30.5  74.2 
Bank overdrafts  –  –  –  (0.3) 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings –  –  (83.6) (78.5)
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the 
exposure to interest rates at the reporting date for a 50 basis point 
change taking place at the beginning of the ﬁ nancial year and held 
constant throughout the year. This level of change is considered to 
be reasonable, based on observation of market conditions and 
historic trends. 
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Decrease in interest rates  1.5  0.9  1.0  0.7 
Increase in interest rates  (1.5) (0.9) (1.0) (0.7)
The sensitivity to interest rates has increased in the year due to 
increased exposure to ﬁ xed interest debt instruments. 46 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty to a ﬁ nancial instrument will 
fail to discharge an obligation or commitment. A credit policy is in place 
and exposure to credit risk is regularly monitored.
 At 31 March 2010, the ﬁ nancial assets exposed to credit risk were 
as follows: 
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Investments in debt instruments 96.6  91.0  98.5  90.6 
Operating and other receivables 5.2  4.0  32.5  38.5 
OTC derivatives  –  1.8  –  24.4 
Money market funds  –  –  –  1.0 
Cash and cash equivalents  8.3  55.5  30.5  74.2 
   110.1  152.3  161.5  228.7 
Prior to making investments in debt instruments, management has 
in place a process of review that includes an evaluation of a potential 
investee company’s ability to service and repay its debt. Management 
reviews the ﬁ nancial position of investee companies, including their 
continuing ability to service and repay debt, on a regular basis.
 The exposure to credit risk on operating and other receivables 
is mitigated by performing credit evaluations on investee companies 
as part of the due diligence process.
 Credit risk arising on money market funds and cash and cash 
equivalents is mitigated by spreading investments and deposits across 
a number of investment grade banks with a credit rating of ‘AA3’ or 
‘AA-’ or better as determined by the ratings agencies, Moody’s and 
Fitch. The company receives a monthly rating update, and relevant 
credit risks are reviewed accordingly.
 All transactions in quoted securities are settled on contract terms 
using approved brokers. The risk of default is considered minimal, as 
delivery of securities sold is only made once the broker has received 
payment. Payment is made on a purchase once the securities have 
been received by the broker. The trade will fail if either party fails to 
meet their obligations. UK listed security trades are settled through 
CREST.
 There were no signiﬁ cant concentrations of credit risk to 
counterparties at 31 March 2010 (2009 – £nil).
Fair value
Most of the ﬁ nancial instruments are carried at fair value on the 
statement of ﬁ nancial position. Usually, the fair value of the ﬁ nancial 
instruments can be reliably determined within a reasonable range 
of estimates. For certain other ﬁ nancial instruments, speciﬁ cally 
operating and other receivables and payables, the carrying amounts 
approximate fair value due to the immediate or short term nature of 
these ﬁ nancial instruments.
 The principal methods and assumptions used in estimating the 
fair value of investments are disclosed on page 15.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises as a result of the possibility that the company may 
not be able to meet its obligations as they fall due.
 The corporate treasury function provides services to the 
company and group, coordinating access to domestic ﬁ nancial markets 
for both borrowing and depositing. Group companies access local 
ﬁ nancial markets when this is more favourable, in liaison with the 
corporate treasury function. Executive management monitors the 
group’s liquidity on a weekly basis.
 
The following table shows the group’s exposure to gross liquidity risks, 
based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the ﬁ nancial 
liabilities:
  Up to  1 to  Over   
  1 year  5 years  5 years  Discount  Net total
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
2010
Secured bank loans 1.0  30.2  –  (2.3) 28.9 
Unsecured loans 1. 1  55. 1  –  (1.5) 54.7 
Finance leases –  0.3  –  (0. 1) 0.2 
Cumulative preference shares –  –  0. 1  –  0. 1 
Unsecured bond issues –  0.3  2.4  (0.4) 2.3 
  2. 1  85.9  2.5  (4.3) 86.2 
2009
Secured bank loans 0.7  25.2  –  (2.7) 23.2 
Unsecured loans 3.6  56.0  –  (4.3) 55.3 
Finance leases 0. 1  0.3  –  (0. 1) 0.3 
Cumulative preference shares –  –  0. 1  –  0. 1 
Unsecured bond issues –  2.9  –  (0.7) 2.2 
  4.4  84.4  0. 1  (7 .8) 81. 1 
Capital management policies and procedures
The company’s capital management objectives are:
• to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern
•  to maximise the income and capital return to its equity shareholders 
through an appropriate balance of equity capital and debt. The 
company’s policy is to limit debt to 25% of net assets.
The company’s total capital at 31 March 2010 was £1, 181.6m (2009 – 
£906.2m) comprising equity share capital and reserves. The company 
was ungeared at the year end (2009 – ungeared).
 The board monitors and reviews the broad structure of the 
company’s capital on an ongoing basis. This review includes:
•  the planned level of gearing, which takes into account planned 
investment activity
•  the possible buy back of equity shares for holding in treasury or 
cancellation, which takes account of the discount of the share price 
to net asset value per share
• the annual dividend policy.
The company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing capital 
are unchanged from the preceding accounting year.
 The company is subject to the following externally imposed 
capital requirements:
•  as a public company, the company is required to have a minimum 
issued share capital of £50,000
•  to maintain its approval as an investment trust company, the 
company is required to comply with the provisions of section 1 159 
of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The company has complied with these requirements, which are 
unchanged since the previous year end. 47 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Fair value hierarchy
The company’s valuation methodology is disclosed on page 15. The 
table below analyses ﬁ nancial instruments held at fair value according 
to the subjectivity of the valuation method, according to the following 
hierarchy:
Level 1  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical 
assets.
Level 2  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 
that are directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3  Inputs for the asset that are not based on observable 
market data.
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Investments held at fair value   
Level 1  739.5  475.8 739.5 475.8 
Level 2  88.7  70.4 71.3  62. 1 
Level 3  355.6  302.7  294.9  235.3 
   1,183.8  848.9  1,105.7  773.2 
Available for sale investments
Level 2  –  –  0.8  0.8 
Derivatives
Level 2  –  6.6  –  29.2 
An investment with a fair value of £22.8m was transferred from 
Level 1 to Level 2 during the year as a result of the company being 
taken private. An investment with a value of £0.6m was transferred 
from Level 2 to Level 1 as a result of the company listing on an 
overseas exchange.
 Movement in Level 3 ﬁ nancial instruments was as follows:
     Company  Group 
     2010  2010 
     £m  £m 
Balance at the year start    302.7  235.3 
Purchases    33.0  27.4 
Disposal proceeds    (30.3) (1 3.2)
Gains and losses on investments 
sold in the year    18.6  5.1 
Gains and losses on investments 
held at the year end    31.6  40.3 
Balance at the year end    355.6  294.9 
23. Capital and reserves
Share capital and share premium
    Deferred   
   Ordinary  ordinary  Share  
   shares  shares  premium  Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Balance at 31 March 2008,
2009 and 2010  2.9  0.4  1.3  4.6 
The number of fully paid shares issued was as follows:
  Deferred
 Ordinary shares ordinary shares
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   000’s  000’s  000’s  000’s 
Balance at the year start and end 58,795  58,795  8,000  8,000 
The company has also issued share options and made deferred bonus 
awards (note 20).
 As at 31 March 2010, the issued share capital of the company 
comprised 58,794,781 ordinary shares (2009 – 58,794,781) and 
8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares (2009 – 8,000,000). The ordinary 
and deferred ordinary shares have a par value of 5p.
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as 
declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at 
meetings of the company. In respect of the company’s ordinary shares 
that are held by the group, all voting rights are suspended.
  The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not 
redeemable. They carry the right to a ﬁ xed cumulative preference 
dividend of 1% per annum (exclusive of any associated tax credit) of 
the nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being 0.05p per 
share, or £4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in issue. 
The company is required to pay the dividend to the extent that it has 
distributable proﬁ ts. On a winding-up or other return of capital, the 
deferred ordinary shares carry the right to the payment of the amount 
paid up on such shares only after holders of the ordinary shares have 
received the sum of £100,000 in respect of each such ordinary share. 
All of the deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling Industries PLC, 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
 These shares are considered compound ﬁ nancial instruments 
under IAS 32 and are required to be separated into a debt and an 
equity component. The debt component, a perpetual debt, represents 
the present value of the ﬁ xed cumulative dividend of 1% per annum 
calculated on the date the deferred shares were issued. This 
component of the deferred ordinary shares has been classiﬁ ed as 
non-current liabilities in the ﬁ nancial statements of the company. 
The ﬁ xed cumulative dividend has been reclassiﬁ ed from dividend to 
interest expense in the statement of comprehensive income of the 
ﬁ nancial statements of the company.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of those 
shares purchased by the company out of its own proﬁ ts and cancelled. 
At 31 March 2010, the capital redemption reserve was £1.2m (2009 
and 2008 – £1.2m). There was no movement in the capital redemption 
reserve in the current or prior years.
Reserves
Company
 Capital reserve Retained earnings
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Gains and losses on investments 302.8  (350.4) –  – 
Losses on derivatives  (7 .5) (1.3) –  – 
Investment provisions  (5.4) –  –  10.0 
Investment and other income  –  –  33.0  34.6 
Investment income impairment  –  –  –  (2.5)
Management expenses  –  –  (12. 1) (9.6)
Transaction and other expenses  (0.5) (0.2) (0.5) (0.3)
Treasury interest receivable  –  –  0.5  1.6 
Exchange movements  –  –  (0.3) (0.8)
Finance costs  –  –  (0.4) (0.5)
Taxation  (0.8) (2.7) 3.6  (3.4)
Actuarial losses on deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t pension schemes  –  –  (1.0) (3.5)
Tax on other comprehensive income –  –  0.3  (0.7)
Total comprehensive income  288.6  (354.6) 23. 1  24.9 
Share-based payments  –  –  1. 1  1.3 
Dividends to shareholders  –  –  (34.0) (19.0)
   288.6  (354.6) (9.8) 7.2 
Balance at the year start  643.5  998. 1  281.5  274.3 
Balance at the year end  932. 1  643.5  271.7  281.5  48 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
Group
      Non-cont- 
    Translation  Retained  rolling 
    reserve  earnings  interest 
    £m  £m  £m 
Balance at 31 March 2008   1.7  1,266.7  3.4 
Total comprehensive income   6.0  (308.6) 0.3 
Share-based payments   –  1.3  – 
Dividends to shareholders   –  (19.0) (1.0)
Balance at 31 March 2009   7 .7  940.4  2.7 
Total comprehensive income   (2.3) 298.9  (0.9)
Capital contributed   –  –  0.5 
Share-based payments   –  1. 1  – 
Dividends to shareholders   –  (34.0) (0.9)
Balance at 31 March 2010   5.4  1,206.4  1.4 
The foreign exchange translation reserve comprised all foreign 
exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁ nancial 
statements of foreign operations that were not integral to the 
operations of the group.
Own shares
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Balance at the year start  24.6  26.3  24.6  26.3 
Additions  7.2  3.5  7.2  3.5 
Disposals  (3.8) (2.2) (3.8) (2.2)
Movement in J.P . Morgan Securities
instruction  –  (3.0) –  (3.0)
Balance at the year end  28.0  24.6  28.0  24.6 
Company
The company own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in 
Caledonia purchased in the market and held in treasury, accrued shares 
accounted as being held in treasury, pursuant to an irrevocable 
instruction to J.P . Morgan Securities, and the net cost to the employee 
share trust of acquiring shares to satisfy employee share options and 
deferred bonus awards.
Group
The group own shares reserve also includes transactions in Caledonia‘s 
shares undertaken by a subsidiary company.
24. Acquisition of subsidiaries
During the year, the group paid £3. 1m (2009 – £2.0m) of deferred 
consideration in respect of the acquisition of Ermitage Ltd in 2007 . 
In the previous year, the group acquired subsidiaries for an aggregate 
consideration of £2.4m.
The aggregate net assets of subsidiaries acquired were as follows:
     2010 2009 
     £m £m 
Intangible assets    – 1.8 
Property, plant and equipment    – 0.2 
Inventories    – 0.5 
Trade and other receivables    – 1.0 
Cash and cash equivalents    – 0. 1 
Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings  – (0. 1 )
Trade and other payables    – (1.0)
Current tax liability    – (0. 1 )
Net assets acquired    – 2.4 
Deferred consideration    3. 1 2.0 
Consideration    3. 1 4.4 
Satisﬁ ed by    
Cash    3. 1 4.4 
Net cash outﬂ ow arising on acquisition    
Cash consideration     3. 1 4.4 
Cash and cash equivalents acquired   – (0. 1 )
     3. 1 4.3 
25. Disposal of subsidiaries
The aggregate net assets of subsidiaries sold were as follows:
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Goodwill    0.4  – 
Property, plant and equipment    –  0.3 
Inventories    0. 1  0.9 
Trade and other receivables    –  0.5 
Cash and cash equivalents    –  0.2 
Non-current employee liabilities   –  (0.3)
Trade and other payables    (0.1) (0.9)
     0.4  0.7 
Foreign exchange gain on disposal   (1.1) (0.4)
Gain/(loss) on disposal    1.4  (0.3)
Total consideration    0.7  – 
Net cash inﬂ ow arising on disposal
Cash and cash equivalents received   0.7  – 
Cash and cash equivalents sold    –  (0.2)
     0.7  (0.2)
26. Operating leases
Leases as lessee
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals were payable as follows:
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Less than one year    2.7  2.2 
Between one and ﬁ ve years    4.4  3.7 
More than ﬁ ve years    11.6  12.2 
     18.7  18. 1 
The group leases properties and various items of equipment under 
operating leases. None of the leases included contingent rentals.
 During the year ended 31 March 2010, £2.5m (2009 – £1.0m) was 
recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income 
in respect of operating leases. 49 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Leases as lessor
The group leases out its investment property under operating leases 
(note 12). The future minimum lease receipts under non-cancellable 
leases were as follows:
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Less than one year    1.7  0.6 
Between one and ﬁ ve years    5.7  1.3 
More than ﬁ ve years    1.8  0.1 
     9.2  2.0 
During the year ended 31 March 2010, £1.5m (2009 – £0.7m) was 
recognised as income in the statement of comprehensive income in 
respect of operating leases.
27 . Finance leases
Leases as lessee
Non-cancellable ﬁ nance lease rentals were payable as follows:
  Group
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Less than one year    –  0.1 
Between one and ﬁ ve years    0.3  0. 1 
More than ﬁ ve years    –  0.2 
     0.3  0.4 
Future ﬁ nance charges    (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of lease obligations   0.2  0.3 
Current    –  0.1 
Non-current    0.2  0.2 
     0.2  0.3 
The carrying amount of buildings and plant held under ﬁ nance leases 
was £0.2m (2009 – £0.3m).
 For the year ended 31 March 2010, the average effective 
borrowing rate was 6.6% (2009 – 6.6%). Interest rates were ﬁ xed at 
the contract date. All leases were on a ﬁ xed repayment basis and no 
arrangements had been entered into for contingent rental payments.
 The group’s obligations under ﬁ nance leases were secured by 
the lessor’s rights over the leased assets.
28. Capital commitments
At the reporting date, the company had entered into unconditional 
loan commitments to limited partnerships, commitments to other 
investment funds and loan facilities to portfolio companies. In addition, 
other group companies had committed to incur capital expenditure, 
as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Investments
Contracted but not called  66.4  82.2  66.4  82.2 
Conditionally contracted  19.6  13.8  19.6  13.8 
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not delivered  –  –  –  0. 1 
   86.0  96.0  86.0  96. 1 
29. Contingencies
There were no known contingencies at the year end.
 
30. Related parties
Identity of related parties
The company and group had a related party relationship with its 
subsidiaries (note 32), associates (note 33), joint ventures (note 13) 
and with its key management personnel, being its directors.
Transactions with key management personnel
Certain directors of the company and their immediate relatives 
had signiﬁ cant inﬂ uence in The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd, which 
held 33.7% of the voting shares of the company as at 31 March 2010 
(2009 – 33.6%).
 In addition to their salaries, the group provided non-cash and 
post employment beneﬁ ts to directors and executive ofﬁ cers. Details 
of directors’ pension beneﬁ ts are set out on page 54 in the directors’ 
remuneration report.
 The key management personnel compensation was as follows:
 Company Group
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Short term employee beneﬁ ts  3.1  2.5  3.1  2.5 
Post employment beneﬁ ts  0.2  0.3  0.2  0.3 
Termination beneﬁ ts  0.4  –  0.4  – 
Equity compensation beneﬁ ts  1. 1  1.2  1. 1  1.2 
   4.8  4.0  4.8  4.0 
Total remuneration of directors is included in ’personnel expenses’ 
(note 3).
 During the year, the group invoiced and received £0. 1m (2009 – 
£0. 1m) in administration fees from The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd.
Other related party transactions
Subsidiaries
Intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation and are not 
reported in the group accounts. Transactions between the company 
and its subsidiaries were as follows:
   Amount  Balance  Amount  Balance 
   of trans-  at year  of trans-  at year 
   actions  end  actions  end 
   2010  2010  2009  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Comprehensive income items 
Guarantee fees  0.4  0.2  0.4  0. 1 
Dividends receivable on equity shares 2.3  –  1.8  – 
Capital distributions  18.4  –  22.7  – 
Interest receivable on loan securities 0.4  –  0.8  – 
Management fees payable  (1 1.9) (1.2) (10.2) (0.2)
Taxation  (0.4) –  0.6  – 
Financial position items
Equity subscribed  6.5  –  3.2  – 
Liquidations  0.9  –  –  – 
Loans advanced/(repaid)  2.2  18.6  (19. 1) 20.8 
Guarantees  2.6  98. 1  3. 1  95.5  50 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
Associates and joint ventures
Transactions between the company and group and associates and joint 
ventures were as follows:
   Amount  Balance  Amount  Balance 
   of trans-  at year  of trans-  at year 
   actions  end  actions  end 
   2010  2010  2009  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Company
Arrangement fees  –  –  0. 1  – 
Dividends receivable on equity shares 6. 1  –  5.3  – 
Interest receivable on loan securities 5.2  1.6  3.9  0.9 
Share subscriptions  10.7  –  1.6  – 
Loans advanced/(repaid)  9.2  66.3  (5.9) 57 . 1 
Other group companies
Directors’ fees receivable  0.3  0. 1  0.3  0. 1 
31. Operating segments
The chief operating decision maker has been identiﬁ ed as the Executive 
Committee, which reviews the company’s internal reporting in order 
to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has 
determined the operating segments based on these reports.
 The performance of operating segments is assessed on a 
measure of company gross portfolio return, principally comprising 
gains and losses on investments and investment income. Reportable 
proﬁ t or loss is after ‘Other items’, which comprise management and 
other expenses and treasury income. Reportable assets equate to the 
company’s net asset value. 
 Reportable results and assets view subsidiaries and joint ventures 
as investments held at fair value and include liabilities of the company. 
To reconcile to group proﬁ t or loss and total assets ‘Eliminations’ 
comprise the difference between the aggregate fair value and total 
assets of subsidiaries and joint ventures and the company’s liabilities.
 Proﬁ t or loss before tax Assets
   2010  2009  2010  2009 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
Financial  95. 1  (70.2) 299.9  232.9 
Funds  70.7  (52.0) 339.9  284.5 
Property  28.2  (82.3) 125. 1  55.5 
Consumer  79.0  (39.3) 190.4  95.5 
Oil and gas  44.4  (45.2) 1 17 .6  74. 1 
Industrial  19.9  (45.4) 111.7  89.6 
FTSE options  (14.4) 24.8  –  24.2 
Gross portfolio  322.9  (309.6) 1, 184.6  856.3 
Other items  (13.3) (9.8) (3.0) 49.9 
Reportable total  309.6  (319.4) 1, 181.6  906.2 
Eliminations  (10.5) 25.5  143. 1  164. 1 
Group total  299. 1  (293.9) 1,324.7  1,070.3 
 
Geographical segments
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, 
segment revenue is based on the geographical location of customers and 
segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
   UK  US  Other  Total 
   £m  £m  £m  £m 
2010
Revenue  227 . 1  58.8  139.2  425. 1 
Non-current assets  60.4  4.2  67 .3  131.9 
2009
Revenue  (184.7) 19.4  8.0  (157 .3)
Non-current assets  54.8  4.2  68.8  127 .8 
Non-current assets exclude ﬁ nancial instruments, deferred tax and 
employee beneﬁ t assets.
Major clients
The group is reliant on one investment accounting for more than 10% of 
the group revenues, which included gains and losses on investments.
32. Group entities
Signiﬁ cant subsidiaries were as follows:
    Ownership
  Country of  2010  2009 
Name domicile  %  % 
Amber Chemical Co Ltd UK  100  100 
Brookshire Capital LLP UK  80  – 
Buckingham Gate Ltd UK  100  100 
Caledonia CCIL Distribution Ltd UK  100  100 
Caledonia GP Distribution Ltd UK  100  100 
Caledonia Group Services Ltd UK  100  100 
Caledonia Treasury Ltd UK  100  100 
Easybox Sarl Luxembourg 100  100 
Edinmore Holdings Ltd UK  100  100 
Edinmore Investments Ltd UK  100  100 
Edinmore Investments Two Ltd UK  100  – 
Edinmore Investments Three Ltd UK  100  – 
Ermitage Ltd Jersey  92  60 
Sloane Club Holdings Ltd UK  100  100 
Sterling Industries PLC UK  100  100 
Union-Castle Mail Steamship Co Ltd UK  100  100 
A complete list of investments in subsidiaries will be submitted with 
the company’s annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
33. Interests in associates
The company is an investment trust company and, accordingly, does 
not equity account for associates, which are designated as investments 
held at fair value through proﬁ t or loss.
 Signiﬁ cant associates of the company were as follows:
    Ownership
  Country of  2010  2009 
Name domicile  %  % 
Celerant Consulting Investments Ltd UK  47  47 
Empresaria Group plc UK  23  23 
Eredene Capital plc UK  22  22 
General Practice Investments Ltd UK  25  25 
India Capital Growth Fund Ltd Guernsey  24  24 
Omniport Holdings Ltd UK  49  42 
Oval Ltd UK  24  24 
Real Estate Investors PLC UK  30  26 
Satellite Information Services Ltd UK  23  23 
Seven Squared Ltd UK  29  29 
TCL Holdings Ltd UK  50  49 
TGE Marine AG Germany  50  35  51 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements
A complete list of investments in associates will be submitted with the 
company’s annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
 Aggregated amounts relating to associates, extracted on a 100% 
basis, were as follows:
     2010  2009 
     £m  £m 
Assets    1,004.4  948.2 
Liabilities    (645.4) (607.4)
Equity    359.0  340.8 
Revenues    740.6  689.4 
Proﬁ t/(loss)    10.2  (107.5)
34. Accounting estimates and judgements
Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Fair values of ﬁ nancial instruments
Many of the group’s ﬁ nancial instruments are measured at fair value 
in the statement of ﬁ nancial position and it is usually possible to 
determine their fair values within a reasonable range of estimates.
 For the majority of the group’s ﬁ nancial instruments, quoted 
market prices are readily available. However, certain ﬁ nancial 
instruments, such as unquoted securities, are fair valued using 
valuation techniques, including reference to the current fair values of 
instruments that are substantially the same (subject to the appropriate 
adjustments).
 Fair value estimates are made at a speciﬁ c point in time, based 
on market conditions and information about the ﬁ nancial instrument. 
These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties 
and matters of signiﬁ cant judgement (e.g. interest rates, volatility, 
estimated cash ﬂ ows, etc) and therefore cannot be determined 
with precision. 52 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
Directors’ remuneration report
This report has been prepared in accordance with Part 15 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and related regulations. The tables included in 
the statements below on directors’ remuneration, pensions, share 
options and deferred share awards have been audited.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the board 
whose current members are Mr Davies (Chairman), Mr Allen-Jones, Mr 
Gregson and Mr Thompson. All of the members served throughout the 
year other than Mr Gregson who was appointed on 1 7 December 2009. 
 The Remuneration Committee, whose written terms of 
reference are published on the company’s website, has been 
established for the following purposes:
•  To determine and agree with the board the framework and broad 
policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and such 
other members of the executive management as it is requested by 
the board to consider and to review the on-going appropriateness 
and relevance of the remuneration policy.
•  To approve the design of, and determine targets for, any 
performance related pay schemes operated by the company and 
to approve the total annual payments made under such schemes.
•  To review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the 
board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to determine each 
year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of 
such awards, the individual awards to executive directors and other 
senior executives and the performance targets to be used.
•  Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total 
individual remuneration packages of each executive director 
and, if requested by the board, other senior executives including, 
where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, share options 
and other awards.
•  To determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements, 
service agreements, termination payments and compensation 
commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the 
board, other senior executives.
•  To review and assess annually the remuneration trends across 
the company.
The Remuneration Committee also determines the fees of 
the Chairman.
 During the year, the Remuneration Committee received 
advice from Towers Watson, independent remuneration consultants 
appointed by the Remuneration Committee, who assessed the 
comparability of senior executive remuneration packages with the 
market place for the purpose of setting executive directors’ salaries 
for the year commencing 1 April 2010. In addition, the Remuneration 
Committee received advice from Freshﬁ elds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 
in relation to amendments to the rules of the company’s share plans 
and various matters relating to executive directors’ service contracts. 
Towers Watson principally advised in relation to the remuneration 
of executive directors and senior management and Freshﬁ elds 
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP are the company’s main legal advisers. 
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Chairman, 
Mr Loudon, and the Chief Executive, Mr Ingram, in relation to the 
remuneration of the executive directors. Internal support was 
provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company 
Secretary.
Remuneration policy for executive directors
The Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration policy 
with the following objectives:
•  Performance related remuneration should seek to align the 
interests of the executive directors with those of the shareholders.
•  A signiﬁ cant portion of the executive directors’ remuneration 
packages should be linked to the performance of the company.
•  Remuneration packages for the executive directors should be 
competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in order 
to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the quality 
needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
In order to align further the interests of the executive directors with 
those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted 
guidelines for minimum shareholdings which executive directors will 
be expected to attain over a reasonable period of time. For these 
purposes, shareholdings include the value to executive directors, net 
of associated income tax and National Insurance, of options granted 
under the company’s executive share option schemes for which the 
performance targets have been met and bonus deferred into shares, 
both compulsorily and voluntarily, under the company’s deferred 
bonus plan. For the Chief Executive, the minimum guideline 
shareholding has been set at a value of 200% of basic salary and for 
all other executive directors 150% of basic salary. The current 
shareholdings of all of the executive directors meet these guidelines, 
other than of Mr King, who has only recently joined the company.
 In determining executive directors’ remuneration, 
consideration is given to matters speciﬁ c to the company, such as 
the performance of its net asset value (‘NAV’) per share, both in 
absolute terms and as measured against the FTSE All-Share index, 
to the experience and performance of individual directors and their 
areas of responsibility, and to levels of remuneration elsewhere in the 
company. Comparable external market data is also considered as a 
point of reference to determine appropriate remuneration packages 
for speciﬁ c roles.
 It is currently intended that the policy statement set out in this 
report will apply for the year to 31 March 201 1 and for subsequent 
years. However, the Remuneration Committee considers that an 
effective remuneration policy needs to be sufﬁ ciently ﬂ exible and 
kept under review in order to take account of future changes in the 
company’s business environment and in remuneration practice. 
Accordingly, the policy may be further amended in future years. 
Any changes in policy for ﬁ nancial years after 31 March 201 1 will be 
described in future directors’ remuneration reports, which will 
continue to be subject to an advisory vote of shareholders. All 
statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for 
years after 31 March 201 1 should be read in this light.
Policy on individual components of executive directors’ 
remuneration
Basic salary
Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by 
reference to the experience and responsibilities of the director 
concerned and taking into account external market research. The 
company’s policy is to pay salaries and other beneﬁ ts which are 
competitive, but not excessive, in relation to the marketplace.
Beneﬁ ts
The company provides a range of beneﬁ ts, including cash allowances 
in lieu of company cars, life insurance, permanent health insurance 
and private medical cover.
Bonus
The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme for 
executive directors, which takes into account both the performance 
of individual directors and the performance of the company. At the 
determination of the Remuneration Committee, and subject to the 
compulsory deferral provisions of the company’s deferred bonus 
plan, bonuses may either be paid in cash or as an employer 
contribution to registered pension schemes.
 The maximum potential bonus that may currently be awarded 
is 100% of basic salary, of which a maximum of 50% of basic salary is 
determined by reference to the company’s performance and 50% 
by reference to individual performance. The company performance 
related element of bonus is determined by reference to the 
performance of the company’s diluted NAV per share compared  53 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors’ reports
with that of the FTSE All-Share index over the ﬁ nancial year. Bonus 
payments commence if the performance of the company’s NAV 
per share matches that of the FTSE All-Share index, increasing 
incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if NAV per share 
outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by 6% or more. The individual 
performance element is measured by reference to performance 
objectives set at the start of the ﬁ nancial year. All bonus payments 
are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee and circumstances where such discretion may be used 
to reduce the amount of bonus payable include where NAV per 
share growth in the ﬁ nancial year is negative and/or NAV per share 
outperformance over the relevant ﬁ nancial year merely represents 
recovery from previous underperformance. 
 The Remuneration Committee may also award bonuses 
outside the terms of the company’s annual bonus scheme. 
No bonus payments are pensionable.
Deferred bonus plan
The company’s bonus arrangements are also designed to align the 
interests of directors with those of shareholders and to encourage 
retention by requiring, in the Remuneration Committee’s absolute 
discretion, that a proportion of any bonus paid to a director is 
compulsorily invested in shares under the company’s deferred bonus 
plan. The Remuneration Committee’s current policy is that any 
annual bonus paid, the amount of which is above 50% of a director’s 
basic salary for the ﬁ nancial year to which the bonus relates, must be 
so compulsorily invested. Shares derived from the compulsory 
deferral of bonus are matched on a one for one basis, subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions over a period of three years.
 In addition, the deferred bonus plan entitles directors to convert 
voluntarily a proportion of any remaining cash bonus to an entitlement 
to shares. The Remuneration Committee’s current policy is that up to 
half of any bonus not subject to compulsory deferral may be voluntarily 
converted into shares. The shares awarded for voluntary bonus deferral 
are also eligible for matching, on a one for one basis, subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions over a period of three years. 
Awards under the deferred bonus plan are not pensionable.
Pensions
The company’s policy on pensions is to provide a means whereby 
executive directors either receive a pension at retirement age from 
the company, or are funded to operate their own personal pension 
plans or other arrangements. The Hon C W Cayzer is a member of the 
Caledonia Pension Scheme, which is a deﬁ ned beneﬁ ts scheme and 
is contributory for employees who joined the company after 1 April 
1988, but which is now closed to new members. The scheme 
provides a pension of up to two-thirds of ﬁ nal pensionable salary on 
retirement dependent on length of service and age and also provides 
for dependants’ pensions. The Hon C W Cayzer transferred into the 
scheme from The Union-Castle Line Superannuation Scheme which 
was non-contributory, and this status has been preserved. None of 
Messrs Ingram, King, May or Wyatt participate in a company pension 
scheme, but instead a ﬁ xed percentage of basic salary is paid into 
personal pension arrangements or, in the case of Messrs Ingram, 
King and May, may at their choice be paid as a cash supplement, 
which is reduced by such amount as is necessary to cover the 
company’s National Insurance costs. The percentage of basic salary 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 25% for Mr Ingram and 12.5% 
for Messrs King, May and Wyatt. Mr Cayzer-Colvin participates in 
the Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan (‘GPPP’), a deﬁ ned 
contribution scheme into which employer contributions of 12.5% of 
basic salary were made on his behalf. It is the company’s policy that 
any future executive directors recruited from outside the company 
will be funded to operate their own pension arrangements or offered 
participation in a company sponsored deﬁ ned contribution scheme 
and that the company will not offer participation in any deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ ts arrangements.
Share options
A key objective of the company’s remuneration policy is to motivate 
executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is best achieved 
through the grant of share options, exercisable only if demanding 
performance conditions are met. The grant of options is considered 
to be a key element of the remuneration package, alongside annual 
salary, annual bonus and the deferred bonus plan.
 The maximum value of options that may be granted in any year 
to a director is 150% of basic salary. The Remuneration Committee 
may exceed this limit for individual directors where it considers it 
necessary to do so to secure their appointment, provided that the 
maximum value that may be granted in such circumstances shall not 
exceed 250% of basic salary.
 No options are granted at a discount.
Policy on executive directors’ service contracts
It is the policy of the company that no executive director should be 
offered a service contract that cannot be terminated within one year 
or which contains provision for predetermined compensation in 
excess of one year’s total emoluments. All existing directors’ service 
contracts comply with this policy. The Remuneration Committee has 
regard to compensation commitments and believes that these are 
best addressed by restricting the term of the contract. In the event of 
a termination, the Remuneration Committee would consider all the 
relevant factors and circumstances and seek a just solution. It is the 
Remuneration Committee’s intention that all future executive 
directors’ service contracts should include provisions enabling the 
company to reduce compensation payments in the event that the 
director takes up alternative employment within the notice period 
to which such payments relate.
Policy on external non-executive directorships held 
by executive directors
It is the company’s policy to allow executive directors to hold 
external non-executive directorships unrelated to the company’s 
business, provided that the time commitment required is not 
material. Normally the company will retain any fees arising from such 
non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive director 
to retain fees in certain circumstances. Details of any such fees 
retained by executive directors are disclosed in the statement on 
directors’ remuneration below.
Policy on the Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ 
terms of appointment and remuneration
It is the company’s policy that the Chairman and the non-executive 
directors should be appointed for ﬁ xed periods of no more than three 
years (from the next annual general meeting following initial 
appointment in the case of new appointments) and that re-
appointment at the end of such periods should not be automatic.
 The Chairman receives an annual fee determined by the 
Remuneration Committee but does not receive any other 
emoluments. Non-executive directors are paid an annual fee 
determined by the board within the overall limit contained in the 
articles of association, but do not receive any other beneﬁ ts from the 
company for their services as non-executive directors. For the year 
ended 31 March 2010, the basic fee for the Chairman was £150,000. 
The basic fee for the non-executive directors was £32,500 and 
additionally fees of £4,500 and £4,000 respectively were paid to 
the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 
£1,800 and £1,250 respectively to the other members of those 
committees. A further £3,500 was paid to Mr Allen-Jones for his role 
as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Governance Committee. The level of fees paid to the Chairman and 
the non-executive directors was unchanged from the year ended 
31 March 2009. Non-executive directors may also be paid additional 
fees agreed by the board where they have performed services that, 
in the opinion of the board, are over and above their normal duties. 
The company is entitled to terminate the Chairman’s or a non-
executive director’s appointment at any time without compensation. 54 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report
Performance graph
The graph below shows the company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the ﬁ ve 
ﬁ nancial years ending on 31 March 2010. TSR has been calculated 
assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.  
 The FTSE All-Share Total Return index has been chosen as it is the 
benchmark by which the company measures its delivery of shareholder 
value over the longer term.
Statement on directors’ remuneration (audited)
Total emoluments of the directors were as follows:
     2010  2009 
     £’000  £’000 
Emoluments    3,553  2,465 
Gains on exercise of share options   1,858  3,071 
     5,411  5,536 
Statement on directors’ emoluments (audited)
The emoluments of individual directors were as follows:
      Compen-  
  Fees    satIon  
  and  Cash Deferred for loss Total Total
  salaries Beneﬁ ts bonus shares
1
 of ofﬁ ce 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
J R H Loudon 150 – – – – 150 69
T C W Ingram 530 21 252 – – 803 550
J H Cartwright
2
 198 14 – – 446 658 307
The Hon 
C W Cayzer 245 17 98 – – 360 262
J M B Cayzer-
Colvin 245 18 116 – – 379 263
S A King
3
 97 – 43 – – 140 –
J M May 340 18 77 76 – 51 1 358
W P Wyatt 245 18 123 – – 386 262
C M Allen-Jones 42 – – – – 42 42
M E T Davies 36 – – – – 36 36
R Goblet d’Alviella 34 – – – – 34 33
C H Gregson
4
 19 – – – – 19 –
D G F Thompson 35 – – – – 35 35
Former director – – – – – – 248
  2,216 106 709 76 446 3,553 2,465
1.  Deferred shares, forming part of the bonus, comprise the amounts voluntarily deferred 
under the company’s deferred bonus plan which are satisﬁ ed in shares shortly after the 
announcement of the company’s ﬁ nal results for the particular year, as described below.
2. Mr Cartwright resigned as a director on 8 December 2009.
3. Mr King was appointed a director on 9 December 2009.
4. Mr Gregson was appointed a director on 16 September 2009.



 In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, Messrs Ingram, 
King and May respectively were paid amounts of £68,521, £10,704 
and £37 ,677 before tax (2009 – Mr Ingram: £nil and Mr May: £37 ,677) 
in lieu of contributions to their personal money purchase pension 
arrangements as described in the statement on directors’ pensions 
below. Mr Ingram also held an external non-executive directorship of 
Sage Group during the year, which was unrelated to the company’s 
business and where it had been agreed that he could retain the fees 
arising therefrom, as he took up the appointment before he joined 
Caledonia. Mr Ingram received fees from Sage Group of £65,000 (2009 –
£68,966). Mr King is a non-executive director of Weir Group, from 
whom he has received fees of £16,253 since his appointment as a 
director of Caledonia. Mr King held this external directorship prior 
to joining Caledonia and therefore it was agreed that he could retain 
the fees arising therefrom.
 In the period between his resignation as a director on 8 December 
2009 and the termination of his employment on 31 December 2009, 
Mr Cartwright continued to receive salary and beneﬁ ts under the 
terms of his existing service contract. Following termination of his 
employment, Mr Cartwright received compensation and payment 
in lieu of notice of £445,734, together with the credit of 1 2 months’ 
additional pensionable service in the Caledonia Pension Scheme and 
reimbursement of legal fees of £6,000. Further details of the pension 
enhancement and of the Remuneration Committee’s treatment of 
Mr Cartwright’s deferred share awards and share options are set out 
in the relevant sections below.
Directors’ deferred share awards
The deferred bonus column in the table of directors’ emoluments 
shows the amount (if any) of bonus to be compulsorily and voluntarily 
deferred into shares under the company’s deferred bonus plan. The 
number of shares awarded for both the compulsory and voluntary 
deferral of bonus is determined by reference to the market value 
of a share at the time the award is made, which occurs shortly after 
the announcement of the company’s results for the ﬁ nancial year to 
which the bonus relates (or following the occurrence of exceptional 
circumstances justifying the making of awards). In both cases, the 
number of shares is set on a pre-tax basis (as the shares will be subject 
to income tax and National Insurance on release). Matching shares are 
awarded in respect of compulsory (for ﬁ nancial years ended 2008 and 
onwards) and voluntary deferral of bonus on a one for one basis.
Compulsorily deferred share awards
The shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest 
(together with an amount equal to the dividends that would have 
accrued on those shares) if the director remains an employee of the 
Caledonia group for a three year period commencing on the ﬁ rst day 
of the ﬁ nancial year in which the award is made. The vesting of these 
shares is not subject to a further performance condition.
Voluntarily deferred share awards
The shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to a 
performance condition and will vest (together with an amount equal to 
the dividends that would have accrued on those shares) at the earlier of 
three years from the ﬁ rst day of the ﬁ nancial year in which the award is 
made or the date the director ceases to be an employee of the 
Caledonia group for any reason.
Matching share awards
The vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the company’s 
performance over a three year period, by reference to two separate 
performance conditions. Both performance conditions relate to the 
performance of Caledonia’s NAV per share over the three ﬁ nancial 
years starting with the year in which the award is made (the ‘Prescribed 
Period’). This performance of NAV per share will be compared against 
different indices as follows:
Directors’ reports 55 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
          Market Market  
       Number of shares   price at price Value at call  
      Opening    Closing award at call 2010 2009 Vesting
Name  Award type Award date balance  Called  Lapsed  Waived balance p p £’000 £’000 date
T C W Compulsory 01.06.06 10, 1 17 (10, 1 17) –  – – 1878 1565.5 158  
Ingram Voluntary 01.06.06 5,058 (5,058) – – – 1878 1565.5 79  
   Matching 01.06.06 2,529 (2,529) – – – 1878 1565.5 40  
   Compulsory 31.05.07 4,865 – – (4,865) – 2158 – –  
   Voluntary 31.05.07 4,865 – – (4,865) – 2158 – –  
   Matching 31.05.07 4,865 – (4,865) – – 2158 – –  
   Compulsory 03.06.08 10,303 – – (10,303) – 1980 – –  
   Voluntary 03.06.08 6,060 – – (6,060) – 1980 – –  
   Matching 03.06.08 6,060 – – – 6,060 1980 – –  01.04.11
   Matching 29.07.08 10,303 – – – 10,303 1980 – –  01.04.11
     65,025 (17,704) (4,865) (26,093) 16,363   277 – 
J H   Compulsory 01.06.06 5,314 (5,314) – – – 1878 1524 81  
Cartwright
1
 Voluntary 01.06.06 3,321 (3,321) – – – 1878 1524 51  
   Matching 01.06.06 1,661 (1,661)  – – – 1878 1524 25  
   Compulsory 31.05.07 2,395 – – – 2,395 2158 – –  31.12.09
   Voluntary 31.05.07 2,994 – – – 2,994 2158 – –  31.12.09
   Matching 31.05.07 2,994 – – – 2,994 2158 – –  31.12.09
   Compulsory 03.06.08 3,472 – – – 3,472 1980 – –  31.12.09
   Voluntary 03.06.08 3,472 – – – 3,472 1980 – –  31.12.09
   Matching 03.06.08 3,472 – – – 3,472 1980 – –  31.12.09
   Matching 29.07.08 3,472 – – – 3,472 1980 – –  31.12.09
     32,567 (10,296) – – 22,271   157 –
The Hon Compulsory 01.06.06 4,552 (4,552) – – – 1878 1532.5 70  
C W Cayzer Compulsory 31.05.07 2,919 – – (2,919) – 2158 – –  
   Compulsory 03.06.08 2,323 – – (2,323) – 1980 – –  
   Matching 29.07.08 2,323 – – – 2,323 1980 – –  01.04.11
     12,117 (4,552) – (5,242) 2,323    70 – 
J M B  Compulsory 01.06.06 3,354 (3,354) – – – 1878 1522.5 51  
Cayzer- Compulsory 31.05.07 2,363 – – (2,363) – 2158 – –  
Colvin Compulsory 03.06.08 2,500 – – (2,500) – 1980 – –  
   Matching 29.07.08 2,500 – – – 2,500 1980 – –  01.04.11
     10,717 (3,354) – (4,863) 2,500   51 – 
1. Mr Cartwright resigned as a director on 8 December 2009.
•  50% of the matching shares will only vest if NAV per share over 
the Prescribed Period outperforms the Retail Prices Index by 
at least 9%
•  50% of the matching shares will only vest if NAV per share over 
the Prescribed Period outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by 
at least 3%.
There will be no retesting of either performance condition.
 The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance 
target if events occur that would make the amended target a fairer 
measure of performance and provided that any amended target is no 
more difﬁ cult to satisfy. The Remuneration Committee will also have 
the ability to impose different performance targets in the future, 
provided that any targets that are imposed are no less demanding 
than those described above. Any such amended or different 
performance targets will be described in the directors’ remuneration 
report for the relevant year.
 Deferred share awards held as at 31 March 2010 (or date of 
resignation if earlier) by directors who served during the year are 
shown in the following table. Other than in respect of Mr Cartwright, 
the awards shown as lapsed are all of the matching awards granted on 
31 May 2007 which failed to meet their performance targets tested 
as at 31 March 2010. In the case of Mr Cartwright, the Remuneration 
Committee, as part of his termination arrangements, agreed in August 
2009 that his compulsory and voluntary awards granted in 2007 and 
2008 should vest on the termination of his employment, which took 
effect on 31 December 2009. The Remuneration Committee also 
determined then that, based on the measurement of the performance 
targets since the relevant grant date, 50% of his matching awards 
granted in 2007 and 2008 should vest, but these awards should then 
be further reduced to reﬂ ect the amount of the relevant performance 
period that had elapsed at the date of termination. Accordingly, 
Mr Cartwright’s 2007 matching award was reduced to 1,375 shares 
and his 2008 matching award to 2,029 shares. Mr Cartwright was 
entitled to call for all of the vested share awards within one year of his 
termination date. In accordance with the terms of the deferred bonus 
plan, Mr Cartwright was also entitled to be paid an amount equivalent 
to the value of the dividends and associated tax credits that would have 
accrued on these shares during the retention period.
 There have been no changes in directors’ deferred share awards 
up to the date of this report.
Directors’ reports 56 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report
          Market Market  
       Number of shares   price at price Value at call  
      Opening    Closing award at call 2010 2009 Vesting
Name  Award type Award date balance  Called  Lapsed  Waived balance p p £’000 £’000 date
J M May Compulsory 01.06.06 7 ,521 (7 ,521) – – – 1878 1592.5 120  
   Voluntary 01.06.06 3,760 (3,760) – – – 1878 1592.5 60  
   Matching 01.06.06 1,880 (1,880) – – – 1878 1592.5 30  
   Compulsory 31.05.07 4,066 – – (4,066) – 2158 – –  
   Voluntary 31.05.07 3,388 – – (3,388) – 2158 – –  
   Matching 31.05.07 3,388 – (3,388) – – 2158 – –  
   Compulsory 03.06.08  6,464 – – (6,464) – 1980 – –  
   Voluntary 03.06.08 4,040 – – (4,040) – 1980 – –  
   Matching 03.06.08 4,040 – – – 4,040 1980 – –  01.04.11
   Matching 29.07.08 6,464 – – – 6,464 1980 – –  01.04.11
     45,011 (13,161) (3,388) (17,958) 10,504   210 – 
W P Wyatt Compulsory 01.06.06 3,727 (3,727) – – – 1878 1547 58  
   Voluntary 01.06.06 1,863 (1,863) – – – 1878 1547 29  
   Matching 01.06.06 932 (932) – – – 1878 1547 14  
   Compulsory 31.05.07 2,757 – – (2,757) – 2158 – –  
   Compulsory 03.06.08 4,722 – – (4,722) – 1980 – –  
   Voluntary 03.06.08  833 – – (833) – 1980 – –  
   Matching 03.06.08 833  – – – 833 1980 – –  01.04.11
   Matching 29.07.08 4,722 – –  – 4,722 1980 – –  01.04.11
     20,389 (6,522) – (8,312) 5,555   101 – 
     185,826 (55,589) (8,253) (62,468) 59,516   866 – 
The deferred share awards shown as waived in the table above 
were all waived by the directors for no monetary consideration on 
30 March 2010. Pursuant to a minor amendment to the rules of the 
deferred bonus plan approved by the Remuneration Committee on 
25 March 2010, these directors were subsequently granted vested 
restricted share awards over an equivalent number of Caledonia 
shares, with sufﬁ cient shares then being sold to discharge liabilities 
to income tax, National Insurance and dealing costs, as set out in the 
table opposite. The post-tax number of shares in the vested restricted 
share awards must be retained until the end of the relevant retention 
period of the original deferred share awards to which they relate in 
order for the director to qualify, where applicable, for the matching 
awards under the deferred bonus plan. The vested restricted shares 
that were granted in relation to compulsory deferred awards are 
subject to forfeiture, together with an obligation to reimburse to the 
company an amount equivalent to the income tax and employee 
National Insurance paid on the vesting of the restricted shares, in the 
event that the director ceases employment with Caledonia in certain 
circumstances before the end of the relevant retention period.
 The vested restricted shares shown in the closing balance in the 
table opposite are included in the relevant directors’ interests in the 
ordinary share capital of the company shown on page 24 in the 
directors’ report.
 As entitled, directors were also paid amounts equivalent to the 
value of the dividends and associated tax credits that would have 
accrued on the shares comprised in the deferred share awards that 
were called or waived during the year as follows.
 Dividend equivalents paid
    Awards Awards 
    called waived Total
    £ £ £
T C W Ingram   18,570 29,992 48,562
J H Cartwright   10,799 − 10,799
The Hon C W Cayzer   4,775 6,363 1 1, 138
J M B Cayzer-Colvin   3,518 5,782 9,300
J M May   13,805 20,906 34,71 1
W P Wyatt   6,841 9,434 16,275
    58,308 72,477 130,785
  Number of vested restricted shares Original
Original Original   Closing  award
award type award date Awarded Sold  balance vesting date
T C W Ingram
Compulsory 31.05.07 4,865 (2,000) 2,865 01.04.10
Voluntary 31.05.07 4,865 (2,000) 2,865 01.04.10
Compulsory 03.06.08 10,303 (4,235) 6,068 01.04.11
Voluntary 03.06.08 6,060 (2,491) 3,569 01.04.11
   26,093 (10,726) 15,367 
The Hon C W Cayzer
Compulsory 31.05.07 2,919 (1,200) 1,719 01.04.10
Compulsory 03.06.08 2,323 (955) 1,368 01.04.11
   5,242 (2,155) 3,087 
J M B Cayzer-Colvin
Compulsory 31.05.07 2,363 (972) 1,391 01.04.10
Compulsory 03.06.08 2,500 (1,028) 1,472 01.04.11
   4,863 (2,000) 2,863 
J M May
Compulsory 31.05.07 4,066 (1,671) 2,395 01.04.10
Voluntary 31.05.07 3,388 (1,393) 1,995 01.04.10
Compulsory 03.06.08 6,464 (2,657) 3,807 01.04.11
Voluntary 03.06.08 4,040 (1,661) 2,379 01.04.11
   17,958 (7,382) 10,576 
W P Wyatt
Compulsory 31.05.07 2,757 (1,134) 1,623 01.04.10
Compulsory 03.06.08 4,722 (1,942) 2,780 01.04.11
Voluntary 03.06.08 833 (342) 491 01.04.11
   8,312 (3,418) 4,894 
   62,468 (25,681) 36,787 
1. All awards were made on 30 March 2010, when the market price was 1652p.
Directors’ reports 57 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Statement on directors’ pensions (audited)
Pension beneﬁ ts accrued by directors during the year under the 
company’s deﬁ ned beneﬁ ts scheme were as follows:
      J H  The Hon 
    Row Cartwright  C W Cayzer 
    ref  £  £ 
Accrued pension at 31 March 2010 
or date of leaving   a  156,506  130,667 
Increase in accrued pension during the year b  17 ,443  4,667 
Increase in accrued pension during the year, 
net of inﬂ ation   c  13,034  (938)
Transfer value of increase in accrued 
pension over the year, net of inﬂ ation 
and director’s contributions   d  136,598  (25,628)
Transfer value of accrued pension at 
31 March 2010 or date of leaving  e  2,044,770  1,791,350 
Transfer value of accrued pension at 
31 March 2009   f  1,692,501  1,570,031 
Change in transfer value over the year,
net of director’s contributions   g  343,629  221,319 
1.  The accrued pension shown in row (a) for The Hon C W Cayzer is the amount which would 
be paid at normal retirement age, ignoring any revaluation, if he had left service at 
31 March 2010. For Mr J H Cartwright, the accrued pension shown in row (a) has been 
calculated as at 31 December 2009, the date he ceased to be an active member of the 
Caledonia Pension Scheme. This includes the credit of an additional year of pensionable 
service provided to him as part of his leaving arrangements with the company.
2.  The transfer value shown in row (d) represents the value of the increase in accrued pension 
(net of inﬂ ation) during the year, as set out in row (c), minus director’s contributions.
3.  The change in transfer value over the year shown in row (g) (calculated as row (e) less row (f) 
and any director’s contributions) reﬂ ects the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the 
control of the company and the directors, such as movements in stock markets. These can 
cause transfer values at different points in time to ﬂ uctuate signiﬁ cantly. Disclosed changes 
in value may therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
4.  The transfer value is the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated 
beneﬁ ts at the relevant date, calculated using the transfer basis then in force. Transfer 
values are calculated using the transfer value basis as determined by the trustees of the 
Caledonia Pension Scheme.
During the year, and in accordance with his service contract, the 
company paid £55,208 into Mr Ingram’s personal pension plan in 
addition to which he was paid cash in lieu of pension contributions of 
£68,521 (2009 – pension contributions of £132,500). In accordance 
with their service contracts, Mr King and Mr May elected to receive 
their pension entitlements by way of cash payments in lieu of pension 
contributions of £10,704 and £37 ,677 respectively (2009 – Mr May 
received cash payments in lieu of pension of £37 ,677). Mr Cayzer-
Colvin is a member of the GPPP , a deﬁ ned contribution scheme into 
which employer contributions of £30,625 (2009 – £30,625) were paid 
during the year on his behalf. Mr Wyatt has established his own 
money purchase pension arrangements, into which the company 
made employer contributions of £30,625 (2009 – £30,625).
Statement on directors’ share options (audited)
Options to acquire ordinary shares in the company held by 
those directors who served during the year ended 31 March 2010 
(or until date of resignation, if earlier) and gains on the exercise 
of share options were as shown in the following table. The 
options shown as lapsed are those granted on 31 May 2007 which 
failed to meet either of their performance targets, tested as at
31 March 2010.
         Market  
      Number of options   Exercise price at Gains on exercise   
    Opening    Closing price exercise 2010 2009 Exercisable 
Name  Grant date balance Granted Exercised  Lapsed  balance p p £’000 £’000 from date Expiry date
T C W Ingram 20. 1 1.03 23,600 – (23,600) – – 945 1631.5 162    
   26.05.04 21,800 – (21,800) – – 1055 1652 130   
   19.08.05 36,075 – – – 36,075 1580    19.08.08 19.08.15
   01.06.06 16,773 – – – 16,773 1878    01.06.09 01.06.16
   31.05.07 33,364 – – (33,364) – 2158     
   03.06.08 40,151 – – – 40,151 1980    03.06.11 03.06.18
   29.05.09 – 54,979 – – 54,979 1446    29.05.12 29.05.19
    171,763 54,979 (45,400) (33,364) 147,978   292 1,320  
J H Cartwright
1
 24.07.01 16,000 – (16,000) – – 810 1703.5 143   
   05.07.02 2,335 – (2,335) – – 782.5 1703.5 21   
   20.11.03 24,800 – (8,266) – 16,534 945 1703.5 63  20.11.06 31.12.10
   26.05.04 22,800 – (7,600) – 15,200 1055 1703.5 49  26.05.07 31.12.10
   19.08.05 23,685 – – – 23,685 1580    19.08.08 31.12.10
   01.06.06 10,323 – – – 10,323 1878    01.06.09 31.12.10
   31.05.07 19,114 – – – 19,114 2158    31.05.10 31.03.11
   03.06.08 21,818 – – – 21,818 1980    03.06.11 31.03.12
   29.05.09 – 29,875 – – 29,875 1446    29.05.12 31.03.13
    140,875 29,875 (34,201) – 136,549   276 –  
The Hon 24.07 .01 8,500 – (8,500) – – 810 1652 72   
C W Cayzer 05.07 .02 2,500 – (2,500) – – 782.5 1652 22   
   20.11.03 17,100 – (17,100) – – 945 1652 121   
   26.05.04 16,500 – (16,500) – – 1055 1652 98   
   19.08.05 18,035 – – – 18,035 1580    19.08.08 19.08.15
   01.06.06 8,387 – – – 8,387 1878    01.06.09 01.06.16
   31.05.07 15,987 – – (15,987) – 2158     
   03.06.08 18,560 – – – 18,560 1980    03.06.11 03.06.18
   29.05.09 – 25,414 – – 25,414 1446    29.05.12 29.05.19
    105,569 25,414 (44,600)  (15,987) 70,396   313 121  
Directors’ reports 58 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report
         Market  
      Number of options   Exercise price at Gains on exercise   
    Opening    Closing price exercise 2010 2009 Exercisable 
Name  Grant date balance Granted Exercised  Lapsed  balance p p £’000 £’000 from date Expiry date
J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.07 .00 17 ,500 – (17 ,500) – – 722.5 1522.5 140   
   24.07.01 18,000 – (18,000) – – 810 1681 157   
   05.07.02 6,000 – (6,000) – – 782.5 1681 54   
   20.11.03 9,000 – (9,000) – – 945 1652 63   
   26.05.04 9,500 – (9,500) – – 1055 1652 57   
   19.08.05 13,290 – – – 13,290 1580    19.08.08 19.08.15
   01.06.06 6,789 – – – 6,789 1878    01.06.09 01.06.16
   31.05.07 15,291 – – (15,291) – 2158     
   03.06.08 18,560 – – – 18,560 1980    03.06.11 03.06.18
   29.05.09 – 25,414 – – 25,414 1446    29.05.12 29.05.19
    113,930 25,414 (60,000) (15,291) 64,053   471 –  
J M May 20. 1 1.03 18,667 – (18,667) – – 945 1619.5 126   
   20.11.03 18,667 – (18,667) – – 945 1619.5 126   
   26.05.04 17,267 – (17,267) – – 1055 1652 103   
   19.08.05 26,815 – – – 26,815 1580    19.08.08 19.08.15
   01.06.06 11,681 – – – 11,681 1878    01.06.09 01.06.16
   31.05.07 22,242 – – (22,242) – 2158     
   03.06.08 25,757 –  – – 25,757 1980    03.06.11 03.06.18
   29.05.09 – 35,269 – – 35,269 1446    29.05.12 29.05.19
    141,096 35,269 (54,601) (22,242) 99,522   355 271  
W P Wyatt 24.07 .01 18,000 – (18,000) – – 810 1646.5 151   
   05.07.02 6,000 – – – 6,000 782.5    05.07.05 05.07.12
   20.11.03 9,000 – – – 9,000 945    20.11.06 20.11.13
   26.05.04 9,500 – – – 9,500 1055    26.05.07 26.05.14
   19.08.05 13,290 – – – 13,290 1580    19.08.08 19.08.15
   01.06.06 6,789 – – – 6,789 1878    01.06.09 01.06.16
   31.05.07 15,291 – – (15,291) – 2158     
   03.06.08 18,560 – – – 18,560 1980    03.06.11 03.06.18
   29.05.09 – 25,414 – – 25,414 1446    29.05.12 29.05.19
    96,430 25,414 (18,000) (15,291) 88,553   151 146  
Former director  – – – – –   – 1,213  
    769,663 196,365 (256,802) (102,175) 607,051   1,858 3,071  
1. Mr Cartwright resigned as a director on 8 December 2009.
2.  All options were issued under the company’s executive share option schemes other than 18,667 options issued to Mr May on 20 November 2003, which were special options as described below.
 As part of his termination arrangements, the Remuneration 
Committee agreed that all of the share options granted to 
Mr Cartwright up to 2006, which had satisﬁ ed their performance 
targets as at his termination date (being an aggregate of 65,742 
shares), would become fully exercisable for a period of one year 
following his termination date. The Remuneration Committee 
further agreed that Mr Cartwright’s options granted to him in 
2007 to 2009 should, subject to satisfying their performance targets 
at the end of their normal three year performance measurement 
period, be exercisable within one year from the date on which the 
performance targets calculations are determined. As stated above, 
the performance targets for options granted in 2007 were tested 
as at 31 March 2010 and were not achieved. Accordingly, the 
options over 19, 1 14 shares granted to Mr Cartwright on 31 May 2007 
have lapsed.
 There have been no changes in directors’ options to acquire 
ordinary shares up to the date of this report.
 The company currently has two executive share option 
schemes – a 1998 scheme under which option grants were made 
from September 1998 to May 2004 and a 2005 scheme under which 
option grants commenced in August 2005.
 Under the terms of both schemes, options may be exercised 
between three and ten years after the date of grant, although only 
one-third of the shares comprised in an option may be exercised after 
three years from grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming 
exercisable six years after grant. Options may only be exercised if the 
performance targets are met. On 25 March 2010, the Remuneration 
Committee amended the rules of the 1998 scheme such that certain 
options granted on 26 May 2004 (which had already met their 
performance targets and would ordinarily have become fully 
exercisable on 26 May 2010), became exercisable on or after 
25 March 2010 and therefore shortly before their normal sixth 
anniversary date.
 For options granted from 1998 to 2001 under the 1998 scheme, 
the target requires the company’s adjusted NAV per share to 
outperform either the Retail Prices Index by 9%, or the average of the 
increases in the FTSE 250 and the FT Investment Companies indices, 
over any consecutive three ﬁ nancial years prior to expiry. For options 
granted in 2002 and 2003, the performance target requires the 
company’s adjusted NAV per share to outperform either the Retail 
Prices Index by 9%, or the FTSE All-Share index, over any consecutive 
three ﬁ nancial years prior to expiry.
 For options granted in 2004, the performance target is such 
that 50% of the shares comprised in an option will vest if the 
company’s NAV per share outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at 
least 9% over the relevant measurement period, with the other 50% 
vesting if the company’s NAV per share outperforms the FTSE 
All-Share index over the relevant measurement period. The 
Directors’ reports 59 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
performance measure has to be achieved either over the ﬁ rst three 
years, or over the ﬁ rst four years, after the date of grant. If the 
performance measure is not achieved four years after the date of 
grant, the options will lapse.
 The performance target for the 2005 scheme requires that 50% 
of the shares comprised in an option will vest if Caledonia’s NAV per 
share outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at least 9% over the 
measurement period. The other 50% of the shares comprised in the 
option will vest if NAV per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index 
by at least 3% over the measurement period. The measurement 
period for these purposes is the period of three ﬁ nancial years 
measured at the end of the third ﬁ nancial year following the date 
of grant of the options. There is no re-testing of the performance 
targets. To the extent that the performance target is not met over 
this three year period, the options will lapse.
 The performance targets have been met for all options granted 
up to 2005. For the options granted in 2006, the 50% tested by 
reference to the FTSE All-Share index met its performance target, 
whereas the 50% tested by reference to the Retail Prices Index failed 
to do so and accordingly lapsed. The options granted in 2007 have 
failed to achieve either of their performance targets and accordingly 
all have lapsed.
 The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE All-Share 
index as the performance measure for both the company’s shorter 
term annual bonus scheme and its longer term share plans as it 
believes that this is the best way to incentivise executives to deliver 
continued strong NAV per share performance, which underpins 
Caledonia’s objective of achieving TSR in excess of the FTSE All-Share 
Total Return index over ﬁ ve and ten year periods. TSR itself has not 
been chosen as a measure of executive management performance, 
as this may be affected by the level of Caledonia’s share price 
discount, which can be inﬂ uenced by factors outside the company’s 
control. The Retail Prices Index has also been chosen as a performance 
measure for the company’s longer term incentive plans, as the 
Remuneration Committee believes that this is an appropriate 
benchmark for the company’s other objective of achieving a positive 
total return over rolling ﬁ ve year periods.
 The special options included in the table above for Mr May 
relate to options over 28,000 shares originally granted to him on 
20 November 2003 outside the 1998 scheme and subject to special 
performance-related terms. As in the case of options granted under 
the 1998 scheme, only one-third of the shares under these special 
options were exercisable three years after grant, with the remaining 
two-thirds becoming exercisable six years after grant. The special 
options were subject to a stretching performance condition requiring 
the company’s TSR to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return 
index (‘Benchmark’) over the measurement period, which 
commenced on the date of grant. Tranches vested in full if TSR 
exceeded that of the Benchmark by an average of at least 2% per 
annum over the relevant measurement period. If TSR equalled that of 
the Benchmark, none of that tranche would be exercisable and there 
would be proportionate vesting of a tranche if TSR exceeded that of 
the Benchmark by an average of between zero and 2% per annum. 
For the one-third tranche, the performance measure was to be ﬁ rst 
applied three years after grant, with two re-test opportunities four 
and ﬁ ve years after grant. The performance target for the one-third 
tranche was tested on 20 November 2006 and met in full, since when 
Mr May has exercised all of the one-third tranche, being options over 
9,333 shares. For the remaining two-thirds tranche, being the options 
over 18,667 shares shown in the table above, the performance 
measure was to be ﬁ rst applied ﬁ ve years after grant, with two re-test 
opportunities six and seven years after grant. The performance target 
for the two-thirds tranche was tested on 20 November 2008 and met 
in full and Mr May exercised the two-thirds tranche during the year. 
The shares required to satisfy Mr May’s special options were 
transferred from the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share 
Trust. The remaining terms of the special options were based on the 
rules of the 1998 scheme, and included provisions that any beneﬁ ts 
obtained from the special options would not be pensionable and that 
the terms of the special options would not normally be capable of 
amendment to the advantage of the option holder without the prior 
approval of shareholders in general meeting.
As at 31 March 2010, the market price of the company’s shares was 
1625p (2009 – 1289p) and the range during the year was 1267p 
to 1759p.
Statement on executive directors’ service contracts and the 
Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ letters of appointment
Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group 
Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, details of 
which are summarised below:
Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term
T C W Ingram 1 1.06.02 12 months 4 months
1
The Hon C W Cayzer 1 1.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months
J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.04.05 12 months Rolling 12 months
S A King 19. 1 1.09 12 months Rolling 12 months
J M May 01.09.03 12 months Rolling 12 months
W P Wyatt 02.06.05 12 months Rolling 12 months
1. Mr Ingram will retire after the company’s annual general meeting on 21 July 2010.
Directors’ service contracts contain provisions whereby the company 
may in its discretion terminate the contract without notice and make 
a lump sum payment in lieu of notice and (other than in the case of 
Mr King’s service contract) whereby a liquidated sum is payable in 
the event of termination within one year following a change of control. 
Any such payment in lieu of notice or liquidated sum would be 
equivalent to no more than one year’s total emoluments. Mr King’s 
service contract also contains provisions whereby, as an alternative 
to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the company may elect 
to pay the equivalent amount in equal monthly instalments, such 
instalments to be reduced by 50% of one-twelfth of the basic salary 
in excess of £20,000 that Mr King receives from any alternative 
employment that he takes up during the notice period.
 Mr Cartwright, who resigned as a director on 8 December 2009, 
was employed by Caledonia Group Services Ltd under a service 
contract dated, 1 1 June 2002, which was terminable by that company 
on 12 months notice, or by making a lump sum payment in lieu of 
notice as described above. Details of amounts paid to Mr Cartwright 
on termination of his employment are set out above.
 The service contract of The Hon C W Cayzer is also subject to 
a provision whereby, in the event of a payment in lieu of notice or 
payment of a liquidated sum on termination, he would be entitled to 
an increase in his pensionable service equivalent to the unexpired 
period of notice under his contract.
 The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have 
service contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment 
which provide for termination without notice or compensation.
 Executive directors’ service contracts and the Chairman’s and 
non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection at the registered ofﬁ ce of the company.
 The directors’ remuneration report was approved by the board 
on 19 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Davies
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ reports 60 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Corporate governance report
Statement of compliance
The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance 
and this report describes how the company has applied the main 
principles of good corporate governance as set out in section one 
of the Combined Code issued in June 2008 (the ‘Combined Code’). 
It also identiﬁ es those provisions of section one of the Combined 
Code with which the company did not comply throughout the 
year and explains why the board believes that, notwithstanding 
its non-compliance, the company’s practices are consistent with 
the principles of good corporate governance to which the relevant 
provisions related. 
 Shareholders registered on the company’s New Zealand 
branch register should note that the principles of good corporate 
governance set out in the Combined Code may materially differ from 
the New Zealand Exchange Ltd’s corporate governance rules and the 
principles of its Corporate Governance Best Practice Code. 
 A copy of the Combined Code is available on the website of 
the Financial Reporting Council at www.frc.org.uk/corporate/
combinedcode.cfm.
The board
Overall responsibility and operation
The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the 
company. It has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out 
those matters which it speciﬁ cally reserves for its own decision and 
those which are delegated to board committees and to executive 
management. The Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by 
the board.
 All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board 
meetings to enable them to discharge their duties and also have 
unlimited access to senior management should further information 
be required. Presentations by senior executives of investee companies 
are also arranged periodically to enable the board, and the non-
executive directors in particular, to gain a closer understanding 
of some of the company’s signiﬁ cant investments.
Appointment, induction and training
All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek 
election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting of the 
company following their appointment and subsequently all directors 
are required to retire by rotation at least every three years. Any 
non-executive director who has served on the board for over nine 
years is subject to annual re-election. On appointment, new directors 
are offered induction and training considered appropriate by the 
board and subsequently as necessary. The Company Secretary 
provides details of, and where requested arranges attendance at, 
external courses to assist in directors’ professional development.
Board composition
The biographies of the directors appear on pages 22 and 23.
 The board currently comprises twelve directors. Excluding the 
Chairman, six of the directors are executive and ﬁ ve non-executive. 
 The board considers all of the non-executive directors to 
be independent. In assessing Mr Goblet d’Alviella’s independence, 
the board took account of his position as Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer 
of Soﬁ na sa, which has a 4.7% shareholding in Caledonia. Mr Goblet 
d’Alviella’s position at Soﬁ na has not given rise to any conﬂ icts 
of interest and his circumstances very much accord with the 
importance that Caledonia attaches to its executives having board 
positions at investee companies.
 The roles of the Chairman, Mr Loudon, and the Chief Executive, 
Mr Ingram, are separated and clearly deﬁ ned in the Schedule of 
Authorities adopted by the board. The Chairman is primarily 
responsible for the efﬁ cient operation of the board and the Chief 
Executive for the implementation of the board’s strategy and policies 
and the management of the company’s activities, other than those 
matters speciﬁ cally reserved to the board. 
The composition of the board is such that, throughout the year, the 
company did not comply with provision A.3.2 of the Combined Code, 
which requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of the board 
should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to 
be independent. The board however believes that the main principle 
of board balance and independence set out in the Combined Code – 
that the board should include a balance of executive and non-
executive directors, and in particular independent non-executive 
directors, such that no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the board’s decision taking – are met.
 There are six executive directors as the board believes it to 
be important that executives with key responsibilities within the 
company should be directly involved in decisions on its strategy 
and objectives. This number of executive directors however makes 
it difﬁ cult to meet the requirement of provision A.3.2 without the 
board becoming so large as to be unwieldy. An effective balance of 
power is nonetheless ensured by the fact that the board, excluding 
the Chairman, is comprised of three separate categories of directors – 
the ﬁ ve independent non-executive directors; three executive 
directors, The Hon C W Cayzer and Messrs Cayzer-Colvin and Wyatt, 
who are involved in the affairs of The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 
(‘Cayzer Trust’), Caledonia’s largest shareholder; and the three other 
executive directors, Messrs Ingram, King and May. 
 In addition to the balance on the board brought by these 
categories, the Governance Committee, comprising solely 
independent non-executive directors, keeps under review corporate 
governance and conﬂ ict of interest issues relating to the company 
and the board and has authority to recommend that any director 
abstains from participating in any decision of the board, or any board 
committee, where it believes that a conﬂ ict of interest could, or could 
be perceived to, arise. Accordingly, whilst it recognises that it is not 
in strict compliance with provision A.3.2 of the Combined Code, 
the board believes this structure is appropriate in the context of a 
company with a large controlling shareholder whose stability and 
support is fundamental to Caledonia’s business model as a long term, 
supportive investor, and is therefore in the best interests of all 
shareholders.
 On 25 January 2010, the company announced that Mr Ingram 
would be retiring as Chief Executive at the company’s annual 
general meeting on 21 July 2010 and that he would be succeeded
by Mr Wyatt from that date. At that point, the composition of the 
board will comply with provision A.3.2 of the Combined Code as, 
excluding the Chairman, there will be ﬁ ve executive directors and 
ﬁ ve independent non-executive directors. 
 The identiﬁ cation of a new Chief Executive was led by the 
Nomination Committee, which concluded that, in view of the number 
of strong internal candidates, a wider search was not necessary. 
The choice of Mr Wyatt was based on his outstanding and sustained 
investment performance, his management qualities and commitment 
and his contribution to Caledonia’s board and those of investee 
companies where he acts as the company’s representative.
 The Governance Committee also considered Mr Wyatt’s 
proposed appointment before a formal recommendation was made 
by the Nomination Committee to the board, given that both he and 
the Chairman are members of the Cayzer concert party and he is a 
director of Cayzer Trust. It ﬁ rmly concluded that, in view of the 
proportion of independent non-executive directors on the board and 
its own terms of reference in relation to directors’ conﬂ icts of interest, 
these relationships were not a bar to Mr Wyatt’s candidacy and that he 
was the most appropriate person for the position of Chief Executive 
based purely on merit. Caledonia’s larger shareholders were also 
consulted before Mr Wyatt’s appointment was conﬁ rmed.
 The board is therefore of the view that the principles of the 
Combined Code on board balance will continue to be met following 
the change of Chief Executive.
Directors’ reports 61 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
•  the approval of the terms for the termination of Mr Cartwright’s 
employment and for the appointment of Mr King as his 
replacement as Finance Director
•  the grant of options under the company’s executive share option 
scheme
•  the approval of amendments to the terms of Mr May’s service 
contract.
Further information on the company’s executive remuneration policy 
and the work of the Remuneration Committee is included in the 
directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 52 to 59.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, is responsible for 
the monitoring of the integrity of the ﬁ nancial statements of the 
company and any announcements relating to the company’s ﬁ nancial 
performance and for reviewing any signiﬁ cant ﬁ nancial reporting 
judgements contained therein. It also reviews the company’s systems 
of internal control and risk management procedures and considers 
annually whether an internal audit function is required. The Audit 
Committee believes that, in the context of the company’s business as 
an investment trust, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are 
the integrity of the application of the company’s policy for the 
valuation of its investments, particularly those which are unquoted, 
and the robustness of the group’s internal controls. The valuations 
of the company’s unquoted investments are subject to formal six 
monthly reviews by an internal Challenge Committee, independent 
of the relevant investment executives, whose meetings are also 
attended by the auditors. The Audit Committee then selects a 
number of valuations for review. A formal report on the effectiveness 
of the group’s internal controls and risk management procedures is 
prepared annually for the board by the company’s Risk Manager. It is 
the Audit Committee’s current opinion that, in view of these control 
processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia and the 
relatively straightforward control considerations in relation to other 
investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
 It is also the Audit Committee’s responsibility to review and 
monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditors 
and the effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and 
implement policy on the engagement of the external auditors 
to supply non-audit services. In this regard, the Audit Committee 
has approved a schedule of speciﬁ c non-audit activities which may 
not be undertaken by the external auditors, within the broad 
principles that the external auditors should not audit their own work, 
should not make management decisions on behalf of the company, 
should not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that 
no mutuality of interest should be created between the company 
and the external auditors. The Audit Committee believes that, by 
applying these principles, the objectivity and independence of the 
auditors is maintained, notwithstanding that non-audit work may 
be undertaken. On an annual basis, the Audit Committee considers 
and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, 
re-appointment or removal of the external auditors. The Audit 
Committee is also responsible for the company’s formal whistle 
blowing arrangements, whereby members of staff may raise any 
issues of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct 
of the company’s business and whereby any such concerns are 
properly investigated and appropriate action taken.
 The Combined Code recommends that at least one member 
of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant ﬁ nancial 
experience. The Audit Committee considers that Mr Allen-Jones has 
such ﬁ nancial experience, given his extensive involvement in ﬁ nancial 
transactions as a corporate lawyer and that he is a member of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel and was previously a member of 
the Financial Reporting Council.
Board committees
The board has delegated certain speciﬁ c areas of responsibility to the 
following standing committees, the Terms of Reference of which are 
reviewed annually and are available on the company’s website. The 
current membership of these committees is noted on page 65.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr Loudon, is responsible for 
the regular review of the structure, size and composition (including 
the skills, knowledge and experience) of the board and for giving 
consideration to succession planning for executive directors and, if 
requested by the board, for other senior executives. It is responsible 
for identifying, using external search consultants where necessary, 
candidates to ﬁ ll board vacancies as and when they arise and for 
making recommendations to the board in relation thereto and for 
keeping under review the leadership needs of the company, both 
executive and non-executive. It reviews the time required of the 
non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters 
of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms 
of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside 
board meetings.
 The Nomination Committee met four times during the year and 
the principle business undertaken included:
•  a formal review of the size and composition of the board following 
the 2009 annual board performance evaluation and consideration 
of the contribution of the non-executive director retiring at the 
2009 annual general meeting, prior to giving a recommendation 
for his re-election
•  conduct of a search for an additional independent non-executive 
director and the recommendation to the board that Mr Gregson be 
appointed to this position
•  the recommendation to the board that Mr King be appointed to 
the position of Finance Director
•  succession planning for the position of Chief Executive and the 
recommendation to the board that Mr Wyatt be appointed to this 
position.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr Davies, is responsible 
for the review of executive remuneration policy. Within that policy, 
the Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration 
packages of executive directors and reviews those of other senior 
executive management. It is also responsible for the design of, 
and grant of awards under, the company’s share incentive schemes 
and for the determination of the policy for and scope of pension 
arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and 
compensation commitments for executive directors and, if 
requested by the board, for other senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year. 
The matters considered by the Remuneration Committee included:
• the approval of the 2009 directors’ remuneration report
•  the determination of bonuses for executive directors and review 
of bonuses for other senior executives for the year ended 
31 March 2010
•  the determination of basic salaries for executive directors and 
review of salaries for other senior executives for the year 
commencing 1 April 2010
•  the approval of amendments to the rules of the 1998 executive 
share option scheme and the deferred bonus plan to enable the 
early exercise of certain share options granted in May 2004 and 
the grant of vested restricted shares following the waiver by 
participants in the deferred bonus plan of existing compulsory 
and voluntary deferred share awards
Directors’ reports 62 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
Corporate governance report
Attendance at meetings
The following table identiﬁ es the number of board and committee 
meetings held in the year to 31 March 2010 and the attendance record 
of individual directors.
   Nomination  Remuneration  Audit  Governance 
  Board  Committee  Committee  Committee  Committee 
Number of meetings 
in the year 1 1
1
 4  7  4  3 
Attendance by     
J R H Loudon 1 1  4  –  –  – 
T C W Ingram 1 1  –  –  –  – 
J H Cartwright
2
 7  –  –  –  – 
S A King
3
 4  –  –  –  – 
The Hon C W Cayzer 10  –  –  –  – 
J M B Cayzer-Colvin 10  –  –  –  – 
J M May 1 1  –  –  –  – 
W P Wyatt 1 1  –  –  –  – 
C M Allen-Jones 1 1  4  7  4  3 
M E T Davies 1 1  4  7  –  3 
R Goblet d’Alviella 8  –  –  4  – 
C H Gregson
4
 7  –  3  1  – 
D G F Thompson 1 1  4  7  4  3 
1. Scheduled board meetings.
2.  Mr Cartwright resigned as a director on 8 December 2009, but attended all board meetings 
held prior to that date.
3.  Mr King was appointed a director on 9 December 2009 and attended all board meetings held 
after that date.
4.  Mr Gregson was appointed a director on 16 September 2009 and attended all board meetings 
held on or after that date. He was appointed a member of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees on 17 December 2009 and a member of the Governance and Nomination 
Committees on 19 January 2010. He attended all meetings, if any, of these committees 
following his appointments to them.
Board performance evaluation
The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its performance 
and that of its committees and individual directors. For the year ended 
31 March 2010, the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its 
committees was led by the Chairman and was conducted by inviting 
individual board members to complete a questionnaire regarding the 
operation and effectiveness of the board as a whole and of its 
committees, the responses from which were collated by the Company 
Secretary and discussed. The evaluation of the performance of the 
Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and involved individual private discussions with all other members of 
the board (and, in particular, members of the Governance Committee) 
on his performance, the results of which were then considered at 
a meeting of the non-executive directors, without the Chairman 
present. The evaluation of the performance of the Chief Executive was 
undertaken by the Chairman and the non-executive directors. The 
performance of the non-executive directors was reviewed by the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director, with the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director absent in respect of his own performance appraisal. As part 
of this review, non-executive directors were invited to complete 
self-assessment questionnaires in relation to their own effectiveness. 
The performance of the executive directors, which included further 
consideration of that of the Chief Executive, was undertaken by 
the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual executive salary 
review process.
 The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its 
committees for the year ended 31 March 2010 were presented in a 
report to the board. The key conclusions from the evaluation process 
were that the board could beneﬁ t from periodic external views on 
macro-economic issues and that more resource should be committed 
to the identiﬁ cation of potential investment opportunities in sectors in 
which the company does not currently have exposure.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year, and three 
of the meetings included a discussion with the auditors without any 
of the executive directors present. During the year, the business 
undertaken by the Audit Committee included:
•  a review of the performance of the external auditors, Deloitte LLP , 
and the level of fees charged for their services
•  consideration of the scope of the 2010 annual audit and agreement 
with the external auditors of the key areas of focus
•  scrutiny of valuations of unquoted investments selected by the 
Audit Committee in accordance with its adopted criteria
•  consideration of the reports from the external auditors concerning 
their audit of the 2009 annual ﬁ nancial statements of the company 
and their review of the 2009 half-year report
•  consideration of the ﬁ nancial disclosures contained in the 2009 
annual and half-year reports to shareholders and ﬁ nancial reporting 
issues for the 2010 annual report
•  the review of reports from the company’s Risk Manager on the 
effectiveness of the group’s internal controls and risk management 
procedures for the year ended 31 March 2010, and in particular in 
relation to liquidity risk within investee companies
• consideration of the need or otherwise for an internal audit function
•  a review of the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors, including their system of quality controls and the level 
and nature of non-audit services provided by them
•  an evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee itself 
including a review of its role and responsibilities
•  assurance of the company’s compliance with the requirements 
for approval as an investment trust.
Governance Committee
The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, keeps under 
review corporate governance issues relating to the company and is 
responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each 
director to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to 
exercise independence of judgement free from relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his 
judgement. The Governance Committee also reviews conﬂ ict or 
potential conﬂ ict situations relating to directors which may require 
the prior authorisation of the board under the Companies Act 2006 
(the ‘Act’) and makes recommendations to the board as to whether 
such conﬂ ict or potential conﬂ ict situations should be authorised and, 
if so, whether any conditions, such as duration or scope of the 
authority, should be attached. The Governance Committee reviews 
annually all authorisations previously granted by the board to ensure 
that they remain appropriate. If the Governance Committee believes 
that a director may be subject to a conﬂ ict of interest which may 
prejudice his ability to exercise independence of judgement, it may 
make such recommendations to the board as it may think ﬁ t, 
including that the director abstains from participating in any decision 
of the board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
 The Governance Committee met three times during the year, 
principally to review and approve the corporate governance report 
for the year ended 31 March 2009, to review potential conﬂ ict 
situations notiﬁ ed by directors in accordance with the Act and to 
make recommendations to the board in relation thereto and to 
consider the Nomination Committee’s proposed recommendation 
that Mr Wyatt be appointed for the company’s next Chief Executive, 
in the context of his membership of the Cayzer concert party.
Directors’ reports 63 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010
The Governance Committee also formally considered whether the 
inﬂ uence of the Cayzer Concert Party on Caledonia’s board was in 
the general interest of the non-Concert Party shareholders and 
concluded that it was.
 The Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure and 
composition of the board in the light of the report to the board.
Directors’ conﬂ icts of interest
Each director has a duty under the Act to avoid a situation where he 
has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest which conﬂ icts, or may 
possibly conﬂ ict, with the company’s interests. The Act however 
allows directors of public companies to authorise conﬂ icts and 
potential conﬂ icts where the articles of association contain a 
provision to this effect. The Act also allows the articles to contain 
other provisions for dealing with directors’ conﬂ icts of interest to 
avoid a breach of duty.
 There are safeguards in the company’s articles which apply 
when the directors decide whether to authorise a conﬂ ict or potential 
conﬂ ict of interest. First, only independent directors, being those 
who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to take 
the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, the 
directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be 
most likely to promote the success of the company. The directors are 
able to impose time limits or conditions when giving authorisations 
if they think this is appropriate.
 The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements 
of the Act in relation to directors’ conﬂ icts of interest. Each director is 
required to declare any potential conﬂ ict situations which may relate 
to him and his connected persons. If necessary, these are then 
reviewed by the Governance Committee (with each member taking 
no part in the consideration of his own declaration), which then puts 
forward recommendations to the board as to whether these 
situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions 
to such authority should be attached. The board then considers and 
approves these recommendations, again with each director taking 
no part in relation to his own conﬂ ict situations.
 Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on 
conﬂ icts of interest to ensure that directors disclose any new 
potential conﬂ ict situations. These are then reviewed, if necessary 
also by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as 
appropriate. A register of directors’ conﬂ icts of interest is maintained 
by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually by the Governance 
Committee.
Internal control
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control, although the review of risk 
management procedures and internal controls is delegated to the 
Audit Committee. The group’s system of internal control is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. It is recognised that such a system can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The board conﬁ rms that the system of internal 
control operated by the group accords with the Turnbull Guidance 
2005 and has been in place throughout the year and up to the date 
of approval of these ﬁ nancial statements.
 Major business risks facing group companies and key 
investments are identiﬁ ed and assessed by local management and 
procedures are agreed to address these as appropriate. The boards 
of these companies review business risk and controls regularly 
to ensure the system of risk management operates effectively. 
Caledonia’s investment executives then conﬁ rm, through Caledonia’s 
Risk Manager, to the Audit Committee that the system of risk 
management is operating effectively for these group companies
and key investments.
Key risks identiﬁ ed are regularly monitored at company level by 
members of the Executive or Investment Management Committees, 
who have clear mandates to assess and report on risk in their 
particular areas of responsibility. From these assessments, an 
ongoing risk proﬁ le of the company’s activities is updated half-yearly 
and reviewed by the board. The board is also provided quarterly with 
a list of the key risk issues identiﬁ ed by executive management at 
that particular time. All of the company’s signiﬁ cant investments are 
reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio 
holdings reviewed at least annually by the Investment Management 
Committee. The Risk Manager reports to the Audit Committee on 
speciﬁ c risk areas as requested.
 Speciﬁ c control procedures are in place to ensure that the 
company continually monitors and complies with the requirements 
for investment trust status. The board receives monthly compliance 
reports evidencing that the company is meeting the various tests for 
investment trust status and also conﬁ rming that the investment 
activities undertaken by executive management are within the policy 
limits set by the board. A Compliance Committee, comprising the 
Company Secretary (Chairman), the Finance Director, three associate 
directors and the Group Financial Controller/Risk Manager, meets 
weekly to review the company’s ongoing compliance with its 
investment trust status and to monitor and approve all investment 
activity from an investment trust compliance perspective. 
 Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing 
total shareholder returns and net asset value movements against the 
FTSE All-Share index. Performance statistics are reported monthly to 
the board. Income and expenses are monitored by the board against 
an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts. 
Valuations of unquoted investments are subject to a rigorous six 
monthly review process undertaken by a Challenge Committee 
independent of the relevant investment executives, whose meetings 
are also attended by the auditors, and a selection of valuations are 
then reviewed by the Audit Committee. Where appropriate, 
adjustments are made to the valuations of unquoted investments 
on a monthly basis.
 Since the year end, the directors have concluded their annual 
review of the operation and effectiveness of the group’s system 
of internal control. No material control failings or weaknesses
were identiﬁ ed, although it was agreed that the format of risk 
management reports to the board should be reviewed.
Relations with shareholders
The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders in 
order to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives. The Chief 
Executive and the Finance Director seek meetings with larger 
institutional shareholders and private client stockbrokers after the 
announcement of year end and half-year results. The Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director attends some of these 
meetings. The annual general meeting also provides a forum for 
shareholders to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
 The Chairmen of all of the board’s committees will be available 
to answer questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
Directors’ reports 64 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Information for shareholders
Dividends, change of address and other shareholder services
UK registered shareholders
Shareholders on the UK register who wish to have dividends paid 
directly into a bank account, rather than by cheque to their registered 
address, can complete a mandate form for this purpose. Mandates 
may be obtained from Capita Registrars. Where dividends are paid 
directly into shareholders’ bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are 
sent directly to shareholders’ registered addresses. 
 Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address 
held on the share register. In the event of a change of address or other 
amendment, shareholders on the UK register should notify Capita 
Registrars, under the signature of the registered holder, or where 
there is more than one registered holder, under the signature of the 
ﬁ rst named holder.
 Post and telephone contact details for Capita Registrars are 
shown on the opposite page. Capita Registrars also provide an online 
facility to enable shareholders to manage securely their 
shareholdings via the internet. By registering to use the facility, 
shareholders can access a range of online services, including viewing 
shareholding details, transaction and dividend histories, change of 
address and bank mandate and use of the online proxy voting service. 
The online facility is available at www.capitashareportal.com.
 Capita Registrars also offer a share dealing service and dividend 
reinvestment plan for existing shareholders. The share dealing 
service is available online at www.capitadeal.com or by telephone on 
0871 664 0384 (calls cost 10p per minute including VAT plus network 
extras, with lines open Monday to Friday 8.00am to 4.30pm).
 The dividend reinvestment plan provides a convenient way 
for shareholders to build up their shareholdings by using cash 
dividends to buy more shares in the company. An application 
form for the dividend reinvestment plan is available online at 
www.capitashareportal.com or by telephone from Capita IRG 
Trustees Ltd on 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10p per minute including 
VAT, plus network extras, or +44 20 8639 3402 if calling from 
overseas). In each case lines are open from Monday to Friday 8.30am 
to 5.30pm. Alternatively an application form can be requested by 
email from shares@capitaregistrars.com.
New Zealand registered shareholders
Shareholders on the New Zealand register may arrange to receive 
their dividends by direct credit to a speciﬁ ed New Zealand bank 
account. New Zealand registered shareholders should contact 
Computershare Investor Services if they wish to set up such an 
arrangement.
 Shareholders on the New Zealand register should also notify 
Computershare Investor Services if they have changed their address, 
but where there is more than one registered holder, all holders should 
sign the notiﬁ cation.
 The contact details for Computershare Investor Services are 
shown on the opposite page. New Zealand registered shareholders 
may also change their addresses, update payment instructions 
and view their shareholdings, including transactions, online at 
www.computershare.co.nz/investorcentre. General enquiries
can be directed to enquiry@computershare.co.nz. It will assist 
Computershare Investor Services if the CSN or shareholder number 
is quoted in any communication with them.
Share prices
The company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock 
Exchange under the SEDOL code of 0163992 or TIDM code of CLDN. 
Prices are published daily in the Financial Times under the 
‘Investment Companies’ heading and in other leading newspapers.
 The company’s ordinary shares are also listed on the New 
Zealand Exchange under the security code of CDN. Shareholders 
in New Zealand are able to trade their shares locally and receive 
dividends in New Zealand dollars.
 The ISIN code for Caledonia’s ordinary shares is GB0001639920.
Monthly net asset value
The company releases a net asset value announcement and publishes 
a fact sheet shortly after each month end. These can also be found 
on the company’s website at www.caledonia.com.
Financial calendar
Provisional dates for the company’s ﬁ nancial events over the coming 
year are as follows:
Final results announced 19 May 2010
Annual report published 15 June 2010
Annual general meeting 21 July 2010
Half-year results announced 23 November 2010
Half-year report published 7 December 2010
Interim dividend paid 6 January 201 1
Caledonia Investments ISA
The Caledonia Investments Individual Savings Account (‘ISA’) is a 
tax efﬁ cient savings account that allows participants to invest up 
to £10,200 each tax year. Lump sum payments or regular monthly 
deposits can be made into the ISA.
 The plan manager of the ISA is Capita Financial Nominees Ltd, 
which can be contacted at Capita Financial Group, 2 The Boulevard, 
City West One Ofﬁ ce Park, Gelderd Road, Leeds LS12 6NT, or 
telephoned on 0845 922 0044 (calls cost 10p per minute including 
VAT, plus network extras).
 Documentation for the ISA is also available on Caledonia’s 
website.
Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme
The Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme is a plan that aims 
to provide a simple and ﬂ exible way for investors to purchase shares 
in Caledonia. Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits can 
be made into the Share Savings Scheme.
 The Share Savings Scheme is provided by Capita IRG Trustees 
Ltd, which can be contacted at Caledonia Share Savings Scheme, 
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, or 
telephoned on 0870 162 3135 (calls cost 10p per minute including 
VAT, plus network extras).
 Documentation for the Share Savings Scheme is also available 
on Caledonia’s website.
PEPs and ISAs
Caledonia’s shares can be treated as qualifying investments for the 
purposes of the PEP and ISA rules.
 
Information for shareholders 01 Financial highlights
 Business review
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Chief Executive’s report
07 Objectives and strategy
08 Portfolio information
10 Twenty largest investments
15 Valuation methodology
16 Financial review
20 Historic performance
21 Risks and uncertainties
 Directors’ reports
22 Board of directors
24 Directors’ report
27 Directors’ statement of responsibility
52 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Corporate governance report
 Financial statements
28 Independent auditors’ report
29 Statement of comprehensive income
30 Statement of ﬁ nancial position
31 Statement of changes in equity
32 Statements of cash ﬂ ows
33 Accounting policies
37 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
64 Information for shareholders
Caledonia is one of the UK’s largest investment 
trusts and is self-managed. We aim to be a core 
investment for those seeking a store of increasing 
value, by investing for the longer term in a range 
of assets.
Our ability to identify opportunities through 
our extensive network, invest in signiﬁ cant stakes 
for the longer term and involve ourselves with 
the managements of investee companies underpins 
our investment approach, through which we seek 
to deliver shareholder value.
We are performance driven.
65 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Information for shareholders
Chairman
James R H Loudon 
2
Executive directors
Timothy C W Ingram (Chief Executive)
Stephen A King (Finance Director)
Jamie M B Cayzer-Colvin
The Hon Charles W Cayzer
John M May
William P Wyatt
Non-executive directors
Charles M Allen-Jones (Senior Independent) 
1,2,3,4
Mark E T Davies 
2,3,4
Charles H Gregson 
1,2,3,4
Richard Goblet d’Alviella 
1
David G F Thompson 
1,2,3,4
1. Member of the Audit Committee
2. Member of the Nomination Committee
3. Member of the Remuneration Committee
4. Member of the Governance Committee
Associate directors
Graeme P Denison
Jonathan R Hale
Anthony E G Hambro
Mathew S D Masters
Sheena D McNeill
Paul M Whiteley
Secretary
Graeme P Denison
Registered ofﬁ ce
Cayzer House
30 Buckingham Gate
London SW1E 6NN
Registered number
Registered in England no 235481
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute including VAT, plus network extras)
or: +44 20 8639 3399 if calling from overseas
Computershare Investor Services Ltd
Private Bag 921 19
Auckland 1 142
New Zealand
Tel: +64 9 488 8777
Brokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
First NZ Capital Securities
PO Box 3394
Level 10, Fujitsu Tower
282-292 Lambton Quay
Wellington 6140
New Zealand
Solicitors
Freshﬁ elds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
 This report has been printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print. Under the framework of ISO 14001, Royle takes a structured approach to 
measure, improve and audit their environmental status on an ongoing basis. The main areas targeted for continual reduction arise from the 
use of solvents, energy consumption and waste generation. Royle is a Carbon Neutral printing company and also Forestry Stewardship Council 
(FSC) Chain of Custody Certiﬁ ed. All inks used are vegetable based. This paper is environmentally-friendly ECF (elemental chlorine free), wood 
free and with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material. The mill is fully FSC certiﬁ ed. The paper is also completely 
bio-degradable and recyclable.
 Page 10 British Empire Securities image copyright © Swire Paciﬁ c Ltd.
Page 1 1 London & Stamford Property image copyright © Arsenal FC.
Designed and produced by The College
www.thecollege.uk.com
TT-COC-002228  Performance driven
Annual report 2010
Year ended 31 March 2010
 identify
invest
involve
 Caledonia Investments plc tel 020 7802 8080
Cayzer House fax 020 7802 8090
30 Buckingham Gate email enquiries@caledonia.com
London SW1E 6NN web www.caledonia.com
 Caledonia Investments Annual report 2010
