 Annual Report
2016
Cape plc Annual Report 2016 Contents About Cape
Overview
IFC About Cape
1 2016 highlights
2 Cape at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement 2016
Strategic report
8 Chief Executive’s review
12 Our markets
14 Our strategy
16 Our business model
18 Business review
24 Key performance indicators
26 Chief Financial Officer’s review
32 How we manage risk
34 Principal risks and viability
40 Corporate and social responsibility
Governance
50 Introduction from the Chairman
51 Corporate governance compliance
52 Leadership: the Board and its Committees
57 Effectiveness
58 Nomination Committee report
60 Accountability
61 Audit Committee report
65 Directors’ remuneration report
78 Directors’ report
79 Directors’ responsibilities
80 Relationship with shareholders and share capital
Financial statements
82  Independent auditor’s report to the members of Cape plc
90 Consolidated income statement
91 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
92 Consolidated statement of financial position
93 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
94 Consolidated statement of cash flows
95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
134 Parent company statement of comprehensive income
135 Parent company statement of financial position
136 Parent company statement of changes in equity
137 Parent company statement of cash flows
138 Notes to the parent company financial statements
142 Five-year financial summary (Unaudited)
Cape is an international leader in the 
provision of critical industrial services 
principally to the energy and natural 
resources sectors. Cape provides a 
multi‑disciplinary service offering 
including the traditional services of 
access, insulation, mechanical and 
specialist coatings and fireproofing, 
and a range of specialist services 
including environmental services, 
heat exchanger replacement and 
refurbishment, storage tanks 
and refractory.
Cape plc is the parent company of 
the Cape group of companies and 
is listed on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange (CIU.LN).
Find out more online:
www.capeplc.com
Legal notice 
Certain information in this document has not been audited or otherwise 
independently verified and no representation or warranty, express or implied, 
is made as to, and no reliance should be placed on, the fairness, accuracy, 
completeness or correctness of the information or opinions contained herein. 
None of the Company or any of its affiliates, advisors or representatives shall 
have any liability whatsoever (in negligence or otherwise) for any loss whatsoever 
arising from any use of this document, or its contents, or otherwise arising in 
connection with this document.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell, 
or any solicitation of any offer to purchase any shares in the Company, nor shall 
it or any part of it or the fact of its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on 
in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decisions 
relating thereto, nor does it constitute a recommendation regarding the shares 
of the Company.
Certain statements in this document are forward looking. By their nature, 
forward‑looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or 
assumptions that may or may not occur and could cause actual results or events 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward‑ looking 
statements. Such risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect 
the outcome and financial effects of the expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, 
intentions, strategies and events described herein. Therefore, forward‑ looking 
statements contained in this document regarding past trends or activities should 
not be taken as representation that such trends or activities will continue in the 
future. You should not place undue reliance on forward‑ looking statements, 
which are based on the knowledge and information available only at the date of 
this document’s preparation. For a description of certain factors that may affect 
Cape’s business, financial performance or results of operations, please refer to the 
Principal risks included in this Annual Report and Accounts, see pages 34 to 39.
The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or keep current the 
information contained in this document, including any forward‑looking statements, 
or to correct any inaccuracies which may become apparent and any opinions 
expressed in it are subject to change without notice. 
References in this report to other reports or materials, such as a website address, 
have been provided to direct the reader to other sources of Cape information 
which may be of interest. Neither the content of Cape’s website nor any website 
accessible by hyperlinks from Cape’s website nor any additional materials 
contained or accessible thereon, are incorporated in, or form part of, this report.  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 1 
Annual Report 2016
2016 highlights
Robust 2016 financial results, strong trading 
performance and record order book; 
confidence in 201 7 outlook
 – Strong trading performance driven by 
increased activity in Asia Pacific and 
favourable foreign exchange:
 – UK margins were adversely impacted by 
oil price driven weakness in the North Sea, 
reduced demand from the coal-fired power 
generation market and a small number of 
commercial issues. Corrective measures 
have been implemented and the business 
is expected to deliver a much improved 
performance in 201 7
 – The Middle East business delivered a solid 
performance. A number of key contract 
wins and increased activity in the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, combined with a strong 
performance from the SOCAR-Cape joint 
venture in Azerbaijan mitigated the effect 
of increased cost pressures, slow-downs 
and deferrals from customers in other 
parts of the region
 – The Asia Pacific business benefited from 
excellent operational performance on 
increased project activity in Australia, 
South Korea and Singapore, more than 
offsetting continuing low levels of demand 
in the Australian mining sector, and 
intense competition across the whole 
Asia Pacific region
 – Strong adjusted operating cash flow of £71.5m 
(2015: £43.9m); significantly lower adjusted net 
debt of £80.4m (31 December 2015: £109.9m)
 – Record closing order book, up 6.5% at £91 7 .6m 
(2015: £861.3m)
 – Record safety performance
 – Settlement of insurer product liability litigation 
agreed on 12 March 201 7 for a consideration 
of £18.0m payable immediately and a deferred 
payment of up to £34.5m payable in the 
period 2018 to 2023
 – Final dividend per share of 2.5 pence resulting 
in full year dividend of 7 .0 pence; progressive 
dividend policy from 2018 
 – The business is expected to deliver another 
strong trading performance in 201 7
Group statutory results
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue 863.5 711.4
Operating profit/(loss) (32.8) 39.9
Profit/(loss) before tax (43.6) 29.1
Diluted EPS (pence) (34.0) 12.7
£863.5m
Revenue 
(2015: £711.4m)
£55.4m
Adjusted operating profit
(2015: £52.5m)
£80.4m
Adjusted net debt 
(2015: £109.9m)
129.1%
Operating cash conversion
(2015: 83.6%)
7 .0 pence
Dividend per share
(2015: 14.0 pence)
29.9 pence
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) 
(2015: 29.9 pence)
Throughout this statement, various non-statutory measures are used and 
referred to as adjusted. These are defined and reconciled to their statutory 
equivalent (IFRS or GAAP) in note 7 ‘Adjusted measures’ on page 105 2 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Cape at a glance
Group overview Our multi-disciplinary services
People by region
UK
27%
Asia Pacic
22%
Middle East
51%
c.16,100
Order book by region
UK
41%
Asia Pacic
35%
Middle East
24%
£917.6m
Revenue by region
UK
43%
Asia Pacic
35%
Middle East
22%
£863.5m
Revenue by market
Upstream oil 
and gas
18%
Downstream 
oil and gas
45%
Power generation
11%
Chemical and steel
14%
Mining
5%
Other
7%
£863.5m
The combination of our people and our 
values will drive our long-term success.
Cape’s success is based on our 
reputation for excellence in delivery and 
our long-term customer relationships. 
Traditional
Access
Cape has been a leading supplier of scaffold and alternative access 
equipment and services such as rope access to industrial customers 
for over 30 years. As well as attracting and training multi-skilled 
access personnel to the highest standards, we also have in-house 
designers for complex requirements and rope access specialists 
with full IRATA membership. 
Insulation
We have more than 50 years’ international experience working in high 
and low temperature insulation, which gives our customers confidence in 
our expertise and understanding of potentially hazardous environments 
and our ability to manage them safely and cost-effectively. Cape has 
a particular expertise in cryogenic insulation for LNG plants. 
Mechanical services
Cape provides a range of mechanical and engineering services. 
Our capabilities include project management, structural steelwork, 
pipework repair and fabrication and related engineering services. 
Specialist coatings and fireproofing
Cape provides preparation and coating services across a wide range 
of applications including clean rooms, shipyards, petrochemical plants, 
LNG plants and more, both onshore and offshore. Our skilled specialist 
teams also provide a range of fireproofing techniques, including cement 
and fibrous sprays, fire cladding and intumescent coatings.
Specialist
Environmental services
Cape provides a range of specialist industrial cleaning services 
across both onshore and offshore assets. These specialist services 
meet strict regulatory standards and enable our customers to 
operate their process plants to maximum efficiency. 
Heat exchanger replacement and refurbishment
Cape provides both on-site and off-site overhaul of heat exchangers, 
both onshore and offshore, using our experienced workforce backed 
up by a dedicated facility in Scotland. 
Storage tanks
As one of the world’s leading operators in this highly specialised 
field, Cape Motherwell Bridge offers comprehensive storage tank 
services, including storage tank design, engineering, manufacture, 
construction, repair and maintenance for site-built, above ground 
storage tanks.
Refractory
Cape has a world leading capability in refractory engineering, 
providing design, engineering, installation, procurement, thermographic 
surveys and demolition services to customers around the world. 
Engineering capability is provided across the Group by our centre 
of excellence based in the UK. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 3 
Annual Report 2016
Our markets Our regions
Cape operates across a wide range of 
industrial markets at both existing assets 
and new construction projects.
Cape’s operations in more than 23 
countries are managed and reported 
in three geographical segments.
Oil and gas
Over half of Group revenues are derived from 
the oil and gas sector both onshore and 
offshore, predominantly for the midstream 
and downstream sectors. Our customer 
base includes National and International Oil 
Companies who operate existing assets as 
well as Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction companies (EPCs) who 
undertake new construction projects. 
Power 
generation
Cape offers exceptional experience and 
expertise in the power generation sector, 
particularly in the UK where it also has an ability 
to deliver a rapid emergency response to repairs 
and plant defects anywhere in the country. 
Cape supports and maintains all main types 
of power generation plant.
Chemical 
and steel
Cape’s wide range of multi-disciplinary services 
includes extensive access, insulation and 
refractory support to the construction and 
maintenance of major chemical, petrochemical, 
polymer and steel production plants, including 
the engineering, supply and installation of 
specialist storage tanks for the steel industry. 
Mining
Cape provides expertise in the mining sector 
across construction support services and key 
maintenance services to customers. 
Other
Cape also has an international presence in 
several other sectors, including the marine 
construction market, where the Group provides 
services supporting naval projects around the 
world, and in other industrial areas, including 
the pharmaceutical and food industries, where 
the Group’s specialist services provides 
environmental cleaning. Cape’s customers rely 
on the Group’s expertise and emphasis on 
safety to support large, secure industrial assets.
UK
£14.2m 
Operating profit –54.9%
Middle East 
£29.7m 
Operating profit +8.0%
Asia Pacific
£27.0m 
Operating profit +246.2%
Our markets 
See pages 12 to 13 4 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
“The Company is pursuing 
the right strategy to deliver 
long-term growth.” 
Tim Eggar
Chairman
Chairman’s statement 2016
29.9 pence
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
(2015: 29.9 pence) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 5 
Annual Report 2016
Overview
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2016, despite the 
challenging market. Financial results were robust, with strong 
revenue growth and solid adjusted diluted earnings per share. 
The Group also performed well operationally, delivering our critical 
services for our customers and being rewarded with substantial 
contract awards across the Group. Given the importance we place 
on creating a safe working environment, I am particularly pleased 
that we also recorded our best ever safety performance.
We faced a number of other challenges during the year. At Board 
level, we spent a considerable amount of time working with 
management and our advisors on the ongoing industrial disease 
claim litigation, reaching a settlement agreement in relation to the 
insurer product liability claims on 12 March 2017. This settlement 
and other related industrial disease claim issues are discussed 
more fully in both the Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s 
reports. There were also changes in our senior structure and 
Board membership as we re-domiciled the Company’s centre 
of management and refreshed the Board and its Committees. 
Throughout the year, we maintained our focus on the continuous 
improvement of the Group’s governance and controls.
A resilient strategy delivering strong financial results and 
significant contract awards
The strength of Cape’s strategy has been demonstrated with a 
strong financial performance and a number of key contract awards in 
difficult market conditions during the year. Our customers focussed 
on cost control and cash management, which put pressure on 
margins and caused delays and deferrals of maintenance and 
construction activities. However, our broad geographical reach, 
balanced business and commitment to operational excellence ensured 
the Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share of 
29.9 pence, in line with our performance in 2015. The award of 
additional scope of works at Wheatstone in Australia in 2016 is 
recognition by our customer of the quality and value that Cape delivers.
Health and safety
Our vision is to create a work environment where everyone can 
work safely with zero harm to themselves and their colleagues. We 
achieved our best ever recorded safety performance with significant 
improvements in both our Total Recordable Incident Rate and the 
number of Lost Time Incidents during the year. We will continue to 
drive a strong safety culture within the business; we owe it to our 
many employees and customers. 
The Board and corporate governance
During the year, the Board re-domiciled the Company’s centre of 
management from Singapore to the UK, a move we expect to 
provide a number of benefits to the Group which are outlined in 
more detail in the Governance section of this report on page 50.
As previously announced, following re-domiciliation, Samantha 
Tough, who is based in Western Australia, stepped down from the 
Board. I would like to thank Samantha for her contribution to the 
Group. The Nomination Committee led the search for Samantha’s 
replacement and I am delighted to welcome Mary Reilly to the Board. 
Mary brings a wealth of experience from a variety of sectors, having 
worked for over 30 years’ in an international environment as a 
Chartered Accountant with Deloitte LLP. We have also changed 
our committee memberships with Mary becoming a member of 
the Audit Committee, replacing Samantha, and Brian Larcombe 
replacing Michael Merton on the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has also continued to focus on strengthening Cape’s 
performance and controls. There has been a particular focus on 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption training and compliance across the 
Group. The Audit Committee initiated a sequenced ‘deep-dive’ 
review of important risks, policies and controls.
Cape people
I would like to thank all our employees for their dedication, skill and 
hard work during 2016. The Company continues to be led by a highly 
motivated and extremely effective management team, supported by 
highly-skilled, dedicated and determined employees. This is reflected 
in the improved safety performance and the delivery of strong 
financial results, despite the significant market challenges in all our 
geographies. Such results evidence our values and continue to 
demonstrate our management and employees’ drive and 
commitment to deliver for our stakeholders.
Dividend
The Board has decided that it is appropriate to rebase the dividend 
given the cash impact of the recent settlement of the insurer product 
liability litigation. The Board is therefore recommending a final 
dividend per share of 2.5 pence, which, if approved by shareholders, 
would bring the full year dividend per share to 7.0 pence. The Board 
is planning to maintain the dividend at this level for 2017 and then 
implement a progressive dividend policy from 2018 onward. Subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 10 May 2017, the final dividend will be payable on 23 June 2017 
to shareholders on the register as at 19 May 2017.
Prospects
The Company’s strong financial performance in difficult market 
conditions, strategic achievements and the settlement of the insurer 
product liability litigation provide confidence in the Group’s future 
prospects. I believe the Company is being led by a talented 
management team and pursuing the right strategy to deliver 
long-term growth in what we expect to remain challenging and 
competitive markets.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
14 March 2017 6 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
A strategy 
that delivers Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 7 
Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
8 Chief Executive’s review
12 Our markets
14 Our strategy
16 Our business model
18 Business review
24 Key performance indicators
26 Chief Financial Officer’s review
32 How we manage risk
34 Principal risks and viability
40 Corporate and social responsibility 8 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s review
“2016 was a solid year 
of achievement and the 
Board is confident that 
the business will deliver 
another strong trading 
performance in 2017 .” 
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
£918m
Closing order book
(2015: £861m) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 9 
Annual Report 2016
Overview
The resilience of our strategy and business model is demonstrated 
by another strong set of results in 2016. I am delighted to be able to 
report that while market conditions have clearly had an impact on 
our margins we have been able to deliver strong top line growth, with 
revenue up 21.4% compared to the prior year at £863.5 million, and 
solid earnings per share of 29.9 pence, which is in line with the prior 
year. We also achieved a robust order intake leading to a record 
closing order book as at 31 December 2016 of £917.6 million, up 
6.5% on the prior year (31 December 2015: £861.3 million). 
I am also delighted to report that we have had the safest year ever 
recorded in Cape’s history with both our Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) and our Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) improving 
significantly. This is a testament to every employee’s commitment 
to our safety culture and our desire to make Cape a safe place to 
work for all as we strive to achieve our vision of zero harm.
In light of the industrial disease product liability litigation, we focussed 
throughout 2016 on the delivery of our organic growth strategy and have 
made good progress on the key elements of that strategy during the 
year. Operational excellence and customer intimacy are fundamental 
to our sustained success, enabling us to develop stronger bonds with 
our existing customers and build relationships with new ones. We have 
continued to invest in our people through structured training and 
development programmes covering both managerial and technical 
competencies. Following their initial conception in 2015, we saw real 
momentum during 2016 in establishing and embedding our Technical 
Authorities in the Group. Our Technical Authorities now have a clearer 
structure in which to operate and we are already better utilising their 
expertise to support sales opportunities around the Cape footprint. 
Our focus on continuous improvement saw us continue to roll out our 
standardised site systems and further investment in their development 
to ensure that we have the best tools available to measure and manage 
our work and drive better productivity. These systems are recognised 
by many of our customers as industry-leading.
Within the UK, our broad portfolio of services, in particular the addition 
of mechanical services in 2015, helped underpin the award of a 
multi-million pound, five-year contract at the ConocoPhillips’ Seal 
Sands complex on Teesside. We are also seeing the first notable 
successes in our efforts to target white space opportunities at existing 
customer sites. At each of EDF Energy’s nuclear power stations in the 
UK a programme of customer roadshows has led to increased demand 
for the full range of the Group’s services. We have restructured our UK 
and Cape Specialist Services (CSS) to better position our CSS offering 
for global expansion and during the year successfully secured contracts 
for storage tank inspection and repair with GASCO and ADOC in the 
Middle East. There remains a significant pipeline of specialist service 
opportunities across the Group’s international footprint.
We continue to pursue our strategy of targeted geographic expansion 
in order to increase the Group’s growth potential. We have delivered 
on a number of small initial contracts in Iraq and identified a number 
of other new target markets during the year through a careful 
evaluation process. These markets provide opportunities for both 
our traditional and specialist services. Our previous entry into Kuwait 
saw the team winning multiple contract awards at the Kuwait National 
Petroleum Company’s (KNPC) Clean Fuels Project. However, a highly 
competitive environment in Malaysia, including greater than expected 
local competition, has resulted in low penetration of project work 
opportunities to date.
Excellent operational performance on a number of key projects 
in Asia Pacific offset commercial and market challenges elsewhere 
in our business, particularly in the UK, demonstrating the value of 
a broad geographical portfolio. Our joint venture in Azerbaijan has 
again performed well, delivering both construction and maintenance 
work to the highest standard. The Group’s track record of delivery, 
focus on operational excellence and strong customer relationships 
was also fundamental to the award in late 2016 of significant 
additional scope of works at Chevron’s Wheatstone LNG project 
in Australia until the completion of construction. 
Our strong performance in 2016 has been partially overshadowed by 
two legal cases relating to our legacy of industrial disease claims from 
the period when the Group was involved in the manufacture of asbestos 
products. We have previously disclosed details of these new types of 
claims brought by insurance companies which include insurer employer 
liability claims (‘Insurer EL Claims’) and insurer product liability claims 
(‘Insurer PL Claims’) and that these Insurer PL Claims represented a 
potentially large and unquantifiable liability to the Company.
On 12 March 2017, the Company reached a settlement of the 
litigation relating to the Insurer PL Claims. The settlement of this 
litigation does not imply any acceptance of liability on Cape’s behalf. 
Following the end of the trial on 23 February 2017, the Board received 
an updated opinion from Leading Counsel regarding the Insurer PL 
Claims litigation which reinforced the Board’s view that the merits of 
the Group’s defence are persuasive and that there are substantial 
evidential burdens on the litigants. Nonetheless, we were mindful 
that there remained a risk that this litigation could have a material 
adverse impact on the Scheme and in turn upon the Group and its 
stakeholders. The Board therefore concluded that it was in the best 
interests of Cape and its shareholders to settle at the agreed level, 
thus removing a significant risk to the business, removing the 
distraction of a likely protracted appeals process and enabling 
management to focus on the development of the core business. 
In July 2016, a determinant judgment was issued in respect of the 
Insurer EL Claims trial, in which some issues were found in favour 
of Cape and some against. We have been granted leave to appeal 
and the appeal hearing will be held in July 2017.
Further details of the industrial disease claims are contained in notes 
29 and 34, with further details of the Scheme contained in note 35.
2016 closing order book
£918m
(2016 closing order book including share of JVs: £952m)
£380m £221m £317m
£526m £229m £163m
UK
Order book by region
Order book unwind
Middle East Asia Pacic
2017 2018 2019+
Safety
It is especially pleasing to be able to report that during 2016 we achieved 
our best ever recorded performance in both our TRIR and our LTIF 
safety metrics. The Group’s TRIR reduced to 0.756 (2015: 1.271) while 
LTIF fell to 0.144 incidents per 1,000,000 hours worked (2015: 0.184). 
My thanks go to all our people for their efforts in adopting our strong 
safety culture and making Cape a safer place to work. While this is a 
good performance, we must not be complacent and we will continue 
to drive a strong safety culture across the business, focussing on 
forward-looking measures of safety performance and the timely close 
out of safety observations and incidents. The safety of our people and 
of those people around us is central to everything we do at Cape. Our 
vision is to create a work environment where everyone: our employees, 
partners and third parties, can work safely with zero harm to themselves 
and their colleagues. We often work in challenging locations and 
environments, carrying out potentially hazardous activities, so we are 
continuously seeking ways to improve our safety performance, both 
in terms of process and culture to achieve this vision. 
Market conditions 2016
In the early part of 2016 the price of crude oil continued to fall, 
reaching a low of $28 per barrel. It subsequently recovered to 
average around $45 per barrel for the year, still almost $10 per barrel 
lower than the average in 2015. This situation continued to drive our 
customers in the oil and gas sector to focus on cost and cash 
management with widespread deferral of discretionary spending. 
As a result, the upstream oil and gas sector continued to experience  10 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s review
continued
low levels of demand, a slower pace of new project awards, delay 
in some maintenance activities and significant pressure on pricing. 
Demand from the downstream and industrial markets remained solid 
throughout the year with customers in the refining and petrochemical 
sectors committing investment in both new construction projects 
and maintenance of existing facilities, although pressure on margins 
was also evident in these sectors.
Market conditions in the UK continued to be challenging, largely 
reflecting the ongoing impact of the low oil price. The offshore market in 
the North Sea experienced a particularly difficult period with customers 
deferring discretionary spending and aggressively pursuing cost 
reduction programmes. Consequently, margin pressures continued 
throughout the year and we experienced low levels of demand for 
the Group’s specialist services in the offshore sector. As anticipated, 
demand from the coal-fired power station market reduced with the 
closure of Longannet and Ferrybridge power stations in 2016, although 
it was encouraging that the UK Government effectively sanctioned the 
start of new nuclear power station construction that could provide 
significant opportunities for the business in the future. Demand from 
the downstream and general industrial segments remained robust. 
In the Middle East, the sustained low oil price continued to drive a strong 
focus by our customers on costs and cash management; a trend we 
expect to continue. In broad terms, the Group saw a slower pace of new 
project awards and delays to a number of shutdown programmes, although 
specific market conditions have varied across the region. Demand in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) continued to be robust, driven by a stable 
maintenance requirement and increasing activity on construction projects, 
predominantly in the downstream and petrochemical sectors. In the 
United Arab Emirates (UAE), maintenance demand remained robust but 
there was little new construction activity and a number of shutdown 
projects were postponed, leading to pressure on both volumes and pricing. 
In Qatar, activity in new oil and gas projects also remained low and the 
maintenance market experienced increased cost pressure. Whilst activity 
levels in Oman in the first half of the year were very low, project demand 
increased in the second half of 2016 as activity on the Sohar Expansion and 
Khazzan Projects increased. The business continued to see a ramp-up 
in construction activities in Kuwait, with a number of significant downstream 
projects moving forward. Demand in Azerbaijan also remained strong, 
driven by further development of Shah Deniz 2 and the Sangachal 
Terminal Expansion project along with fabric maintenance work.
Demand for the Group’s services from the LNG project sector in the 
Asia Pacific region remained high. The Group experienced strong 
demand in the first half of the year for construction work on LNG 
modules being fabricated in Asian yards, with a substantial increase 
in activity in the second half of 2016 on both the floating LNG project 
in South Korea and LNG plant construction in Australia. 
Elsewhere, market conditions within the Asia Pacific market remained 
mixed. Demand for maintenance activity in Asia was steady although 
competition remained strong resulting in significant pricing pressure. 
The offshore market across the region was negatively affected by the 
low oil price driving a significant fall in demand for both new project and 
refurbishment work. Bidding activity was high for the RAPID project in 
Malaysia, although competition, in particular from local suppliers, was 
more severe than expected. The Australian maintenance market 
continued to experience both extreme pricing pressure and low demand 
from the resources sector, reflecting ongoing low commodity prices.
2016 operating performance 
Despite challenging market conditions, Cape’s overall operating and 
financial performance was strong.
The Group achieved a resilient order intake of £846.7 million, up 0.6% 
on the prior year (2015: £841.3 million). Notable contract awards were 
the increased scope of work at Wheatstone, multi-disciplinary contracts 
with ConocoPhillips, SABIC and EDF Energy in the UK along with the 
strategically important Jazan and KNPC construction projects in the 
Middle East. The significant scope expansion at Wheatstone, with Cape 
becoming the single contractor on site for our services, was particularly 
pleasing as it was a direct result of our strong operating performance 
and a demonstration of the tangible value of our strategy to focus on 
operational excellence and customer intimacy. As a result, the Group 
concluded 2016 with its highest ever closing order book of £917 .6 million, 
up 6.5% on the prior year (2015: £861.3 million), with almost 60% of that 
order book due for delivery within 2017 .
Revenue was 21.4% higher than the prior year at £863.5 million 
(2015: £711.4 million), primarily reflecting increased volumes in 
Asia Pacific at the Wheatstone and Karratha Gas Plant Life Extension 
(KLE) projects in Australia, the Shell Prelude FLNG project in 
South Korea and the Shell Bukom project in Singapore. The Group 
benefited from movements in exchange rates in the year as Sterling 
weakened against many of the Group’s non-UK trading currencies 
with underlying revenues at constant currency increasing by 16.1%. 
Growth in Asia Pacific was partly offset by lower demand in the 
North Sea and the reduction in demand from the coal-fired power 
generation sector in the UK. Underlying revenues at constant 
currency in the Middle East were slightly lower than the prior year, 
with lower construction project revenues in Qatar almost entirely 
offset by increased activity across all other countries in the region. 
Adjusted operating profit increased by 5.5% to £55.4 million 
(2015: £52.5 million). The Group benefited from favourable foreign 
exchange movements with underlying adjusted operating profit at 
constant currency down by 2.1% compared to the prior year, 
primarily driven by lower demand and a small number of commercial 
performance issues in the UK offset by increased activity levels in 
Asia Pacific and a strong performance in Azerbaijan. 
Operating margins fell by 100bps to 6.4% (2015: 7.4%) with a 
significant deterioration in UK operating margins, partially offset by a 
strong increase in performance in our Asia Pacific business. Whilst the 
UK performance was disappointing, driven by continued weakness in 
the offshore market and a small number of commercial issues, I am 
confident that the UK management team has taken appropriate 
corrective actions and that the business has entered 2017 on a sound 
footing such that it is able to deliver a much improved performance 
this year. As expected, the very strong margin performance in the 
Middle East in the first half of 2015 was not repeated in 2016, and the 
strong performance from our SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan 
offset margin pressures elsewhere in the region.
Adjusted net debt decreased significantly to £80.4 million 
(2015: £109.9 million) driven by strong cash conversion from an improved 
working capital performance and the benefit of foreign exchange 
movements on the translation of foreign cash balances, partially offset by 
increased industrial disease claims cash contributions during the year. 
 
Group revenue
£863.5m
Progress on strategy
Our strategy is delivering results. The importance of our geographical 
diversity is demonstrated by the improved results from Asia Pacific and 
Azerbaijan offsetting a weaker than anticipated performance in the UK. 
We are convinced that our strategic intent of being the leading provider 
of critical industrial services in our chosen geographic markets remains 
compelling and will enable us to continue to deliver shareholder value 
over the long term. We aim to achieve this long-term success through 
five strategic key pillars, which deliver both stability of earnings and 
long-term growth: Operational excellence; Customer intimacy; 
Balanced business; Broadening our range of services; and Geographic 
expansion. Our progress in these areas during the year gives us 
confidence in the Group’s prospects for 2017 and beyond.
Operational excellence
Operational excellence remains the cornerstone of our strategy as it 
enables Cape to deliver better value to our customers whilst protecting 
margins in today’s challenging market conditions. The goals of our 
operational excellence programme remain unchanged: to attract, retain 
and develop the best people; to simplify and standardise our business 
systems and processes; to ensure that knowledge and best practice 
are shared around the Group; and to drive continuous improvement. 
60%
Maintenance
40%
Construction Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 11 
Annual Report 2016
2016 has seen significant investment in our technical authorities (TAs), 
recruiting the right people and embedding clear lines of reporting and 
accountability. TAs are our leading source of technical assurance and 
compliance on a given product or service and help deliver shareholder 
value by supporting the Group’s growth. Better utilisation of their 
expertise to support sales opportunities around the globe has played 
a large part in multiple commercial successes during the last year. 
They are also responsible for our Centres of Excellence, which are 
just one part of our ever improving communication toolkit for sharing 
best practice across the Group’s global footprint.
During the year we also continued to roll out our standardised site 
systems and further invested in their development to ensure that we 
have the best tools available to measure and manage our work, and 
drive better productivity. These systems are recognised by many of 
our customers as industry leading. 
Our middle and senior management development programmes are now 
well established within the business and are enabling us to develop more 
of our management talent in-house. In addition to these management 
development programmes, we continue to direct considerable 
resources to training and assessment of our skilled employees to 
ensure they are able to work safely and to our global standard. 
Customer intimacy
We have built long-term relationships with several of our key customers 
including Bechtel, EDF Energy, BP and SABIC over a number of years. 
Through these relationships we have developed a deep understanding 
of their businesses and we use this to develop solutions, both 
commercial and technical, that deliver real value to those customers. 
This process of developing close relationships with our key customers 
is an important element of our long-term success. During 2016, the 
value of this approach, supported by excellence in operational delivery, 
was demonstrated by the awards of the additional scope of works at 
Wheatstone, cryogenic insulation activities at Prelude and successes 
in our efforts to target white space opportunities, particularly at EDF 
Energy’s fleet of nuclear power stations in the UK. We have also been 
working with a number of customers on developing Asset Integrity 
inspection and compliance programmes to help extend the useful life 
of ageing assets, with a particular focus on corrosion under insulation. 
Balanced business
Cape already has a balance of businesses across a range of 
geographies, which gives the Group an inherent stability against 
fluctuations in demand from any one particular region. This will 
continue to develop as we expand into new countries and regions 
around the world. In addition, we continue to actively pursue growth 
in our maintenance business to provide stability against the natural 
variability in demand from the construction project market. I am 
pleased to be able to report that the Group’s revenue from 
maintenance activity has increased 9.9% in absolute terms to 
£521 million compared to £474 million in the prior year. New 
construction projects play an important role in the Group’s portfolio, 
enabling faster organic growth while often being the vehicle to enter 
new territories. With the increase in construction related activities 
in Asia Pacific, the proportion of Cape’s business derived from 
maintenance activities in 2016 was lower than the prior year at 60% 
(2015: 67%). 
Growth through broadening our range of services
The addition of mechanical services through the 2015 acquisition of 
Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, subsequently renamed Cape 
Engineering Services Limited (CESL), has proved successful. It 
underpinned the award of the multi-million pound, five-year contract 
at the ConocoPhillips Seal Sands complex on Teesside, in the UK, 
an important milestone for the UK business in the development of 
our broader service offering in this market.
We have continued to invest in our specialist service businesses 
during 2016 in order to provide the optimum framework in which to 
expand our specialist services capability across Cape’s global footprint. 
While progress on expanding our tank construction and maintenance 
business into the Middle East has been slower than we had hoped, 
we now have a dedicated CSS team fully operational in the region with 
work underway on a small number of storage tank inspection and 
repair contracts in the UAE and Kuwait and we continue to see a strong 
pipeline of opportunities in the region. While low oil prices resulted in 
depressed levels of offshore demand for CSS in the UK, we have 
successfully delivered an expanded range of services onshore including 
tank inspection, replacement and refurbishment works by Cape 
Motherwell Bridge, refractory replacement works by Cape York Linings 
and innovative environmental services for one of our key customers, 
EDF Energy. This is a great example of our strategy of filling the white 
spaces in action and something we will continue to pursue in 2017 .
Growth through geographic expansion
We aim to be the leading provider of our services in each of our 
chosen geographies. In practice we seek to grow market share in 
our newer, less mature regions and to defend our leading positions 
in our more mature regions. We have been successful in growing 
our share of the market in Australia with contract wins such as the 
increased scope of work at Wheatstone. We continue to grow both 
maintenance and project activities in KSA and Kuwait and we have 
delivered on initial contracts in Iraq, having established a base 
in-country during the year. We continue to seek areas for further 
expansion to drive future growth.
Organisation and people
We employ over 16,000 employees across our global operations. 
Their professionalism, competency and commitment are critical to the 
delivery of our business. We continue to invest in developing our people 
and ensuring that everyone can achieve their potential at Cape. We have 
well established management and leadership development programmes, 
both for our current and future leaders. We provide specialist skills training, 
including the attainment of internationally recognised qualifications, 
to our site based employees around the world to ensure they can work 
safely and deliver our services to the required standard. In 2016, we 
completed the roll out of a global applicant tracking system to support 
our recruitment processes, allowing quicker and more accurate 
recruitment with improved data and visibility for managers. It also 
provides us with an opportunity to proactively contact appropriately 
skilled people who have previously worked for Cape. This reduces both 
the cost and time taken to recruit, together with greater assurance of 
the calibre of the individuals whom we are hiring. In 2016, we received 
around 3,500 applications per month globally via this system.
Outlook
With a robust order book and a good start to the year, the Board 
is confident that the business will deliver another strong trading 
performance in 2017. The UK business has implemented 
improvement measures to deal with the small number of 
commercial issues that affected its performance in 2016. It has 
also been restructured to better enable the business to pursue 
growth opportunities in the UK market whilst providing technical 
support for specialist service opportunities elsewhere in the Group. 
This is expected to drive a substantial margin improvement in the 
UK business in 2017 which should more than offset the effect of 
any margin pressures experienced elsewhere in the Group.
Conditions in the Group’s end markets are expected to remain mixed 
in the near-term with relatively weak demand from the upstream oil and 
gas sector being balanced by more solid demand from the downstream 
oil and gas and power generation sectors. Demand for maintenance 
services is expected to be stable over the medium to long term, with 
construction activity levels expected to be more volatile given investment 
in new projects is more affected by resource pricing. The UK nuclear 
new build market could provide substantial opportunity for the business 
in the long term, although the timing of investment remains uncertain 
despite the welcome approval for Hinkley Point by the UK Government.
Although the recent industrial disease claims litigation has required 
significant attention from the Board and senior management, we have 
remained focussed on the underlying business during this period and 
in particular, organic growth opportunities. The recent settlement of the 
insurer product liability litigation removes a material risk to the business 
and the distraction of a likely protracted appeals process, enabling 
management to focus on the development of the core business.
With the long-term drivers of demand for our services remaining 
robust, I remain confident that our strategy will deliver increased 
shareholder value over the medium to long term.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
14 March 2017 12 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Oil and gas
Chemical and steel
Mining
Other
Power generation
Market trend
Our markets
We provide our broad 
range of critical industrial 
services across a variety 
of markets.
During 2016, the oil price averaged US$45 per 
barrel, almost US$10 per barrel lower than the 
average in 2015. 
Consequently, major oil companies continued 
to assess their level of capital expenditure, 
limiting construction investment and deferring 
discretionary maintenance spend, particularly in 
the upstream sector. With oil prices appearing 
to have stabilised in the early part of 2017 , a 
number of International Oil Companies (IOCs) 
have announced similarly stable capital 
expenditure levels for 2017 .
Downstream refining margins were also lower, 
averaging US$34 per tonne in the year, down 
from US$49 per tonne in 2015.
National Oil Companies (NOCs) investment 
remained relatively robust, particularly in the 
downstream segment, reflecting their focus on 
the long-term and domestic economic stimulus, 
although an increased focus on cost control 
and pricing was also evident.
Natural gas prices remained subdued during 
2016, reflecting in part the availability of excess 
supply and slow global economic growth, 
particularly in Asia. Global gas consumption 
continues to grow with major consumers in 
Europe and Asia taking advantage of attractive 
pricing. Qatar remains the leading LNG exporter 
with Australia expected to increase production 
significantly over the coming years as major 
projects are completed.
Driven by the UK Government’s 
environmental policy, the UK power 
generation market is moving towards a mix 
of nuclear, gas and renewables with less 
emphasis on thermal coal power generation. 
Following significant delays, the final 
investment decision for the UK’s first new 
nuclear power generation plant at Hinkley 
Point was made in September, with the 
potential for more new nuclear plants to 
follow. In line with the UK Government’s 
policy, thermal coal generation capacity has 
reduced with two UK coal-fired power 
stations closing during 2016.
Demand from the petrochemical sector 
continued to remain robust across all of the 
Group’s key operating regions through 2016, 
buoyed by relatively low cost feedstocks and 
continued strong demand. The UK sector is 
investing in the development of its ethane 
import capability to take advantage of low 
cost feedstocks from US shale gas 
production. Asian and Middle Eastern plans 
for investment in new petrochemical capacity 
continued to progress throughout the year.
Investment in steel production facilities 
continues to remain subdued reflecting 
excess global supply despite a partial 
recovery in prices and the weaker Sterling 
improving the competitiveness of UK exports. 
Continued low commodity prices and in 
particular iron ore, which at an average of 
US$56 per tonne for 2016 was in line with 
2015 (US$56), has resulted in all major 
mining companies maintaining low levels 
of investment and pursuing cost reduction 
initiatives. This situation is expected to 
persist until commodity prices recover.
Cape has a presence in a variety of other 
sectors including marine construction, 
pharmaceutical and food industries across all 
regions. Overall demand from these sectors 
has remained relatively robust through 2016.  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 13 
Annual Report 2016
Impact and opportunities Revenue
Cape’s revenues are predominantly from maintenance work for which 
demand is more stable than construction projects. The Middle East 
business is largely exposed to the downstream sector and whilst the 
business continues to see an increased focus on costs and cash 
management by its customers, coupled with delays to some projects 
and shutdowns, the NOCs at present remain committed to the major 
development projects in the region. The UK business is exposed to 
the UK North Sea market and the depressed oil price continues to 
negatively affect both volume and margin in this part of the business. 
Our focus on operational excellence, customer intimacy and a broad 
portfolio of services has resulted in Cape securing a number of 
contracts, particularly in the downstream segment. The development 
of LNG projects in Australia and South Korea provide a positive 
increase in demand in the near term for the Asia Pacific business.
Demand for Cape’s services from the coal power sector in the UK 
reduced following the planned closures of Longannet and Ferrybridge 
stations. Outside these stations, maintenance and shutdown volumes 
remained steady both for the nuclear sector and remaining fossil 
fuelled power plants. New nuclear plant construction could provide 
a significant opportunity for the Group in the coming years.
Maintenance demand from the petrochemical sector remained steady 
across all regions within the Group, although cost control, pricing and 
cash management were prime focus areas for our customers. Bidding 
activity remained robust for new petrochemical projects in the 
Middle East, with the Group being awarded a number of contracts in 
both the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. The Group also saw 
increased activity in Asia Pacific, particularly in Singapore. Demand 
for both maintenance activity and gasholder construction in the steel 
industry has been low and is expected to remain suppressed. 
The Group’s business in Australia has continued to experience both low 
demand and severe pricing pressure from the mining sector. In 2015, 
we adjusted our overhead base to match these lower levels of demand. 
Cape continues to focus on developing solutions for its customers that 
reduce the overall cost of managing their maintenance activities. 
The Group continues to seek opportunities to deliver its full range of 
services to a range of sectors and, in doing so, increase the breadth 
of sectors served.
Maintenance
£292.4m
Construction
£252.9m
UK
£175.1m
Middle East
£110.2m
Asia Pacic
£260.0m
Maintenance
£89.6m
Construction
£4.8m
UK
£87.1m
Middle East
£6.0m
Asia Pacic
£1.3m
Maintenance
£65.7m
Construction
£53.2m
UK
£56.1m
Middle East
£53.5m
Asia Pacic
£9.3m
Maintenance
£26.2m
Construction
£14.2m
UK
£0.0m
Middle East
£16.7m
Asia Pacic
£23.7m
Maintenance
£46.9m
Construction
£17.6m
UK
£52.5m
Middle East
£5.2m
Asia Pacic
£6.8m Description
Operational excellence
Customer intimacy
Balanced business
Broaden portfolio
Geographic expansion
Benefits of success
Our strategy
We differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors by being the operational leader 
in our industry, providing safe, on-time, 
high-quality services in the most efficient 
manner. 
Through driving continuous improvement, 
we aim to stay at the forefront of our industry.
 – Margin protection and enhancement 
 – Quality of service delivery 
 – Enhances safety
 – Secures additional revenue by attracting 
new customers with innovative solutions
 – Helps secure contract extensions with 
existing customers
 – Improves asset utilisation
 – Continued rollout of standardised site systems onto 
priority sites; developed next generation site systems
 – Intensified investment in Technical Authorities 
supporting multiple commercial successes
 – Developed online internal knowledge hubs (‘Centres 
of Excellence’), accelerating global sharing of 
innovation and best practice
 – Targeted training programme for the Group’s 
operational delivery managers rolled out as part of 
the Cape Management Development Programme
 – Enhance and increase suite of mobile technology 
solutions to reduce in-field paper-based inefficiencies
 – Further improve contract execution performance 
through enhanced commercial rigour and professional 
project delivery capabilities
 – Drive innovation and share best practice to deliver: 
process and safety improvements; and new products 
and services
 – Continue to build in-house leadership talent
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H
We create value for our customers by 
developing and delivering appropriate 
solutions through a deep understanding 
of their current and future needs.
 – Higher customer satisfaction and better 
customer retention
 – Stability of revenue streams with key 
customers 
 – Ability to add more value to customers
 – Cape wins contracts for other services 
through enhanced trust
 – Strong portfolio management with key customers 
delivered pull through of specialist services 
 – Improved customer understanding of our portfolio 
of services through customer roadshows and our 
interactive product and service directory
 – Worked with customers on developing Asset Integrity 
inspection and compliance programmes to help 
extend the useful life of ageing assets, with a 
particular focus on corrosion under insulation
 – Continue to develop a deep understanding of key 
customer needs
 – Further improvement of Cape delivery teams’ 
knowledge of Cape’s broad portfolio
 – Further application of our Asset Integrity 
service offering
A, C, D, E, H
We achieve stable revenues by having a 
balanced business across the maintenance 
and new construction segments, with a 
broad geographical spread.
 – Stability of revenue streams from 
maintenance business
 – Geographic spread protects us from 
a downturn in one specific country
 – Grew maintenance revenues by 9.9% in 2016
 – Secured key contracts with a variety of customers 
across the business, including: SABIC in the KSA and 
UK; Qatalum in Qatar; General Electric across the 
Middle East; SABIC and Dow Chemicals in the UK; 
Exxon Mobil in Asia Pacific
 – Enhanced our Asset Integrity service offering
 – Continue to expand maintenance in all regions
 – Continue to focus on pull through of services to 
broaden Cape’s reach with key customers
A, C, D, H
We expand the range of critical services 
offered to our customers by adding new 
specialist services adjacent to our existing 
traditional services. 
We seek to both introduce new specialist 
services to our regions and secure 
contracts for all our services with our 
existing customers.
 – Increased value-add and technical 
differentiation 
 – More opportunities to be successful 
on every project or site as a complete 
service offering
 – Growth through pull-through of new 
services onto existing projects or sites
 – Increases addressable market
 – Provides specialist entry point into new 
markets and customers
 – Mechanical service offering through CESL 
underpinned the multi-disciplinary service contract 
award from ConocoPhillips in the UK
 – Innovative caisson repair system demonstrated to 
a number of existing and potential customers 
 – Enhanced employee and customer understanding 
of Cape’s broad portfolio of services through 
workshops, roadshows and our interactive product 
and service directory
 – Improved the ‘Cape App’, allowing our teams to easily 
access essential information on our values, locations, 
products and service offerings
 – Storage tank, refractory and environmental services 
provided across the EDF Energy nuclear fleet in the UK
 – Dedicated CSS team fully operational in the 
Middle East and initial tank inspection and repair 
orders secured with GASCO and ADOC
 – Secure further CSS contract awards in the UK 
and Middle East
 – Introduce our CSS offering into Asia Pacific
 – Continue to secure work for our new disciplines 
by filling the white spaces with existing customers
 – Expand asset integrity business and capabilities
 – Explore the addition of new capabilities through 
acquisition
A, C, D, E, H
We aim to be the leading provider of 
critical industrial services in our chosen 
geographic markets, delivering better 
service to our customers and superior 
returns to our shareholders.
We seek to achieve the maximum 
potential from our existing territories whilst 
identifying opportunities to enter new, 
high-growth markets.
 – Experience shows a high market share 
generates better returns
 – Spreads risk 
 – Projects provide an entry point for 
long-term maintenance
 – Increases overall growth potential for 
the Group through the selection of new, 
higher growth markets
 – Established an operational base in the southern gas 
sector in Iraq and delivered on a number of initial 
small contracts
 – Grew our business activities in Kuwait by securing 
a number of key construction contracts 
 – Successfully mobilised and delivered significant 
services on Prelude FLNG in South Korea
 – Review, develop and build on the current pipeline 
of opportunities in our chosen geographies
 – Establish the next phase of regional expansion
 – Continue to globalise our CSS service offering
A, C, E, H
Our strategic intent is to 
be the leading provider 
of critical industrial 
services in our chosen 
geographic markets.
14 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016 Relevant 
KPIs
What we have achieved in 2016 Short/medium-term goals
We differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors by being the operational leader 
in our industry, providing safe, on-time, 
high-quality services in the most efficient 
manner. 
Through driving continuous improvement, 
we aim to stay at the forefront of our industry.
 – Margin protection and enhancement 
 – Quality of service delivery 
 – Enhances safety
 – Secures additional revenue by attracting 
new customers with innovative solutions
 – Helps secure contract extensions with 
existing customers
 – Improves asset utilisation
 – Continued rollout of standardised site systems onto 
priority sites; developed next generation site systems
 – Intensified investment in Technical Authorities 
supporting multiple commercial successes
 – Developed online internal knowledge hubs (‘Centres 
of Excellence’), accelerating global sharing of 
innovation and best practice
 – Targeted training programme for the Group’s 
operational delivery managers rolled out as part of 
the Cape Management Development Programme
 – Enhance and increase suite of mobile technology 
solutions to reduce in-field paper-based inefficiencies
 – Further improve contract execution performance 
through enhanced commercial rigour and professional 
project delivery capabilities
 – Drive innovation and share best practice to deliver: 
process and safety improvements; and new products 
and services
 – Continue to build in-house leadership talent
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H
We create value for our customers by 
developing and delivering appropriate 
solutions through a deep understanding 
of their current and future needs.
 – Higher customer satisfaction and better 
customer retention
 – Stability of revenue streams with key 
customers 
 – Ability to add more value to customers
 – Cape wins contracts for other services 
through enhanced trust
 – Strong portfolio management with key customers 
delivered pull through of specialist services 
 – Improved customer understanding of our portfolio 
of services through customer roadshows and our 
interactive product and service directory
 – Worked with customers on developing Asset Integrity 
inspection and compliance programmes to help 
extend the useful life of ageing assets, with a 
particular focus on corrosion under insulation
 – Continue to develop a deep understanding of key 
customer needs
 – Further improvement of Cape delivery teams’ 
knowledge of Cape’s broad portfolio
 – Further application of our Asset Integrity 
service offering
A, C, D, E, H
We achieve stable revenues by having a 
balanced business across the maintenance 
and new construction segments, with a 
broad geographical spread.
 – Stability of revenue streams from 
maintenance business
 – Geographic spread protects us from 
a downturn in one specific country
 – Grew maintenance revenues by 9.9% in 2016
 – Secured key contracts with a variety of customers 
across the business, including: SABIC in the KSA and 
UK; Qatalum in Qatar; General Electric across the 
Middle East; SABIC and Dow Chemicals in the UK; 
Exxon Mobil in Asia Pacific
 – Enhanced our Asset Integrity service offering
 – Continue to expand maintenance in all regions
 – Continue to focus on pull through of services to 
broaden Cape’s reach with key customers
A, C, D, H
We expand the range of critical services 
offered to our customers by adding new 
specialist services adjacent to our existing 
traditional services. 
We seek to both introduce new specialist 
services to our regions and secure 
contracts for all our services with our 
existing customers.
 – Increased value-add and technical 
differentiation 
 – More opportunities to be successful 
on every project or site as a complete 
service offering
 – Growth through pull-through of new 
services onto existing projects or sites
 – Increases addressable market
 – Provides specialist entry point into new 
markets and customers
 – Mechanical service offering through CESL 
underpinned the multi-disciplinary service contract 
award from ConocoPhillips in the UK
 – Innovative caisson repair system demonstrated to 
a number of existing and potential customers 
 – Enhanced employee and customer understanding 
of Cape’s broad portfolio of services through 
workshops, roadshows and our interactive product 
and service directory
 – Improved the ‘Cape App’, allowing our teams to easily 
access essential information on our values, locations, 
products and service offerings
 – Storage tank, refractory and environmental services 
provided across the EDF Energy nuclear fleet in the UK
 – Dedicated CSS team fully operational in the 
Middle East and initial tank inspection and repair 
orders secured with GASCO and ADOC
 – Secure further CSS contract awards in the UK 
and Middle East
 – Introduce our CSS offering into Asia Pacific
 – Continue to secure work for our new disciplines 
by filling the white spaces with existing customers
 – Expand asset integrity business and capabilities
 – Explore the addition of new capabilities through 
acquisition
A, C, D, E, H
We aim to be the leading provider of 
critical industrial services in our chosen 
geographic markets, delivering better 
service to our customers and superior 
returns to our shareholders.
We seek to achieve the maximum 
potential from our existing territories whilst 
identifying opportunities to enter new, 
high-growth markets.
 – Experience shows a high market share 
generates better returns
 – Spreads risk 
 – Projects provide an entry point for 
long-term maintenance
 – Increases overall growth potential for 
the Group through the selection of new, 
higher growth markets
 – Established an operational base in the southern gas 
sector in Iraq and delivered on a number of initial 
small contracts
 – Grew our business activities in Kuwait by securing 
a number of key construction contracts 
 – Successfully mobilised and delivered significant 
services on Prelude FLNG in South Korea
 – Review, develop and build on the current pipeline 
of opportunities in our chosen geographies
 – Establish the next phase of regional expansion
 – Continue to globalise our CSS service offering
A, C, E, H
KPIs
A:  Order intake
B:  Operating cash conversion
C:  Return on invested capital
D:  Annual growth in maintenance revenue
E:  Adjusted operating profit margin
F:  Total recordable incident rate
G:  Working capital as a percentage of revenue
H:  Adjusted diluted EPS
KPIs 
See pages 24 to 25
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 15 
Annual Report 2016 Construction
40%
of revenues
 – We have considerable international experience in the delivery 
of major projects, together with extensive technical resources
 – We provide expert advice and technical support to some of 
the world’s largest and most respected engineering, 
procurement and construction (EPC) companies
 – We work in partnership with our customers to develop a safe 
and reliable construction methodology, a detailed programme 
of work and an accurate assessment of costs 
 – Construction is our usual entry point in new territories, where 
the local supply base lacks the capability and assets to deliver 
major projects
 – Construction projects often lead to opportunities to address 
the wider maintenance market
16 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Our business model
We create value… …delivering our services 
in these segments…
Through living our values, which 
underpin our long-term success
 – Having the right culture is fundamental to the long-term 
sustainability of our business model
 – Integrity, safety and employee welfare are at the heart 
of our business
 – We build lasting relationships with our customers and 
employees 
Our values 
See page 41
Through focussing on our 
customers’ needs, providing 
multi-disciplinary services across 
a broad range of geographies 
and markets
 – We work closely with our customers, gaining a deep 
understanding of their needs and developing solutions 
that deliver value to their business
 – We create further value through a constant drive to 
innovate and improve efficiencies whilst offering 
additional services to our customers
Through quickly, safely and 
efficiently mobilising large 
numbers of people and 
physical assets
People
 – Our people live our values, deliver our services 
to our customers and are pivotal to our success
 – We invest significant resources in identifying, 
developing and retaining exceptional people 
Our people 
See page 42
Knowledge and intellectual property
 – We have developed a significant body of intellectual 
property in specialist know-how and processes
 – We pursue innovative solutions to add value to our  
customers
 – Our Operational Excellence programme drives 
consistent and efficient deployment across our 
global footprint to deliver best practice operations
 – We seek to continuously improve these processes 
and solutions as key differentiators for Cape
Physical assets
 – We have a significant asset base across our 
global footprint
 – We mobilise assets quickly to react to our 
customers’ needs
 – We continue to invest in our assets
Maintenance
60%
of revenues
An outcome of good maintenance practices is asset integrity, 
which helps to prevent major incidents. Cape’s asset integrity 
management skills are strongly aligned with maintaining primary 
containment barriers that prevent or minimise the severity and 
escalation of a release of potentially dangerous materials. 
By applying the principles of continuous improvement and 
innovation, we play a major role in maintaining and enhancing 
the safe operation and efficiency of industrial facilities, extending 
the useful life of assets, and safely decommissioning facilities 
at the end of their useful lives. 
 – We work closely with our customers to deliver asset integrity 
solutions for their facilities
 – We provide reliable, regular maintenance support to improve 
customer efficiency
 – We are responsive, working around a customer’s needs, 
to provide the rapid ramp-up needed to carry out shutdown 
activities
 – We are able to rapidly deploy skilled resources to deal with 
emergency repair and maintenance work
 – We devise safe and intelligent strategies to extend the useful 
life of ageing assets
 – We enhance the decommissioning process through our 
extensive operational knowledge of major industrial assets Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 17 
Annual Report 2016
…securing value… …for our stakeholders
 – Through our lean operating 
model
 – By delivering safe, consistent 
and high-quality services
 – By deploying our processes, 
solutions and know-how to 
deliver best practice
 – By maximising asset utilisation
 – By developing and offering 
customers the most appropriate, 
innovative and efficient solution 
to meet their requirements
 – By improving efficiencies in existing 
services and offering additional 
Cape-delivered services through 
a single point of contact
 – By delivering projects on time, to 
high-quality standards, within budget
 – Through our extensive working 
knowledge of major industrial assets 
 – By maximising shutdown efficiency, 
providing clear value-add for our 
customers through minimised 
operational downtime
 – By designing and building 
facility extensions in a way 
that can reduce ongoing 
maintenance costs
Our customers
Our customers trust Cape to deliver safely, 
on-time, to cost and quality. Cape’s ability to 
mobilise rapidly to meet customers’ needs helps 
to reduce downtime and saves customers’ costs. 
We aim to work with customers to understand 
their needs and to develop and deliver solutions 
to those needs. Our broad geographical spread 
and wide service offering gives us the capability 
to support customers across a range of territories 
and provide a multi-disciplinary service offering, 
saving them both time and money.
Our shareholders
Our strategy and business model delivers 
financial stability and growth. Through improved 
operational performance we seek to protect and 
enhance our margins whilst our scale enables 
cost efficiency and higher returns. We will deliver 
growth by driving new specialist services 
around our footprint and through targeted 
geographic expansion.
Our people
Cape is a great place to work and we are 
committed to ensuring it remains so. We have 
developed a supportive culture where every 
employee knows they are part of one team, 
resulting in an environment where people can 
learn and are provided with opportunities for 
growth and development. We are committed to 
develop and train our people and aim to operate 
with integrity to provide a positive working 
environment. Pivotal to all of this is ensuring we 
keep our people safe and healthy in everything 
that they do. As our business grows we create 
new opportunities for our people. 18 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Business review
UK
The UK business employs over 4,000 people 
and is one of the largest multi-disciplinary 
employers in the UK industrial services market, 
working with a broad range of customers 
across a variety of markets. 2016 has been 
a challenging year as customers continued 
to focus on cost control, putting pressure on 
margins. This margin pressure, combined with 
lower demand, poor commercial performance 
on a small number of contracts, in particular at 
Exxon Mobil Fawley, and the costs associated 
with restructuring resulted in significantly lower 
adjusted operating profit than the prior year. 
The UK management team has implemented 
a number of improvement actions and, 
although market conditions are expected 
to remain challenging through 2017, these 
improvements combined with a solid order 
book are expected to deliver a much 
improved performance in 2017.
Markets in which we operate
£m 2016 
Restated
2015
1
Change
Order intake 312.4 430.7 (27.5%)
Order book 379.8 438.3 (13.3%)
Revenue 370.8 388.4 (4.5%)
Adjusted operating profit 14.2 31.5 (54.9%)
Adjusted operating profit margin 3.8% 8.1% (430bps)
1  Prior year figures have been restated following the Group’s change in reporting 
segments effective from 1 January 2016
Other
14%
Revenue by market
Upstream 
oil and gas
33%
Downstream oil and gas
14%
Power generation
24%
Chemical and steel
15%
Revenue by segment
91%
9%
Maintenance
Construction
Order intake of £312.4 million was 27.5% lower than the prior year 
(2015: £430.7 million), largely due to timing of contract awards, but 
also reflecting the market environment for both construction and 
maintenance work, particularly in the upstream oil and gas market. 
Important contract awards in the year were a five-year contract for 
fabrication, mechanical, engineering and instrumentation services 
at the ConocoPhillips Seal Sands facility; a three-year renewal for 
multi-disciplinary maintenance with SABIC UK; a five-year 
multi-disciplinary maintenance contract at EDF Energy’s West Burton 
and Cottam power stations; and a one-year extension and expansion 
of multi-disciplinary services for Perenco in the southern sector of the 
North Sea. The year-end order book was 13.3% lower than the prior 
year at £379.8 million (2015: £438.3 million).
Revenue was 4.5% lower than the prior year at £370.8 million 
(2015: £388.4 million), reflecting the reduction in demand from the 
North Sea and plant closures in the UK coal-fired power generation 
market. This decrease was partially offset by increased volume from 
Cape Motherwell Bridge, primarily in the storage tanks business, 
and a full year’s contribution from CESL. Excluding CESL, organic 
revenues fell by 7.8%.
The business continues to be largely maintenance driven with 90.5% 
of revenues (2015: 81.8%) derived from maintenance and shutdown 
activities. The Group is starting to see its first notable successes in 
its efforts to target white space opportunities, expanding the range 
of services delivered at existing customer sites, with more than 
£40 million of order intake in 2016 including an increased pull through 
of maintenance services across EDF Energy’s nuclear fleet and 
Perenco’s offshore assets. Elsewhere, the UK Government’s approval 
of Hinkley Point C during the year signalled the beginning of a long 
awaited renaissance in the nuclear power construction market in the 
UK, which could provide the Group with substantial opportunities for 
project-related work in the future.
Adjusted operating profit declined 54.9% to £14.2 million compared 
to the prior year as operating margins decreased to 3.8% (2015: 8.1%), 
driven by a combination of adverse market conditions and a number 
of specific commercial items. Low oil prices resulted in lower demand 
and pricing pressure in the offshore sector while the closure of two 
coal-fired power stations also impacted volumes of both day-to-day 
maintenance and shutdown work. The specific commercial items 
related to poor commercial performance on the contract at Fawley, 
where we now have new commercial agreements in place, and 
provisions taken against potential contract close-out costs incurred 
on a small number of projects. These commercial impacts are not 
expected to re-occur in 2017. 
During the year, the business implemented a significant restructuring 
programme to ensure that it was both operating with a lean overhead 
base and set up to capture white space growth opportunities by 
expanding the range of services delivered to the existing customer 
base in the UK. In concert with this ‘structured for growth’ programme, 
the Group’s specialist services business, CSS, was also restructured 
to ensure it was better positioned to support global expansion. 
Although market conditions are expected to remain mixed in the 
near-term, the business continues to succeed in winning new 
customers, retaining existing customers and securing new white 
space opportunities which, combined with the expected improvement 
in operating margins following the restructuring actions taken in 2016 
and the non-recurrence of the business specific items, is expected to 
result in a significant improvement in performance in 2017. Strategy in action:
Filling the white spaces
EDF Energy is the UK’s largest producer of low-carbon 
electricity, meeting around one-fifth of the country’s 
demand and supplying millions of customers and 
businesses with electricity and gas. Cape secured its 
access, insulation and associated services contract in 
support of their eight nuclear power stations in 2009 and 
provides its services across maintenance, project and 
statutory outage works where the requirement for safety, 
reliability and innovation is paramount. As part of the 
Value Proposition agreed with EDF Energy in 2015, Cape 
has been progressively expanding its service offering 
across the fleet as part of its strategy for filling white 
spaces, adding new specialist services adjacent to its 
core existing offerings, so that Cape is now able to offer 
and deliver EDF Energy a suite of complementary 
services, driving sustainable efficiency improvements 
through economies of scale, reduced interfaces and 
additional cost savings.
Throughout the year, Cape has undertaken a 
programme of customer roadshows at each of EDF 
Energy’s nuclear assets to raise awareness of its growing 
portfolio. At EDF Energy’s nuclear power station at 
Hartlepool, in the North East of England, the team has 
seen a notable increase in demand, particularly for the 
CSS business, including: refractory replacement works to 
two auxiliary boilers; tank inspection and refurbishment 
works to three reserve feedwater tanks with another two 
scheduled for 2017; and innovative industrial cleaning 
and vacuumation works by the environmental services 
team. The key to the success of these projects has been 
the Cape site team providing management and field 
supervision while seamlessly integrating the CSS teams.
Continuing to fill white spaces by increasing the 
pull-through of in-house services Cape can offer across 
the nuclear fleet will significantly contribute towards 
Cape’s strategic growth targets, whilst adding greater 
value and strengthening our long-term relationship with 
EDF Energy. 
Customer
 – EDF Energy
Services provided
 – Access
 – Insulation
 – Environmental services
 – Storage tanks
 – Refractory
Markets served
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 19 
Annual Report 2016 20 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Business review
Middle East 
Cape is one of the largest providers of 
industrial services in the Gulf Cooperation 
Council states, having operated in the region 
for over 30 years. In the Middle East, the 
Group employs over 8,000 people, primarily 
delivering Cape’s portfolio of services to the 
downstream oil and gas sector. While bidding 
activity remained high, driven by continued 
investment from the National Oil Companies, 
the continuing low oil price in 2016 saw a 
number of customers renew their focus on 
cost control, with some areas experiencing 
project slow-downs and work deferrals. 
While market conditions are expected to 
remain mixed in 2017, the robust order 
book provides confidence in the Group’s 
prospects and strong visibility for the year.
Markets in which we operate
£m 2016 
Restated
2015
1
Change
Order intake
2
197.4 211.6 (6.7%)
Order book
2
220.7 180.0 +22.6%
Revenue
2
191.6 174.6 +9.7%
Adjusted operating profit 29.7 27.5 +8.0%
Adjusted operating profit margin 15.5% 15.8% (30bps)
1  Prior year figures have been restated following the Group’s change in reporting 
segments effective from 1 January 2016
2  Excludes values in respect of the SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan
Order intake of £197.4 million decreased by 6.7% compared to the prior 
year (2015: £211.6 million). The largest proportion of the order intake 
continues to come from the downstream oil and gas sector across the 
region. The most significant contract awards were multi-disciplinary 
construction contracts from a number of suppliers at the Jazan project 
in KSA, including the Consolidated Contractors Company, Nasser S. 
Al Hajri Corporation and Daewoo; and multiple contract awards at the 
Kuwait National Petroleum Company’s (KNPC) Clean Fuels Project. 
Other contracts of note include the Group’s first multi-country, 
multi-discipline award in the region with General Electric (GE) Power 
Services covering a total of 64 power facilities across the Middle East; a 
four-year renewal for refractory maintenance services with Qatalum; 
insulation services at the BP Khazzan site in Oman; a two-year extension 
for the provision of refractory services across SABIC’s facilities in KSA; 
and a two-year renewal of the painting services contract with BAPCO. 
During the year, bidding activity remained high in the region with 
investment being maintained by the majority of National Oil Companies, 
although the business has experienced some areas of slow-down and 
deferral for both project work and shutdowns. Customers continue to 
focus on cost reduction which has put downward pressure on margins, 
but also provides opportunities for the Group to grow market share by 
demonstrating value creation for its customers through excellence in 
operational delivery. In the early part of 2017 , the Group’s reputation for 
delivery and close working relationships with our customers has secured 
a number of contract awards, predominantly in KSA at the Jazan Project.
Revenues in 2016 increased 9.7% from the prior year to £191.6 million 
(2015: £174.6 million). An 11.9% benefit from the movement in foreign 
exchange rates, reflecting a weaker Sterling versus the US dollar, 
more than offset a slight underlying decrease in organic revenues of 
2.2%. The reduction in organic revenue reflects the anticipated lower 
capital project driven demand in Qatar, where revenues declined by 
30.9%, largely offset by continued growth in activities elsewhere in 
the region. The KSA business performance remained strong, growing 
organically by 3.6% driven primarily by construction project work, 
particularly at the Jazan Refinery Project, Ma’aden’s Phosphate 
Mining Project and maintenance activities elsewhere in the Kingdom. 
Volumes grew substantially in Kuwait following Cape’s entry in 2015, 
reflecting the ramp up in activity at KNPC’s Clean Fuels Project while 
in Oman, volumes increased significantly in the second half of the 
year at the Sohar Expansion and Khazzan projects.
The region has maintained a balanced business in line with the Group’s 
strategy, with the proportion of revenue derived from maintenance 
activities broadly in line with the prior year at 51.1% (2015: 50.0%). 
Expansion activities are being pursued in both existing territories, 
such as the UAE and Oman, and into adjacent territories such as Iraq, 
where the Group was awarded initial small contracts from Kuwait 
Energy and GE during 2016. The development of the CSS offering in 
the region has been slower than planned, in part due to the challenging 
market conditions. Nonetheless, the business has successfully 
secured contracts for tank inspection and repair with GASCO and 
ADOC in 2016. There remains a visible pipeline of substantial 
opportunities in specialist services for the Group to target.
The SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan continued to perform well 
both operationally and financially. Increased revenue was driven by higher 
volumes associated with the 2015 awards for significant construction 
work at Shah Deniz 2 and the Sangachal Terminal Expansion Project, 
along with the two-year contract extension with BP for the provision of 
fabric maintenance services. In line with our accounting policy, orders 
and revenues are excluded from the Group result.
Operating margins were slightly lower at 15.5% (2015: 15.8%) as 
the benefit of a strong performance in Azerbaijan offset margin 
reductions elsewhere in the region. Adjusted operating profit was 
higher at £29.7 million, an 8.0% increase compared to the prior 
year (2015: £27.5 million). The business benefited from the impact 
of foreign exchange movement between Sterling and the US dollar. 
At constant currency, organic adjusted operating profit was 4.0% lower 
than the prior year, reflecting the favourable close out of a number of 
contracts in 2015 combined with delays in project initiation in Oman 
in the first half of 2016, partially offset by an improved performance 
in Azerbaijan, Qatar and KSA. Operating margins improved in the 
second half of 2016 (H1 2016 13.8%; H2 2016 17.1%), largely as a 
result of the ramp up in new project activity in KSA and Oman.
Despite the slow oil price recovery and the award of a number of 
new contracts in the early part of 2017, the business continues to see 
a strong focus on costs and cash management from the Group’s 
customers. The strength of Cape’s business in the region along with 
its focus on the downstream segment of the oil and gas market, lean 
operating model and track record of delivery provides resilience 
against the challenging market conditions.
Other
3%
Revenue by market
Mining
9%
Upstream 
oil and gas
13%
Downstream 
oil and gas
44%
Power generation
3%
Chemical and steel
28%
Revenue by segment
51%
49%
Maintenance
Construction Strategy in action:
A long-term relationship 
Qatalum is a joint venture between Qatar Petroleum and 
Hydro Aluminium of Norway and produces 585,000 tons 
of high-quality primary aluminium products per annum 
from twin 1.2km pot lines. The Qatalum facility is complex 
and includes a carbon plant, port and storage facilities, 
as well as a captive power plant. 
In 2016, Cape were awarded a third consecutive 
contract renewal, this time for a period of three years 
with a three-year extension option, to provide specialist 
refractory maintenance services for the Anode Baking 
Furnace which is at the heart of the aluminium smelting 
plant. This latest award is testimony to the technical 
expertise of our onsite team of around 35 personnel and 
their continued focus on delivering safe, efficient, cost 
effective and innovative solutions and reflects both 
Cape’s refractory experience and Qatalum’s continued 
trust in our ability to deliver these highly skilled services.
This valued long-term relationship has been developed 
and maintained through our experienced and skilled 
team working closely with our customer to understand 
their requirements, reacting quickly to develop delivery 
plans, leveraging Cape’s resourcing capability, dedicated 
team work and a focus on operational efficiency.
Customer
 – Qatalum
Services provided
 – Refractory
Markets served
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 21 
Annual Report 2016 22 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Business review
Asia Pacific 
In Asia Pacific, Cape employs around 3,500 
people and supports many market sectors, 
including onshore and offshore oil and gas, 
power generation and pharmaceuticals in 
Asia with support provided across Australia for 
downstream oil and gas, minerals and mining 
customers. The Group’s substantial growth in 
the region has primarily been driven by the 
strong operational performance provided to 
our customers developing LNG projects in the 
region. This growth has more than offset the 
industry-wide decline in the Australian mining 
sector and commodity price driven demand 
declines for our services elsewhere in Asia, 
particularly offshore. During 2017, the Group 
will remain focussed on delivering on its 
existing contracts while pursuing further 
opportunities in both maintenance and 
construction activities across the region.
Markets in which we operate
Order intake grew substantially in 2016, increasing to £336.9 million, 
up 69.3% on the prior year (2015: £199.0 million). The primary driver 
of this increase was the contract award in December for additional 
scope of works at Chevron’s Wheatstone LNG Project in Australia. 
This very significant award of substantial additional work packages 
was a direct result of our strong operating and safety performance 
on the contract to date. Other key new awards included the Shell 
Bukom contract in Singapore, where the business is utilising its 
expertise in asset integrity, and corrosion under insulation in 
particular, in providing access, insulation and painting services for 
Shell’s ethylene cracker complex; and additional cryogenic pipework 
insulation on Shell’s Prelude FLNG vessel with Samsung Heavy 
Industries (SHI) in South Korea. 
Revenue increased by 102.9% compared to the prior year, rising 
to £301.1 million (2015: £148.4 million). Organic growth at constant 
currency of 91.8% was primarily driven by the continued ramp-up 
of activity across a number of key projects: Wheatstone and KLE 
in Australia; Shell Prelude in South Korea; and Shell Bukom and 
Exxon Mobil Aurora in Singapore. Within Australia, activity levels 
remained low outside the Wheatstone and KLE contracts as demand 
from the mining sector in particular remained depressed. In Asia, 
the increased volume of project work in Singapore and South Korea 
more than offset the reduction in the second half of 2016 from the 
completion of LNG module related work in Thailand and lower 
offshore demand. The intensity of local competition restricted the 
Group’s ability to penetrate the Malaysian market and the RAPID 
project in particular. 
The proportion of revenue derived from construction activities 
increased to 71.0% (2015: 46.5%), reflecting a significant increase 
in construction work, in particular on the Wheatstone and Prelude 
projects, and a reduction in shutdown work. 
Operational performance has been strong across the region, in 
particular at Chevron’s Wheatstone project, Woodside’s KLE 
refurbishment project and Shell’s ground-breaking Prelude FLNG 
project. The strong operating performance has been mirrored by 
a strong safety performance. At Wheatstone, for example, the 
business has delivered over 2 million man hours without a lost time 
incident. The performance on these three projects cements Cape’s 
reputation as a pre-eminent supplier of critical industrial services 
to the LNG market. The restructuring programme carried out in 
Australia in 2015 has given the business the flexibility to provide the 
significant support needed to ramp up resources for the fast-growing 
Wheatstone and KLE projects whilst remaining competitive in the 
maintenance market.
Adjusted operating profit increased significantly to £27.0 million 
(2015: £7.8 million) with 232.1% of this increase being attributable 
to organic growth and 14.1% reflecting favourable foreign exchange 
movements. As expected, the business achieved a significant 
improvement in operating margin in the second half of the year 
compared to the first half (H1 2016: 4.6%; H2 2016: 11.4%), primarily 
reflecting improved utilisation with increased volumes on 
Wheatstone, KLE and Prelude. 
Market conditions are expected to remain mixed across the region. 
Nonetheless, the business enters 2017 with a robust order book 
and a strong pipeline of opportunities across the region, including 
additional LNG project work in Australia, oil and gas project activities 
in a number of Asian countries and ongoing maintenance work.
£m 2016 
Restated
2015
1
Change
Order intake 336.9 199.0 +69.3%
Order book 317.1 243.0 +30.5%
Revenue 301.1 148.4 +102.9%
Adjusted operating profit 27.0 7.8 +246.2%
Adjusted operating profit margin 9.0% 5.3% +370bps
1  Prior year figures have been restated following the Group’s change in reporting 
segments effective from 1 January 2016
Revenue by market
Other
2%
Upstream 
oil and gas
3%
Downstream
oil and gas
83%
Chemical and steel
3%
Power generation
1%
Mining
8%
Revenue by segment
29%
71%
Maintenance
Construction Strategy in action:
Training our people 
to deliver excellence
Our people are responsible for delivering our high-quality 
services to our customers, and as such, are critical to our 
success. Training plays a fundamental role in our focus 
on operational excellence and ensuring Cape remains 
a leading service solutions provider to industry. At the 
SHI shipyard in Geoje, South Korea, we are providing 
extensive cryogenic insulation services on Shell’s Prelude 
FLNG facility, which requires the recruitment, training and 
mobilisation of a large number of qualified insulators. 
As a foundation for local partnerships, we established 
our first Cape Training School facility and worked with 
local authorities to identify people at source instead of 
utilising a workforce of different nationalities. 
Utilising the vast knowledge and experience of 
highly-skilled individuals within the oil and gas industry, 
a training programme was developed to suit the needs of 
the project, while instilling Cape’s values and behaviour 
culture across the workforce. Such was the success of the 
first Cape training school, with all 119 trainees graduating 
and being deployed to the project, we were asked by SHI 
and Shell to train a further 240 operatives. Subsequently, 
we established an additional facility based in Noksan, 
approximately 50 miles from the Prelude Project. By the 
end of 2016, Cape had invested in 359 local Korean 
personnel, including a large number of women, to 
develop this specific skill set which can be further 
advanced and is recognised across Cape worldwide.
Customer
 – Samsung Heavy Industries
Services provided
 – Insulation
Markets served
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 23 
Annual Report 2016 Description
Operating cash flow 
(as defined in the Chief 
Financial Officer’s review) 
divided by adjusted operating 
profit (as defined in note 7).
How we have performed
Operating cash conversion 
was 129.1% (2015: 83.6%) 
reflecting a decrease in 
working capital, higher 
dividends from joint ventures 
and lower capital expenditure.
*  Restated for discontinued operations 
Description
Orders received in the 
twelve-month period ending 
31 December 2016. All orders 
are supported by a signed 
contract or purchase order. 
How we have performed
Order intake was £847 million 
in 2016, slightly ahead of the 
£841 million secured in 2015.
*  Restated for discontinued operations
A. Order intake (£m)
£847m
B. Operating cash conversion (%)
 129 . 1 %
24 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Key performance indicators
Description
The annual growth in revenue 
that is related to maintenance 
contracts. Our target is to 
achieve year-on-year positive 
growth of our maintenance 
business.
How we have performed
Maintenance revenues 
increased by 9.9% (2015: 0.8% 
decrease), including the impact 
of the KLE project in Australia 
and favourable foreign exchange 
rate movements in the 
Middle East and Asia Pacific. 
*  Restated for discontinued operations
D. Annual growth in maintenance 
revenue (%)
9.9%
9.9
-0.8
14.1
5.0
8.1
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012
Description
Defined at Group level as 
adjusted operating profit divided 
by the accounting value of 
equity plus adjusted net debt. 
At regional level it is defined 
as adjusted operating profit 
divided by net trading assets.
How we have performed
Return on invested capital 
increased to 28.5% in 2016 
(2015: 21.9%) driven by a lower 
equity value, reflecting the loss 
for the year and an improved 
net debt position.
*  Restated for discontinued operations
C. Return on invested capital (%)
28.5%
28.5
21.9
22.9
21.2
11.8
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012
847
841
744
625
619
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012
129.1
83.6
65.2
150.7
149.8
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 25 
Annual Report 2016
Description
Defined as profit after tax 
on continuing operations 
excluding exceptional and 
other items divided by the 
weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during 
the year, adjusted to assume 
conversion of all potentially 
dilutive ordinary shares.
How we have performed
EPS is in line with the prior 
year at 29.9 pence 
(2015: 29.9 pence).
*  Restated for discontinued operations
H. Adjusted diluted EPS (pence)
29.9 pence
29.9
29.9
30.0
23.3
12.7
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012
Description
Working capital as a 
percentage of revenues 
(trailing six months multiplied 
by two).
How we have performed
Working capital as a 
percentage of revenue 
improved to 9.2% (2015: 12.9%) 
reflecting the Group’s focus on 
working capital management.
*  Restated for discontinued operations
G. Working capital as a percentage 
of revenue (%)
9.2%
9.2
12.9
12.2
11.3
11.4
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012
Description
The total number of incidents 
divided by the number of 
hours worked during the year. 
This is measured on a per 
million basis.
How we have performed
TRIR decreased to 0.756 
(2015: 1.271) reflecting the 
Group’s continued focus 
on safety.
F. Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
0.756
0.756
1.271
1.028
0.920
1.656
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
Description
Adjusted operating profit 
(as defined in note 7) divided 
by revenue.
How we have performed
Adjusted operating margin 
decreased slightly to 6.4% in 
2016 (2015: 7.4%) driven by 
Group-wide margin pressures 
and poor commercial 
performance in the UK.
*  Restated for discontinued operations
E. Adjusted operating profit margin (%)
6.4%
6.4
7.4
7.6
6.0
3.7
2016
2015
2014*
2013
2012 26 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review
“Another strong financial 
performance is evidence 
that our strategy 
delivers results.”
Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer
£71.5m
Operating cash flow
(2015: £43.9m) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 27 
Annual Report 2016
A summary income statement from continuing operations with 
explanatory discussion of the key items is provided below:
2016 
£m 
2015 
£m
Revenue 863.5 711.4
Adjusted operating profit 55.4 52.5
Adjusted operating profit % 6.4% 7.4%
Other items (88.2) (3.4)
Exceptional items – (9.2)
Operating profit/(loss) (32.8) 39.9
Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 21.4% to 
£863.5 million (2015: £711.4 million). Favourable foreign exchange 
rates, reflecting the weakening of Sterling, contributed 5.3% of 
the Group’s revenue growth while the 2015 acquisition of CESL 
contributed 1.6%. Organic growth at constant currency drove the 
remaining 14.5% of the increase and primarily reflects the substantial 
growth in the Asia Pacific region with the continued ramp-up in 
activity across a number of key projects: Chevron’s Wheatstone 
LNG and Woodside’s Karratha Gas Plant Life Extension (KLE) in 
Australia; Shell Prelude in South Korea; and Shell Bukom and 
Exxon Mobil Aurora in Singapore. In the UK, increased volume from 
Cape Motherwell Bridge, primarily in the storage tanks business 
partly offset the oil price driven reduction in demand from the North 
Sea and plant closures in the coal-fired power generation market. 
Organic revenues in the Middle East were slightly down due to lower 
capital project driven demand in Qatar, where revenues declined 
by 30.9%, being largely offset by continued growth in activities 
elsewhere across the region. 
We continue to have a good balance between maintenance and 
construction revenue. During the year, we delivered on our strategic 
objective of annual growth in maintenance revenues in absolute 
terms, with revenue derived from maintenance increasing 9.9% to 
£520.8 million (2015: £474.1 million). Maintenance revenue increased 
in the UK to £335.7 million (2015: £317.6 million), which included a full 
year contribution from CESL, while the KLE project in Australia and 
favourable foreign exchange rates increased maintenance related 
revenues in Asia Pacific to £87.3 million (2015: £69.0 million). 
Favourable foreign exchange rate movements also helped improve 
maintenance revenues in the Middle East to £97.8 million 
(2015: £87.5 million). Globally, revenue from construction projects 
increased to £342.7 million (2015: £237.3 million) mainly as a result 
of increased activity on the Wheatstone project in Australia and 
the Prelude project in South Korea.
KPI: D. Annual growth in maintenance revenues in absolute terms
Cape’s largest customer represented almost 18.6% of Group 
revenue and related to the Group’s activities in Australia 
(2015: 12.0%, largely related to activities in the UK, with smaller 
amounts in the Middle East and Asia Pacific). The Group’s top ten 
customers represented 54.2% of revenue (2015: 44.9%).
Revenue split by geography
1
 
£m UK
Middle 
East
Asia 
Pacific Total
2016
H1 194.0 94.2 108.1 396.3
H2 176.8 97.4 193.0 467.2
FY 2016 370.8 191.6 301.1 863.5
2015
H1 191.8 95.4 72.3 359.5
H2 196.6 79.2 76.1 351.9
FY 2015 388.4 174.6 148.4 711.4
1  Prior year figures have been restated following the Group’s change in reporting 
segments effective from 1 January 2016
Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations increased to 
£55.4 million (2015: £52.5 million), with favourable foreign exchange 
rates from a weaker Sterling contributing 7.6% growth and the 
acquisition of CESL contributing 0.1% while underlying organic 
performance was 2.2% lower. The Group’s organic results are driven 
by a number of factors, highlighting the benefit of the Group’s broad 
geographical spread. The UK experienced ongoing oil price driven 
pricing pressure and reduced demand in the North Sea, the closure 
of UK coal-fired power stations, poor commercial performance on 
the contract at Fawley, provisions taken against potential contract 
close out costs incurred on a small number of projects and additional 
costs associated with restructuring activities, resulting in lower 
adjusted operating profit. The Middle East delivered a solid 
performance with increased activity in Azerbaijan and KSA combined 
with improved margins in Qatar, partially offset by lower results 
elsewhere in the region. In Asia Pacific, the increase in adjusted 
operating profit primarily reflected higher activity levels on the 
Wheatstone, KLE, Prelude and Bukom projects which more than 
offset lower demand as a result of the low oil price, and Thailand, 
following LNG module completion in the first half of 2016. 
KPI: E. Adjusted operating profit margin (%)
Year ended
Revenue
£m
Adjusted operating
profit
£m
1
Adjusted operating 
profit margin
%
1
2016 2015
2
2016 2015
2
2016 2015
2
Region
UK 370.8 388.4 14.2 31.5 3.8 8.1
Middle East 191.6 174.6 29.7 27.5 15.5 15.8 
Asia Pacific 301.1 148.4 27.0 7.8 9.0 5.3
Central – – (15.5) (14.3) n/a n/a
863.5 711.4 55.4 52.5 6.4 7.4
1   Adjusted operating profits and margins are shown prior to the reallocation of the 
Group’s franchise fee. See note 7 on page 105 for more information
2  2015 has been restated following the Group’s change in reporting segments 
effective from 1 January 2016
Other items
Other items increased to £88.2 million (2015: £3.4 million), 
predominantly driven by a charge of £79.2 million in relation to the 
industrial disease claims provision, which includes the Insurer PL 
Claims and claims of a similar nature, an impact of £9.7 million 
relating to the Insurer EL Claims’ determinant judgment in July 2016 
and the outcome of the 2016 triennial revaluation of the Scheme (see 
notes 4, 29 and 34 for more information). As previously announced, 
a settlement was agreed in respect of the Insurer PL Claims on 
12 March 2017 (see note 39) which includes an immediate payment 
of £18.0 million and deferred payments of up to £34.5 million payable 
over the period 2018 to 2023. The present value of the settlement, 
as at the settlement date, net of tax, using the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital (WACC) is £35.3 million.
Other items also include £5.5 million in respect of the 2016 legal 
costs associated with litigation and recurring costs of Scheme 
administration as well as £3.5 million of post-acquisition charges 
recognised in the period.
Share of post-tax results from joint ventures 
In 2016, the Group recognised a post-tax profit of £7.3 million 
(2015: £2.8 million), being its share of the post-tax results from joint 
ventures. Dividends totalling £3.9 million were received in the period.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items total £nil (2015: £9.2 million). 2015 included a 
non-cash £8.8 million goodwill impairment in Asia which was a 
reflection of the level and distribution of business activity across 
this geographically diverse regional business, and £0.4 million 
transaction costs relating to the acquisition of CESL in May 2015.
Operating loss
Operating loss was £32.8 million (2015: operating profit of 
£39.9 million) and reflects an adjusted operating profit of £55.4 million 
(2015: £52.5 million), other items of £88.2 million (2015: £3.4 million) 
and exceptional items of £nil (2015: £9.2 million). 28 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review
continued
Finance costs
Adjusted finance costs increased slightly to £8.1 million 
(2015: £7.9 million) with interest cover (calculated by dividing 
adjusted operating profit by the adjusted finance costs) increasing 
to 6.8 times (2015: 6.6 times).
Total net finance costs amounted to £10.8 million (2015: £10.8 million) 
including the annual £3.2 million (2015: £3.3 million) non-cash charge 
relating to the unwinding of the discount on the long-term industrial 
disease claims provision and interest income on the industrial disease 
claims Scheme funds in the period of £0.4 million (2015: £0.3 million). 
Taxation
The tax charge on adjusted profit before tax (which excludes 
exceptional and other items), excluding the share of post-tax result 
from joint ventures, was £9.6 million (2015: £8.0 million) representing 
an effective tax rate of 23.9% (2015: 19.1%). This is higher than 2015 
primarily as a result of an increase in profits in high tax jurisdictions, 
such as Australia, unrecognised losses arising in Asia and the 
absence of the regional one-off tax incentive which ended in 2015, 
partially offset by the recognition of additional prior period tax losses 
in Australia. On an adjusted basis, the Group’s overall effective tax 
rate, including the share of post-tax result from joint ventures, was 
20.3% (2015: 17.9%). The cash tax paid during the period was 
£7.2 million (2015: £9.3 million) which is in line with expectations. 
The total tax credit on loss before tax was £3.6 million (2015: charge 
of £8.1 million).
As part of the UK Government’s continued efforts to improve the tax 
transparency and compliance of large businesses, the UK Finance 
Act 2016 introduced a mandatory requirement for qualifying 
companies to publish their tax strategy. Cape will publish its tax 
strategy online during 2017.
Discontinued operations
Due to limited opportunities of growth within Hong Kong, the Board 
took the decision in 2015 to exit this geographical market and is 
pursuing an exit through the sale of its current legal entity. As a result 
of this decision, the assets and liabilities within Hong Kong have 
been reclassified as directly associated within a disposal group held 
for sale in the 2016 and 2015 results. 
A £0.3 million profit has been recognised within profit from 
discontinued operations in the income statement (2015: £5.2 million 
loss). The prior year loss primarily relates to Hong Kong, including 
£3.4 million for impairment of goodwill. 
The Group holds an investment property at a discontinued site for 
which it is exploring potential redevelopment. The site is located 
on an area of freehold land adjacent to the western section of the 
M25 motorway in the UK. Both the current carrying value and fair 
value of this investment property is £2.0 million (carrying value 
2015: £2.0 million; fair value 2015: £3.4 million) (see note 16).
Earnings per share
For continuing operations, the adjusted diluted earnings per share 
(EPS) was 29.9 pence (2015: 29.9 pence) and adjusted basic 
earnings per share was 30.2 pence (2015: 30.0 pence). 2016 EPS 
was in line with the prior year, reflecting higher operating 
performance offset by a higher effective tax rate and minority 
interest. The diluted weighted average number of shares increased 
to 122.1 million (2015: 121.6 million).
KPI: H. Adjusted diluted EPS
Dividend
Given the cash impact of the recent settlement of the insurer product 
liability litigation, the Board has decided that it is appropriate to 
rebase the dividend and is recommending a final dividend for 2016 
of 2.5 pence (2015: 9.5 pence) per share. The Board is planning to 
maintain the dividend at this level for 2017 and then implement a 
progressive dividend policy from 2018 onward. In addition to the 
interim dividend of 4.5 pence per share (2015: 4.5 pence) paid on 
7 October 2016, the total dividend for the year will be 7.0 pence per 
share (2015: 14.0 pence). Subject to shareholders’ approval at the 
Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017, the final dividend will be 
payable on 23 June 2017 to shareholders on the register as at 
19 May 2017. 
Acquisitions
No acquisitions were completed during the year. In May 2015, 
Cape acquired the UK based Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, 
subsequently rebranded as CESL, for an enterprise valuation of 
£6.2 million including debt of £5.3 million and a working capital 
contribution of £0.7 million. During the year, CESL has traded 
slightly ahead of expectations.
Working capital
Trade and other receivables and inventories increased by 
£46.8 million to £258.3 million (2015: £211.5 million) while trade and 
other payables also increased by £51.5 million to £172.3 million 
(2015: £120.8 million). Both of these balances included the foreign 
exchange impacts of a weaker closing Sterling exchange rate at 
31 December 2016 compared to the prior period. Overall the Group 
saw a decrease in net working capital of £4.7 million (at balance 
sheet rates) to £86.0 million (2015: £90.7 million). The Group’s drive 
to reduce net working capital resulted in a £15.1 million improvement 
in the balance sheet position at the year end when compared to the 
half-year results. 
KPI: G. Working capital, as percentage of revenue
Capital expenditure
The Group continues to manage its capital expenditure carefully 
whilst investing in upgrading and replacing equipment where 
appropriate. The Asset Replacement Ratio (calculated by dividing 
gross capex spend by the depreciation charge) decreased to 84% 
(2015: 126%), reflecting improved asset utilisation as a result of our 
Global Asset Management function limiting additional scaffold 
asset purchases.
With operational excellence a cornerstone of the Group’s strategy, 
there was further investment in the development of its standardised 
site systems in order to ensure that the Group has the best tools 
available to measure and manage our work and drive better 
productivity. The Group also moved forward with its investment in a 
Global Enterprise Resource Planning system that in time will replace 
multiple legacy systems and simplify and standardise many of the 
Group’s processes.
Free cash flow
The Group’s free cash flow of £57.2 million (2015: £27.7 million) is 
more than sufficient to fund, in cash terms, the full value of the 2017 
payment in relation to the Insurer PL Litigation of £18.0 million 
(2015: £nil) and the proposed dividend of £8.5 million 
(2015: £17.0 million).
Financing and banking facilities
The Group’s adjusted net debt decreased year-on-year by 
£29.5 million to £80.4 million (2015: £109.9 million) including finance 
lease obligations of £3.0 million (2015: £3.0 million). Balance sheet 
gearing (calculated by dividing adjusted net debt by total equity), 
excluding ring-fenced industrial disease claims Scheme funds, 
decreased to 48.4% (2015: 85.0%).
In June, the Company agreed to amend and extend its existing 
revolving credit facility, increasing the facility by a further £5 million 
to £300 million and retaining the £50 million accordion feature. The 
facility has a contractual maturity of 23 June 2020, extending the 
existing debt facility by two years, with an option to extend the facility 
by a further year by mutual consent. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 29 
Annual Report 2016
Operating and free cash flow
2016
£m 
Restated
1
2015
£m
Adjusted operating profit
2
55.4 52.5
Depreciation 18.0 15.9
Adjusted EBITDA 73.4 68.4
Non-cash items (3.4) (11.9)
Dividends from joint ventures 3.9 –
Decrease in working capital
3
9.6 4.6
Net capital expenditure (12.0) (17.2)
Adjusted operating cash flow 71.5 43.9
Adjusted operating cash flow to adjusted operating profit 129.1% 83.6%
Net interest paid (7.1) (6.9)
Cash tax paid (7.2) (9.3)
Free cash flow 57.2 27.7
Dividends paid to shareholders and non-controlling interests (18.8) (17.0)
Acquisitions (including settlement of debt and working capital) – (6.2)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables from joint ventures 3.4 (1.0)
Net transfer to restricted funds (13.0) (5.8)
Discontinued operations 0.3 0.3
Other movements in adjusted net debt 0.4 (6.9)
Movement in adjusted net debt 29.5 (8.9)
Opening adjusted net debt (109.9) (101.0)
Closing adjusted net debt (80.4) (109.9)
1  The comparatives have been restated to reclassify the gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment from net capital expenditure to non-cash items. 
There has been no change to the total adjusted operating cash flow
2  A reconciliation of the Group’s adjusted operating profit to the Group’s statutory operating profit/(loss) can be found in note 7, ‘Adjusted measures’
3  Converted at monthly rates of exchange 
The ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA decreased to 
1.1 times (2015: 1.6 times). A reconciliation of adjusted net debt and 
adjusted EBITDA can be found in note 7, ‘Adjusted measures’.
In 2014 the Group entered into an interest rate cap for a period of 
three years, commencing in 2015 and terminating in February 2018. 
The derivative is for £70 million and gives protection to the Group 
against its Sterling borrowing costs when LIBOR exceeds the strike 
price of 2.5%.
Provision for pension
The defined benefit pension schemes had a net surplus of £10.0 million 
(2015: £11.3 million) as at 31 December 2016 which continues to be 
restricted to nil in the accounts under IFRIC 14. The latest full valuation 
of the defined benefit scheme was assessed by independent qualified 
actuaries using the projected unit method. Under the Schedule of 
Contributions agreed as part of this valuation process, expected 
annual contributions to defined benefit schemes are £0.6 million for a 
period of eight years and five months. The previously agreed monthly 
contribution rate of £14,600 ceased in June 2015. More information 
can be found in note 19, ‘Retirement benefit obligations’.
Provision for estimated future asbestos related liabilities 
and industrial disease claims Scheme funds
The triennial actuarial valuation of the provision for historical UK 
asbestos related liabilities was completed in January 2017 in respect 
of the period up to 31 December 2016, the results of which have 
been included in the financial results for the year. The valuation was 
performed by independent actuaries, Willis Towers Watson, based 
on the claims data maintained by Cape and incorporates the Board’s 
latest judgements on technical and economic assumptions as well 
as the impact of changes in case law. The overall pattern of claims 
experienced in the three years since the time of the last full valuation 
has shown a reduction in the overall value of claims being received 
when compared to previous expectations.
The discounted provision increased to £172.5 million 
(2015: £95.5 million). This reflects a charge of £79.2 million for the 
impact of the triennial actuarial valuation adjustment (see notes 4, 29 
and 34 for more information), the provision recognised in the 2016 
interim results for the Insurer EL Claims, an additional provision 
relating to the Insurer PL Claims following settlement in March 2017 
(see note 39) with a consideration of potential further claims of a 
similar nature and unwinding of the discount of £3.2 million in the 
year less £5.4 million of claim settlements. The level of Scheme 
cash settlements remained in line with actuarial assumptions. 
The gross provision for industrial disease claims of £209.3 million is 
discounted at rates between 0.72% and 1.92% (2015: 2.67%) being 
the appropriate risk free rates as at the balance sheet date, over the 
term of the liabilities, being approximately 40 years. The economic 
value of the provision, as at the balance sheet date, using the 
Group’s WACC is a present value of £103.4 million.
The ring-fenced industrial disease claims Scheme funds increased 
to £41.8 million (2015: £32.1 million) benefiting from a cash injection 
from the Group’s funds of £13.0 million (2015: £6.2 million) and interest 
received of £0.4 million (2015: £0.3 million), offset by cash settlements 
on Scheme claims in the year of £3.7 million (2015: £3.7 million). 30 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review
continued
Currencies
The Group is exposed to both translational and, to a lesser extent, 
transactional foreign currency gains or losses through fluctuations in 
foreign exchange rates through its global operations. The Group’s 
primary currency exposures are Sterling in the UK, Australian dollars 
in Australia and US dollars, primarily in the Middle East. 
Translational gains or losses: With the Group reporting in Sterling but 
conducting business in other currencies, the substantial weakening 
of Sterling during 2016 has resulted in significant currency translation 
effects on the primary statements and associated balance sheet 
metrics, such as working capital. The substantial weakening in 
Sterling has favourably impacted both revenue and operating profit 
during 2016 by 5.3% and 7.6% respectively. In 2016, around 27% 
(2015: 25%) of revenues were contracted in US dollars or US dollar 
pegged currencies and around 26% (2015: 16%) in Australian dollars. 
However, the significantly lower closing Sterling exchange rate as at 
31 December 2016 compared to the prior period has adversely 
impacted our working capital balance.
Transactional gains or losses: With a large proportion of the Group’s 
operating costs matched with corresponding revenues in the same 
currency, the impacts of transactional foreign exchange gains or 
losses are limited and are recognised in the period in which they arise.
The following significant exchange rates applied:
2016 2015
Closing Average Closing Average
AUD 1.71 1.81 2.03 2.09
USD 1.24 1.35 1.48 1.51
Treasury policies
Cape has a centralised treasury function whose objectives are to 
monitor and manage the treasury risks across the Group and to 
ensure that sufficient liquidity is available to meet the requirements 
of the business. Group treasury is not a profit centre and operates 
within a framework of policies and procedures. All hedging is carried 
out centrally and speculative trading is specifically prohibited by 
Group treasury policies.
Return on invested capital
Return on invested capital is defined at Group level as adjusted 
operating profit divided by the accounting value of equity plus 
adjusted net debt. Return on invested capital in 2016 was 28.5%, 
higher than the prior year (2015: 21.9%) driven by a lower equity value, 
reflecting the loss for the year and an improved net debt position.
KPI: C. Return on invested capital %
Principal risks
Cape operates globally in the energy and natural resources 
sectors and in varied geographic markets. Cape’s performance 
and prospects may be affected by risks and uncertainties in relation 
to the industry and the environments in which it undertakes its 
operations around the world. Those risks range from external 
geo-political, security and economic conditions such as geo-political 
events, sanctions, terrorist events, disease outbreaks or environmental 
hazards; key customer and market dependency risks; operational 
risks including HSE, contracting, project execution; cyber security; 
credit and other generic financial risks.
There are two specific sources of risk associated with the Group’s 
historical industrial disease claims legacy liabilities. The first relates 
to the inherent uncertainty in predicting the future level of 
asbestos-related industrial disease claims and of the costs arising 
from such claims relating to the liabilities for which the Board believes 
the Group to be liable. Whilst the recent triennial actuarial revaluation 
was in line with expectations, there can be no guarantee that the 
assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate 
prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred in the future. 
As such, the provision may be subject to potentially material 
revisions from time to time if new information becomes available 
as a result of future events.
The second source of industrial disease claims risk relates to any 
change in legal precedent or judgment that leads to a material 
expansion of the scope of liability for which the Group is held to be 
liable in the future. As first disclosed in the Group’s 2015 Preliminary 
Results and as updated in the November 2016 trading update, the 
Group has been engaged in litigation in relation to a number of 
product liability claims (Insurer PL Litigation) received from insurance 
companies (Insurer Litigants). Following engagement with the Insurer 
Litigants, an agreement to settle the Insurer PL Litigation was 
reached on 12 March 2017, substantially reducing the risk in this 
area. A determinant judgment was issued in July 2016 for the Insurer 
EL Claims trial, in which some issues were found in favour of Cape 
and some against. We have been granted leave to appeal and the 
appeal hearing will be held in July 2017. At the same time, Aviva plc 
was granted leave to cross-appeal. The risks relating to industrial 
disease claims and the associated impact on the Group and its 
stakeholders are described in note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’.
We operate across a number of economies and jurisdictions which 
therefore exposes the Group to a range of tax laws that vary 
significantly and are rapidly evolving toward global transparency and 
harmonisation. Uncertainty may occur when the Group is required 
to interpret laws and treaties. The risks relating to taxation are 
described in more detail on pages 38 to 39. 
The Group is alert to the challenges of managing risk and has 
systems and procedures in place across the Group to identify, 
assess and mitigate major business risks. As part of the long-term 
strategic operational excellence programme, the Group continues 
to improve its detailed process of project risk identification and 
mitigation from contract tender through to project completion.
The directors have reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties 
and are satisfied that they are relevant. A full review of the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties is given on pages 34 to 39.
Michael Speakman 
Chief Financial Officer 
14 March 2017 Strategy in action:
Asset integrity 
management 
Uniper UK Limited operate the Ratcliffe-on-Soar coal-fired 
power station in Nottinghamshire, where Cape has been 
providing insulation and coating services since 2015. Fuel 
oil is stored on site in carbon steel insulated storage tanks 
for use during unit start up. In 2016, the integrated site 
team identified significant corrosion under insulation 
(CUI) on two of the fuel oil tanks. With Cape’s continued 
investment in Technical Authorities (TAs), our leading 
source of technical assurance and compliance on a 
given product or service, the Group was well placed to 
provide the required Asset Integrity (AI) TA support to 
our customer. 
Cape’s AI TA undertook further inspections during site 
visits and subsequently prepared a detailed technical 
report for Uniper which encompassed recommendations 
covering a number of aspects of CUI, including best 
practice solutions for: equipment design and operation; 
coatings selection; and insulation systems. Consequently, 
Uniper requested detailed specifications to be provided 
in order to meet a specified asset life extension, which 
Cape delivered through a collaborative effort involving 
the AI TA and the Group’s specialist tank service division, 
Cape Motherwell Bridge. Subsequently, Uniper requested 
the required work be accelerated in order to support their 
winter power generation and plant availability requirements, 
a challenge the Cape team duly delivered on. 
This project complemented Cape’s current term contract 
with Uniper and is aligned with the Group’s strategy of 
filling the white spaces, demonstrating the capabilities 
of Cape in providing an integrated approach to asset 
integrity services that brings technical excellence and 
project delivery together through one focussed team.
Customer
 – Uniper UK Limited
Services provided
 – Insulation
 – Specialist coatings
 – Storage tanks
Market served
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 31 
Annual Report 2016 Risk activity:
Governance review
Strategic assessment
Executive
management
Board
Principal 
risks
Viability 
statement
Risk 
appetite
Cape’s 
values
Strategy
– Operational excellence
– Customer intimacy
– Balanced business
– Broaden portfolio
– Geographic expansion
Internal resources
– People
– Fixed assets
– Knowledge and 
processes (IP)
External environments
– Economic
– Political
– Security
Risk activity:
Recognition
Aggregation
Mitigation
Management
Cape’s risk process
Risk activity:
Selection
Risk 
activity:
Evaluation 
Flexing
Group 
risk 
register
Regional 
risk 
registers
32 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
How we manage risk
Cape recognises that in a dynamic 
operational and business environment, 
it is essential that we actively manage 
our risks and opportunities to allow us 
to meet the Group’s strategic objectives 
and deliver value to our shareholders. 
Our risk management procedures allow 
the Group to identify, assess and manage 
risk to an acceptable level while pursuing 
our strategic objectives and protecting 
and enhancing our reputation.
Following Cape’s values in everything we do
Whilst Cape is focussed on seeking opportunities and delivering our 
objectives, we must do so by working in accordance with our values. 
We firmly believe that adopting responsible behaviour at every level 
and in every aspect of the business is key to our success and this 
is our first line of defence in risk management. Our values, visible 
adherence to our values and the reinforcement of them has created 
a strong culture of risk awareness within the business.
For more information on our values 
See page 41
Operations are accountable and maintain an effective 
risk mitigation framework
Our employees work across many different geographies and 
provide a wide range of services, which presents a range of risks. 
Our employees take accountability for identifying and effectively 
managing risks, using the Group’s thorough system of policies 
and procedures. Internal control procedures are maintained on 
a day-to-day basis, risk registers are in place and training is 
assessed, to ensure the appropriate knowledge and skills are 
in place where and when they are needed. 
Our independent risk management and compliance 
functions determine appropriate frameworks for 
managing risk 
Independent functions, such as Health and Safety, Finance, Legal, 
Commercial and Operational Excellence, determine: the appropriate 
frameworks; set standards for managing risk; provide oversight for 
specific risk areas; collaborate with project and process owners 
on controls to mitigate identified risks; and ensure standards are 
implemented by process owners consistently across Cape.
Internal audit provides independent challenge
Our Internal Audit function reviews financial controls and risk 
management procedures throughout Cape, identifying risks, issues 
and opportunities for improvement and then reporting to the 
Executive Management and Audit Committee on these matters, 
including updates on progress made against open items.  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 33 
Annual Report 2016
The Board and Executive Management provide 
assessment and governance
The Board and Executive Management are actively engaged 
in assessing strategic risk and providing oversight. The Audit 
Committee formally reviews the results of the risk assessment 
process twice a year and reviews internal audit assurance work 
throughout the year. 
For more information on our internal controls
See page 60
 
Our risk monitoring process
Analysing risks 
 – Risks are evaluated to establish potential financial and 
non-financial impacts, the likelihood of occurrence and the root 
cause. Risk is assessed formally at business unit level through 
risk workshops and the continual maintenance of risk registers. 
Every six months, a focussed bottom-up risk assessment is 
undertaken by all business units which results in a prioritised 
register of risks. A top-down assessment of operational and 
strategic risk is undertaken by the Board and Executive 
Management at least annually. The two processes are 
compared for profile and gaps and are factored into Cape’s 
final risk analysis. 
Risk mitigation 
 – We review the nature, adequacy and appropriateness of our 
current controls to mitigate these risks. If new, different or 
additional risks are identified, or if additional controls are 
required, these are developed and appropriate responsibilities 
to discharge are assigned. Acquisition and other investment-
related risks are identified and assessed before key investment 
decisions are made. A comprehensive and rigorous bid 
authorisation model is used to evaluate the Group’s risks 
when bidding for work and before contractual commitments 
are made. 
Reporting and monitoring
 – Risks are monitored throughout the year by the Executive 
Management and summarised to the Board. Emerging risks 
are identified, reported and reviewed on an ongoing basis, 
with particular focus on capturing emerging risk and 
monitoring all changing risk during monthly business reviews. 
Management is responsible for monitoring weakness in 
controls and progress of actions taken by business units to 
mitigate the key risks; this is supported through the Group’s 
internal audit programme. The results of the risk management 
process are reported to the Audit Committee every six months.
For more information
See pages 60 to 64 
Risk appetite
The Group’s risk appetite drives high standards of health, safety 
and environmental compliance, strong commercial risk controls and 
financial management that collectively allow growth whilst limiting 
the Group’s risk exposure to an acceptable level. The level of risk is 
considered appropriate for Cape to accept in achieving our strategic 
objectives and is determined in accordance with the Board’s 
strategic reviews and risk assessments during the year. 
2016 assessment of principal risks
The risk assessment exercise is undertaken by each business unit 
and independent group function who conduct a formal review of the 
risks that could impact their activities. The assessment includes the 
perceived level of risk and likelihood of occurrence, both before and 
after mitigating controls. The impact of risks were quantified across a 
range of factors including: financial, health and safety, environmental, 
enforcement and reputational. The Executive Committee separately 
discussed the Group’s principal risks in December to form a 
top-down assessment and oversight from a Group-wide view. The 
Board also reviewed and challenged the Group’s assessment of 
risks, supported by the information obtained through the ‘deep-dive’ 
reviews of anti-bribery and anti-corruption and taxation, to arrive at 
the agreed principal risks.
Following these risk reviews, the Board noted that the Company is 
exposed to increasing IT-related financial risks, reflecting in part the 
increase in external cyber security threats. Consequently, IT-system 
and cyber risks have been added to the Group’s principal risks and 
are explained in more detail in the following pages. 
Risk heatmap
A  G l ob al p o l i t i c al , 
security and economic 
conditions
B  Key customer and 
market dependency
C  Health, safety and 
environmental (HSE) 
risks
D  R e c rui t m e n t an d 
retention of key 
executives and skilled 
employees
E  Contract acceptance risk
F  Operational and project 
performance risk
G  P r e s e r v a t ion o f 
Company assets 
and investments 
H  C om p l i an c e an d 
business conduct risk 
I  I n d u s t ri al d is e a s e 
claims (IDC) – provision 
adequacy risk
J  Industrial disease claims 
(IDC) – widening of the 
scope and liability
K  Tax and treasury risks
L IT-system and cyber risks
Arrows show direction of change
Increasing impact
Increasing likelihood
F
I
K
C
D
A
L
B
G
E
H
J 34 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and viability
Risk Risk description Link to strategy
There is a potential impact on the Group from political, security and 
economic conditions globally. We operate across the globe and 
therefore may be exposed to adverse situations with potential risk to 
our people, assets and business operations. Examples of such risks 
would be geo-political events, sanctions, terrorist events, disease 
outbreaks or environmental hazards. Deterioration in commodity 
prices affecting customer capital and operational expenditure is a key 
risk. Although we operate over a number of sectors, we are at risk of 
declining revenue streams, contract renegotiation and incurring costs 
which are not supported by revenue during economic downturns. 
 – Geographic expansion
 – Balanced business
 – A diverse portfolio reduces exposure to each specific location, 
providing diverse revenue streams
 – Dedicated Group Head of Security responsible for regular security 
and risk assessment, monitoring alert and escalation procedures 
 – Improved contingency plans and evacuation strategies developed
 – Travel by Cape employees is monitored and restricted in countries 
deemed unsafe or too high risk
 – Legal Counsel monitors any changes in sanctions legislation
 – Senior management presence in all regions
 – Reviews of the Group’s forecast and market trends are completed 
quarterly along with the Group’s strategic annual planning process 
to ensure any impacts from the economic environment are managed
 – Contract performance reviewed monthly by Finance and Commercial 
management, with those deemed high risk escalated to the Audit 
Committee. This allows any changes to expected performance or 
impact of economic downturns to be identified early, reviewed in the 
context of the Group’s risk appetite and any necessary action taken
Corporate and social 
responsibility section (security)
See page 43
Our markets
See page 12
Cape at a glance
See page 2
Loss of key customers or decline in a key market could adversely 
affect Cape’s financial performance. The Group’s top ten customers 
represented 54% of revenue (2015: 45%) and if we are unable to 
continue working for one or more of our key customers, the Group’s 
future prospects may be impacted. There is the risk of revenues being 
too concentrated on a particular market. Working capital may be 
impacted if key customers look to extend payment terms or reject 
invoiced revenues.
 – Customer intimacy
 – Balanced business
 – Operational excellence
 – Group strategy focussed on creating a broad portfolio of 
customers and markets 
 – Acquisitions bring new customer relationships and wider opportunities
 – Customer relationships are built at multiple levels from site 
supervisors to senior management 
 – Revenues are generated from a wide variety of service offerings 
across numerous markets and different geographies providing 
greater stability and robustness of revenue streams
 – Work performed throughout asset life cycles providing 
opportunities at each stage
 – Multi-year contracts in place
 – Monthly contract performance reviews by Finance and 
Commercial management to identify and escalate high risk areas
 – Risk based credit control procedures are carried out before 
contracts are bid
 – Debt exposures are monitored during contract lives and firm 
operational decisions are taken when limits are approached 
or breached
 – Operational excellence initiatives seek to improve customer 
retention by increasing efficiencies and enhancing customer 
relations and satisfaction
Our markets
See page 12
Cape at a glance
See page 2
The Group may suffer commercial and reputational damage as a 
result of a safety or environmental incident involving our employees, 
members of the public or third-party partners. Failure to maintain high 
HSE standards could result in injury or loss of personnel, breach of 
regulations, financial loss and reputational damage. Financial 
penalties, which in the UK are significantly increasing, in respect 
of HSE incidents may be incurred.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Operational excellence
 – HSE reporting on both leading and lagging indicators monthly 
to the Executive Committee and to the Board
 – High number of site based HSE personnel in all regions
 – Investment in training to improve staff skills and ensure 
qualifications are up to date
 – HSE initiatives rolled out throughout the year to raise awareness
 – HSE policies and procedures in place and monitored throughout 
all regions
Corporate and social 
responsibility section 
(Health and safety) 
See pages 43 to 45
The inability to recruit or retain both key executives and skilled 
employees could adversely impact the Group, both operationally and 
financially. Strategic objectives may not be advanced without the 
industry knowledge and experience possessed by key executives, 
senior management and skilled employees. 
The availability of suitably skilled employees can differ significantly 
between different geographies. Visa restrictions, which are increasing 
in certain key countries, can impact employee availability.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Customer intimacy
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Monitor employee turnover and conduct exit interviews
 – Training programmes implemented at all levels of Cape including 
programmes aimed at executives, senior leaders, future leaders, 
site managers and supervisors. Skilled employees’ training is 
monitored and refreshed as required 
 – Executive remuneration is reviewed against market data to ensure 
awards are competitive. Long-term incentive plans are in place to 
encourage the retention of the key management group 
 – Availability of skilled employees has improved in some geographies 
as projects complete and other projects become impacted by 
regional economic conditions
 – Broad portfolio of services and geographic footprint provides 
employee development opportunities
 – Software to track status of new and previously employed skilled 
people is operating across all regions 
Directors’ remuneration report
See pages 65 to 77
Corporate and social 
responsibility section (people)
See page 42
A. Global 
political, security 
and economic 
conditions
B. Key customer 
and market 
dependency
C. Health, 
safety and 
environmental 
(HSE) risks
D. Recruitment 
and retention of 
key executives 
and skilled 
employees Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 35 
Annual Report 2016
Mitigation
There is a potential impact on the Group from political, security and 
economic conditions globally. We operate across the globe and 
therefore may be exposed to adverse situations with potential risk to 
our people, assets and business operations. Examples of such risks 
would be geo-political events, sanctions, terrorist events, disease 
outbreaks or environmental hazards. Deterioration in commodity 
prices affecting customer capital and operational expenditure is a key 
risk. Although we operate over a number of sectors, we are at risk of 
declining revenue streams, contract renegotiation and incurring costs 
which are not supported by revenue during economic downturns. 
 – Geographic expansion
 – Balanced business
 – A diverse portfolio reduces exposure to each specific location, 
providing diverse revenue streams
 – Dedicated Group Head of Security responsible for regular security 
and risk assessment, monitoring alert and escalation procedures 
 – Improved contingency plans and evacuation strategies developed
 – Travel by Cape employees is monitored and restricted in countries 
deemed unsafe or too high risk
 – Legal Counsel monitors any changes in sanctions legislation
 – Senior management presence in all regions
 – Reviews of the Group’s forecast and market trends are completed 
quarterly along with the Group’s strategic annual planning process 
to ensure any impacts from the economic environment are managed
 – Contract performance reviewed monthly by Finance and Commercial 
management, with those deemed high risk escalated to the Audit 
Committee. This allows any changes to expected performance or 
impact of economic downturns to be identified early, reviewed in the 
context of the Group’s risk appetite and any necessary action taken
Corporate and social 
responsibility section (security)
See page 43
Our markets
See page 12
Cape at a glance
See page 2
Loss of key customers or decline in a key market could adversely 
affect Cape’s financial performance. The Group’s top ten customers 
represented 54% of revenue (2015: 45%) and if we are unable to 
continue working for one or more of our key customers, the Group’s 
future prospects may be impacted. There is the risk of revenues being 
too concentrated on a particular market. Working capital may be 
impacted if key customers look to extend payment terms or reject 
invoiced revenues.
 – Customer intimacy
 – Balanced business
 – Operational excellence
 – Group strategy focussed on creating a broad portfolio of 
customers and markets 
 – Acquisitions bring new customer relationships and wider opportunities
 – Customer relationships are built at multiple levels from site 
supervisors to senior management 
 – Revenues are generated from a wide variety of service offerings 
across numerous markets and different geographies providing 
greater stability and robustness of revenue streams
 – Work performed throughout asset life cycles providing 
opportunities at each stage
 – Multi-year contracts in place
 – Monthly contract performance reviews by Finance and 
Commercial management to identify and escalate high risk areas
 – Risk based credit control procedures are carried out before 
contracts are bid
 – Debt exposures are monitored during contract lives and firm 
operational decisions are taken when limits are approached 
or breached
 – Operational excellence initiatives seek to improve customer 
retention by increasing efficiencies and enhancing customer 
relations and satisfaction
Our markets
See page 12
Cape at a glance
See page 2
The Group may suffer commercial and reputational damage as a 
result of a safety or environmental incident involving our employees, 
members of the public or third-party partners. Failure to maintain high 
HSE standards could result in injury or loss of personnel, breach of 
regulations, financial loss and reputational damage. Financial 
penalties, which in the UK are significantly increasing, in respect 
of HSE incidents may be incurred.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Operational excellence
 – HSE reporting on both leading and lagging indicators monthly 
to the Executive Committee and to the Board
 – High number of site based HSE personnel in all regions
 – Investment in training to improve staff skills and ensure 
qualifications are up to date
 – HSE initiatives rolled out throughout the year to raise awareness
 – HSE policies and procedures in place and monitored throughout 
all regions
Corporate and social 
responsibility section 
(Health and safety) 
See pages 43 to 45
The inability to recruit or retain both key executives and skilled 
employees could adversely impact the Group, both operationally and 
financially. Strategic objectives may not be advanced without the 
industry knowledge and experience possessed by key executives, 
senior management and skilled employees. 
The availability of suitably skilled employees can differ significantly 
between different geographies. Visa restrictions, which are increasing 
in certain key countries, can impact employee availability.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Customer intimacy
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Monitor employee turnover and conduct exit interviews
 – Training programmes implemented at all levels of Cape including 
programmes aimed at executives, senior leaders, future leaders, 
site managers and supervisors. Skilled employees’ training is 
monitored and refreshed as required 
 – Executive remuneration is reviewed against market data to ensure 
awards are competitive. Long-term incentive plans are in place to 
encourage the retention of the key management group 
 – Availability of skilled employees has improved in some geographies 
as projects complete and other projects become impacted by 
regional economic conditions
 – Broad portfolio of services and geographic footprint provides 
employee development opportunities
 – Software to track status of new and previously employed skilled 
people is operating across all regions 
Directors’ remuneration report
See pages 65 to 77
Corporate and social 
responsibility section (people)
See page 42
A. Global 
political, security 
and economic 
conditions
B. Key customer 
and market 
dependency
C. Health, 
safety and 
environmental 
(HSE) risks
D. Recruitment 
and retention of 
key executives 
and skilled 
employees
 Increase Decrease Unchanged  Link to 
Viability 
statement
Key
For more 
information
Change in risk 
during 2016 36 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and viability
continued
Risk Risk description Link to strategy
There is a risk that Cape may fail to manage contract risk and commit 
to contractual terms and conditions that expose the Group to 
excessive financial risks and potential cost overruns.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Broaden portfolio 
 – Operational excellence
 – Policies and procedures in place for contract approval include bid 
approval models, peer review and Board approval of key contracts 
 – Experienced management teams in place for all service offerings 
with the relevant technical and industry knowledge 
 – Dedicated Estimation and Commercial teams are in place in all regions 
 – Commercial management report on high risk contracts to senior 
executives and the Audit Committee
Audit Committee report
See pages 61 to 64
Inefficient project execution and management could lead to additional 
costs being incurred, affecting overall project performance and the 
Group’s financial performance. As our range of services and 
geographies broaden, the number of project types and styles expand, 
increasing this risk.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Customer intimacy
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Operational excellence initiatives have been implemented and 
subsequently further developed each year as part of continuous 
improvement programmes; standardised global project delivery 
system framework; continuing to develop and formalise best practice; 
and knowledge sharing across the Group through centres of excellence 
 – Cape Management Development Programme provides training to 
all levels of employees and includes project management and 
financial management skills 
 – Implementation of site based IT systems that monitor projects 
and support project managers 
 – Monthly project performance reviews are undertaken involving 
finance, commercial and operational personnel 
 – Audit Committee regularly review commercial contract risks with 
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer
Audit Committee report
See pages 61 to 64
G. Preservation of 
Company assets 
and investments
Return on invested capital may decrease if there is a failure to achieve 
satisfactory returns on assets, acquisitions, joint ventures or other 
investments. At 31 December, Cape held £84.0 million of property, 
plant and equipment around the globe and the inadequate management 
and financial control of remote assets may expose the Group to losses.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Due diligence assessments undertaken prior to acquisitions, the 
formation of joint venture arrangements and other investments 
 – Asset control policies and procedures in place globally 
 – Group Head of Assets responsible for the co-ordination, utilisation, 
supply and relocation of assets worldwide 
 – Standardised asset management systems being rolled out across all 
countries giving improved visibility of asset location and condition
 – Asset counts performed annually, including impairment assessments 
Audit Committee report
See pages 61 to 64
Cape is exposed to the risk of non-compliance and breach of 
applicable laws and regulations including anti-bribery and anti-
corruption, health and safety regulations and sanctions. 
Laws and regulations are increasing and their reach is extending. 
Forthcoming UK legislation will include: data protection; modern day 
slavery; gender pay analysis; and export controls. 
A lack of detailed knowledge of relevant legislation across the 
countries we operate in could result in a breach of law or regulation. 
 – Geographic expansion
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Cape’s values drive a culture where integrity, honesty and 
compliance are an integral part of day-to-day business at all levels
 – Global whistleblowing procedures in place
 – Documentation of key operational and administration policies 
and procedures are available to the majority of the Company’s 
employees on the Cape Management System 
 – Senior managers within each of the Group’s business units certify 
detailed questionnaires covering their unit’s business conduct 
and regulatory compliance every six months
 – Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and training is 
provided globally 
 – Investment in training to improve the compliance knowledge 
of staff is being led by the Group’s legal department
 – Compliance is monitored by the relevant Group functions 
including Tax and Treasury, Legal, Finance, and HSE 
Accountability/Audit 
Committee report
See pages 60 to 64
For further information of 
Cape’s corporate responsibility 
please refer to our website
www.capeplc.com/
corporate-responsibility
I. Industrial 
disease claims 
(IDC) – provision 
adequacy risk
Cape receives claims from individuals and insurance companies in 
relation to the historical alleged exposure to asbestos. There is a risk 
that Cape materially underestimates the IDC funding requirement due 
to inherent uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos 
related IDC and of the costs arising from such claims.
 – Operational excellence – The court-approved 2006 Scheme of Arrangement protects the 
interests of future IDC claimants whilst at the same time protecting 
the Group from the impact of extreme adverse change in the 
claims environment
 – Triennial valuation of the IDC liability carried out by external 
actuaries using the Group’s cumulative claims history and 
updated economic assumptions
 – Recent valuation produced favourable trends and reduces the 
risk profile of the liability 
 – Annual review carried out by external actuaries and external 
auditors of Cape’s accounting note on the valuation of IDC
 – Half yearly review of economic assumptions by the Board
 – Dedicated internal Legal function and external claims handlers 
and specialist legal advisors proactively manage cases and 
monitor changes in the legal environment
Note 2 ‘Summary of significant 
accounting policies’
Note 4 ‘Significant judgements 
and estimates’
Note 29 ‘Provisions’
 
Note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’
E. Contract 
acceptance risk 
F. Operational 
and project 
performance risk
H. Compliance 
and business 
conduct risk Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 37 
Annual Report 2016
Mitigation
There is a risk that Cape may fail to manage contract risk and commit 
to contractual terms and conditions that expose the Group to 
excessive financial risks and potential cost overruns.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Broaden portfolio 
 – Operational excellence
 – Policies and procedures in place for contract approval include bid 
approval models, peer review and Board approval of key contracts 
 – Experienced management teams in place for all service offerings 
with the relevant technical and industry knowledge 
 – Dedicated Estimation and Commercial teams are in place in all regions 
 – Commercial management report on high risk contracts to senior 
executives and the Audit Committee
Audit Committee report
See pages 61 to 64
Inefficient project execution and management could lead to additional 
costs being incurred, affecting overall project performance and the 
Group’s financial performance. As our range of services and 
geographies broaden, the number of project types and styles expand, 
increasing this risk.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Customer intimacy
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Operational excellence initiatives have been implemented and 
subsequently further developed each year as part of continuous 
improvement programmes; standardised global project delivery 
system framework; continuing to develop and formalise best practice; 
and knowledge sharing across the Group through centres of excellence 
 – Cape Management Development Programme provides training to 
all levels of employees and includes project management and 
financial management skills 
 – Implementation of site based IT systems that monitor projects 
and support project managers 
 – Monthly project performance reviews are undertaken involving 
finance, commercial and operational personnel 
 – Audit Committee regularly review commercial contract risks with 
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer
Audit Committee report
See pages 61 to 64
G. Preservation of 
Company assets 
and investments
Return on invested capital may decrease if there is a failure to achieve 
satisfactory returns on assets, acquisitions, joint ventures or other 
investments. At 31 December, Cape held £84.0 million of property, 
plant and equipment around the globe and the inadequate management 
and financial control of remote assets may expose the Group to losses.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Due diligence assessments undertaken prior to acquisitions, the 
formation of joint venture arrangements and other investments 
 – Asset control policies and procedures in place globally 
 – Group Head of Assets responsible for the co-ordination, utilisation, 
supply and relocation of assets worldwide 
 – Standardised asset management systems being rolled out across all 
countries giving improved visibility of asset location and condition
 – Asset counts performed annually, including impairment assessments 
Audit Committee report
See pages 61 to 64
Cape is exposed to the risk of non-compliance and breach of 
applicable laws and regulations including anti-bribery and anti-
corruption, health and safety regulations and sanctions. 
Laws and regulations are increasing and their reach is extending. 
Forthcoming UK legislation will include: data protection; modern day 
slavery; gender pay analysis; and export controls. 
A lack of detailed knowledge of relevant legislation across the 
countries we operate in could result in a breach of law or regulation. 
 – Geographic expansion
 – Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence
 – Cape’s values drive a culture where integrity, honesty and 
compliance are an integral part of day-to-day business at all levels
 – Global whistleblowing procedures in place
 – Documentation of key operational and administration policies 
and procedures are available to the majority of the Company’s 
employees on the Cape Management System 
 – Senior managers within each of the Group’s business units certify 
detailed questionnaires covering their unit’s business conduct 
and regulatory compliance every six months
 – Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and training is 
provided globally 
 – Investment in training to improve the compliance knowledge 
of staff is being led by the Group’s legal department
 – Compliance is monitored by the relevant Group functions 
including Tax and Treasury, Legal, Finance, and HSE 
Accountability/Audit 
Committee report
See pages 60 to 64
For further information of 
Cape’s corporate responsibility 
please refer to our website
www.capeplc.com/
corporate-responsibility
I. Industrial 
disease claims 
(IDC) – provision 
adequacy risk
Cape receives claims from individuals and insurance companies in 
relation to the historical alleged exposure to asbestos. There is a risk 
that Cape materially underestimates the IDC funding requirement due 
to inherent uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos 
related IDC and of the costs arising from such claims.
 – Operational excellence – The court-approved 2006 Scheme of Arrangement protects the 
interests of future IDC claimants whilst at the same time protecting 
the Group from the impact of extreme adverse change in the 
claims environment
 – Triennial valuation of the IDC liability carried out by external 
actuaries using the Group’s cumulative claims history and 
updated economic assumptions
 – Recent valuation produced favourable trends and reduces the 
risk profile of the liability 
 – Annual review carried out by external actuaries and external 
auditors of Cape’s accounting note on the valuation of IDC
 – Half yearly review of economic assumptions by the Board
 – Dedicated internal Legal function and external claims handlers 
and specialist legal advisors proactively manage cases and 
monitor changes in the legal environment
Note 2 ‘Summary of significant 
accounting policies’
Note 4 ‘Significant judgements 
and estimates’
Note 29 ‘Provisions’
 
Note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’
E. Contract 
acceptance risk 
F. Operational 
and project 
performance risk
H. Compliance 
and business 
conduct risk
For more 
information
Change in risk 
during 2016
 Increase Decrease Unchanged  Link to 
Viability 
statement
Key 38 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and viability
continued
Risk Risk description Link to strategy
J. Industrial 
disease claims 
(IDC) – widening 
of the scope 
and liability
Legal precedent in this area is constantly evolving and the Group is 
subjected to new claim types over time. These may give rise to 
uncertainty in both the future level of asbestos-related IDC and of the 
legal and other costs arising from such claims. 
 – Operational excellence – Recent agreement to settle insurer product liability claims 
substantially reduces the risk to the business in this area 
 – Regular Board review of IDC litigation
 – Dedicated internal Legal function monitors changes in the 
legal environment
 – Specialist external legal and other advisors engaged
Note 2 ‘Summary of significant 
accounting policies’
Note 4 ‘Significant judgements 
and estimates’
Note 29 ‘Provisions’
Note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’
Note 39 ‘Post balance sheet events’
We operate across a number of economies and jurisdictions which 
therefore exposes the Group to a range of tax laws that vary 
significantly and are rapidly evolving toward global transparency and 
harmonisation. The Group is required to interpret laws and treaties 
and must manage its tax affairs within these laws or else risk incurring 
fines and/or charges from the tax authorities. Taxation regimes are 
increasingly co-ordinating and tightening with ‘base erosion and profit 
shifting’ rules and equivalent regulations. In some cases, tax legislation 
or rules are not clear and the Group may disagree with the tax 
authorities. If this is the case, then it may be necessary for court 
involvement to interpret the laws.
The treasury related risks faced by Cape include client and bank credit 
risk and foreign exchange risk. The credit risks faced by Cape vary 
by geography, but are currently highest in oil based economies with 
developing financial systems, non-investment grade banks and where 
our clients may be local sub-contractors with delayed payment practices.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Customer intimacy
 – Broaden portfolio 
 – Cape’s values drive a culture where integrity, honesty and 
compliance are an integral part of day-to-day business at all levels
 – Tax policies and procedures are regularly updated, with the 
Group’s tax strategy to be published online in 2017
 – Embedded tax expertise in all major businesses along with central 
Group Tax team support 
 – Ongoing reviews conducted by the Group Tax and Legal team to 
monitor compliance
 – External advisors are used to support local teams on specific tax 
matters including legal opinion when requiring interpretation of tax 
legislation and principals
 – Active engagement with relevant tax and government authorities
 – Debt exposures are monitored during contract lives and firm 
operational decisions are taken when limits are approached 
or breached
 – Bank creditworthiness and relationships are monitored by 
Group Treasury
 – Business units endeavour to balance revenues and costs in 
matched currencies wherever possible
 – Group Treasury will hedge higher currency risk exposures if required
Note 2 ‘Summary of significant 
accounting policies’
Note 12 ‘Income tax’
Note 20 ‘Deferred income tax’
Note 28 ‘Current income tax 
liabilities’
Note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’
The IT risks faced by Cape include increasing cyber risks, 
increasing data and network protection requirements, business 
continuity/disaster recovery considerations and ageing legacy 
systems which will be gradually transitioned to a new robust 
global ERP system.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Operational excellence
 – A variety of cyber-attack monitoring and response software has 
been implemented 
 – Design and development of the global ERP system that will significantly 
standardise operations and processing across all of Cape
 – Consolidation of payrolls, where practicable 
 – General data protection regulation readiness planning has commenced
 – Data categorisation and classification is underway
 – Global review of business continuity/disaster recovery plans
 – Development of plans to regularly test and gradually migrate payrolls 
to a cloud based solution
 – Email systems have been migrated to Office 365
K. Tax and 
treasury risks 
L. IT-system and 
cyber risks
Viability statement 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
directors have assessed the prospect for the Group over a longer 
period than the twelve-month going concern provision. 
The directors’ assessment of the Group’s prospects for the 
three-year period is based on the review and analysis described 
below. The directors consider this to be a reasonable process 
which therefore allows them to form a reasonable expectation of the 
Group’s prospects in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty 
of a three-year period. The time period was selected to represent the 
duration of the Group’s contract base, with construction contracts 
having a typical duration of two to three years, while a change in 
provider for maintenance contracts takes around one to two years. 
Additionally, the revaluation of both the IDC and pension liabilities 
takes place on a three-year cycle. 
The Group performs a strategic review each year, in which the Board 
reviews Cape’s current position, strategy and risks and opportunities 
alongside current and expected market conditions and trends. Our 
viability assessment was based upon the Group’s strategy and 
planning information and assessed the discrete impact of each 
individual selected principal risk, with the impact from a number 
of these risks also assessed on a combined basis. This analysis 
considers cash flows, covenant projections and liquidity and other 
key financial measures over the period. The selected key risks 
against which the strategy model has been stress tested are those 
that management considers could affect the future viability of the 
Group. These risks are highlighted on pages 34 to 39 and included 
the following: political and security instability in one region; 
acceptance of a new contract with unfavourable terms; poor 
operational performance on an existing contract; new scope of 
liability relating to IDC, with additional assessment undertaken on 
the timing of the resulting cash flows; loss of a key customer and 
an increase in interest rates and tax liabilities.
Based upon a robust assessment of the principal risks to the Group’s 
prospects and consideration of the duration of the Group’s contract 
base and the projected timing of IDC and pension outflows, the 
directors concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as 
they fall due over the three-year assessment period. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 39 
Annual Report 2016
Mitigation
J. Industrial 
disease claims 
(IDC) – widening 
of the scope 
and liability
Legal precedent in this area is constantly evolving and the Group is 
subjected to new claim types over time. These may give rise to 
uncertainty in both the future level of asbestos-related IDC and of the 
legal and other costs arising from such claims. 
 – Operational excellence – Recent agreement to settle insurer product liability claims 
substantially reduces the risk to the business in this area 
 – Regular Board review of IDC litigation
 – Dedicated internal Legal function monitors changes in the 
legal environment
 – Specialist external legal and other advisors engaged
Note 2 ‘Summary of significant 
accounting policies’
Note 4 ‘Significant judgements 
and estimates’
Note 29 ‘Provisions’
Note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’
Note 39 ‘Post balance sheet events’
We operate across a number of economies and jurisdictions which 
therefore exposes the Group to a range of tax laws that vary 
significantly and are rapidly evolving toward global transparency and 
harmonisation. The Group is required to interpret laws and treaties 
and must manage its tax affairs within these laws or else risk incurring 
fines and/or charges from the tax authorities. Taxation regimes are 
increasingly co-ordinating and tightening with ‘base erosion and profit 
shifting’ rules and equivalent regulations. In some cases, tax legislation 
or rules are not clear and the Group may disagree with the tax 
authorities. If this is the case, then it may be necessary for court 
involvement to interpret the laws.
The treasury related risks faced by Cape include client and bank credit 
risk and foreign exchange risk. The credit risks faced by Cape vary 
by geography, but are currently highest in oil based economies with 
developing financial systems, non-investment grade banks and where 
our clients may be local sub-contractors with delayed payment practices.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Customer intimacy
 – Broaden portfolio 
 – Cape’s values drive a culture where integrity, honesty and 
compliance are an integral part of day-to-day business at all levels
 – Tax policies and procedures are regularly updated, with the 
Group’s tax strategy to be published online in 2017
 – Embedded tax expertise in all major businesses along with central 
Group Tax team support 
 – Ongoing reviews conducted by the Group Tax and Legal team to 
monitor compliance
 – External advisors are used to support local teams on specific tax 
matters including legal opinion when requiring interpretation of tax 
legislation and principals
 – Active engagement with relevant tax and government authorities
 – Debt exposures are monitored during contract lives and firm 
operational decisions are taken when limits are approached 
or breached
 – Bank creditworthiness and relationships are monitored by 
Group Treasury
 – Business units endeavour to balance revenues and costs in 
matched currencies wherever possible
 – Group Treasury will hedge higher currency risk exposures if required
Note 2 ‘Summary of significant 
accounting policies’
Note 12 ‘Income tax’
Note 20 ‘Deferred income tax’
Note 28 ‘Current income tax 
liabilities’
Note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims 
provision and contingent liabilities’
The IT risks faced by Cape include increasing cyber risks, 
increasing data and network protection requirements, business 
continuity/disaster recovery considerations and ageing legacy 
systems which will be gradually transitioned to a new robust 
global ERP system.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Operational excellence
 – A variety of cyber-attack monitoring and response software has 
been implemented 
 – Design and development of the global ERP system that will significantly 
standardise operations and processing across all of Cape
 – Consolidation of payrolls, where practicable 
 – General data protection regulation readiness planning has commenced
 – Data categorisation and classification is underway
 – Global review of business continuity/disaster recovery plans
 – Development of plans to regularly test and gradually migrate payrolls 
to a cloud based solution
 – Email systems have been migrated to Office 365
K. Tax and 
treasury risks 
L. IT-system and 
cyber risks
For more 
information
Change in risk 
during 2016
 Increase Decrease Unchanged  Link to 
Viability 
statement
Key 40 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Corporate and social responsibility Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 41 
Annual Report 2016
Our values
We firmly believe that companies 
should act responsibly. Through the 
commitment of our employees and by 
conducting ourselves with integrity and 
honesty, we build lasting relationships 
with our stakeholders and deliver safe, 
consistent and high-quality operations 
for our customers. These behaviours 
underpin our business model and support 
our strategic intent to be the leading 
provider of critical industrial services 
in our chosen geographic markets.
We believe that having the right culture in our business is 
fundamental to the long-term success of the Group. Our values 
describe the culture and underlying behaviours that we strive to 
create through the Group. Consequently, our business is defined by 
our values, with integrity, safety and employee welfare at the heart of 
our business. Cape’s success is built on lasting relationships with our 
stakeholders to deliver safe, efficient and high-quality operations. 
Integrity
Acting with integrity is fundamental to the way we do business. 
Operating with a culture of openness and honesty means that issues 
are raised early and we can trust each other to work in the best 
interests of the Group and its stakeholders. We aim to set the 
standard for ethical behaviour wherever we work, complying with 
all local laws and regulations.
Commitment to deliver
We recognise the importance of delivering in line with our 
promises and we strive to embed a culture where every employee 
is committed to deliver. All our people are held accountable and 
take personal responsibility for delivering successful results. 
Our employees are passionate about our business and driven 
to create value for our customers.
Relentless pursuit of excellence
To achieve our ambition of being the leader in our chosen markets 
we recognise that we must continuously seek new, better and more 
efficient ways to deliver our services to our customers. It is this 
relentless pursuit of excellence that will enable us to achieve market 
leadership and sustain that position for the long term.
Commitment to our people
Cape is a business built on its people. We recognise and fulfil our 
responsibility to ensure all of our employees have a safe environment 
in which to work. We invest in our people, developing and growing 
their skills and giving them the systems and tools to do their jobs 
effectively. We aim to provide a supportive work environment in 
which all of our employees can enjoy their work and achieve their 
full potential at Cape.
High performing team
Cape has great diversity, capability and knowledge, spread across 
its business around the world. We aim to work together as one high 
performing team across the business to share knowledge and 
resources in order to deliver the best result for our stakeholders. 42 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Corporate and social responsibility
continued
People
Cape employs over 16,000 people around the world and their 
professionalism, competence and commitment are critical to the 
delivery of our business.
In 2016, Cape recruited around 12,000 people globally in order to deliver 
on our short, medium and long-term contractual commitments to our 
customers. We need to ensure our recruits are not only appropriately 
qualified, possess the necessary skills and arrive on location across the 
world as required but also demonstrate a commitment to our values. 
On site, we need to have experienced managers to oversee our recruits, 
provide a safe and supportive working environment and deliver on our 
commitments to our customers. Our human resources (HR) strategy is 
designed to support these key activities and Cape’s HR strategy 
continues to be focussed in a number of critical areas.
Resourcing and deployment: Our ability to source a large number 
of appropriately skilled employees at short notice and mobilise to site 
remains one of Cape’s core capabilities.
In 2016, we completed the roll out of a global applicant tracking 
system to support our recruitment processes. This system allows 
quicker and more accurate hiring of employees with improved data 
and visibility for managers. It also provides us with an opportunity 
to proactively contact appropriately skilled people who have worked 
for Cape previously. This reduces both the cost and time taken to 
recruit, together with greater assurance of the calibre of those we 
hire. During the year we received on average around 3,500 
applications per month globally via this system.
Once hired, we continue to direct considerable resources to training 
and assessment of new staff to ensure they are ready to work safely 
and to the standard required. Notable initiatives in 2016 include:
 – Establishing dedicated training schools, staffed by experienced 
Cape supervisors, in South Korea and working with local 
authorities to identify people at source in order to train local hired 
employees for deployment on the Shell Prelude Floating LNG 
project (see more in the Strategic report on page 23)
 – Utilising the Cape global footprint to recruit and train workers to 
exacting onshore and offshore international standards for our first 
offshore contract in Qatar. This included developing a range of 
workforce assessment and training/refresher materials to ensure 
appropriate levels of health and safety knowledge and proficiency 
in English
 – Implementing a Competence Assurance System in the UK which 
enables the business: to ensure we have the right people in the 
role; to adopt a multi-disciplinary approach to skills and job 
completion; and can be used for resourcing and long-term 
succession planning
Employees
UK Middle East Asia Pacific Head office Group total
Female 202 18 299 13 532
Male 4,013 8,222 3,295 40 15,570
2016 employees 4,215 8,240 3,594 53 16,102
Board
Female 1
Male 6
Senior managers
Female 2 – 1 2 5
Male 16 20 17 13 66
2015 employees* 4,842 8,949 2,612 59 16,462
Changes (627) (709) 982 (6) (360)
*  2015 employee numbers have been restated for changes to the Group’s segmental reporting
 – Investment in multi-skill training for new employees in India and 
Nepal before they arrive at customer sites in the Middle East
 – Supporting local Omani employees in studying for Business and 
Technology Council (BTEC) accreditation in scaffolding to assist 
in meeting localisation expectations.
Talent: We continue to devote substantial resources into the 
development of talent at different levels throughout the organisation.
We provide a number of tailored leadership development programmes 
targeted at different levels of the organisation, including supervisory, 
delivery management, senior leadership, and future leaders training.
Best practice: The majority of the HR team is highly devolved within 
the regional businesses. To support their activities we have developed 
a framework of best practice for the key aspects of HR that balances 
clear, consistent guidelines whilst giving the local HR teams the 
freedom to react and tailor their response to local issues. In 2016, 
we introduced a standard job levelling and job category format into 
the organisation. For the first time this has allowed us to get 
accurate data on the composition of our workforce, enabling a more 
structured approach to identification of talent, where we have skill 
shortages and to improve our understanding of how competitive 
and appropriate our remuneration structures are. Strategy in action:
Safe driving campaign
Every day, many of our employees are exposed to the risk 
that comes with driving to and from their place of work. 
In the Middle East, a safe driving campaign was run to raise 
employee’s awareness of the risks as well as instilling and 
improving safe driving practices. A key part of the campaign 
was the defensive driving training for all employees, with 
additional focus on our teams of commercial drivers. 
Important road safety messages, information on vehicle 
maintenance, safe driving behaviour and passenger’s 
responsibilities were shared on posters and banners 
displayed at sites and offices, with leaflets and electronic 
communications also distributed to ensure wide employee 
coverage and reinforcement of our focus on safety.
 
The team also mandated the installation of in-vehicle 
monitoring systems (IVMS) in all commercial vehicles across 
the region. IVMS allows the teams to monitor both the location 
of our vehicles and driver behaviour, including acceleration 
and braking habits along with average speeds. This information 
can be used to improve employee driving techniques from 
both a safety and economic perspective, and help the 
teams appropriately manage and maintain the fleet.
This proactive approach to safety is welcomed by our 
customers and employees, demonstrating our commitment 
to our people and our relentless pursuit for excellence in all 
that we do.
Region
–  Middle East
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 43 
Annual Report 2016
Health and safety
Safety
Our vision is to create a work environment where everyone can work 
safely with zero harm to themselves and their colleagues. We often 
work in challenging locations and environments, carrying out 
potentially hazardous activities, so we are continuously seeking ways 
to improve our safety performance in terms of both process and 
culture to achieve our vision of zero harm.
The Company continues to focus on behavioural safety training and 
improved competence programmes, with specific emphasis on our 
supervisory workforce who are on the front line of delivering our 
Company standards. We provide practical on-the-ground trade skills 
training to our workforce and develop regional training facilities to 
deliver recognised international training programmes to country, 
regional and industry standards. 
 
During 2016, both our Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) and our 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) improved significantly and 
represent the best performance we have ever recorded. The Group’s 
LTIF reduced to 0.144 incidents per 1,000,000 hours worked 
(2015: 0.184), while the Group’s TRIR, measured as the total number 
of incidents divided by the number of hours worked during the year 
(measured on a per million basis), reduced to 0.756 (2015: 1.271). 
This improvement is a significant achievement delivered by our 
operational teams around the world. With continued focus, vigilance 
and commitment from all within Cape, we hope our ongoing journey 
towards ‘Zero every day’ – no harm to our employees will ultimately 
be achieved. Our safety performance remains better than industry 
norms and we continue to receive a number of prestigious awards 
from our blue-chip customers that are testament to both individual 
and collective safety performance on-site.
Security
Our Group Security function ensures that our employees operate 
securely around the globe. It assesses the threats to the security 
of our people, assets, projects, operations and reputation. 
The security team works with all our staff to ensure awareness is 
maintained regarding travel and security procedures and is fully 
committed to creating a secure working and travel environment for 
all our personnel while also ensuring the security of our physical 
assets. During 2016, we have taken a proactive approach to security, 
upgrading our processes and implementing new systems.
 
There have been no significant security issues within Cape during 2016.
Health and welfare
High standards of staff health and welfare are essential to the 
success of Cape and as such we continue to strengthen our medical 
assessment and rehabilitation processes, supported by our health 
and welfare service providers, to ensure that:
 – prior to an offer of employment, a robust medical assessment 
has been completed to ensure the candidate is fit for work. 
These medicals are specifically tailored to assess the risks 
associated with the operation the individual will be performing
 – we deliver risk mitigation plans, specifically focussed on the risks 
our operatives face, often in difficult and harsh conditions, 
e.g. initiatives such as warm-up exercise, diet regimes, reviewing 
tools and equipment
 – an individual’s health is not being adversely affected by the work 
we are asking them to do. Our ongoing health surveillance 
programme has been identified by a number of our major 
international customers as best practice and is designed to 
monitor the specific risks associated with each activity to ensure 
appropriate monitoring is conducted. 
Our remote and offshore facilities have on-site medical teams and 
occupational health support which is freely offered to our employees. 
Cape runs comprehensive programmes to monitor the health of 
our employees.  0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
  TRIR = Recordable injuries x 1,000,000
 Total man hours
  LTIF = Lost time incidents x 1,000,000
 Total man hours
Total Recordable Incident Rate and Lost Time Incident Frequencies
44 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Corporate and social responsibility
continued
Eight-year accident statistics (OGP reporting) – Group controlled entities
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Total man hours worked 41,209,332 50,232,770 54,966,914 62,207,917 61,924,383 55,649,784 54,271,421 55,546,728
Restricted work cases 33 28 23 34 19 14 9 9
Medical treatment cases 90 51 47 48 26 25 50 25
Lost day work cases 53 16 16 20 12 17 10 8
Fatalities 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 4.270 1.890 1.580 1.656 0.920 1.028 1.271 0.756
Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) 1.280 0.320 0.300 0.338 0.194 0.323 0.184 0.144
These statistics exclude values in respect of the SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan
KPI: F. Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Health and welfare (continued)
Throughout 2016, we continued to audit and monitor the quality of the 
accommodation we provide to around 9,000 employees, predominately 
in Asia Pacific and the Middle East, so that we can ensure that we treat 
everyone with dignity and care. Further improvements in 2016 included: 
improved information technology facilities across three accommodation 
camps in the Middle East to improve employees connectivity with their 
families and provide opportunities for further education; and the 
recruitment of a Welfare Liaison Officer in Nepal.
Audit
All of Cape’s operations are accredited to international standards, 
ISO 9001 (Quality) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety) or their 
equivalents, as these standards are seen as a strong indicator of our 
commitment to operational excellence. Furthermore, the vast majority of 
the Group’s operations are also certified to the ISO 14001 environmental 
standard. This accreditation is completed by an external organisation 
through a wide-ranging series of studies and audits of Cape’s global 
management systems. The accreditation body completed a triennial 
review during 2015 to ensure compliance and reissued the appropriate 
certificates. Revisions to these international standards will come into 
effect in 2018 and the Group has initiated a programme to update our 
internal systems and processes to meet the changing requirements. 
External reviews by the accreditation body are also reinforced by rigorous 
internal audit and inspection processes at local, regional and Group level. 
Oversight of these processes is provided by the Group Health, Safety 
and Environmental function which actively monitors each aspect 
against the Group’s objectives. These processes are recognised as 
a key element of managing the risks to the organisation from health, 
safety and environmental issues. We benchmark our performance 
against available internal and external data, monitoring our overall 
performance with a range of key performance indicators (KPIs). 
These KPIs have been designed to look at both leading and lagging 
factors such as training, competency assessment, near miss reporting, 
quality system non-conformities and delivery of audit and inspection 
programmes. The results of these measures are reported monthly to 
the Executive Committee and to the Board. Where opportunities for 
improvement exist, action plans are implemented and monitored to 
ensure delivery. We are pleased to state that at the end of the year 
the number and nature of non-conformance to these stretching 
targets continues to improve.
Asbestos management and operating licences
Asbestos remediation and removal services continue to be delivered 
to the market at the highest recognised international standards. In all 
operational areas where asbestos management is only permitted 
by the respective enforcing authorities under relevant licence 
arrangements, Cape has applied for or renewed our licences and in 
all cases received the appropriate approvals issued by the pertinent 
legislative enforcement bodies. The Group manages this activity 
under strict controls to ensure compliance against the highest of 
standards by a comprehensive programme of inspection and audits, 
with a central co-ordinating team monitoring our performance. All 
audits, both internal and external, found our systems to be robust 
and with no material issues raised.
CapeSafe
We use the CapeSafe banner across our business to deliver a 
consistent message about driving better safety behaviours and 
performance. We have continued to drive targeted, regional 
campaigns throughout 2016 to improve our safety performance, 
such as our safe driving campaign in the Middle East region (see our 
case study on page 43 for more information). Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 45 
Annual Report 2016
Health and safety awards 
Our commitment to deliver superior execution with an uncompromising approach to safety remains paramount. The Cape brand provides our 
customers with the reassurance that critical support services for their plant maintenance and construction needs will be provided efficiently 
and safely. This was again acknowledged by our customers during the year with many prestigious awards including:
Region Date Award Site(s) Customer
UK May 2016 2016 EDF Energy Generation Zero Harm Innovation Award EDF Energy
UK May 2016 European Contractor Gold Award for 2015 HSSE performance 
across UK SABIC Teesside sites
Teesside, UK SABIC
UK Sep 2016 Order of Distinction for 22 consecutive Royal Society for the 
Prevention of Accidents Gold Awards
Motherwell Bridge
UK March 2016 AstraZeneca 2015 Gold Award Macclesfield and 
Alderley Park
AstraZeneca
Middle East Aug 2016 Gold Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia
Middle East Aug 2016 Gold Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Bahrain
Middle East Jun 2016 Silver Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Oman
Middle East Oct 2016 SHE Award for Best Contractor 2016 Bahrain Banagas
Middle East Nov 2016 4.5 million man hours without LTI Qatar Power Qatar Power 
Company
Asia Pacific Jul 2016 1 Year Goal Zero HSSE performance Malampaya,  
Philippines
Transfield 
Services Worley 
Parsons
Asia Pacific Sep 2016 Silver Medal at KLE Our Safety Culture Champion Cup Karratha Gas Plant, 
Australia
Woodside 46 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Corporate and social responsibility
continued
Environment
Impact on the environment
The UK Government established the Energy Savings Opportunities 
Scheme (ESOS) to implement Article 8 (4 to 6) of the EU Energy 
Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU), which is a mandatory energy 
assessment scheme for organisations in the UK that meet the 
qualification criteria. Organisations that qualify for ESOS must carry 
out ESOS assessments every four years. These assessments are 
audits of the energy used by their buildings, industrial processes and 
transport to identify cost-effective energy saving measures.
Cape has measured energy used in its depot network and transport 
fleet since 2010 as part of the Achilles verified Certified Emissions 
Measurement and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS); as a result, 
complying with the requirements of ESOS was straightforward. 
The independently verified audits identified several areas where 
Cape can further reduce energy consumption and these findings 
will be adopted within the business.
Environmental reporting
We are pleased to report greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in a 
manner consistent with UK legislation for 2016.
The emission categories captured within the definitions which are 
applicable to the Group and which are material are:
 – Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions. The scope applicable for the 
Group focusses on directly purchased fuel for our transport fleet, 
ancillary equipment fuel usage (compressors and generators), 
heating oil or gas for space heating boilers and process emissions 
from our polyisocyanurate foam production facility in Abu Dhabi
 – Scope 2 – Electricity indirect emissions. The applicable scope 
covers electricity purchased from the respective local suppliers 
for site, office or accommodation camp usage
 – Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions. The significant scope 
applicable to the Group includes provided services, goods and 
raw materials. The largest material GHG emissions factor is the 
worldwide transportation of personnel by air.
Throughout the year we capture the relevant data on the Group’s 
health, safety, security and environment web-based system, MyOsh. 
This data is captured at a local country level and uploaded into our 
global system in line with the UK Government’s guidance on how to 
measure and report GHG emissions. The results are reported below.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
CO
2
e kg
2016 CO
2
e 2015 CO
2
e
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) 27,028,993 26,613,086
Scope 2 (electricity indirect emissions) 3,497,535 3,978,839
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) 29,195,947 25,869,992
Total gross emissions 59,722,475 56,461,917
Intensity Ratio 1.075 1.040
Notes:
The Intensity Ratio is defined as: total CO
2
e kg/total man hours worked, as this 
measure is deemed the most relevant to the Group’s operations
Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other (litres), units electricity (kWh) and 
units of gas (kWh). All major geographies within the Group’s international operations 
are included in the reported data. The data was converted into the CO
2
 equivalent 
using calculations provided within the ‘2016 update of UK Government Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting GHG conversion factors’
Methodology 
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the 
Quoted Companies Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. 
The overall result for the Group was a 3% increase in the calculated 
Intensity Ratio (the ratio of CO
2
 emissions expressed against the level 
of activity of the business which is best measured in number of hours 
worked by our employees) for the year when compared to 2015. 
There was a larger overall increase in the absolute level of CO
2
 
emissions of approximately three million kilogrammes (6% increase) 
for the Group as a consequence of relocating our people in order 
to deliver on our contractual commitments.
Community
Employment opportunities
With over 16,000 employees worldwide, Cape impacts significantly 
on local labour markets and, wherever practical, employment 
opportunities are made available to local communities.
Supporting local communities
Cape continues to support local communities wherever possible. 
For more than a decade, Cape has developed a successful 
partnership with two foundations within Manila: The Children’s Joy 
Foundation with its mission to reach out to neglected, abandoned 
and orphaned children; and the SMILE Foundation for children with 
facial abnormalities. Elsewhere, Cape Australia has donated to 
‘MATES in Construction’ which is a charity established in 2008 to 
reduce the high level of suicide among Australian construction 
workers, while Cape UK has developed a number of communication 
champions across its business to identify campaigns to support 
national and local charities, including a local heart charity in 
Linlithgow; the Great North Children Hospital and the sick children 
hospice in the North East of England. 
 
Human rights
The Group has a policy to operate in accordance with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and take account of other 
internationally accepted human rights standards. Strategy in action:
RESET for safety
Safety and employee welfare are at the heart of our 
business. We often work in challenging locations and 
environments, carrying out potentially hazardous activities, 
so we are continuously seeking ways to improve our safety 
performance, both in terms of process and culture to 
achieve our vision of zero harm. The Cape RESET programme, 
which is underpinned by mindfulness, aims to strengthen 
individual capability to focus on the present moment. It is a 
highly transferable process that encourages employees to: 
Stop, Breathe, Think and then Act before undertaking a 
review process to enable our teams to continually improve 
and share learnings in order to build and maintain 
operational excellence.
Several Australian sites have adopted RESET to good effect. 
Woodside’s Karratha Gas Plant used this behavioural and 
cultural tool to further promote safety culture across the site 
and have seen continual improvement approach with the 
team exceeding KPI requirements. RESET is now becoming 
an integral element of the pre-start with crews sharing their 
‘Good, Better, How’ moments from the previous day’s review 
process, while RESET focus moments are having a positive 
impact on shared site work methodologies.
Region 
–  Asia Pacific
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 47 
Annual Report 2016
Business ethics
Cape operates in a wide range of countries across the globe. It is 
the Group’s policy to always conduct business in accordance with 
applicable local laws and regulations. However, the Group seeks to 
ensure that there is a common standard of business integrity and 
ethics across all its businesses and operations, which will, in many 
instances, result in Cape operating well above local law and 
regulatory standards in certain jurisdictions.
Business integrity and ethics, particularly with regards to anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policies, are increasingly important to regulators, 
customers and other stakeholders, including employees, who rightly 
require assurance that the Group operates a safe and sustainable 
business. Maintaining its good reputation is therefore of critical 
importance to the Group. 
The Board, its Committees, the executive directors and the Executive 
Committee all play key roles in the promotion and monitoring of the 
Group’s business integrity and ethics and in safeguarding the 
Group’s reputation.
Compliance training is provided to employees to support their 
understanding of, and commitment to, Group policies in order to 
ensure that employees adhere to the common standards of business 
integrity and ethics. The training includes the training of managers 
in their responsibilities for employees, commercial contracts and 
structures, and for the protection of Group assets and is delivered 
across the Group’s operations through online training programmes 
as well as face to face seminars and individual training. The Group’s 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy applies to all Group entities, 
employees and third parties engaged by the Group and adheres to 
the standards set out in the UK Bribery Act 2010. Employees are 
required to complete online anti-bribery and anti-corruption training, 
while every six months, senior managers within each of the Group’s 
business units certify detailed questionnaires that cover (amongst 
other things) their unit’s business conduct and regulatory compliance.
The Group operates a confidential whistleblowing procedure that has 
been outsourced to an external service provider which encourages 
employees, workers or any other persons to disclose concerns 
relating to any forms of malpractice such as fraud or other illegal or 
improper conduct. Any whistleblowing allegations are routed directly to 
the Group General Counsel, who independently investigates the matter 
with the assistance of the Compliance and Investigations Manager.
Cape’s Business Integrity and Ethics Code is available on the 
website at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility 48 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Effective 
governance Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 49 
Annual Report 2016
Governance
50  Introduction from the Chairman
5 1  C orp or a t e g o v e rn an c e 
compliance
52  Leadership: the Board and its 
Committees
5 7  Ef f e c t i v e n e s s
58  Nomination Committee report
6 0  A c co un t ab i l i t y
61  Audit Committee report
65  Directors’ remuneration report
7 8  D i re c t o r s ’ re p o r t
7 9  D ir e c t o r s ’ r e sp o n s ib i liti e s
80  Relationship with shareholders 
and share capital 50 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Introduction from the Chairman
“We have 
continued to focus 
on strengthening 
the Group’s 
performance 
and governance 
controls in what 
has been a year 
of transition for 
the Board and 
its Committees.”
Tim Eggar
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
2016 has been a year of transition for the Board. We have re-domiciled 
the Company’s centre of management to the United Kingdom from 
Singapore, recruited a replacement non-executive director and 
refreshed our committee memberships. Meanwhile, the Board 
continued to focus on strengthening Cape’s performance and 
governance controls, with a particular focus on anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption training and compliance, while reviewing our 
business to improve transparency.
The re-domiciling of the Company’s centre of management should 
provide: greater access to sources of equity and debt funding; 
increased flexibility in Board recruitment, the holding of Board and 
Committee meetings and lower costs of those meetings; and an 
improved opportunity to engage with the Company’s management. 
Following re-domiciliation, Samantha Tough, who is based in Western 
Australia, stepped down from the Board. The Nomination Committee 
led the search for Samantha’s replacement, with Mary Reilly 
recommended to the Board to be appointed as a non-executive 
director and as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 
1 September 2016. Mary, who has worked for over 30 years in an 
international environment as a chartered accountant with Deloitte LLP 
and as a non-executive director chairing board committees, has 
brought a wealth of experience from a variety of sectors.
 
Every year, Cape undertakes a review of the Board, its Committees 
and individual directors. Following an internal review in 2015, the Board 
conducted an external Board and Committee review in 2016. We will 
monitor the implementation of the actions arising from this review.
This section includes the Nomination Committee report, the 
Audit Committee report and the directors’ remuneration report. 
In these reports, the governance structures we have embedded 
at Cape are set out. The best prospects for long-term financial 
performance for our shareholders, and the provision of a secure 
future for our customers and employees, is through delivering 
high standards of corporate governance and corporate integrity. 
There has remained a continued focus on strengthening Cape’s 
performance and governance controls in what has been a year of 
transition for the Board and its Committees. The Board remains 
focussed on supporting Executive Management in driving a culture 
of integrity and continuous improvement throughout the Company.
Cape continues to be led by a highly-motivated and effective team 
who are focussed on delivering consistent financial performance 
for the long term. With the support of you, our shareholders, the 
non-executive directors look forward to working with the senior 
management team in the year ahead.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
14 March 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 51 
Annual Report 2016
Corporate governance 
compliance
Introduction 
Cape plc (the ‘Company’) is a holding company. During the year, its 
subsidiary undertakings’ (together with the Company, the ‘Group’) 
main activities included the traditional services of access, insulation, 
coatings, engineering and mechanical, and a range of specialist 
services including oil and gas storage tanks, heat exchanger 
replacement and refurbishment, and environmental services, 
principally to the energy and natural resources sectors. Further 
details on the Group’s development and performance during the 
year are provided in the overview and Strategic report sections 
of this report (see pages 1 and 8 respectively).
Cape aims to deliver all its services safely, ethically and professionally 
across all its operations and is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance, details of which are given in this Directors’ 
governance report. The Company’s Board endeavours to deliver 
long-term shareholder value and believes that good governance, 
combined with the effective identification, analysis and management 
of risk within defined parameters, is an integral element for success 
in this respect.
Applicable law and regulations
In this report, citations of the Company’s current articles of 
association (the ‘Articles’) and the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 (the 
‘Law’) are references only and the relevant provisions of the Articles 
or the Law should be consulted if further information is required.
As a Jersey-incorporated company with premium-listed shares on 
the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, certain UK statutory 
and regulatory requirements do not apply to Cape. However, in the 
interests of transparency, the Company has chosen to comply 
voluntarily with such disclosure requirements set out in applicable 
UK statutes and regulations. While the Company is only required 
by the United Kingdom Listing Authority to adopt the April 2016 
version of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) for the accounting period 
beginning 1 January 2017, the Company has voluntarily chosen 
to adopt this version for the current accounting period. 
Code compliance statement
As set out above, the Company is required to comply with the Code, 
which is available at www.frc.org.uk. The Company’s policy is to 
achieve best practice in our standards of business integrity in all our 
operations around the world. This includes conducting our business 
in accordance with the Code and applying the principles set out in 
the Code. This Directors’ governance report describes how the 
Board has complied with the provisions of the Code and applied 
its main principles during the year. 
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of 
the revised Code throughout the financial year ending 
31 December 2016.  52 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees
Composition of the Cape plc Board as at the 
date of signing the financial statements. 
1. Tim Eggar
Chairman; Chairman of the Nomination Committee and 
a member of the Remuneration Committee; age 65.
Tim joined Cape on 1 May 2011. Tim’s parliamentary career between 
1979 and 1997 included the key government appointment of Minister 
for Energy from 1992 to 1996. His extensive international experience 
includes being Global Head of Integrated Energy Corporate Finance 
at ABN AMRO, Chief Executive of Monument Oil and Gas, Chairman 
of Harrison Lovegrove and Chairman of Indago Petroleum. Tim is 
currently Chairman of MyCelx Technologies Corporation and 
Haulfryn Group Limited. 
2. Steve Good
Independent non-executive director; Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit 
and Nomination Committees; age 56.
Steve joined Cape on 6 July 2015. Steve has a BA in Economics and 
Finance and is a Chartered Accountant with extensive international 
experience leading specialty chemicals and plastics businesses. He 
was formerly Chief Executive at Low & Bonar plc, the industrial textile 
manufacturing business, from 2009 to 2014, when he retired from full 
time executive roles. Steve also serves as a non-executive director 
on the boards of three other companies: Elementis plc; Zotefoams 
plc; and Anglian Water Services Ltd. Steve was appointed Chairman 
at Zotefoams plc on 1 April 2016.
3. Brian Larcombe
Independent non-executive director; member of the 
Remuneration Committee; age 63. 
Brian joined Cape on 21 January 2016. Brian spent most of his 
career in private equity with 3i Group. After leading the UK 
investment business for a number of years, he became Finance 
Director ahead of its flotation on the London Stock Exchange and 
then Chief Executive from 1997 to 2004. Since his retirement from 3i, 
Brian has served on the boards of several private and public 
companies, including Gallaher Group Limited, F&C Asset 
Management PLC and gategroup Holding AG. He is currently 
the Senior Independent Director of Smith & Nephew plc and 
a director of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
4. Michael Merton
Independent non-executive director; Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee; 
Senior Independent Director; age 65.
Michael joined Cape on 4 May 2011. Michael is a Chartered 
Accountant with extensive experience in the international resources 
industry, having spent most of his executive career at Rio Tinto 
in senior operational roles around the world. Michael is also a 
non-executive director of BlackRock Commodities Income 
Investment Trust plc and Chairman of the J Sainsbury Pension 
Scheme and its Investment Committee, in addition to being a 
director of various subsidiaries for the aforementioned companies. 
He is a trustee of the Universities Superannuation Scheme. 
5. Joe Oatley
Chief Executive; age 48.
Joe joined Cape as Chief Executive on 29 June 2012. Previously 
he was Chief Executive of Hamworthy plc, a global oil and gas 
engineering business, which he joined in 2007 and led until its 
takeover by Wartsila in 2012. Prior to this, Joe spent most of his 
career in the engineering sector in a broad range of roles including 
Managing Director, strategy development and acquisitions. Joe has 
no external appointments. 
6. Mary Reilly
Independent non-executive director; member of the Audit 
Committee from 1 September 2016; age 63.
Mary joined Cape as a non-executive director on 1 September 2016. 
Mary has a wealth of experience having worked for over 30 years in 
an international environment as a chartered accountant with Deloitte 
LLP and non-executive director, chairing board and audit and risk 
committees. Her experience spans a variety of sectors including 
sport, luxury retail, manufacturing, business services and media. 
Mary is a non-executive director of FTSE-listed company Ferrexpo 
plc, Travelzoo Inc. (which is listed on NASDAQ), Crown Agents 
Limited and the Department of Transport, and is an Associate 
Member of BUPA.
7. Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer; age 52.
Michael joined Cape on 6 December 2012. Michael has over 30 
years of experience with public and private companies across a 
range of industries, holding senior operational, divisional and 
corporate roles within TI Group plc and Smiths Group plc between 
1982 and 2004, before his appointment as Chief Financial Officer for 
the oilfield services company Expro International Group plc (Expro). 
At Expro, Michael played a key role in its development from a FTSE 
small cap company to one on the verge of breaking into the FTSE 
100 when it was successfully auctioned and taken private in 2008. 
Michael holds a BSc in Engineering and he is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. Michael is also 
a non-executive director of FrontRow Energy Partners Limited 
and Interventek Subsea Engineering Limited.
3. 6. 5. 1. 2. 7. 4. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 53 
Annual Report 2016
Key director and senior management role 
and responsibilities
Board Chairman
Tim Eggar
The Chairman’s role (and division of responsibility with the CE) 
is formally set out and includes:
 – Leadership and effectiveness of the Board
 – Board agenda setting, adequacy of information flow to the Board, 
and adequacy of consideration of strategic issues
 – Promoting culture of openness of debate at Board level and 
between non-executive and executive directors/members of the 
Executive Committee.
Chief Executive
Joe Oatley
The Chief Executive’s role (and division of responsibility with the 
Chairman) is formally set out and includes:
 – Management of the Group’s business and implementation of the 
Company’s strategy and policies 
 – Maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman
 – Leading the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer
Michael Speakman
 – Responsible for the financial stewardship, navigation and control 
activities of the Group
 – Supporting the Chief Executive in the execution of the Group’s 
strategy.
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Board of directors of Cape plc
Chairman, two executive directors, four non-executive directors 
(including the Senior Independent Director)
Nomination Committee
Chairman
Tim Eggar 
+ two independent 
non-executive directors 
Audit Committee
Chairman
Michael Merton 
+ two independent 
non-executive directors
Remuneration Committee
Chairman
Steve Good 
+ one independent
non-executive director, 
and Tim Eggar
Executive directors
Joe Oatley (CE)
Michael Speakman (CFO)
Committee Chairmen
Tim Eggar, Michael Merton, Steve Good
 – Leadership and effectiveness of the relevant Committee
 – Committee agenda setting, adequacy of information flow 
to the Committee and adequacy of consideration of issues 
before the Committee
 – Discharge of the duties of the Committee as set out in the 
relevant Committee terms of reference.
The Senior Independent Director
Michael Merton
 – Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an 
intermediary with the other Board directors
 – Available to shareholders to air concerns which have not been 
addressed through other formal channels
 – Conducting review of performance of the Chairman.
Non-executive directors
 – Scrutiny of management performance in meeting agreed objectives
 – Monitoring of performance reporting
 – Monitoring the integrity of financial information, financial and 
non-financial controls, and systems of risk management. 54 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees continued
Copies of Cape’s terms of reference for each of the Committees along with the duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive are available 
on the Group’s website at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility. 
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall conduct and performance of the Group’s business. Its powers and duties are set out in the 
Company’s Articles and in the relevant laws of its place of incorporation, Jersey. The Board is responsible for the setting of, and overseeing 
the execution of, Group strategy and for the overall management, control and performance of the Cape business. It is accountable to 
shareholders for the proper and successful conduct of the business, taking into account the interests of all relevant stakeholders. The Board 
is also responsible for the effectiveness and reporting of the Group’s system of internal controls and its system of corporate governance. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its own decision. A copy of this schedule can be found on the Group’s 
website at: http://www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility. The formal schedule of reserved matters is replicated in internal delegation of 
authorities within the Group that enable the operating businesses to operate with flexibility whilst ensuring that strategic matters are always 
considered and decided upon by the Board. The schedule is reviewed annually. Matters delegated by the Board to its standing Committees 
are set out below.
The Board has also appointed a standing Sub-committee comprising any two directors to attend to routine administrative issues. The 
sub-committee may only be convened in exceptional circumstances and with prior notification to the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior 
Independent Director. 
The Board receives regular reports on performance against budget, the general economic climate, market conditions and competitor activity. 
Directors receive briefing papers distributed in advance of Board and Committee meetings and also receive periodic business reports from 
senior managers regarding their area of the business. The briefing papers comprise a detailed health, safety and environment report, Chief 
Executive report which addresses key issues facing the Group, and a Chief Financial Officer report which records performance in the period 
since the last meeting, all measured against defined performance indicators and budget. The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk 
management and internal control systems and regularly receives updates from the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems. Open and frank dialogue is encouraged and all directors have the 
opportunity to challenge and seek further information or clarification as appropriate. In addition to routine Board meetings, the Board meets 
at least annually to consider the Group’s strategy. Members of the Executive Committee attend strategy and Board meetings by invitation. 
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense. An agreed procedure exists for the taking of such advice. During 2016, no director sought independent legal advice 
pursuant to the policy.
 
Composition of the Board
The directors of the Company who were in office during the financial year ending on 31 December 2016 were:
Role Comments Non-executive director tenure
Tim Eggar Chairman Appointed 4/5/2011 70 months
Steve Good Non-executive director Appointed 6/7/2015 20 months
Brian Larcombe Non-executive director Appointed 21/1/2016 14 months
Michael Merton Non-executive director and 
Senior Independent Director
Appointed 4/5/2011. 
Senior Independent Director 
since 29/6/2012
70 months
Joe Oatley Executive director (CE) Appointed 29/6/2012 N/A
Mary Reilly Non-executive director Appointed 1/9/2016 7 months
Michael Speakman Executive director (CFO) Appointed 6/12/2012 N/A
Samantha Tough Non-executive director Appointed 1/1/2015.  
Resigned on 31/8/2016
20 months
As at 31 December 2016, the Board comprised of the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive 
directors. The directors’ biographical details appear on page 52. Given both the Chairman and Michael Merton will have served six years 
on the Board during 2017, it was important for both the Nomination Committee and the Board to undertake a rigorous evaluation of their 
re-appointment. Following this review, it was determined that the Chairman and Michael Merton should remain on the Board, but that their 
continued membership of the Board should be subject to careful scrutiny. The Board regards each of the four non-executive directors as 
being fully independent in character and judgement (see page 51). The non-executive directors draw from a broad range of business and 
commercial experience to scrutinise and challenge independently and constructively the executive management team’s performance. 
Following her appointment as a non-executive director with effect from 1 September 2016, Mary participated in a formal induction 
programme, while all directors participated in a structured training programme on Director’s Duties. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 55 
Annual Report 2016
Board Committees
The Board has established a number of formal Committees to assist in the discharge of its duties. The Board Committees’ compositions are 
summarised below:
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Tim Eggar Chairman Invited to attend Member
Steve Good Member Member Chairman
Brian Larcombe
1
Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items Member
2
Michael Merton
3
 Member Chairman Invited to attend on certain items
Joe Oatley Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items
Mary Reilly
4
Invited to attend on certain items Member Invited to attend on certain items
Michael Speakman Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items
Samantha Tough
5
Invited to attend on certain items Member Invited to attend on certain items
1  Brian Larcombe was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company as of 21 January 2016
2  Brian Larcombe became a member of the Remuneration Committee as of 4 July 2016
3  Michael Merton stepped down from the Remuneration Committee as of 4 July 2016
4  Mary Reilly was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company as of 1 September 2016
5  Samantha Tough resigned as a non-executive director of the Company as of 31 August 2016
The Board’s three formal Committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, have formally delegated duties and responsibilities and 
their terms of reference can be found at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility. Each Committee’s terms of reference is reviewed annually to 
ensure that it complies with current legal and regulatory requirements and reflects best corporate practice and improvements in the way the 
Committees are managed. Each Committee’s chairman reports formally to the Board after each Committee meeting. Additionally, from time to time, 
the Committees submit reports and recommendations to the Board on any matter which they consider significant to the Group. An informal Executive 
Committee was formed in 2012 to act as an advisory committee managed by the Chief Executive and to improve the effectiveness of strategic, 
operational and financial performance. The Executive Committee is not a formally-constituted Committee of the Board.
Each Committee’s structure and terms of reference are summarised below. Further details of each Committee’s work are given in the 
respective reports on pages 58, 61 and 65.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Summary of responsibilities 
(see terms of reference, as 
above, for full details)
 – Review of Board balance and 
composition of the Board 
and Committees
 – Advice to Board on 
appointment and removal of 
executive and non-executive 
directors and Committee 
membership
 – Succession planning.
 – Review of the effectiveness of 
the external auditor including 
the consideration and 
recommendations for 
appointment and removal 
and re-appointment of the 
external auditor
 – Review of the Company’s 
critical accounting policies 
and associated judgements 
including reviewing the integrity 
of reported financial information 
and reviewing reporting issues 
and judgements
 – Monitoring the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal financial 
controls, to include compliance, 
whistleblowing and fraud.
 – Determine and agree with 
Board framework/policy for 
remuneration of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive, executive 
directors and first layer of senior 
management below the Board
 – Determine total package and 
structure for the Chairman and 
executive directors
 – Selection and recruitment of 
remuneration consultants
 – Design and structure of 
performance-related Group 
remuneration schemes and 
share plans
 – Determine vesting for performance 
related and share schemes.
Membership – All of the independent 
non-executive directors, with 
the exception of Mary Reilly, 
Samantha Tough and 
Brian Larcombe.
 – All of the independent 
non-executive directors, 
with the exception of 
Brian Larcombe.
 – All of the independent non-
executive directors and Board 
Chairman, with the exception of 
Michael Merton, Mary Reilly and 
Samantha Tough.
Chairman – Tim Eggar – Michael Merton – Steve Good
Attending by invitation – The Company Secretary, the 
Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer (when 
appropriate).
 – The Board Chairman, Company 
Secretary, the Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer, Director 
of Group Internal Audit, Head of 
Group Tax and Treasury, Group 
Financial Controller and external 
auditor (when appropriate).
 – The Company Secretary, the 
Chief Executive, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the 
external remuneration adviser 
(when appropriate).
Quorum – Two independent non-
executive directors.
 – Two independent non-
executive directors.
 – Two independent 
non-executive directors.
Number of meetings per year – At least twice per year. – At least three times per year. – At least three times per year.
Committee report – Page 58 – Page 61 – Page 65
Other – Committee Chairman to be 
available to shareholders at 
the AGM.
 – N/A – Remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is a matter for the Chairman 
and the Board’s executive members. 
Remuneration of the Chairman is 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee within the terms of the 
agreed policy and in consultation 
with the Chief Executive. 56 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees continued
Board attendance
The Board met formally nine times during the period and informally on other occasions. Non-executive directors are also available throughout 
the year and are available to attend additional Board meetings as necessary. The table below shows attendance by directors at meetings of 
the Board:
Board
Number
attended
Number of 
meetings
Tim Eggar 9 9
Steve Good 9 9
Brian Larcombe
1
8 9
Michael Merton 9 9
Joe Oatley 9 9
Mary Reilly
2
1 3
Michael Speakman 9 9
Samantha Tough
3
3 6
1  Brian Larcombe was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company as of 21 January 2016 
2  Mary Reilly was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company as of 1 September 2016
3  Samantha Tough resigned as a non-executive director of the Company as of 31 August 2016
Directors’ interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements
Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred whilst in the proper 
performance of his or her duties. The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.
Other than the deed of indemnity referenced above, or as noted in the director’s remuneration report, no director had a material interest at 
any time during the year in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Board has reviewed the interests of each non-executive director and the potential impact of any such interests on director independence. 
None of the non-executive directors have had any material business interests with the Group. Accordingly, the Board considers that there are 
no agreements in place between the Group and any non-executive director that impacts the non-executive directors’ independence.
The Board recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments. Accordingly, 
directors are permitted to accept external appointments subject to the approval of the Board and the Remuneration Committee and provided 
that the additional appointments do not interfere with the directors’ ability to discharge their duties effectively. The executive directors’ 
commitments outside the Group are detailed in their biographies on page 52 and the Remuneration Committee’s report on page 65. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 57 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Effectiveness
Board evaluation/effectiveness review and review 
of directors
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group. 
Accordingly, in line with the recommendations of the Code, the 
Nomination Committee undertakes an annual exercise to evaluate 
the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual 
directors. In 2016, the Committee met to plan the evaluation process 
in detail. It considered Code provision B.6.2 which requires that 
evaluation of Board effectiveness should be externally facilitated 
every three years.
 
As it is not a constituent of the FTSE 350 the Company is not 
required to conduct an externally facilitated Board review and 
external facilitation therefore is a matter of discretion for the 
Committee. However, the Committee appointed Lintstock, a 
third-party service provider (www.lintstock.com), to advise on and 
facilitate an externally-managed Board review process in 2016, 
demonstrating the Board’s commitment to transparent governance 
processes. The review process covered a wide range of Board 
activities, including evaluating the performance of the Board, its 
Committees and separately that of the Chairman, and the strategic 
review conducted by the Board of the Group’s activities. The process 
involved both the completion by each director of a series of in-depth 
surveys and one-on-one discussions with each director conducted 
by the Chairman.
Each Committee and the Board, in open sessions, considered the 
reports on the reviews and monitored the implementation of a list 
of actions arising from such reviews during the financial year.
During the course of the year, as required by provision A.4.2 of the Code, 
to appraise the Chairman’s performance, the Chairman held a number of 
meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive 
directors and the Senior Independent Director held meetings with the 
non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman. 
Selection, appointment and support of directors
During the year, the Nomination Committee appointed specialist 
external recruitment consultants, Russell Reynolds, to search for 
a new independent non-executive director to replace Samantha 
Tough, who resigned following the Company’s re-domiciliation to the 
UK. The process identified a number of suitable candidates and after 
a formal and rigorous assessment and interview, the Nomination 
Committee recommended the appointment of Mary Reilly as a 
non-executive director and as a member of the Audit Committee 
with effect from 1 September 2016. Mary has brought a wealth of 
experience from a variety of sectors, including sport, luxury retail, 
manufacturing, business services and media.
All new directors receive a comprehensive induction programme 
following their appointment to the Board, which is tailored 
accordingly to:
 – Provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities of 
a director and their particular role;
 – Build an understanding of the Group’s structure, business and 
operations, culture, policies and the markets and countries in 
which the Company operates; and
 – Understand the role of the Company’s management and people 
and to attend introductory meetings with certain personnel.
New directors are also provided with key Board, operational and 
financial information, and arrangements are put in place for them 
to attend site visits in the UK. As set out on page 54, directors 
are provided, in a timely manner, with the quality and depth of 
information appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Rules on appointment and removal of directors
Subject to applicable law, a director may be appointed by an 
ordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting following 
nomination by the Board or a member (or members) entitled to vote 
at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the director 
chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting. Under Jersey law, 
a director may be removed by the Company, pursuant to the 
Company’s Articles, or by a resolution of the Company.
Re-election of directors
All the directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to 
be held on 10 May 2017. The Nomination Committee has confirmed 
to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the AGM in May 2017 continue to be 
effective and that the Board should support their re-election. The 
Board was mindful that both the Chairman and Michael Merton will 
have served six years on the Board during 2017 and it was important 
for both the Nomination Committee and the Board to undertake a 
rigorous evaluation of their re-appointment. Following the evaluation, 
it was determined that both should remain on the Board. The election 
or re-election of each director is therefore recommended by the 
Board. The Board is satisfied that all the directors will continue to 
be able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors. 
Directors’ engagement terms
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Board adopted a policy that 
non-executive directors’ terms of engagement should provide for a 
maximum initial term of three years terminable at any time by three 
months’ notice from either party. It is the Board’s current policy not 
to extend the aggregate period of service of non-executive directors 
beyond nine years. Any proposal to extend a non-executive director’s 
aggregate period of office beyond six years will be the subject of 
rigorous review. Both the Chairman and Michael Merton will have 
served six years on the Board during 2017. Following the required 
review, it was determined that in the interests of orderly succession 
and to maintain continuity given the recent changes to the Board, 
both should remain members of the Board. It was also determined 
that their continued membership of the Board should be subject to 
careful scrutiny and that in any event, their re-appointment should 
be subject to an annual review. 
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are employed 
under service agreements which are terminable on twelve months’ 
written notice by either party. 
Copies of the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment will be 
on display at the AGM, together with the executive directors’ service 
agreements and are generally available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office. Further details of the service contracts 
for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the 
non-executive directors are set out on page 70.
Significant commitments of the Chairman
Tim Eggar is currently Chairman of MyCelx Technologies Corporation 
and Haulfryn Group Limited, neither of which cause any conflict, 
potential conflict, nor impact upon the time commitment Tim requires 
to act as Chairman for the Group. 58 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
“The Committee has 
overseen a year of 
transition for the Board 
and its Committees 
and considers that the 
Company continues 
to have effective 
governance structures.”
Tim Eggar
Chairman, Nomination Committee
Directors’ governance report
Nomination Committee report
The Nomination Committee’s role and objectives
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised on page 55 and 
can be found in full at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility. 
The Committee remains focussed on overseeing the Board’s 
effectiveness and composition and in ensuring robust succession 
planning at Board and senior management levels.
The Nomination Committee’s composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised of the Board Chairman and two 
independent non-executive directors. It is chaired by Tim Eggar, 
whose biographical details and other directorships are summarised 
on page 52. All three members meet the Group’s criteria for 
independence. The Committee’s membership is set out on page 55. 
The Committee met formally on three occasions in 2016.
Number
attended
Number of 
meetings
Tim Eggar 3 3
Steve Good 2 3
Michael Merton 3 3
The Nomination Committee’s main activities during the year
The Committee performed three main activities during the year being: 
the annual evaluation of Board effectiveness, where the Committee met 
to plan and to review the outcome of the external Board effectiveness 
review; succession planning and renewal of director appointments; 
and the recruitment review process for new non-executive directors. 
Matters considered at the Committee’s meetings during 2016 are 
summarised below:
Board performance Review and consideration of 
Board diversity. 
2016 Board evaluation process 
including the review of evaluation 
findings – the key areas of focus 
included Board performance, 
dynamics and composition, the 
Board’s strategic review of the 
Group’s activities, risk management 
and succession planning.
Committee performance Annual review of the composition 
and effectiveness of the 
Committee’s performance and 
review of the Committee’s terms 
of reference.
Director performance Annual review of director 
performance and recommendation 
for re-election at the AGM.
Non-executive directors 
recruitment process
Review of the search criteria 
and arrangements for new 
non-executive directors and 
management of the search and 
recruitment process.
Director support Review of required directors 
training and implementing an 
appropriate programme. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 59 
Annual Report 2016
Board diversity
The Board recognises the very considerable advantages that can 
flow from diversity in challenging embedded practices, refreshing 
Board and organisational culture and improving Board effectiveness 
in the broadest sense. In this context, the Board views diversity as 
encompassing diversity of experience, background, perspective, 
psychological type and personal attributes and believes that this 
can be provided, though not exclusively, through ethnic and gender 
diversity. The Committee’s terms of reference expresses the 
desirability of expanding the diversity of the Board.
Re-election of directors and appointments
Following the completion of the 2016 Board evaluation process, the 
Committee met on 20 January 2017 and determined that all of the 
directors who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the 
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board, described on page 57, combined with a 
rigorous evaluation of both the Chairman and Michael Merton 
because both will have served six years on the Board during 2017, 
concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election 
continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and 
perform effectively.
The Nomination Committee led the process for the recruitment of 
one non-executive director and received advice from the external 
recruitment consultant Russell Reynolds (advisors with no other 
connection to the Company).
Following Samantha Tough’s resignation as a non-executive director 
of the Company on 31 August 2016, Mary Reilly was recommended 
to be appointed as a non-executive director and as a member of the 
Audit Committee with effect from 1 September 2016. In accordance 
with the Company’s Articles, Mary shall stand for election at the 
AGM to be held on 10 May 2017.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours, by prior 
arrangement. They will also be available for inspection at the venue 
of the AGM, prior to the AGM, details of which are contained in the 
AGM meeting notice.
The Committee has overseen a year of transition for the Board and 
its Committees and considers that the Company continues to have 
effective governance structures. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
14 March 2017 60 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Accountability
Internal control
Each director’s responsibilities in connection with the Annual Report 
are set out on page 79.
The Board’s overall responsibility for the Group’s internal control systems is 
demonstrated through the directors’ attention to their effective implementation 
and operation. Such controls are designed to identify, evaluate and manage 
the business’s principal risks in accordance with the Board’s agreed risk 
appetite rather than eliminate them. Therefore, they are not designed to 
guarantee the achievement of business objectives, but are aimed at 
providing reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Throughout the reporting period, and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report, the Company has operated a process for the 
identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced 
by the Group. The Board regularly reviews and amends this process.
Further details on risk management, principal risks and viability are 
set out on pages 32 to 39.
In addition, during the period, the directors undertook a review of the 
Group’s systems of internal control utilising the Financial Reporting 
Council’s guidance on risk management, internal control and related 
financial and business reporting. The assessment included a joint report 
from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Group Internal Audit 
to the Audit Committee, a discussion on the key elements of the Group’s 
overall internal control system and an analysis of the appropriateness 
and effectiveness of the control measures. In reviewing the effectiveness 
of the control systems, the directors have taken into account the nature 
and quality of regular and annual reporting undertaken during 2016.
Based on their review, the directors concluded that overall systems 
of internal control have been enhanced over the year and still remain 
appropriate. Nonetheless, the Group should derive further benefit 
from the standardisation of processes across all geographic territories 
and from ensuring that existing controls continue to operate effectively.
Key features of the Group’s systems of internal control include:
 – Strategic and financial planning – the Group produces a 
three-year plan, together with detailed annual budgets and 
objectives which are closely monitored and against which regular 
reports are prepared for consideration by the Board;
 – Investment appraisal – material contracts and capital 
expenditure are reviewed in advance by senior management and, 
when appropriate, approved by the Board;
 – Financial monitoring – profitability, margin return, cash flow, capital 
expenditure and return on capital are all closely monitored and key 
financial information reported to the Board on a regular basis, along 
with explanations of variances between actual and budgeted 
performance and action plans to rectify any such variances;
 – Delegated authority matrix – there is a clearly defined system 
of approval limits for key business decisions, including contract 
approvals, material transactions, acquisitions, disposals, capital 
purchases and operating expenditures; and
 – Structure – the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the 
Board also review the integrity of the financial and consolidation 
processes and the completeness and accuracy of financial information.
Principal risk management and internal control mechanisms
The Board has overall responsibility for managing risk within the 
business and delegates responsibility for review of the risk 
management systems’ adequacy to the Audit Committee. The 
principal internal control mechanisms used to identify, assess, 
manage and control risk are:
 – Risk registers – every six months, the Internal Audit function 
assists all business units, including the Group functions, in the 
assessment of each business area’s risk from which the risk 
registers are updated; material changes to the risk registers are 
reported to the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular 
basis; in 2016, the Audit Committee requested they receive and 
discuss a ‘deep-dive’ analysis of particular important risk topics 
on a sequential basis;
 – Risk appraisal – before any decisions are taken which could have 
a significant impact upon the Group’s business the related risks are 
assessed in advance and kept under review prior to finalisation of 
any decision;
 – Six-monthly certification process – senior managers within 
each of the Group’s business units certify detailed questionnaires 
that cover (amongst other things) their unit’s business conduct 
and regulatory compliance;
 – Internal Audit – this function operates a risk based audit 
approach; the Director of Group Internal Audit reports to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee; the Internal Audit team reports 
its proposed scope of work for the following year to the Audit 
Committee, which reviews the plan and assesses the 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function against those agreed 
objectives; the Internal Audit team also provides objective 
assurance on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit 
Committee and the Board;
 – Whistleblowing – the Group operates a confidential 
whistleblowing procedure that has been outsourced to an external 
service provider which encourages employees, workers or any 
other persons to disclose concerns relating to any forms of 
malpractice such as dangerous working practice, fraud or other 
illegal or improper conduct; the policies and procedures were 
reviewed and updated during the course of the year; any 
whistleblowing allegations are routed directly to the General 
Counsel, who independently investigates the matter with the 
assistance of the Group Compliance and Investigations Manager, 
and subsequent findings and actions are reported directly to the 
Audit Committee;
 – Anti-bribery and anti-corruption – the Group’s anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policy, which is underpinned by the Group’s 
business integrity and ethics code, applies to all Group employees 
and to any agents or other third party acting for, or on behalf of, 
the Group. This policy includes a clear statement on the Group’s 
commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices;
 – Conflict of interest register – a register of interests, including 
business interests and other appointments, is maintained as part of 
the Company’s procedure for identifying conflicts of interest between 
key personnel and the Group. Any conflicts detected are dealt with 
accordingly. This register is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Audit Committee and the Board have oversight function of all 
risk management and internal control issues.
Risk framework
The Board is committed to enhancing the Group’s risk management 
capability. The effective management of risk and opportunity is 
essential to the delivery of the Group’s strategy, achievement of 
sustainable shareholder value and the protection and enhancement 
of its reputation. The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the 
oversight of the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. The Board aims to ensure that the Group’s systems 
for the identification and management of risks are appropriate while 
ensuring that, within an agreed risk tolerance, the business is able 
to optimise enterprise value. 
The executive directors lead the focus on the identification of risk and 
its remediation. This aids the strengthening of internal controls, internal 
financial reporting and the direction of the Internal Audit function.
The senior management team promotes a culture where, as a matter 
of good business practice, both risks and opportunities are identified 
and managed, thereby ensuring more informed and effective business 
decisions are made to help the Group achieve its objectives and 
targets. The Board reviews risk tolerance to ensure that it is calibrated 
to the Group’s strategic objectives. Risk is assessed formally at business 
segment level through risk workshops and via the maintenance of risk 
registers. The updating of the risk registers is a continuous process, 
formalised every six months, involving the effective identification, 
evaluation and management of risks by individual managers. A 
comprehensive and rigorous bid authorisation model is used to 
manage the Group’s contractual risks when bidding for work.
To support the Board and the Audit Committee in discharging their 
responsibilities, the Internal Audit function delivers a comprehensive 
risk based assurance plan and regularly advises the Audit 
Committee on the effectiveness of the design and operation of the 
control environment. During the reporting year, management, the 
Internal Audit function and the external auditors have all made control 
improvement recommendations. This process of internal control 
review and improvement is ongoing and will continue to be closely 
monitored by the Audit Committee. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 61 
Annual Report 2016
Audit Committee report
“During the year the 
Committee initiated 
a sequenced 
‘deep-dive’ review 
of important risks, 
policies and controls.”
Michael Merton
Chairman, Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s role and objectives 
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised on page 55 
and can be found at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility. 
The Committee remains focussed on overseeing the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, the effectiveness of its internal financial 
controls and risk management systems, and the effectiveness of the 
external auditor.
The Audit Committee’s composition and meetings 
The Committee comprises the three independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by Michael Merton. Mary Reilly, who was 
appointed on 1 September 2016 following Samantha Tough’s 
resignation as a non-executive director of the Company on 
31 August 2016, has brought a wealth of business, financial and 
non-executive directorship experience to the Committee. All three 
members meet the Group’s criteria for independence and are 
deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial and 
industry specific experience, as required under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Biographical details of each of the Committee 
members are set out on page 52 and the membership of the 
Committee is set out in the table below and on page 55.
The Committee met formally on four occasions in 2016. The 
Chairman of the Committee has met during the year separately with 
both the Director of Group Internal Audit and with the external auditor 
without management being present. The Committee invites the Chief 
Financial Officer to attend meetings and also invites the Group Head 
of Tax and Treasury, the Director of Group Internal Audit and the 
Group Financial Controller to attend meetings covering the financial 
results of the Group. The Chairman and Chief Executive are 
frequently invited to attend the Committee meetings. At least part 
of some meetings are held alone with the external auditor, without 
the presence of management.
Number
attended
Number of 
meetings
Steve Good 3 4
Michael Merton 4 4
Mary Reilly
1
1 1
Samantha Tough
2
2 3
1   Mary Reilly was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and 
member of the Audit Committee as of 1 September 2016
2   Samantha Tough resigned as a non-executive director of the Company as of 
31 August 2016
Review of the Company’s critical accounting policies 
and associated judgements
The Committee considered the integrity of the Group’s 2016 
financial statements and reviewed the appropriateness of its critical 
accounting policies, and the judgements made in applying them. 
The year-end and interim financial statements were reviewed and 
discussed with the external auditors (Ernst & Young (EY)) and 
relevant individuals from Group Finance. 
 
In discharging its responsibility for overseeing the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, the Committee considered, among 
others, the specific matters outlined on the following pages:  62 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Audit Committee report continued
Matter Issue and nature of judgement Factors considered and conclusion reached
Industrial disease claims At 31 December 2016, the Group 
holds a provision of £172.5 million 
in relation to the industrial disease 
claims liability. The Committee 
considered the appropriateness 
of the provision held and related 
disclosures in the light of the 
developments during the year.
The Committee noted that the industrial disease claims provision and 
related disclosures had been reviewed as part of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Audit Quality Review (AQR) team’s review of EY’s audit of 
Cape plc’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, 
with no significant findings reported.
During 2016, the regular triennial actuarial valuation of the historical 
industrial disease claims liability was undertaken. The Committee 
considered this updated independent external actuarial valuation; it 
reviewed key macro assumptions including the appropriateness of 
the discount rate and inflation assumptions. It also considered the 
appropriateness of scheme-specific assumptions, including the likely 
quantum, incidence and composition of projected future awards, and 
the protections afforded by insurance. Additionally, the Committee 
considered the assumptions made with regard to the likely future scope 
of eligible claims by individuals and insurance companies. The 
Committee satisfied itself as to both the independence of the external 
actuary and management’s processes for ensuring the accuracy of 
claims source data, the appropriateness of sensitivities to the likely 
outcome and the adequacy of related disclosures. 
Following the conclusion of the six-week trial in relation to the insurer 
product liability claims, the Group reached agreement to settle this 
litigation for a consideration of £18.0 million payable immediately and a 
deferred payment of up to £34.5 million payable in the period 2018 to 
2023. These payments, discounted using an appropriate discount rate, 
have been charged to profit or loss during the year and included in the 
industrial disease claims provision held as at 31 December 2016.
In July 2016, a determinant judgment was issued in respect of the 
insurer employer liability claims trial, in which some issues were found 
in favour of Cape and some against. The Company has been granted 
leave to appeal with the appeal hearing to be held in July 2017. 
Nevertheless, the Board believed it to be prudent to increase the 
provision held against industrial disease claims to take account of the 
judgment. Consequently, £9.7 million has been included in the industrial 
disease claims provision held as at 31 December 2016
The Committee concluded that the provision held and the related 
disclosures during the year were appropriate and that management’s 
processes for determining the provision were robust. 
Carrying value of goodwill The Group balance sheet holds 
an amount of £132.9 million of 
goodwill as at 31 December 2016. 
The directors are required to 
determine annually whether 
those assets have suffered any 
impairment. 
Detailed value-in-use calculations are prepared and reviewed annually. 
Management explained the processes for preparing the annual goodwill 
impairment test, the controls over the data and assumptions used and 
considered these in the context of the Group’s strategic plan. 
The Committee noted that the assessment of the carrying value of 
goodwill had been reviewed as part of the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Audit Quality Review (AQR) team’s review of EY’s audit of Cape plc’s 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, with no 
significant findings reported. 
The Committee considered the audit improvements made by EY following 
the AQR review, performed a rigorous review of the process, judgements 
and calculations undertaken and concluded that the approach taken was 
sensible and the judgements made were appropriate.
Carrying value of property, 
plant and equipment
Due to the nature of Cape’s 
business, the Group holds a 
significant amount of fixed assets, 
primarily scaffold assets. The 
Group must ensure that the 
carrying value of the scaffold 
assets is represented by physical 
scaffold. The Committee assesses 
the appropriateness of controls 
and procedures to verify the 
existence and carrying value of 
scaffold assets. 
During 2016 there has been further strengthening of the scaffold asset 
monitoring system, which allows central visibility over the scaffold 
components in sites and yards. The scaffold management system is 
continually updated when scaffold is returned from sites, at which time 
any shortages become apparent, and is updated with the results of 
regular site and yard scaffold counts.
The control procedures at physical scaffold counts were reviewed and 
reported on by Internal Audit and these findings were summarised for the 
Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee noted the continuing progress made in 
management’s control over scaffolding and concluded that the carrying 
value of these assets in the financial statements was appropriate. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 63 
Annual Report 2016
Matter Issue and nature of judgement Factors considered and conclusion reached
Long-term contracts and 
revenue recognition
A material proportion of the 
Group’s earnings are derived from 
long-term contracts whereby 
revenue is recognised over time 
in accordance with the Group’s 
revenue recognition policy. 
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the policy and the 
controls that are in place to ensure compliance with it. 
Procedures for bid approvals and contract controls were presented to the 
Audit Committee. The way that key contracts were accounted for was 
reviewed and discussed with management, as were uncertainties 
regarding the appropriateness of the assumptions made. Commercial 
and credit risks around specific contracts were reviewed by the 
Committee on a regular basis.
The Committee was encouraged that during 2016, in anticipation of the 
change to International Financial Reporting Standard 15 in January 2018, 
a Group-wide workshop was held to ensure understanding and 
application of current procedures, identify potential process changes 
and appropriately plan for the adoption of the new standard. 
The Committee concluded that the contract acceptance and control 
environment had continued to be strengthened and that the Group’s 
processes and controls around revenue recognition were consistent 
and appropriate.
Taxation The Group’s financial statements 
include provisions and accruals 
for tax and assessment of these 
at year-end, along with related 
disclosures.
The Committee considered the adequacy of the Group’s processes to ensure 
that all probable tax liabilities were recorded in the balance sheet and that any 
tax returns which were disputed by a tax authority in any jurisdiction, including 
HMRC, had been given appropriate consideration. The Committee 
determined that the assumptions and estimations made in relation to taxation, 
along with the Group’s related tax disclosures, were appropriate.
 
The Committee noted that assessment of the recoverability of the deferred 
tax asset in Australia had been reviewed as part of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s AQR team’s review of EY’s audit of Cape plc’s financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015, with no significant findings reported. 
The Committee noted the audit improvements made by EY following the 
AQR review and considered the adequacy of the assumptions regarding 
the recoverability of the deferred tax asset in Australia, concluding that the 
assumptions were appropriate.
In December, the Committee received and discussed a ‘deep-dive’ 
analysis of the taxation risks, policies and controls across the Group, 
improving the Committee’s knowledge and enabling a more focussed 
review and challenge of management’s judgements in this area.
Long-term viability In accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the 
directors are required to assess 
the prospects for the Group over a 
longer period than the twelve-month 
going concern provision.
The Group’s viability assessment was based upon output from the 
Group’s annual strategic review, during which the Board reviews Cape’s 
current commercial position, strategy and risks and opportunities 
alongside current and expected market conditions and trends. 
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the projected time 
period and the selected principal risks against which the Company’s 
viability was to be stress tested.
Based upon a robust assessment of the principal risks to the Group’s 
prospects and consideration of the duration of the Group’s contract base 
and the projected timing of IDC and pension outflows, the directors 
concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year assessment period.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
financial controls and risk management systems 
There are a number of policies, processes and functions that the 
Committee considered in 2016 in relation to internal financial controls 
and risk management which are detailed below. 
 – Internal audit. The Internal Audit function is responsible for the review 
of the Group’s internal control processes according to an annual internal 
audit plan that is approved by the Audit Committee in advance. As part of 
the review of the internal audit plan the Committee considered its scope 
and the adequacy of internal audit resources. The Committee monitored 
the scope, effectiveness and findings of the activities of internal audit 
through formal reporting by the Director of Group Internal Audit, and 
reviewed management’s remediation plans for non-compliances in 
order to ensure timely rectification of any internal control weaknesses.
 – Internal control environment. The six-monthly internal controls’ 
questionnaire (which requires business unit and regional 
management to confirm compliance or non-compliance with a 
prescribed list of regulatory requirements and internal policies) 
was updated during the year. The questionnaire continues to 
prove to be a highly effective tool in monitoring and improving 
compliance with the Group’s internal controls. The Committee 
obtained assurance that the necessary rigour and diligence was 
applied by management in completing this Group-wide process. 
The Director of Group Internal Audit provided regular updates on 
key management and financial internal controls to the Committee, 
including any control or process changes and a summary of the 
current internal control environment. The Committee continued 
to monitor management’s progress in standardising processes 
for asset management and contract accounting, and received 
regular updates from the Chief Financial Officer on these matters. 
In addition, the Committee discussed the strengthening of the  64 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Audit Committee report continued
Group’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance through a 
number of regional training workshops and business unit audits. 
These workshops and audits were focussed on identifying gaps 
in anti-bribery and anti-corruption awareness between different 
management levels and improving general awareness across the 
Group of anti-bribery and anti-corruption risk management.
 – Risk analysis. The Committee monitored and, with assistance 
from the Director of Group Internal Audit, reviewed changes to the 
risk register (which itemises the relative significance of business 
risks). Each of the principal risks and any re-rating during the year 
are discussed by the Committee, with actions to mitigate the 
impact of identified risk reviewed regularly. The Committee 
particularly considered whether the risk register properly reflected 
the Group’s actual experience in the preceding years, as well as 
the adequacy of mitigating controls. Following these risk reviews, 
the Committee noted that the company is exposed to increasing 
IT-related financial risks, reflecting in part the increase in external 
cyber security threats, against which its control procedures 
provided a successful defence. During the year, the Committee 
initiated a sequenced ‘deep-dive’ review of important risks, 
policies and controls, with the first review covering anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption, facilitated by an external expert, and the 
second covering taxation across the Group. 
 – Business integrity and ethics. The Group General Counsel 
regularly reports to Committee meetings on the findings and 
progress of any investigations into unethical, fraudulent or 
potentially fraudulent activities. Whistleblowing updates are 
provided to each Committee meeting by the Group General 
Counsel with updates on any cases raised, investigations and 
recommended action. 
 – Conflict of interest register. The register of conflicts of interest 
is updated regularly and reviewed by the Committee.
 – Commercial assurance. The introduction in 2015 of a 
commercial assurance review at each Committee meeting has 
been a useful addition to its overview of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management systems. The Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Officer report to the Committee on specific 
ongoing commercial contract risks. The Committee discussed 
and challenged the actions being taken on these key contracts, 
which was assisted by an improving level and quality of 
documentation associated with activities undertaken on these 
contracts. Any significant loss making contracts, concerns over 
build-up of work in progress, debt or significant other commercial 
issues were also discussed and actions reviewed.
Compliance
In line with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, it is a 
requirement that the Audit Committee as a whole shall have 
competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates. 
The Audit Committee is confident it meets this standard. Its 
members are drawn from a broad range of business and commercial 
backgrounds, with the Chairman of the Committee having extensive 
experience in the international resources industry.
During the year, the Audit Committee took steps to ensure it 
complied with the Financial Reporting Council’s guidance on Audit 
Committees published in April 2016.
Effectiveness of external auditors 
The Committee considered the objectivity, effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditors. 
At the AGM on 11 May 2016, a resolution of the Company was 
passed to re-appoint EY as the Company’s external auditors. EY 
were first appointed as the Company’s external auditors in 2013. 
The partner responsible for the audit first worked on the appointment 
in 2013. 
During the year, the Financial Reporting Council’s Audit Quality 
Review (AQR) team undertook a review of EY’s audit of Cape plc’s 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. The 
focus of the AQR at the component level was revenue recognition 
within the UK business of Cape Industrial Services Limited and at the 
consolidated level specific areas were reviewed, including goodwill 
impairment testing, industrial disease claims valuation, taxation and 
going concern. There were no significant findings in the AQR team’s 
report issued to the Company in August 2016.
The Committee reviewed the policies relating to external auditors 
including: appointment and termination; audit fees; non-audit work; 
and reporting of control weaknesses. 
The Committee discussed EY’s audit process at its meetings in 
March, August and December 2016. The findings from the 2015 
financial year audit cycle were reviewed and feedback received from 
the business and the Chief Financial Officer on the effectiveness of 
the external audit process. The Committee reviewed the quality and 
cost-effectiveness of the external audit, and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors. The findings of EY’s interim review 
and the accounting treatment of significant items raised were 
discussed in August 2016 and the 2017 external audit plan was 
reviewed in December 2016. The Committee and the Board are 
committed to maintaining the highest standards of external 
audit quality.
In assessing auditor independence, the Committee had regard to the 
Smith Guidance for Audit Committees and accordingly required the 
auditors to confirm that their independence and ethics policies 
complied with the requirements of the ICAEW.
The Audit Committee has been careful to ensure that it is satisfied 
as to EY’s independence. It discharges this duty through: obtaining 
confirmation from the auditors that they are, in their professional 
judgement, independent of the Group; periodic assessment of 
relevant developments within the audit firm; and its formal policy 
regarding the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services. 
EY have confirmed to the Committee that they remain independent 
and maintain internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity. No 
contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group’s choice of 
external auditor and the Audit Committee is satisfied that the external 
auditor remains independent. Additionally, the Committee reviewed 
the most recent report from the Financial Reporting Council on the 
quality of EY’s audit practices. During the year EY have charged the 
Group £1.2 million for audit and audit-related work. Further details 
of the fees paid to EY for both audit and non-audit work can be 
found in note 10 ‘Auditor’s remuneration’ to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The Audit Committee has established policies determining the 
non-audit services that the external auditors can provide and the 
procedures required for pre-approval of any such engagement. 
Such policies provide for the auditors to be engaged only for work 
that is not prohibited by professional or other regulatory requirements. 
The policies state that in most cases general non-audit services 
should not be provided by the external auditor and does not allow 
the external auditor to provide internal audit, accounting services, 
valuation services or assignments that present a potential self-review 
conflict. Even where the Group’s policies allow for the external 
auditor to be engaged to provide non-audit services, prior approval 
is required from the Audit Committee for all assignments between 
£25,000 and £250,000. Assignments over £250,000 shall not take 
place without prior Board approval. In any one year, the sum of all 
permitted non-audit fees must not exceed £500,000 or 50% of the 
total annual external audit fee of the Group, whichever is the lesser. 
These approvals operate in addition to the Group’s general 
procurement policies which require material contracts to be subject 
to a formal tender process. Annually, the Chief Financial Officer 
submits a report of fees charged and services provided by the 
auditors and this is reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure 
policies have been complied with. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee reports to the Board identifying any matters where 
procedures could be improved.
The Audit Committee received a report from EY describing the 
arrangements that had been made to identify, report upon and 
manage any conflict of interests that might arise and to ensure the 
maintenance of external auditor independence. On the basis of 
the matters outlined above, and notwithstanding that EY provided 
non-audit services of £0.1 million during the reporting year, the 
Committee considers that EY’s independence and objectivity 
were not impaired.
Michael Merton
On behalf of the Audit Committee
14 March 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 65 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ remuneration report
“The Committee remains 
comfortable that our overall 
remuneration structure 
continues to support our 
Company’s long-term 
growth strategy and 
appropriately rewards 
executive performance.”
Steve Good
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s statement 
The Committee’s three-year remuneration policy was introduced 
in 2014 and so is required to be put to a shareholder vote at the 
2017 AGM, which is being held on 10 May 2017. The Committee 
contemplated a range of changes to our Remuneration Policy and 
concluded that, given the challenges faced by the Group, it needed 
additional time to further investigate options and engage properly 
with our shareholders. Accordingly, the Committee will not be 
seeking any changes to the policy at the 2017 AGM. We believe the 
existing policy remains appropriate at this time and will therefore ask 
our shareholders to vote on extending this policy until a new policy 
is proposed, which we anticipate will be at next year’s AGM.
We recognise that the remuneration of senior executives is the 
subject of much scrutiny and we are mindful of the principles of 
remuneration published by stakeholder representatives such as the 
Investment Association (IA), Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) 
and others, and of the revisions to governance by the Department of 
Business, Innovation and Skills. We believe that this report seeks to 
be open and transparent in reporting on the Company’s and the 
Group’s remuneration structures.
The Committee has invested considerable time and effort in the past 
few years in structuring executive director remuneration – ensuring 
that it is transparent, stretching and rigorously applied to attract, 
motivate and retain executive talent to deliver the business strategy.
The Committee considered the following items of business during 2016:
 – Remuneration policy renewal and revision options
 – Selecting new independent remuneration consultants to advise 
the Committee
 – Externally facilitated review of the Committee’s activities 
(Lintstock (www.lintstock.com))
 – Executive directors’ and senior executives’ salary levels
 – Chairman fee
 – Annual bonus performance measures and targets
 – Annual bonus award for 2015
 – Vesting of the 2013 long-term incentive award based on 2015 results
 – 2016 long-term incentive award levels
 – Structure of 2017 long-term incentive award 
 – Drafting the directors’ remuneration report and
 – Reviewing and updating the Terms of Reference
Performance and reward for 2016
Market conditions remained challenging in 2016. The ongoing low oil 
price environment continued to impact activity levels and competitive 
intensity in the Group’s oil and gas activities, while the closure of two 
UK coal-fired power stations, in line with UK Government policy, 
resulted in significantly lower demand for the Group’s services in this 
market. Customers continued to focus on costs and cash management, 
which impacted the volume and phasing of activities and increased 
the pressure on margins. Despite the difficult external environment 
and as described in more detail in the Strategic report, 2016 was a 
year of further progress in: delivering robust underlying profit with 
increased construction-related activities in Asia Pacific offsetting 
lower activity levels elsewhere in the Group; delivering an improved 
working capital position and operating cash conversion; and 
substantial progress against a number of strategic milestones, 
including moving forward on the Group’s Operational Excellence 
programme, establishing an in-country base in Iraq and amending 
and extending the Group’s revolving credit facility. 66 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
2016 annual bonuses were earned at 96.5% and 93.0% of maximum 
for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively, 
having achieved our financial performance measures in full and 
meeting the majority of strategic objectives during the year. See 
page 73 for further details of performance against annual bonus 
targets in 2016.
With regard to the long-term incentives granted in 2014 under the 
Company’s Performance Share Plan (PSP), these are due to vest 
in March 2017 (subject to continued service) with performance 
assessed against EPS growth targets over the three years ended 
31 December 2016. The threshold EPS target was 26.7 pence and 
the maximum EPS target was 32.5 pence. These targets were 
determined by annual growth rates of RPI + 3% per annum and 
RPI + 10% per annum. During the PSP testing period the Group 
experienced a cyclical decline in some important markets, with the 
oil price in particular declining from a high of $115 per barrel in 2014 
to $28 per barrel in early 2016. Despite this backdrop, 2016 EPS of 
29.9 pence is approximately 28% higher than the Group’s 2013 base 
year EPS of 23.3 pence. Consequently, the award is expected to vest 
at 69%. See page 74 for full details of executive directors’ 2014 
PSP awards.
 
The Committee is comfortable that the level of variable pay outlined 
above is appropriate in light of the Group’s strong performance in 
very challenging market conditions. 
Application of Remuneration Policy for 2017 
The Board has concluded that after a strong performance in 2016 
the Group should continue to invest to support growth through the 
five principal initiatives outlined in the Strategic report. The five key 
elements remain: operational excellence; customer intimacy; a 
balanced business; a broader portfolio; and geographical expansion 
(see page 14).
For 2017, the Committee will continue to incorporate many of these 
elements into the setting of bonus and PSP performance targets 
whilst also continuing to take into account the overall environment 
in which the Group is currently operating. The Board reviewed the 
proposed Budget for 2017 and the strategic plan for the three years 
from 2017 to 2019 in detail. The Committee, acting on the outcomes, 
has set financial parameters in the bonus and long-term incentive 
plans which are both stretching and motivating, taking into 
consideration the Group’s prospects for 2017 and the challenges the 
Company is faced with. Salary increases for executive directors in 
2017 will be 1.5%, which is in line with the average increase for the 
UK workforce. As a result, and noting that our overall remuneration 
arrangements are weighted towards long-term performance through 
the operation of our PSP and share ownership guidelines, we remain 
comfortable that our overall remuneration structure continues to 
support the Company’s long-term growth strategy and appropriately 
rewards executive performance.
In summary, the Committee continues to have rigorous and 
challenging discussions and I am satisfied that we continue to 
ensure that the executive directors are focussed on the strategy 
and motivated to deliver it in the interests of our shareholders. 
Steve Good
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
14 March 2017
Remuneration Committee report
Voluntary adoption of UK reporting regulations
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendments) Regulations 2013 (the ‘Regulations’) came 
into force in the UK on 1 October 2013 in relation to companies 
incorporated in the UK. With effect from 13 December 2013, the UK 
Listing Authority’s Listing Rules were also amended in the case of 
premium-listed companies incorporated in the UK to reflect the 
Regulations. The effect of the changes is that all premium-listed 
companies incorporated in the UK are required to offer shareholders 
(i) a binding vote on the Company’s forward-looking remuneration 
policy (i.e. the remuneration policy) which must take place at least 
every three years and (ii) a separate advisory vote on the 
implementation of the Company’s existing remuneration policy in 
terms of the payments and share awards made to directors during 
the year (i.e. the annual remuneration report). As a Jersey-incorporated 
company, the Company is not subject to such regulations or 
amended requirements of the Listing Rules in this regard. However, 
in line with best practice for overseas listed companies, the 
Company complies with these regulations as if it were a premium 
listed Company incorporated in the UK (to the extent that such 
requirements were different from the provisions of the Listing Rules 
which it is required to comply with in any event).
We are seeking approval to extend our current remuneration policy, 
for which we received overwhelming support from our shareholders 
in 2014. For completeness and transparency, this part of the report 
includes a summary of the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM and intended to operate for a further 
year following the 2017 AGM.
Where references were made in the remuneration policy report to 
specific levels of pay in a particular year these have been removed 
with the relevant information relating to 2016 included in the annual 
report on remuneration which follows. The full policy report 
approved by the Company’s shareholders at the 2014 AGM can be 
found in the 2013 Annual Report, which is available on our website 
(www.capeplc.com). 
In the sections and tables in the report that follows, data labelled 
as ‘audited’ has been audited by the Group’s external independent 
auditors, EY. The remuneration report has been approved by the 
Board and the Company’s Remuneration Committee (the 
‘Committee’).
The directors’ remuneration policy
This part of the directors’ remuneration report sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company. 
Policy overview
The directors’ remuneration policy (the ‘Remuneration Policy’) is 
based on the following broad principles set by the Committee to: 
provide a transparent, stretching and competitive remuneration 
package to attract, motivate and retain high-quality individuals to 
promote the Company’s long-term success; align remuneration to 
drive the overall objectives of the business, supporting growth through 
the five principle strategic initiatives outlined in the Strategic report; 
align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders; 
and set the remuneration of the executive directors and Chairman 
with due account taken of: (1) pay and employment conditions 
throughout the Group; and (2) corporate governance best practice.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by a binding vote of the 
shareholders at the Company’s 2014 AGM and accordingly the 
policy applied from 14 May 2014 and will continue to apply until the 
2017 AGM. The Committee has decided that the existing policy 
remains appropriate at this time and will be put to shareholders at 
the Company’s 2017 AGM for a binding vote, pending completion 
of the Committee’s review of the policy in light of the ongoing 
challenges faced by the Group. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 67 
Annual Report 2016
The objective of the Remuneration Policy is aligned with the 
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code as 
they relate to directors’ remuneration. That is to provide a level of 
remuneration to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality 
required to run the Company successfully, but avoid paying more than 
is necessary for this purpose. As explained below, a significant proportion 
of executive directors’ remuneration is structured to link rewards to 
corporate and individual performance on agreed strategic objectives.
The Committee ensures that account is taken of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) risks when setting remuneration and 
is comfortable that remuneration packages do not raise any ESG 
risks. The Committee review performance measures and targets 
on an annual basis to ensure they do not encourage or motivate 
irresponsible behaviour. Furthermore, the performance review will 
take into account any ESG events when determining the outcome 
of any variable pay. 
The Committee is cognisant of its overall responsibility to ensure the 
Remuneration Policy operates within a sound risk framework. The 
Committee will review incentive arrangements regularly to ensure 
they comply with the risk management systems and that controls are 
operating effectively. The Committee also ensures that inappropriate 
operational/financial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded 
through the Company’s remuneration policies and, that instead, a 
sensible balance is struck between fixed and variable pay, short and 
long-term incentives and cash and equity. The Committee has 
access to the Audit Committee and its members to discuss any 
matters of risk assessment as and when required. 
Executive director policy table
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary
To provide a competitive base 
salary which recognises the skills 
and experience of the individual 
and the scope and responsibilities 
of the role they perform.
Reviewed annually.
Positioned at a market competitive 
level for similar roles within 
comparable companies.
Takes periodic account against 
companies with similar 
characteristics and sector 
comparators.
The review also considers pay 
and employment conditions in the 
wider Group, other inflationary 
pressures and internal relativities.
Salary levels will be eligible for 
increases during the one-year 
period that the Remuneration 
Policy operates from the 
effective date.
 – During this time, salaries may 
be increased (in percentage of 
salary terms) in line with those 
of the wider workforce (after 
taking into account the annual 
salary budget and 
performance-related increases 
within the overall salary budget)
 – Increases beyond those 
linked to the workforce (in 
percentage of salary terms) 
may be awarded in certain 
circumstances such as 
where there is a change in 
responsibility, experience or 
a significant increase in the 
scale of the role and/or size, 
value and/or complexity of 
the Group.
The Committee considers 
both individual and Company 
performance in a broad context 
when determining base salary 
increases.
Other benefits
To provide competitive 
cost-effective benefits in line 
with market practice.
Executive directors receive a 
car allowance, private medical 
insurance, critical illness 
protection and life assurance.
 – Other employment benefits 
may be offered to executive 
directors, generally on the 
same terms as other 
employees, from time to time.
In 2016, the maximum cost of 
providing benefits (based on 
taxable value of the benefits) was 
£43,999 for all executive directors.
 – The cost of providing 
employment benefits will vary 
from year to year as they are 
dependent on third-party 
supplier charges
 – We do not expect the 
maximum amount to exceed 
£50,000.
N/A
Pension
To provide a competitive 
contribution towards making 
provisions for retirement.
Defined contribution.
Cash alternative may be offered.
Monthly employer contribution 
of 15% of base salary.
N/A 68 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Annual bonus
Incentivise delivery of 
performance linked to the 
Company’s business objectives.
Measured over a one-year 
performance period.
Paid as cash.
Not pensionable.
Clawback provisions apply and 
are operable for three years 
following the payment of a bonus 
in any year.
Chief Executive maximum: 
120% of salary.
Chief Financial Officer maximum: 
100% of salary.
The bonus is determined against 
a range of key performance 
indicators with the majority of the 
annual bonus measured against 
financial targets and a minority 
against strategic objectives. 
 – Financial targets are set 
around the budgeted level of 
performance for the year and 
may include adjusted EPS, 
cash flow and/or other key 
financial metrics as deemed 
appropriate by the Committee 
 – Strategic objectives are based 
around the Committee’s and 
executives’ view of the key 
objectives that need to be met 
in the current year to achieve 
the overall Group strategy 
 – The Committee determines 
the extent to which the 
executive directors have 
met their strategic targets 
by assessing the overall 
achievement in the relevant 
year. Achieving the threshold 
performance level against 
the financial metrics would 
generally result in 0% of the 
relevant bonus amount being 
earned. Bonus against 
financial metrics is generally 
earned on a straight line basis 
from threshold to target 
(50%) and then target to the 
maximum (100%) level
 – The Committee reserves the 
right to modify the financial 
payment.
Long-term incentive plan (PSP)
To drive long-term performance 
linked to the Company’s strategic 
objectives.
Aid retention.
Align the interests of executive 
directors with shareholders.
Annual grant of performance 
shares with vesting conditional 
on the Group’s performance 
against challenging long-term 
performance conditions.
The Committee may claw back 
awards up to three years after 
vesting if the Group’s accounts 
have been materially misstated or 
there has been an error in the 
calculation of any performance 
condition.
Chief Executive: 140% of salary 
performance shares.
Chief Financial Officer: 140% 
of salary performance shares.
In exceptional circumstances 
awards may be granted up to 
175% of salary.
Performance targets are set that 
relate to the Company’s long-term 
key performance indicators
Financial targets will determine 
vesting in relation to a majority 
of an award (e.g. adjusted EPS 
growth) 
At threshold performance 
30% of the award vests
The Committee reserves the right 
to modify the financial targets 
within the plan.
Share ownership guidelines
To provide alignment between 
executives and shareholders.
Executives are required to retain 
half of the shares vesting (net of 
tax) under the long-term incentive 
plan until the guideline is met. 
Vested nil cost options count 
towards the shareholding guideline 
on a notional post-tax basis.
150% of salary holding for 
Chief Executive.
100% of salary holding for 
Chief Financial Officer.
N/A Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 69 
Annual Report 2016
Non-executive directors’ policy table
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Fees
To provide a compensation 
which reflects the skills and 
experience of the individual 
and the time commitments 
and responsibilities expected 
of the role they perform.
Reviewed on a periodic basis. 
Takes periodic account against 
companies with similar 
characteristics and sector 
comparators. If actual time 
spent is materially greater, then 
additional fees may be paid on 
a pro-rata basis.
Fees may be increased during 
the period that the remuneration 
policy operates (in percentage 
terms) to ensure that the fee level 
set captures the time commitment 
required of the role and/or the 
responsibilities associated with 
fulfilling the non-executive duties.
N/A
Operation of variable pay incentives
The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility for overseeing the operation of the above annual bonus plan and long-term incentive 
plan according to the relevant plan rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. However, the quantum 
and performance targets set will be in accordance with the policy stated above. As part of this process, the Committee may be required to 
use judgement in a number of regards. These actions will typically include the following: 
 – participants of the plans
 – timing of grant of award and/or payment
 – size of an award and/or a payment
 – setting performance measures for the annual bonus plan and long-term incentive plan from year to year, the weightings to be applied 
and the targets to be set 
 – determination of vesting, including assessment of performance conditions 
 – how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group
 – how to determine a good/bad leaver status in accordance with the relevant scheme rules
 – if any adjustments are required in certain circumstances (e.g. a capital structure change such as with a rights issue or other 
corporate restructuring).
The Committee also retains the right, in exceptional circumstances, to make necessary adjustments to annual bonus and long-term incentive 
plan performance measures, including the targets, weightings and/or setting different measures if a material event occurs (e.g. major acquisition 
or divestment of a Group business) whereby the original performance condition is no longer considered appropriate. Any changes would be 
made so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy. All historic awards that were granted 
but remain outstanding (as detailed on page 74 of the remuneration report), remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
Choice of performance metrics
As detailed in the Chief Executive’s review on page 8, the Group remains fully aligned with delivering profitable growth both through 
organic growth and acquisition. For the annual bonus plan, the policy is to have a strong focus on financial measures, with further reward 
for achieving strategic or personal targets which are each aligned with the Company’s longer-term strategic objectives. The Remuneration 
Committee and the Board believe that the most appropriate performance metric for the Company to be measured against on a long-term 
basis remains growth of adjusted EPS. In order to ensure that the long-term incentive plan is delivering significant shareholder value, the 
Committee believes it is appropriate to measure growth in adjusted EPS.
Employees’ views and global pay and employment policies across the Group
The Committee does not actively consult employees for their views on executive remuneration policy. This is in line with standard market 
practice and reflects the Committee’s view that it will not provide cost-effective engagement at this stage in the Company’s development. 
However, when setting executive directors’ base salaries, annual bonus awards and long-term incentive plan allocations, the Remuneration 
Committee is made aware of and takes into account comparative data relating to the pay and benefits of other Group employees. The 
Remuneration Policy of the Group remains consistent in all countries and at all levels of the Company with the overriding consideration 
being to pay competitive salaries in line with the appropriate country and sector and to provide opportunities to increase earnings to higher 
levels through superior performance. Lower aggregate incentive quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by market 
comparatives and the impact of the role and for certain senior roles that are compliance focussed. Long-term incentives are reserved for 
those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence Group performance levels and the creation of shareholder value. Accordingly, 
approximately 70 of our c. 16,000 employees globally are invited to participate in the long-term incentive plan, but this number will change 
from year to year according to the particular policy utilised by the Committee.
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting following the AGM. 
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Company’s 
annual review of remuneration policy. 70 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Recruitment and promotion policy
The Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below when considering a new executive appointment:
Remuneration element Policy
Base salary – Set to reflect the skills and experience of the individual 
 – Takes account of market data against companies with similar characteristics and sector comparators
 – Salary levels may be set below the perceived market competitive range (e.g. to reflect an individual’s 
limited plc Board experience), with the aim to offer phased above inflationary increase to re-position 
salary at the desired level over a two to three-year period, subject to individual performance and 
development in the role.
Benefits – Benefits as provided to current executive directors 
 – Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses, legal fees and 
other allowances that the Committee considered appropriate.
Pension – Defined contribution or cash supplement alternative
 – Maximum of 15% of salary, as offered to the current executives.
Annual bonus – Operate as outlined for current executives
 – Maximum opportunity of up to 120% of salary
 – Different performance measures and targets may be set initially, dependent on the timing of appointment. 
Long-term incentives – Operate as outlined for current executives
 – Performance share awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current 
executive directors
 – An award may be made shortly after an appointment (subject to the Company not being in a 
prohibited period) 
 – Maximum opportunity of up to 140% of salary (175% of salary in exceptional circumstances)
 – For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period, subject to their 
original terms and conditions.
Buy-out award – To facilitate an external recruitment, it may be necessary to buy-out remuneration which would be 
forfeited on leaving their previous employer. When determining the quantum and structure of any 
buy-out awards the Committee will consider, but not be limited to, the following factors:
 – the form of remuneration (cash or shares)
 – timing of expected payment/vesting, and
 – expected value (i.e. taking into account the likelihood of achieving the existing performance criteria) 
 – Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Company’s existing share plans to the extent 
possible (i.e. up to 175% of salary under the long-term incentive plan), although awards may also be 
granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ terms of appointment 
The Committee’s policy on service contracts for executive directors is that they should provide for twelve months’ notice of termination by the 
Company and the executive. The Chief Executive’s and the Chief Financial Officer’s contracts operate on a rolling basis with a twelve-month 
notice period. There are no enhanced provisions on a change of control. The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key 
terms shown below, and the policy for a new hire would be based on terms that are consistent with these provisions:
Provision Terms
Notice period – Rolling twelve months by either Company or executive.
Termination payment – Twelve months’ salary plus employer pension contributions in lieu of notice (excluding bonus and all 
other contractual benefits).
 – No special change of control provisions.
Remuneration entitlements – Salary, pension and benefits
 – Company car cash allowance
 – Eligible to participate in the executive annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive plan (PSP)
 – Life, private health and income protection insurance.
Non-competition – During employment and for six months after leaving.
Change of control – None.
Under the terms of the annual bonus plan, executive directors must be in employment and not ‘under notice’ at the time the bonus is paid in 
order to be eligible to receive a bonus award. However, should they leave service as a result of certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances such as 
death, ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement, transfer or sale of the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, 
they may be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the period of employment.
The treatment for share based incentives previously granted to an executive director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. For 
awards granted under the long-term incentive plan, which was introduced when Cape moved to the Official List in 2011, ‘good leaver’ status 
may be determined in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, illness, injury or disability, redundancy, an executive’s employment 
being sold out of the Group or any other reason determined by the Committee. If defined as a good leaver, awards will remain subject to 
performance conditions, which will be measured over the performance period from grant to date of cessation unless the Committee decides 
to test performance as at the original vesting date in which case the performance period shall be the original performance period of three 
years. A pro-rata reduction to the number of shares initially granted will also apply. The Committee retains the discretion to disapply time 
pro-rating in exceptional circumstances. 
Non-executive directors
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office, 
but are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment. In January 2012, all non-executive terms of appointment were amended to fixed terms 
of three years (normally renewable for an additional three-year term if both parties agree) and subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The terms of appointment are terminable either by the non-executive director or the Company on three months’ written notice. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 71 
Annual Report 2016
The Company may invite non-executive directors to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms subject to a particularly 
rigorous review of performance and taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s Articles, all 
directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years. However, in line with accepted best practice, 
the Board has agreed that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive directors who served during the year and up until the 
reporting date:
Engagement date Appointment date Date of expiry of current three-year term
Tim Eggar (Chairman) 1/5/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2017
Steve Good 6/7/2015 6/7/2015 6/7/2018
Brian Larcombe 21/1/2016 21/1/2016 21/1/2019
Michael Merton 10/1/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2017
Mary Reilly 1/9/2016 1/9/2016 1/9/2019
Samantha Tough 1/1/2015 1/1/2015 N/A – stepped down on 31/08/2016
Annual report on remuneration
The Remuneration Committee’s role and objective
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised in the Directors’ governance report on page 55 and can be found in full on our website 
at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility. The Committee remains focussed on ensuring that remuneration structures for executive 
directors and senior managers both enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain the executive talent required to deliver the business 
strategy and align the interests of the executive team with delivering long-term value to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee’s composition and meetings
The membership of the Committee is set out on page 55 and it is chaired by Steve Good who was appointed on 6 July 2015. Prior to this 
date the Committee was chaired by Brendan Connolly. 
The Committee met formally on five occasions in 2016. The Committee liaises closely with the Board and the Audit Committee to ensure that 
remuneration targets are appropriate and sufficiently challenging. 
Number
attended
Number of 
meetings
Tim Eggar 5 5
Steve Good 5 5
Brian Larcombe
1
3 3
Michael Merton
2
 2 2
1  Brian Larcombe became a member of the Remuneration Committee as of 4 July 2016
2  Michael Merton stepped down from the Remuneration Committee as of 4 July 2016
External advisers to the Committee
During the year, the Committee undertook a thorough process to identify and select an independent remuneration consultant to advise 
on all aspects of senior executive remuneration. This process resulted in Kepler, a brand of Mercer, being chosen in July to replace the 
Group’s previous advisers, New Bridge Street (NBS). During the year under review, Kepler has reported to the Committee on macro-changes 
in the remuneration climate, relevant guidance on shareholder voting, as well as the structure of the 2017 long-term incentive award and 
post-cessation share retention for executive directors. Kepler has no other connection with the Group other than in the provision of advice on 
executive and employee remuneration. Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under 
the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. Kepler’s terms of engagement are available from the Company 
Secretary on request. The total cost for advice received from Kepler and NBS during the 2016 financial year was £59,476 and £19,411 
respectively, both charged on a time and materials basis.
The executive directors and other senior management may attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. 
However, no director takes part in any discussion directly concerning their own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The key responsibilities of the Committee remain to: determine the remuneration policy and elements for the remuneration of the executive 
directors and the key Group managers; determine all individual elements of the remuneration of the executive directors; select and appoint 
any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee; and approve the design of, and determine the targets for, the performance-related 
remuneration schemes operated by the Company. Non-executive director remuneration is a matter for the Chairman and the executive 
members of the Board. The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee in consultation with the Chief Executive. No director 
or manager is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration. The non-executive directors’ fees were last revised in 2014 and details 
are set out on page 72.
External appointments 
The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments as 
non-executive directors. Subject to the approval of the Committee and to such conditions as the Committee may apply, in its discretion, 
an executive director may accept such appointments at other companies or similar advisory or consultative roles. Whether the executive 
director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services or whether such fees are remitted to the Company will be determined on a 
‘case by case’ basis. Joe Oatley currently has no such external appointments. Michael Speakman has external appointments and is 
currently a non-executive director of FrontRow Energy Partners Limited and Interventek Subsea Engineering Limited. 72 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Shareholder voting
At the AGM on 10 May 2016, 97.89% of votes cast were in favour of approving the directors’ remuneration report for 2015, which the 
Committee believes illustrates the strong level of shareholder support for the Company’s executive remuneration framework. 
Total number 
of votes
% of  
votes cast
For 99,088,019 97.89
Against 2,132,349 2.11
Total votes cast (for and against) 101,220,368 100.00
Votes withheld* 132,587 0.00
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 101,352,955 100.00
*  A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution
At the AGM on 14 May 2014, the director’s remuneration policy was voted on with 99.07% votes in favour.
Single total figure of remuneration (executive directors)
This section provides the details of the actual payments and awards made to directors who served during the year. Information which 
required the Company’s external independent auditors to report on can be found on pages 72 to 77 unless otherwise stated.
Audited £000
Base  
salary
Taxable  
benefits
1
Short-term 
incentives
Long-term 
incentives Pension Other
2
Total
remuneration
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 463.3 452.0 15.4 15.8 536.5 336.2 277.3 233.0 – – 78.4 76.2 1,370.9 1,113.2
Michael Speakman 344.6 336.2 11.2 11.5 320.5 200.1 206.3 177.6 – – 60.1 58.8 942.7 784.2
1  Taxable benefits include a company car valued at £14,400 for Joe Oatley and £10,000 for Michael Speakman for 2016 (£14,400 and £10,000 respectively for 2015) and 
private health insurance
2  Other includes income protection insurance and life assurance, as well as a payment in lieu of pension for the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer
Single total figure of remuneration (non-executive directors)
Audited £000
Fees
2016 2015
Non-executive directors
Brendan Connolly
1
– 21.0
Tim Eggar
2
160.0 160.0
Steve Good
3
57.5 28.1
Brian Larcombe
4
47.2 –
Michael Merton
5
57.5 57.5
Mary Reilly
6
16.7 –
Samantha Tough
7
33.3 50.0
Leslie Van de Walle
8
– 32.7
Non-executive directors are not entitled to any taxable benefits, short or long-term incentives, pension or other remuneration payments
1  Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Left the Company on 12 May 2015
2  Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee 
3  Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Joined the Company on 6 July 2015
4  Member of the Remuneration Committee from 4 July 2016. Joined the Company on 21 January 2016
5  Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration (until 4 July 2016) and Nomination Committees
6  Member of the Audit Committee. Joined the Company 1 September 2016
7  Member of the Audit Committee from 29 June 2015. Left the Company on 31 August 2016
8  Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Left the Company on 26 August 2015
Details of fixed remuneration for executive directors
Salary
As detailed in last year’s annual report on remuneration the increases to the base salary levels of the executive directors during the last year 
was 2.5% with effect from 1 January 2016.
The base salaries as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016 for the executive directors are shown in the table below. 
Audited £000 Position 2016 2015
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 463.3 452.0
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 344.6 336.2
Benefits
Benefits in kind provided for executive directors are principally a car allowance, private medical and income protection insurance and life 
assurance. Benefits in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into account when determining base salary for performance-related 
remuneration. Further details are provided in the tables on page 70. 
Pension
Executive directors are entitled to become members of one of the Group’s pension schemes or to receive a payment of a fixed percentage 
of salary. The Chief Executive receives a payment of 15% of salary each month in lieu of pension. The Chief Financial Officer receives a 
payment of 15% of salary each month in lieu of pension. The total cost to the Company this year amounted to £121,185 (CE: £69,495 and 
CFO: £51,690). Further information about the Group’s pension schemes is provided in note 19 ‘Retirement benefit obligation’. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 73 
Annual Report 2016
Details of variable remuneration for executive directors
Annual bonus
The Committee believes that it is important to incentivise executive directors, by ensuring that a significant portion of their total remuneration 
is conditional on achievement of business objectives across both annual and longer-term time periods. An annual cash bonus may be earned 
for the attainment of stretching performance targets. These targets are set by the Committee at the start of the financial year or upon 
appointment. The maximum annual bonus opportunity is determined by the Committee from time to time, taking account of the internal and 
external business and market context.
The annual bonuses awarded to executive directors are shown in the table below:
Audited Position Maximum bonus potential
2016 2015
£000 % salary £000 % salary
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 120% 536.5 115.8 336.2 74.4
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 100% 320.5 93.0 200.1 59.5
For each executive director, achievement against the 2016 bonus targets set is detailed below:
Details of bonus calculation (Chief Executive):
Proportion of total
bonus available
Resulting bonus
out-turn
% of 
maximum 
bonus 
opportunity % of salary Actual performance achieved
% of 
maximum 
bonus 
opportunity % of salary
Adjusted EPS of between 24.4p (0% pay-out), 
25.7p (50% pay-out) and 28.3p (full pay-out) 40.0% 48.0% Actual adjusted EPS result was 29.9p 40.0% 48.0%
First half of 2016 working capital/revenue 
ratio
1
 between 17.2% (0% pay-out), 16.2% 
(50% pay-out) and less than or equal to 
15.2% (full pay-out) 12.5% 15.0%
Actual first half of 2016 working 
capital/revenue ratio
1
 was 12.1% 12.5% 15.0%
Second half of 2016 working capital/revenue 
ratio
1
 between 13.1% (0% pay-out), 12.1% 
(50% pay-out) and less than or equal to 
11.1% (full pay-out) 12.5% 15.0%
Actual second half of 2016 working 
capital/revenue ratio
1
 was 8.5% 12.5% 15.0%
Strategic objectives (scored from zero 
(zero pay-out) to 100% (full pay-out)) 35.0% 42.0% Strategic objectives were 90% met 31.5% 37.8%
Total 100.0% 120.0% 96.5% 115.8%
1  Working capital/revenue ratio represents working capital as a percentage of revenues (trailing three months multiplied by four) 
The strategic targets set for the Chief Executive in 2016 remain commercially sensitive, because they would potentially provide a commercial 
advantage to the Company’s direct competitors if highlighted specifically. However, his targets included the delivery of specific organic and 
acquisitive growth projects while leading the Group’s efforts on IDC related activities. The strategic objectives also included Group-wide talent 
development and year-on-year health and safety targets. Achievement of strategic targets was measured at 90%.
Details of bonus calculation (Chief Financial Officer):
Proportion of total
bonus available
Resulting bonus
out-turn
% of 
maximum 
bonus 
opportunity % of salary Actual performance achieved
% of 
maximum 
bonus 
opportunity % of salary
Adjusted EPS of between 24.4p (0% pay-out), 
25.7p (50% pay-out) and 28.3p (full pay-out) 40.0% 40.0% Actual adjusted EPS result was 29.9p 40.0% 40.0%
First half of 2016 working capital/revenue 
ratio
1
 between 17.2% (0% pay-out), 16.2% 
(50% pay-out) and less than or equal to 
15.2% (full pay-out) 12.5% 12.5%
Actual first half of 2016 working 
capital/revenue ratio
1
 was 12.1% 12.5% 12.5%
Second half of 2016 working capital/revenue 
ratio
1
 between 13.1% (0% pay-out), 12.1% 
(50% pay-out) and less than or equal to 
11.1% (full pay-out) 12.5% 12.5%
Actual second half of 2016 working 
capital/revenue ratio
1
 was 8.5% 12.5% 12.5%
Strategic objectives (scored from zero 
(zero pay-out) to 100% (full pay-out)) 35.0% 35.0% Strategic objectives were 80% met 28.0% 28.0%
Total 100.0% 100.0% 93.0% 93.0%
1  Working capital/revenue ratio represents working capital as a percentage of revenues (trailing three months multiplied by four) 
The Chief Financial Officer’s strategic targets are commercially sensitive because they potentially provide a commercial advantage to the 
Company’s direct competitors, if specifically highlighted. Broadly, the targets included renewing the Group’s revolving credit facility, drive 
improved working capital management, enhance Group-wide risk assessment and management, Group-wide ERP system selection and project 
initiation, supporting IDC related activities and meeting Group health and safety targets. Achievement of strategic targets was measured at 80%. 74 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Long-term incentive plan awards granted in the year
Under the Company’s PSP, the Company is permitted to make annual awards of up to 175% of salary over shares. In 2016, the Company 
made awards of 140% of salary to executive directors, the value of shares awarded determined according to the average of the mid-market 
price of the Company’s shares at the close of business for the six months immediately preceding the award date. The details of awards made 
to executive directors in the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out below. The setting of these targets took account of the Group’s 
internal growth plans, analyst expectations, the Group’s overall trading environment and global inflationary expectations. The Committee 
has set what it believes to be stretching and motivating financial parameters and remain comfortable that these targets are appropriate 
within our overall remuneration structure, which continues to support our Company’s long-term growth strategy and appropriately rewards 
executive performance.
Scheme
Date of  
grant
Number  
of shares 
awarded Basis of award
Face value 
of shares 
awarded 
(£) Vesting period
Performance 
conditions
1
Executive directors
Joe Oatley PSP 29/4/2016 280,788 Award of nil-cost options 
over 280,788 ordinary 
shares. The actual award 
being equivalent to 140% 
of annual salary using 
the award price of 
231.5 pence calculated 
from 29/4/2016, with 
awards being made on 
29/4/2016.
649,936 Awards were made 
in the form of 
performance shares 
that, subject to the 
fulfilment of 
performance conditions 
by 31 December 2018, 
will vest on the third 
anniversary of the grant.
30% vesting 
at 2018 EPS 
of 26.0; 50% 
vesting at 
2018 EPS of 
29.0; 100% 
vesting at 
2018 EPS 
greater than or 
equal to 33.0.
Michael Speakman PSP 29/4/2016 208,848 Award of nil-cost options 
over 208,848 ordinary 
shares. The actual award 
being equivalent to 140% 
of annual salary using 
the award price of 
231.5 pence calculated 
from 29/4/2016, with 
awards being made on 
29/4/2016.
483,417 Awards were made 
in the form of 
performance shares 
that, subject to the 
fulfilment of 
performance conditions 
by 31 December 2018, 
will vest on the third 
anniversary of the grant.
30% vesting 
at 2018 EPS 
of 26.0; 50% 
vesting at 
2018 EPS of 
29.0; 100% 
vesting at 
2018 EPS 
greater than or 
equal to 33.0.
1  2016 awards are based on fixed EPS targets, with the amount vesting rising on a pro-rata basis between these fixed points
Performance share awards 
Details of the awards made under the PSP are set out below. Details of the performance conditions that have applied to PSP awards are 
shown below.
Audited
During 2016
Date of  
grant 
Market 
price at 
date of 
grant
(pence) 
At 
31 December
2015 Granted Exercised Lapsed
 At 
31 December 
2016
Market price
 at date of 
exercise 
(pence)
Date at which
exercisable/
awards vest 
Expiry  
date
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 29/4/2016 229.8 – 280,788 – – 280,788 – 29/4/2019 29/4/2021
19/3/2015 238.5 260,412 – – – 260,412 – 19/3/2018 19/3/2020
31/3/2014 312.5 224,828 – – – 224,828 – 31/3/2017 31/3/2019
 31/3/2013 313.5 248,942 – (97,087) (151,855) – 229.1 31/3/2016 31/3/2018
Michael Speakman 29/4/2016 229.8 – 208,848 – – 208,848 – 29/4/2019 29/4/2021
19/3/2015 238.5 193,695 – – – 193,695 – 19/3/2018 19/3/2020
31/3/2014 312.5 167,219 – – – 167,219 – 31/3/2017 31/3/2019
31/3/2013 313.5 189,670 – (73,971) (115,699) – 229.1 31/3/2016 31/3/2018
Notes:
2014 and 2015 awards under the PSP are subject to a three-year EPS performance target, with 30% of awards vesting for annual EPS growth of RPI +3%, rising on a pro-
rata basis to full vesting for annual EPS growth of RPI +10%. Vesting of 2013 and 2016 awards are based on fixed EPS targets, with the amount vesting rising on a pro-rata 
basis between these fixed points. The share price at 31 December 2016 was 146.00p, with the minimum and maximum share price during the financial year being 140.75p 
and 242.00p respectively. Details for the 2014 awards are shown below
For the awards due to vest on 31 March 2017, the performance period ended on 31 December 2016. EPS growth was required to achieve 
threshold vesting at 26.7 pence rising to 32.5 pence for full vesting. Based on an adjusted diluted EPS of 29.9 pence for the year ending 
31 December 2016, 69% of the award will vest (subject to the remaining service condition being met). The estimated value attributable to 
each executive director shown in the table below is based on the average three-month share price to 31 December 2016 of 178.76 pence. 
Audited
Number of 
awards 
originally 
granted
Estimated 
vesting
Estimated 
value on 
vesting  
£000 
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 224,828 69% 277.3
Michael Speakman 167,219 69% 206.3 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 75 
Annual Report 2016
Non-executive directors
The annual rates of non-executive director fees for the year ended 31 December 2016 are shown in the table below:
Audited position
Audited fees 
£000
Chairman 160.0
Non-executive director 50.0
Additional fee for Committee Chairman 7.5
Additional fee for Committee member –
The Board reviewed the remuneration structure for the non-executive directors during the year and determined that no changes were necessary.
Directors’ interests and transactions in the ordinary shares of the Company
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in office as at 31 December 2016 and at 15 March 2017 are shown below:
Number of ordinary shares
As at 
15 March
 2017
As at 
31 December 
2016
Market price  
per share  
(pence)  
31 December 
2016
Total  
£000
% of salary  
held in 
shares
Shareholding
guideline met?
Target shares
to be retained
to meet  
threshold
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 123,226 123,226 146.0 179.9 38.8 No 475,993
Michael Speakman 83,089 83,089 146.0 121.3 35.2 No 236,027
Non-executive directors
Tim Eggar 66,807 66,807 – – – N/A N/A
Steve Good 10,000 10,000 – – – N/A N/A
Michael Merton 10,000 10,000 – – – N/A N/A
Mary Reilly – – – – – N/A N/A
Brian Larcombe – – – – – N/A N/A
To reinforce the linkage between directors and shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted a shareholding policy that applies 
to executive directors eligible to receive awards conditional on performance under its long-term incentive arrangements. Such directors are 
required to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of their prevailing base salary in the case 
of the Chief Executive and 100% in the case of the Chief Financial Officer. It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a 
number of years by the relevant director retaining a specified percentage of shares vesting under a long-term incentive arrangement (net of 
tax liability arising upon vesting) until the required shareholding level is met. The Committee has discretion to waive the requirement in 
exceptional circumstances. Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when 
determining the grant of future awards. 76 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Total shareholder return performance (TSR)
The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Cape plc’s £0.25 ordinary shares over the last eight financial years, measured against the 
FTSE All-Share Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas Index. These indices are seen as the most appropriate 
to represent the Company’s relative performance over the last eight financial years given the Company’s move to the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange from AIM in 2011. The calculation of TSR follows the provisions of the Regulations and is broadly the change in 
market price together with reinvestment of dividend income.
Total Shareholder Return
Source: Datastream
Total Shareholder Return (rebased)
FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas Index
FTSE All-Share Index (excluding investment trusts)
Cape
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
2014 2015 2016 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
This graph shows the value of £100 invested in Cape plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
All-Share Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas Index. The intermediate points are the values on the 
Company’s financial year ends.
Table of historic performance
Year Chief Executive
Chief Executive  
single figure of  
total remuneration
£000
Annual bonus 
 payout against 
maximum opportunity
 %
Long-term incentive vesting 
rates against maximum 
opportunity 
%
2016 Joe Oatley 1,370.9 96.5 69
2015 Joe Oatley 1,113.2 62 39
2014 Joe Oatley 1,015.0 91 N/A
2013 Joe Oatley 804.6 59 N/A
2012 Joe Oatley 461.2 81 N/A
2012 Brendan Connolly 137.3 N/A N/A
2012 Martin May 831.7 Nil 100
2011 Martin May 930.2 57 100
2010 Martin May 1,151.4 100 100
2009 Martin May 1,066.0 100 100
Note: 
Martin May stood down on 29 March 2012. Brendan Connolly served as Acting Chief Executive for the period from 29 March 2012 to 29 June 2012. Joe Oatley was 
appointed on 29 June 2012
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Chief Executive
% change year on year
Chief Executive All employees
1
Base salary 2.5% 2.3%
Taxable benefits (2.5%) 0.9%
Short-term incentives 59.6% 43.2%
1  UK employees were selected as the appropriate comparator. Note that the ‘All employees’ figures reflect a broad range of pay grades, manual and non-manual 
employees, and include various office and site locations throughout the UK Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 77 
Annual Report 2016
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the change in dividends and total employee remuneration costs in 2016 compared to 2015.
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Year on year 
change
%
Dividend
1
8.5 17.0 (50.0)
Employee remuneration costs
2
550.0 442.3 24.3
1  Dividend are the interim and final dividends paid to Group shareholders in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and the interim dividend paid and the 
final dividend recommended to Group shareholders in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2016
2 Employment benefit expense by continuing operations
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017 (unaudited)
The table below provides details of the remuneration for executive directors for the current financial year and highlights any changes to the 
implementation of the Remuneration Policy (where relevant).
Element
Expected maximum in
current financial year Performance targets Changes for 2017
Salary (see page 72) Chief Executive: 
£470,250
Chief Financial Officer: 
£349,769
N/A
N/A
1.5% salary increase
 
1.5% salary increase
Short-term Incentive 
(see page 72)
Chief Executive: 
maximum 120% 
of salary 
Chief Financial Officer: 
maximum 100% 
of salary
Adjusted EPS targets, working capital/revenue ratio and 
strategic objectives 
Financial targets are set around the budgeted level of 
performance for the year
Strategic objectives vest based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the extent to which executive directors have 
met the range of targets set for them at the start of the year
Performance targets are considered to be commercially 
sensitive at this stage but the Committee will endeavour to 
disclose on a retrospective basis in next year’s report where 
these concerns have fallen away
No change to % award
Working capital/revenue ratios 
will be tested on a quarterly 
basis rather than semi-annually
Long-term Incentive 
Plan (see page 74)
Chief Executive: 
140% of salary 
performance shares 
Chief Financial Officer: 
140% of salary 
performance shares
Performance measured over three years
Based on adjusted EPS at the end of the performance period
Targets have been set taking into account internal growth 
plans, analyst expectations, the Group’s overall trading 
environment and global inflationary expectations
At threshold 30% vests. At target 50% vests. At maximum 
100% vests 
Pro-rata on a straight line basis between these points
No change to % award.
No change in approach to 
setting targets; actual targets 
for 2019 EPS will be set prior 
to grant and disclosed in next 
year’s report
Pension
(see page 72)
Monthly employer 
contribution of 15% 
of base salary
N/A No change
Other benefits
(see page 72)
N/A N/A No change
Share ownership 
guidelines
(see page 75)
150% of salary
holding for 
Chief Executive
100% of salary
holding for Chief 
Financial Officer
N/A No change
With regards to the operation of clawback provisions in the Company’s incentive plans (as detailed on pages 67 and 68), they enable the 
recovery of excess payments made in the event of a material misstatement or an error in the calculation procedure for up to a three-year 
period. The process through which the Committee may seek to recover excess payments is (i) through the withholding of future incentive 
pay or (ii) through requesting a repayment (on a net of tax basis) from the individual.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Steve Good
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
14 March 2017 78 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ report
This Directors’ report comprises, as required under UK Company 
law, the information below together with the Directors’ governance 
report. As a Jersey incorporated company with premium-listed 
shares on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, certain 
UK statutory and regulatory requirements do not apply to Cape. 
However, in the interests of transparency, the Company has chosen 
to comply voluntarily with such disclosure requirements set out in 
applicable UK statutes and regulations.
Employees
Cape recognises that the quality of our people is fundamental to our 
success. The Board firmly believes in the equality of opportunity and 
inclusivity regardless of an individual’s age, gender, ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, religious belief, disability or family status and this is 
reflected in the breadth and diversity of cultures and environments 
that we operate in, and also in our Group diversity and inclusivity 
policies. Fairness and mutual respect are integral to the decision 
making process at Cape and judgements about employees are 
based on aptitudes, skills, competencies, qualifications, attitude and 
fitness to work in the relevant environment. Accordingly, applications 
from disabled persons would always be fully considered on this 
basis. It is the Group’s policy that the training, career development 
and promotion of disabled persons (including those who become 
disabled whilst employees of the Group) should, as far as is 
reasonably possible, be identical to those of other employees. The 
Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of 
employee involvement in the Group’s business through pro-active 
communication with employees and appropriate consultation with 
employees embedded within general good management practice. 
The Group operates various incentive schemes to encourage 
employee participation in the performance of the Group and ensures 
that employee communications contain relevant information about 
the ongoing performance of the Group. 
Political donations
There were no political donations in 2016 (2015: £nil).
Post balance sheet events
As disclosed in note 34, the six-week trial in respect of the insurer 
product liability claims concluded on 23 February 2017. Subsequent 
to this date, the Group reached agreement to settle this insurer 
product liability litigation for a consideration of £18.0 million payable 
immediately and a deferred payment of up to £34.5 million payable 
in the period 2018 to 2023, enabling this litigation to be resolved 
outside of the court process. These amounts and an additional 
charge to reflect the potential for further claims of a similar nature 
have been charged to profit and loss during the year and are 
included in the industrial disease claims provision held as at 
31 December 2016 as per note 29.
Principal subsidiaries and branches 
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries are listed in the financial 
statements’ note 37 ‘Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures’.
Research and development 
The Group did not carry out any substantial research and 
development work in 2016. However, with the Group looking to 
develop innovative solutions in line with its strategic objective of 
Operational Excellence, the amount of research and development 
work is expected to increase in future years.
Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements with provisions that may take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
such as bank facility agreements and employee share scheme rules. 
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely 
impact on the normal course of business for the Group.
Treasury policy and risk
The Group’s policy on treasury and financial risk (see note 26 
‘Financial instruments’) is set by the Board and is subject to regular 
reporting and review. The main risks faced by the Group relate to 
foreign currency risk and liquidity risk. A significant proportion of the 
Group’s business is conducted overseas. The Group is therefore 
subject to exchange rate risk when translating the results and 
assets of its overseas subsidiaries into Sterling. Where significant 
transactional exchange rate risks are identified, then appropriate 
currency contracts are used to hedge these transactions. 
The Group’s committed facilities all carry interest rates based on 
LIBOR and therefore the Group is exposed to interest rate 
movements. As at 31 December 2016, 35.1% of the Group 
borrowings were hedged (2015: 36.8%).
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
CO
2
e kg
2016 CO
2
2015 CO
2
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) 27,028,993 26,613,086
Scope 2 (electricity indirect emissions) 3,497,535 3,978,839
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) 29,195,947 25,869,992
Total gross emissions 59,722,475 56,461,917
Intensity Ratio 1.075 1.040
Notes:
The Intensity Ratio is defined as: total CO
2
e kg/total man hours 
worked, as this measure is deemed the most relevant to the 
Group’s operations.
Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other (litres), units of 
electricity (kWh) and units of gas (kWh). All major geographies within 
the Group’s international operations are included in the reported 
data. The data was converted into the CO
2
 equivalent using 
calculations provided within the ‘2014 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’.
Please see page 46 within the Corporate and social responsibility 
section for further details of the Group’s GHG emissions.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Strategic report on pages 8 to 39. The Group’s financial 
position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described on pages 26 to 30. The performance review includes a 
description of the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its: capital; financial risk management objectives; financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has adequate financial resources together with long-term 
relationships with a number of customers and suppliers in different 
countries and industries. As a result, the directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future, and for a period of not less than 
twelve months from signing the financial statements. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
annual financial statements.
Auditors 
The Company, as at 14 March 2017, confirms that:
 – so far as each director is aware (taking account of their individual 
capacity), there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and 
 – each director has taken all steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as a director (taking account of their individual capacity) in order 
to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
For and on behalf of the Board
Richard Allan
Group Company Secretary
Cape plc
47 Esplanade, St Helier
Jersey JE1 0BD
Channel Islands Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 79 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations. The directors are also responsible for the preparation 
of the directors’ remuneration report, which they have chosen to 
prepare, being under no obligation to do so under Jersey law 
(‘the Law’). The directors are also responsible for the preparation 
of the Directors’ governance report under the Listing Rules.
Jersey company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial period in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles prescribed for the purposes of the 
Law. Pursuant to that Law, the directors have prepared the Group 
consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU).
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company at the period’s end and 
also the profit or loss of the Company for the period then ended. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors should:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable;
 – state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the ‘going concern’ basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business, in which case there should be supporting 
assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records which are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and as such to disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the law. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement under the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules
Each of the current directors, whose names and functions are listed 
on page 52, confirms that, to the best of his/her knowledge:
 – the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 – the Directors’ governance report (including the corporate 
governance report and the Audit Committee report) on pages 50 
to 81 and the regional and Chief Financial Officer’s reviews on 
pages 18 to 30 include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face as set out in the principal risks and viability review 
on pages 34 to 39.
Directors’ statement under the Corporate Governance Code
The Strategic report and this directors’ governance report (including 
the remuneration report) were reviewed and approved by the Board 
on 14 March 2017. The Board confirms that, taken as a whole, these 
reports represent a fair, balanced and understandable report on the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer
14 March 2017 80 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Directors’ governance report
Relationship with shareholders and share capital
Shareholder engagement
The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the 
Company’s shareholders. Whilst the Chairman assumes overall 
responsibility for the effective communication of shareholder views 
and concerns to the Board, shareholder communications are 
primarily maintained by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer. The Chief Executive reports to the Board on a regular basis 
regarding feedback from institutional investors (including key market 
issues raised by shareholders) and on investor relations objectives 
and activities, share price performance and the share register profile. 
The Chairman is available to meet with institutional investors 
generally and a number of such meetings took place in 2016. The 
Senior Independent Director and the remaining non-executive 
directors are available to meet with shareholders on request.
The Company’s investor relations programme includes: formal 
presentations of full-year and half-year results (available to all 
shareholders to download from the Group’s website at 
www.capeplc.com/investors/financial-results-and-presentations); 
briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in relation to 
those results; dialogue between the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and shareholders; publication of the Company’s Annual 
Report and other regulatory reports as appropriate; and a section 
dedicated to investors on our website at www.capeplc.com/investors 
which includes all formal reports and announcements by the 
Company and any analyst or investor presentations that have 
been held. 
This Annual Report, together with other public announcements, is 
designed to present a fair, balanced and understandable view of the 
Group’s activities and prospects. The performance review, on pages 
8 to 47, provides an assessment of the Group’s business. This 
Annual Report is despatched to eligible shareholders at least 20 
working days before the AGM and the accompanying proxy form 
provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate 
abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution. The Annual 
Report, together with trading updates, significant contract wins and 
health and safety achievements are published via a Regulatory 
Information Service, where applicable, and on the Company’s 
website at www.capeplc.com/investors.
Dividends 
Details of the final dividend proposed by the Board are given in the 
Chief Financial Officer’s review on page 26.
Substantial holdings
As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified pursuant 
to DTR5 of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company:
Institution No. of shares % holding
Schroders plc 15,850,551 13.09
Prudential plc group of companies 9,417 ,422 7.78
Ruffer LLP 9,057 ,920 7.48
Artemis Investment Management LLP 8,182,720 6.76
Henderson Group plc 5,851,389 4.83
GLG Partners 4,630,182 3.82
Invesco Perpetual 3,852,129 3.18
Blackrock Investment Management 3,837,421 3.17
As at 14 March 2017, the Company received a notification under 
DTR5 that as at 5 January 2017 Henderson Group plc had interests 
in 5.48% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company. The 
Company has not received notification of any other new interests 
held by persons acting together which at 14 March 2017 represented 
3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital.
Share capital
Ordinary shares of 25 pence. The Company’s ordinary shares, 
together with the £1 Scheme Share referenced below, represent 
100% of the Company’s issued share capital. At a meeting of the 
Company every member present in person or by proxy shall have 
one vote for every ordinary share of which they are the holder. 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends. On a 
winding-up or other return of capital, holders are entitled to a share 
in any surplus assets pro-rata to the amount paid up on their 
ordinary shares. The ordinary shares are not redeemable at the 
option of either the Company or the holder. There are no restrictions 
on the transfer of ordinary shares. Further details of the issued share 
capital of the Company are given in financial statement note 31 
‘Share capital and reserves’.
Scheme Share of £1. The Company has one Scheme Share in 
issue (the Scheme Share), issued to the trustees of a Scheme of 
Arrangement entered into by the Company in 2006 (the Scheme). 
The Scheme Share carries two votes for every vote which the 
holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise 
on any resolution proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage 
in certain activities specified in the Articles. The Scheme Share is 
held by the Scheme trustees on behalf of the Scheme creditors. 
The Company is not permitted to engage in certain activities 
specified in the Company’s Articles without the prior consent of the 
holder of the Scheme Share. The rights attaching to the Scheme 
Share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to 
settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs. The Scheme Share does 
not confer any right to receive a distribution or any right to receive a 
return of surplus capital. The holder of the Scheme Share has the 
right to require the Company to redeem the Scheme Share at par 
value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme. Further 
details are provided in the financial statements’ note 31 ‘Share 
capital and reserves’.
Treasury shares
The Group has an employee benefit trust holding shares to satisfy 
the exercise of share options. All these shares have been classified in 
the Statement of Financial Position as treasury shares within equity.
Issue of shares
Subject generally to Jersey law relating to authority and pre-emption 
rights, and specifically to any requirements for a resolution of the 
Company in a general meeting, all unissued shares of the Company 
shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot (with or 
without conferring a right of renunciation), grant options over or 
otherwise dispose of them to such persons, and at such times, and 
on such terms as they consider appropriate. Shareholders approved 
a resolution to authorise the Company’s directors to allot or sell 
shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount 
of £10,091,994.75 in connection with a pre-emptive issue (which 
represented approximately 33% of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital in issue as at 22 March 2016), and otherwise up to a 
maximum aggregate nominal value of £1,513,799 (which represented 
approximately 5% of the total ordinary share capital of the Company 
in issue as at 22 March 2016). Notwithstanding the passing of these 
resolutions, the Company did not issue or allot shares in 2016.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the Company’s AGM held on 11 May 2016, shareholders 
re-approved a resolution to authorise the Company to make one or 
more market purchases of the issued ordinary shares of the Company 
up to a maximum aggregate number of 12,110,394 ordinary shares 
(representing 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 
22 March 2016). No shares were purchased under this authority 
during the year. No purchases have been made pursuant to this 
authority and a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew this 
authority for a further year at the 2017 AGM. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 81 
Annual Report 2016
Annual General Meetings (AGM)
The Board considers that the AGM is an important opportunity for 
effective communications between the Board and shareholders. The 
Company’s 2017 AGM will be held at the Cape offices, Drayton Hall, 
Church Road, West Drayton, Middlesex UB7 7PS, United Kingdom 
at 10.00 on Wednesday 10 May 2017 for eligible shareholders. 
Further details of the AGM venue and the resolutions to be proposed, 
together with explanatory notes, will be set out in a notice of meeting 
which will be issued to eligible shareholders at least 20 working days 
prior to the AGM and are also published on the Company’s website 
at www.capeplc.com/investors. All resolutions at the AGM are each 
on separate substantive issues and are decided on a poll in 
accordance with best practice and will be voted upon separately. 
The proxy votes cast (including details of votes withheld) are 
disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting. In accordance with 
Code provision E.2.2, the voting results (including the number of 
shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been validly 
made, all votes cast for or against each resolution and those 
withheld) will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and 
made available on the Company’s website as soon as practicable 
after the meeting. As in previous years, the form of proxy will make it 
clear that a ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted 
in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
 – The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are 
set out in the Articles 
 – The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by 
special resolution 
 – Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any 
class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the 
holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the 
issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an 
extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting 
of the holders of those shares 
 – At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two 
persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in 
nominal value of the issued shares of the class (calculated 
excluding any shares held as treasury shares) 
 – The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, 
unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to 
those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue 
of further shares ranking pari passu with them
 – Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or 
restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, the 
Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member 
who is present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote 
and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share of which he/she is the holder 
 – Where shares are held by trustees/nominees in respect of the 
Group’s employee share plans and the voting rights attached to 
such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is 
the Company’s practice that such rights are not exercised by the 
relevant trustee/nominee
 – Members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a 
member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to 
attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting 
or class meeting. A member may appoint more than one proxy in 
relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each 
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share 
or shares held by that member. A member that is a corporation may 
appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general 
meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative
 – No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, 
be entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to vote either 
personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to exercise 
any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders’ 
meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him/her to 
the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid. In addition, 
no member shall be entitled to vote if he/she has been served with 
a notice after failing to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided 
under the Law.
The Articles require that any shares issued wholly for cash must 
be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing 
shareholding unless authorised to the contrary by a resolution of 
the shareholders. 82 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 – Cape plc’s Group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s and the parent company’s loss for the 
year then ended;
 – the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union;
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
What we have audited
Cape plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 
31 December 2016
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 
31 December 2016
Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2016
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 
31 December 2016
Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2016
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 
31 December 2016
Related notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements
Related notes 1 to 39 to the consolidated financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material misstatement – Industrial disease claim valuation (IDC)
 – Litigations
 – Provision
 – Goodwill impairment (and other intangible assets where indicators are present) 
 – Revenue recognition
 – Construction contract (IAS 11) accounting
 – Time and materials (IAS 18) accounting
 – Taxation: specific key judgements and potential exposures 
 – Uncertain tax positions
 – Deferred tax asset recoverability.
Audit scope – We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 15 components and audit procedures 
on specific balances for a further 16 components
 – The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 102% of profit 
before tax, 98% of revenue and 85% of total assets.
Materiality – Overall Group materiality of £1.33 million which represents approximately 3% of adjusted pre-tax profit. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 83 
Annual Report 2016
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the 
procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any 
opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Industrial disease claim (IDC) – Triennial Valuation 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 61; Accounting policies on page 95; and notes 29 and 34 of the consolidated financial 
statements (pages 125 and 129)
As at 31 December 2016, 
Cape plc holds a provision of 
£172.5m (2015: £95.5m) in 
relation to the IDC liability. 
The valuation of this liability has 
been designated a significant 
risk due to the inherent 
complexities associated with 
estimating the liability; including 
the process, methodology, 
judgement and degree of 
estimation involved in 
determining underlying 
assumptions and analysis/use 
of data available as inputs.
The estimation uncertainty 
continues to change as new 
developments and claims give 
rise to inherent uncertainty in 
both the future level of related 
claims and of the costs arising 
from such claims. 
We obtained the IDC actuarial papers and calculations, which were 
prepared by management and their external actuarial advisors based 
on a full triennial valuation performed during the year. 
Our EY IDC actuarial specialist and the audit team discussed these findings 
with management and their external advisors and undertook a 
comprehensive assessment of the actuarial reports and calculations, 
including thorough challenge of key assumptions, the range of estimates 
and the sensitivities applied to the model and their assessment of reserve 
uncertainty. Key assumptions included the discount rate applied, inflation 
assumptions and the claims base period. The discount rate and claims 
base period have been corroborated by our EY IDC actuarial specialist, and 
inflation rate assumptions verified to BoE CPI target rate. 
We corroborated estimates and explanations where possible to market 
data and assessed the competence and objectivity of the specialists 
utilised in this area of the audit.
We challenged management’s assessment of the best estimate of the 
liability within the range calculated by the actuarial advisers. This included 
determining the risks posed by changes in the claims and legal environment 
as well as management’s view of macro assumptions such as inflation rates 
and a risk-free discount rate appropriate to the expected length of the liability.
We are satisfied that the process 
adopted by management and 
assumptions used are reasonable 
and the level of provision as at 
31 December 2016, as 
determined by management’s 
external actuarial advisors, is 
within an acceptable range.
We noted that the methodology 
used to determine key 
assumptions and calculate 
the liability is in line with 
our expectations. 
Industrial disease claim (IDC) – Litigation 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 61; Accounting policies on page 95; and notes 29, 34 and 39 of the consolidated financial 
statements (pages 125, 129 and 133)
Note 34 discloses certain 
specific product liability claims 
from Aviva plc, Zurich Insurance 
Group and RSA Group (‘the 
litigants’). An adverse decision 
of the court could have had a 
material impact on the Group 
and level of provision required. 
The claims from this group of 
litigants resulted in a six-week 
trial being held from 16 January 
2017, concluding without 
judgment on 23 February 2017. 
Notwithstanding the Group’s 
view that the merits of the 
Group’s defence are 
persuasive, management 
agreed it was in the best 
interests of Cape and its 
stakeholders to settle. 
The settlement provides for 
an upfront immediate payment 
of £18.0m and a deferred 
payment of up to £34.5m. 
The maximum settlement value 
and consideration of claims of 
a similar nature are included in 
the overall provision.
To address the product liability claims, we held discussions with 
management, Group Legal Counsel and our EY specialist as well as 
inspecting all relevant Board papers and legal advice received by 
management. We used this information to form a conclusion on 
whether any change to provision is required.
We obtained the signed legal agreement which sets out the settlement 
terms between Group and current litigants and agreed amounts 
provided directly to the agreed legal terms.
We obtained and considered the appropriateness of management’s 
assessment for an additional provision for potential further claims of 
a similar nature.
We obtained management’s analysis for the appropriateness of the 
discount rate applied in valuing the present value of the total liability.
We verified that the disclosures made in notes 29, 34 and 39 to the 
Group financial statements are compliant with IAS 37 and IAS 10.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the 
Group audit team which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
We are satisfied that 
management has appropriately 
considered the requirements of 
IAS 37 and IAS 10 in assessing 
the appropriateness of the overall 
provision and disclosures. 
We are satisfied that 
management has made a 
reliable estimate of likely future 
cash outflows arising as a 
consequence of this initial 
settlement as well as making an 
appropriate assessment of the 
probability of potential further 
claims of a similar nature.
We noted that the methodology 
used to calculate the net present 
value of the liability is consistent 
with existing IDC assumptions 
applied by management.
We agree with management’s 
assertion that settlement of this 
amount in respect of product 
liability has no impact on previous 
assumptions made with regards 
to existing employer liability 
claims and that the existing 
provision for such litigation 
remains appropriate whilst 
appeal is pending until later 
in 2017. 84 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc continued
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Goodwill impairment (and other intangible assets where indicators are present) 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 61; Accounting policies on page 95; and note 15 of the consolidated financial statements 
(page 111)
Cape plc has a goodwill 
asset balance in the balance 
sheet amounting to £132.9m 
at 31 December 2016 
(2015: £118.0m). Under IFRS, 
as adopted by the EU, 
management must assess 
goodwill for impairment at 
least annually.
Due to the degree of estimation 
involved in calculating the 
expected future cash flows 
from the cash generating units 
(CGU) and determining 
appropriate long term growth 
rates and discount rates 
specific to each CGU we have 
identified a key risk regarding 
impairment of the goodwill 
balance.
We understood management’s process for preparing the annual goodwill 
impairment test and identified controls over the data and assumptions used.
We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by 
management in the value-in-use calculation, namely: cash flow forecasts, 
discount rates and long term growth rate. We assessed the historical 
accuracy of budgets and we used our EY internal specialist to assist us 
with our consideration of the discount rate and long term growth rate. This 
audit work involved corroboration of the assumptions to the client’s internal 
forecasts, comparison to market data and discussion with local audit teams 
and management to support the cash flows.
We verified the appropriate allocation of assets, liabilities and post-tax cash 
flows to the Group’s cash-generating units and challenged management on 
the assumptions used in building up the budgets that formed the basis of 
the underlying cash flow forecasts.
We performed sensitivity analysis as part of our assessment of key 
assumptions (disclosed in note 15 to the Group financial statements) and 
available headroom; and
We ensured that the disclosures made in note 15 to the Group financial 
statements are in line with IAS 36.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team, with support provided by component teams over regional cash 
flow forecasts, which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
From the procedures 
performed, we conclude that 
the methodology used by 
management is in accordance 
with the requirements of the 
standard and the key 
assumptions and cash flows 
applied are reasonable and 
within an acceptable range.
Our sensitivity analysis showed 
that each of the CGUs have 
sufficient headroom to allow for 
any downside variances during 
the upcoming years’ forecasts 
before any impairment is seen. 
The disclosures prepared by 
Cape management in relation 
to their impairment review are 
considered to be thorough and 
highlight the key assumptions 
used in numerical form. 
Revenue recognition 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 61; Accounting policies on page 95; and notes 5 and 22 of the consolidated financial statements 
(pages 102 and 119)
Construction contract (IAS 11) accounting
Cape plc has a number of 
construction contracts whose 
revenue recognition can be 
dependent on a high level of 
judgement over the percentage 
of completion, based on their 
best estimate of the costs to 
complete. 
There is a risk for the Group 
in managing the recognition 
of revenue through incorrect 
estimation of stage of 
completion; principally costs 
to complete as a result of 
inaccurate estimates made 
by management. Additionally 
this may result in management 
inaccurately assessing the 
completion/profitability of 
a contract.
There is also a risk that 
management may influence 
the significant judgements and 
estimates in respect of revenue 
recognition in order to achieve 
performance targets to meet 
market expectations or 
bonus targets.
We considered the contract and other related contractual provisions to 
understand the nature and scope of the arrangements with the customer.
We assessed the cost variation reports as at the reporting date and tested 
the report for appropriateness and accuracy which included a robust 
assessment of the rigour of management’s cost to complete calculation 
including corroboration with operational staff.
We assessed costs to complete, including contingency provisions, by 
challenging project personnel to justify the basis of their cost estimates 
in light of our understanding of the project. We corroborated this 
understanding through attendance of management contract meetings.
We have compared the costs to complete at the start of the project and 
end of the prior year reporting period with the costs to complete at the 
current reporting date and understood any material variances, in order to 
assess management’s ability to estimate costs over a 12 month period.
We assessed any contract claims made by Cape by corroborating to 
written evidence to ensure they were appropriately accepted by the 
customer; and
We ensured that the disclosures made in note 22 to the Group financial 
statements are compliant with IAS 11.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 5 locations, 
which covered 95% of the risk amount. 
As a result of our procedures 
performed we have not identified 
any material misstatements in 
relation to this risk. We note the 
following key judgements 
involved which have been 
covered through our procedures:
In Australia, the Wheatstone 
contract has been extended 
and increased in scope during 
the year. This is a significant 
contract for the Group and based 
on the results of the procedures 
performed we conclude that the 
percentage of completion 
determined by management 
is reasonable.  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 85 
Annual Report 2016
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Time and materials accounting
A significant proportion of Cape 
plc’s revenue is service revenue 
recognised on a time (multiplied 
by agreed rate) and materials 
basis. There is often a time lag 
between these revenues being 
recorded and billed and as 
such revenue is accrued at 
period ends. 
Due to this time lag there is a 
risk of overstatement of revenue 
recognised on these contracts. 
There is also a risk that 
management may influence 
the significant judgements and 
estimates in respect of revenue 
recognition in order to achieve 
performance targets to meet 
market expectations or 
bonus targets.
We considered the in-scope contracts and other related contractual 
provisions to understand the nature and scope of the arrangements with 
the customer.
We performed transaction testing on both costs and revenue to verify the 
transactions to underlying invoices, signed contracts/statements of work/
variation orders, certifications of work and proof of subsequent payment. 
We obtained the underlying calculations for the accruals made at year end 
and agreed these to signed contracts/statements of work/variation orders, 
employee timesheets, certifications of work and subsequently raised 
invoices where possible. 
We have performed subsequent testing to ensure amounts recoverable on 
contract balances have been subsequently invoiced post year end; and
We assessed variation orders and the appropriateness of recognition of 
additional revenue or cost.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area 
in 19 locations, which covered 98% of the risk amount. 
As a result of our procedures 
performed we have not identified 
any material misstatements in 
relation to this risk. 
Taxation: specific key judgements and potential exposures
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 61; Accounting policies on page 95; and notes 12, 20 and 34 of the consolidated financial 
statements (pages 107, 117 and 129)
Uncertain tax positions
HMRC have raised an inquiry 
with regard to the UK tax 
consequences of a transfer of 
intellectual property (IP) to 
Singapore in 2011. Specifically, 
HMRC has challenged the 
accounting treatment adopted in 
the audited financial statements 
and the resultant gain.
An unfavourable outcome could 
have a material impact on the 
financial statements affecting 
current and deferred taxation 
balances. Due to the level of 
judgement involved in 
determining this position and 
associated outcome we have 
concluded that this represents 
a key audit risk.
We engaged our international tax specialists to advise us on the tax 
technical issues in order to form a view on this risk. 
We obtained and inspected all tax advice sought by management on this 
matter, any communication from HMRC and any other information obtained 
during the current year to make our assessment.
In conjunction with management, we considered the impact of judgements 
in similar cases on Cape’s position and disclosure.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team.
Management have concluded 
that at this stage there is no basis 
to recognise a tax liability in line 
with the relevant accounting 
standards. They have however 
concluded that it is necessary to 
disclose a contingent liability in 
accordance with IAS 37. 
As a result of the procedures 
performed we concur with 
management’s position and 
have ensured that the disclosure 
is appropriate and in line with 
our own audit findings and 
conclusion.
Deferred tax asset recoverability
There are material deferred tax 
assets recognised as at the 
balance sheet date. These 
assets primarily relate to tax 
losses originating in Australia 
and are recognised on the 
basis that there will be taxable 
profit within the Group to utilise 
these losses. 
We challenged the profitability forecasts used by management for 
recoverability testing to ensure consistency with the Board approved 
forecasts used for goodwill impairment and going concern assessments.
We assessed the historical forecasting accuracy of management as a factor 
in determining the reliability of profitability forecasts.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team, with support provided by component teams over regional cash 
flow forecasts, which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
We are satisfied there is sufficient 
certainty over the ability of the 
Group to utilise these losses and 
that recognition of the related 
deferred tax assets is 
appropriate. 
The above risk areas are consistent with those in the prior year, with the exception of IDC litigation which has been identified as a separate 
risk area.  86 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
The scope of our audit 
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our 
allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for 
each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to 
form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take 
into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and 
effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business 
environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results 
when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial 
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of 
significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 124 components 
of the Group, we selected 31 reporting components covering entities 
within the UK, Middle East and Asia Pacific which represent the 
principal business units within the Group.
Of the 31 components selected, we performed an audit of the 
complete financial information of 15 components (full scope 
components) which were selected based on their size or risk 
characteristics. For the remaining 16 components (specific scope 
components), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts 
within that component that we considered had the potential for the 
greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements 
either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. 
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures 
accounted for 102% (2015: 98%) of the Group’s adjusted PBT 
measure used to calculate materiality, 98% (2015: 95%) of the 
Group’s revenue and 85% (2015: 85%) of the Group’s total assets. 
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 118% 
(2015: 123%) of the Group’s adjusted PBT measure used to calculate 
materiality, 92% (2015: 91%) of the Group’s revenue and 68% 
(2015: 64%) of the Group’s total assets. The profit before tax 
coverage of 118% represents ten components having a positive 
contribution of 189% offset by six components having a negative 
contribution of -71%. 
The specific scope component contributed -16% (2015: -25%) of 
the Group’s adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 
6% (2015: 4%) of the Group’s revenue and 17% (2015: 21%) of the 
Group’s total assets. The profit before tax coverage of -16% 
represents nine components having a positive contribution of 16% 
offset by six components having a negative contribution of -32%. 
The audit scope of all specific scope components may not have 
included testing of all significant accounts of the component but 
will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested 
for the Group.
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc continued
We also instructed four locations to perform analytical procedures 
over their reported income statement and statement of financial 
position (Review scope). These components contributed -12% of 
the Group’s adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 
0% of the Group’s revenue and 8% of the Group’s total assets.
The remaining 96 components, together representing 10% of total 
Group adjusted profit before tax, 2% of revenue and 7% of total 
assets, were subjected to other procedures, namely:
 – Aggregated analytical review procedures designed to respond 
to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group 
financial statements;
 – Specific bank confirmations for five components to increase 
our coverage of the consolidated cash balance.
Each of these locations represents an average of 0% of the total 
Group adjusted profit before tax.
We also obtained an understanding of the group-wide entity level 
controls over all components, including the level of Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer and other Group management visits, oversight 
and review, and the scope of the annual internal audit programme 
and the results of those visits. 
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each 
of the components by us, as the Group audit engagement team, 
by component auditors from other EY global network firms or by 
non-EY component auditors operating under our instruction. Of the 
15 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 
three of these directly by the Group audit team. For the 16 specific 
scope components, where the work was performed by component 
auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to 
enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 
visit combined with remote file reviews that have been designed to 
ensure that the senior members of the audit team including the 
Engagement Partner or his designate have oversight of all full scope 
components. During the current year’s audit cycle, the Group audit 
team undertook a visit to Azerbaijan which was a new full scope 
entity identified during the year. The visit involved discussing the 
audit approach with the component team and any issues arising 
from their work, reviewing key working papers, challenging 
conclusions on significant risk and judgement areas. A remote file 
review was performed of audit work performed in respect of the 
South Korea component. This remote file review involved reviewing 
key working papers detailing the audit approach, work performed 
and conclusions reached, challenging conclusions on significant risk 
and judgement areas. In addition, the Group audit team attended, 
in person or by call, all planning and closing meetings for each full 
and majority of the specific scope locations which included the 
component team’s discussion of fraud and error. 
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component 
teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and 
were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. 
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group 
level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group 
financial statements. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 87 
Annual Report 2016
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the 
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit 
and in forming our audit opinion. 
Materiality
We have used an earnings based measure as our basis for 
materiality. We determined materiality for the Group to be 
£1.33 million (2015: £1.57 million), which is approximately 3% 
(2015: 4%) of adjusted profit before tax. We believe that adjusted 
pre-tax profit is a key performance measure for the Group and is 
also a key metric used by the Group in the assessment of the 
performance of management. The adjustments that we consider to 
be unusual or exceptional are those that do not typically recur in 
each reporting cycle and therefore, this differs to the adjustments 
that management present in note 7 to the accounts. We therefore, 
considered this measure to be the most appropriate performance 
metric on which to base our materiality calculation as we considered 
that to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders 
of the entity. The Group audit team has audited each non-recurring 
item identified.
This analysis of planning materiality is performed during the planning 
phase of the audit and has been reassessed at the year end. The 
profit before tax of the Group after adjusting for one off items, has 
increased from the planning phase with the loss before tax being 
£43.6 million and add back of net IDC charges being £87.9 million. 
However, materiality has been retained at the planning level of 
£1.33 million.
Materiality 
starting 
basis
Forecast prot 
before tax: 
£21.6m
Final year-end 
loss before tax: 
£43.6m
Net IDC 
related charges 
identied during 
planning phase: 
£9.7m
Net IDC related 
charges: 
£87.9m
Take 3% of 
adjusted basis: 
£1.33m
Take 4.2% of 
adjusted basis: 
£1.33m
Adjustments 
identied
Materiality
Performance materiality
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment 
of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
performance materiality was 75% (2015: 50%) of our planning 
materiality, namely £1.0 million (2015: £0.8 million). We have set 
performance materiality at this percentage due to our consideration 
of past misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected. 
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit 
coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken 
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The 
performance materiality set for each component is based on the 
relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole 
and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. 
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated 
to components was £0.1 million to £1.0 million (2015: £0.08 million 
to £0.51 million). 
Reporting threshold
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.07 million 
(2015: £0.08 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, 
as well as differences below that threshold which, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the 
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light 
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 88 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement 
set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 
and engagement letter dated 10 March 2015. Our audit work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
In addition, the Company has also instructed us to:
 – report as to whether the information given in the Strategic report 
and Directors’ report are consistent with the financial statements 
and have been prepared in accordance with the basis of 
preparation described therein; 
 – report as to whether the information given in the Corporate 
Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.5 
and 7.2.6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority is 
consistent with the financial statements and have been prepared 
in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein; 
 – report as to whether rules 7.2.2, 7.2.3 and 7.2.7 in the Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (with respect to the Company’s 
Corporate Governance Statement and practices about its 
administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their 
committees) have been complied with if applicable; and
 – report as to whether the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be described as audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the basis of preparation described therein.
Opinion on other matters
In our opinion:
 – the information given in the Strategic report and Directors’ 
report are consistent with the financial statements and have 
been prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation 
described therein; 
 – the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 50 to 81 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements and has been prepared in accordance with the basis 
of preparation described therein; 
 – rules 7.2.2, 7.2.3 and 7.2.7 in the Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority have been complied with; and
 – the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be described 
as audited has been prepared in accordance with the basis of 
preparation described therein.
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 89 
Annual Report 2016
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report is: 
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
 – otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider 
the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; 
and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the 
Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Companies 
(Jersey) Law 1991
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
 – the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 78, and longer-term viability, 
set out on page 38; and
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Statement on the Directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention 
to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
 – the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 – the directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have 
nothing 
material 
to add or 
to draw 
attention to.
Kevin Harkin 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 
Reading
14 March 2017
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Cape plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on 
the website
2. Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 2016 2015
Note
Business
performance 
£m
Exceptional
and other
items
£m
Total 
£m
Business
performance 
£m
Exceptional
and other
items
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue from continuing operations 5 863.5 – 863.5 711.4 – 711.4
Operating profit before other items 48.1 – 48.1 49.7 – 49.7
Other items 8 – (88.2) (88.2) – (3.4) (3.4)
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 6 48.1 (88.2) (40.1) 49.7 (3.4) 46.3
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 18 7.3 – 7.3 2.8 – 2.8
Exceptional items 8 – – – – (9.2) (9.2)
Operating profit/(loss) 6 55.4 (88.2) (32.8) 52.5 (12.6) 39.9
Finance income 11 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.4
Finance costs 11 (8.1) (3.2) (11.3) (7.9) (3.3) (11.2)
Net finance costs (8.0) (2.8) (10.8) (7.8) (3.0) (10.8)
Profit/(loss) before tax 47.4 (91.0) (43.6) 44.7 (15.6) 29.1
Income tax credit/(expense) 12 (9.6) 13.2 3.6 (8.0) (0.1) (8.1)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 37.8 (77.8) (40.0) 36.7 (15.7) 21.0
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 8,13 0.3 – 0.3 (0.3) (4.9) (5.2)
Profit/(loss) for the year 38.1 (77.8) (39.7) 36.4 (20.6) 15.8
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc (41.1) 15.5
Non-controlling interests 38 1.4 0.3
 (39.7) 15.8
Earnings per share attributable to the owners of Cape plc
Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic
Continuing operations 30.2 (34.2) 30.0 17.1
Discontinued operations 0.2 0.2 (0.3) (4.3)
Total operations 14 30.4 (34.0) 29.7 12.8
Diluted
Continuing operations 29.9 (34.2) 29.9 17.0
Discontinued operations 0.2 0.2 (0.3) (4.3)
Total operations 14 30.1 (34.0) 29.6 12.7
90 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year (39.7) 15.8
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Currency translation differences 42.0 3.2
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 42.0 3.2
Other comprehensive income/(expense) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement of defined benefit pension plan 19 (1.1) (0.8)
Tax effect 20 – –
(1.1) (0.8)
Movement in restriction of retirement benefit asset in accordance with IFRIC 14 19 0.7 0.9
Restriction of interest income in accordance with IFRIC 14 19 0.4 0.4
Tax effect 20 0.1 (0.1)
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 0.1 0.4
Other comprehensive income for the year 42.1 3.6
Total comprehensive income for the year 2.4 19.4
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc 0.5 19.0
Non-controlling interests 1.9 0.4
2.4 19.4
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 91 
Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2016 92 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of financial position 
at 31 December 2016
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 150.3 138.6
Investment property 16 2.0 2.0
Property, plant and equipment 17 84.0 80.2
Investments accounted for using the equity method 18 7.2 2.8
Deferred tax assets 20 39.1 20.7
Restricted deposits 24 3.5 9.0
Total non-current assets 286.1 253.3
Current assets
Inventories 21 13.7 12.7
Trade and other receivables 23 244.6 198.8
Cash and cash equivalents 24 121.5 81.4
Restricted deposits 24 38.5 23.3
Non-current asset held for sale 17 0.3 –
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale 13 1.2 1.0
Total current assets 419.8 317.2
Total assets 705.9 570.5
Equity
Share capital 31 30.3 30.3
Share premium account 1.0 1.0
Treasury shares 31 (0.1) –
Special reserve 31 1.0 1.0
Other reserves 31 9.6 9.6
Translation reserve 140.9 99.4
Retained (losses) (72.0) (14.9)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 110.7 126.4
Non-controlling interests 3.0 2.9
Total equity 113.7 129.3
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 25 198.7 190.2
Retirement benefit obligations 19 17.2 13.3
Deferred tax liabilities 20 4.7 5.4
Provision for industrial disease claims 29 137.9 90.2
Other provisions 29 3.0 2.7
Total non-current liabilities 361.5 301.8
Current liabilities
Borrowings 25 1.0 0.1
Trade and other payables 27 172.3 120.8
Current income tax liabilities 28 13.7 6.0
Provision for industrial disease claims 29 34.6 5.3
Other provisions 29 6.7 5.5
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale 13 2.4 1.7
Total current liabilities 230.7 139.4
Total liabilities 592.2 441.2
Total equity and liabilities 705.9 570.5
The consolidated financial statements on pages 90 to 133 were approved by the Board of directors on 14 March 2017 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Joe Oatley  Chief Executive
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 93 
Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Treasury 
shares
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings/
(losses)
£m
Total
attributable
to parent
£m
Non- 
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2016 30.3 1.0 – 1.0 9.6 99.4 (14.9) 126.4 2.9 129.3
Profit/(loss) for the year – – – – – – (41.1) (41.1) 1.4 (39.7)
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense):
Currency translation differences – – – – – 41.5 – 41.5 0.5 42.0
Re-measurement of defined benefit 
pension plan – – – – – – (1.1) (1.1) – (1.1)
Movement in restriction of retirement 
benefit asset in accordance with  
IFRIC 14 – – – – – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Restriction of interest income in 
accordance with IFRIC 14 – – – – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Tax effect on retirement benefit asset – – – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) for the year – – – – – 41.5 (41.0) 0.5 1.9 2.4
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – – (17.0) (17.0) (1.8) (18.8)
Share options
– – – – – – 1.6 1.6 – 1.6 – value of employee services
– share buyback – – (0.8) – – – – (0.8) – (0.8)
– exercise of share options – – 0.7 – – – (0.7) – – –
– – (0.1) – – – (16.1) (16.2) (1.8) (18.0)
At 31 December 2016 30.3 1.0 (0.1) 1.0 9.6 140.9 (72.0) 110.7 3.0 113.7
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Treasury 
shares
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings/
(losses)
£m
Total 
attributable to 
parent
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2015 30.3 1.0 – 1.0 9.5 96.3 (13.4) 124.7 2.8 127.5
Profit for the year – – – – – – 15.5 15.5 0.3 15.8
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense):
Currency translation differences – – – – – 3.1 – 3.1 0.1 3.2
Re-measurement of defined benefit 
pension plan – – – – – – (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8)
Movement in restriction of retirement 
benefit asset in accordance with 
IFRIC 14 – – – – – – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Restriction of interest income in 
accordance with IFRIC 14 – – – – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Tax effect on retirement benefit asset – – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – – – – 3.1 15.9 19.0 0.4 19.4
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – – (17.0) (17.0) – (17.0)
Transfer to disposal group liabilities – – – – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Share options:
– value of employee services – – – – – – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
– deferred tax on options – – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
– – – – 0.1 – (17.4) (17.3) (0.3) (17.6)
At 31 December 2015 30.3 1.0 – 1.0 9.6 99.4 (14.9) 126.4 2.9 129.3 94 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Note
Continuing 
operations 
2016
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
2016 
£m
Total 
2016
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2015 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
2015 
£m
Restated 
total 
2015 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax (43.6) 0.3 (43.3) 29.1 (0.3) 28.8
Finance costs – net 11 10.8 – 10.8 10.8 – 10.8
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 18 (7.3) – (7.3) (2.8) – (2.8)
Other items 80.4 – 80.4 (2.1) (4.9) (7.0)
Impairment of goodwill and assets held for sale – – – – 5.2 5.2
Claims settled on behalf of IDC Scheme (1.7) – (1.7) (2.2) – (2.2)
Exceptional items – impairment of goodwill 8 – – – 8.8 – 8.8
Share option charge/(credit) 1.6 – 1.6 (0.4) – (0.4)
Depreciation and amortisation 15,17 21.2 – 21.2 19.3 – 19.3
Difference between pension charge and cash contributions 1.2 – 1.2 0.8 – 0.8
(Gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment 17 (0.4) – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
Cash reclassified to disposal group held for sale 13 – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Decrease in inventories 1.0 – 1.0 2.7 – 2.7
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (8.1) 0.9 (7.2) (7.9) 1.1 (6.8)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 17.1 (0.7) 16.4 9.0 (0.8) 8.2
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 1.3 (0.2) 1.1 (13.1) 0.1 (13.0)
Net cash generated from continuing and discontinued operations 73.5 0.3 73.8 51.6 0.3 51.9
Interest received 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Interest paid (7.2) – (7.2) (7.0) – (7.0)
Tax paid (7.2) – (7.2) (9.3) – (9.3)
Net cash flow from operating activities 59.2 0.3 59.5 35.4 0.3 35.7
Investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 17 3.1 2.9
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 17 (15.1) (20.1)
Net transfer to restricted funds 24 (13.0) (5.8) 
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired – (0.2)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables from joint ventures 23 3.4 (1.0)
Dividends received from joint ventures 18 3.9 –
Net cash used in investing activities – 
continuing operations (17.7) (24.2)
Financing activities
Settlement of debt arising on acquisition – (5.3)
Drawing on borrowings 33 7.3 13.2
Dividends paid to shareholders (17.0) (17.0)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (1.8) –
Share buyback (0.8) –
Net cash flows used in financing activities – 
continuing operations (12.3) (9.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 33 29.5 2.4
Net foreign exchange difference on cash and cash equivalents 33 10.6 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 81.4 78.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 24 121.5 81.4
The comparatives have been restated to re-present the net increase in cash and cash equivalents and associated foreign exchange difference. There is no effect on the 
total amount reported Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 95 
Annual Report 2016
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 Corporate information
The consolidated financial statements of Cape plc and its 
subsidiaries, collectively ‘the Group’, for the year ended 
31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution of the directors on 14 March 2017. Cape plc, ‘the 
Company’ or ‘the Parent’, is a limited company incorporated in 
Jersey and resident in the United Kingdom and Jersey whose shares 
are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The registered 
office is located at 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE1 0BD.
The Group is principally engaged in the provision of critical industrial 
services focussed on the energy and natural resources sectors.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(IFRS). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation 
of certain financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative 
instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity 
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. 
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process 
of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are 
disclosed in note 3 ‘Group specific accounting measures’ and note 4 
‘Significant judgements and estimates’. 
Unless otherwise stated, financial information for the Group and 
its business segments are based on the Group’s business 
performance results.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated 
financial statements.
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by 
the Group
Several new standards and amendments apply for the first time in 
2016, however they do not have a significant impact on the annual 
financial statements of the Group. These new standards and 
amendments that are applicable to the Group are listed below:
 – Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests 
in Joint Operations
 – Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial 
Statements
 – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle
b) New and amended standards and interpretations not 
yet adopted
The following standards and interpretations in issue which will have 
an effect for the Group, have not yet been adopted by the Group:
Effective dates
Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred 
Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017
Amendments to IFRS 2: Clarification and 
Measurement of Share-based Payment 
Transactions 1 January 2017
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these standards and 
plans to adopt the new standards on the required effective date.
c) Prior period adjustments
The Group has re-organised its geographical reporting segments 
during the period as outlined in note 5 ‘Segment information’. The 
change in reporting segments has been performed to align external 
reporting with the revised internal management structure. All prior 
year figures have been restated accordingly in note 5.
Basis of consolidation
a) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries (including special 
purpose entities) as at 31 December 2016. Where the Group has 
control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary. The Group 
controls an investee if all three of the following elements are present: 
power over the investee, exposure to variable returns from the 
investment and the ability to use its power to affect those variable 
returns. Control is re-assessed whenever facts and circumstances 
indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements 
of control.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result 
in control. To support this presumption and when the Group has less 
than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the 
Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing 
whether it has power over an investee, including:
 – the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of 
the investee;
 – rights arising from other contractual arrangements;
 – the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control 
is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date 
that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business 
combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair 
value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially 
at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any 
gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in 
profit or loss. 96 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes 
to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be 
an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, 
and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of 
the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling 
interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the 
net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised 
in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated upon 
consolidation. Profits and losses resulting from intercompany 
transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated 
upon consolidation. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
All subsidiary undertakings have year-end dates of 31 December.
b) Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without change 
of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss 
of control are accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The 
difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the 
subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to 
non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in 
the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control 
is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or 
loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes 
of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, 
joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity 
are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related 
assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
d) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties 
that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net 
assets of the joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually 
agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only 
when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate a share of the 
results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures using the equity method 
of accounting, whereby the investment is carried at cost plus 
post-acquisition changes in the share of net assets of the joint 
venture, less any provision for impairment. A joint venture is an entity 
established to engage in economic activity which the Group jointly 
controls with its fellow venturers. Losses in excess of the 
consolidated interest in joint ventures are not recognised except 
where the Group has a constructive commitment to make good 
those losses. The results of joint ventures acquired or disposed of 
during the year are included in the consolidated income statement 
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of 
disposal, as appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested whenever there is an event which indicates that 
the carrying amount may not be recoverable or, as a minimum, 
annually, for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash-
generating unit for the purpose of impairment testing. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately through the consolidated 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. The allocation is 
made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in 
which the goodwill arose.
Foreign currencies
a) Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s 
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). The 
consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is 
the parent company’s functional and presentational currency.
b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional 
currency using exchange rates prevailing at the date of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period 
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash 
equivalents are presented in the consolidated income statement 
within operating profit. All other foreign exchange gains and losses 
are included in operating profit. Changes in the fair value of monetary 
securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for 
sale are analysed between translation differences resulting from 
changes in the amortised cost of the security and other changes 
in the carrying amount of the security. Translation differences related 
to changes in amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss, and 
other changes in carrying amount are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of their historic cost 
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the 
date of their initial transaction.
c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a 
functional currency different from the presentational currency are 
translated into the presentational currency as follows:
 – assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate 
at the date of the statement of financial position
 – income and expenses for each income statement are translated 
at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on 
the transaction dates, in which case the income and expenses 
are translated at the rate on the dates of the transaction)
 – all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate 
component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation 
of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and 
other currency instruments designated as hedges of such 
investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. When a 
foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange 
differences that were recognised in equity are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 97 
Annual Report 2016
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing exchange rate, with exchange 
differences arising recognised in other comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and machinery and fixtures and fittings are stated at 
cost net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. 
Cost comprises purchase cost together with any incidental costs of 
acquisition. Interest is capitalised on qualifying assets as defined by 
IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’. Certain land and buildings are held at 
previous revalued amounts less accumulated depreciation as these 
amounts have been taken as their deemed cost at the date of 
transition to IFRS in accordance with the exemption under IFRS 1 
‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated 
residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their 
estimated useful economic lives with the exception that no depreciation 
is provided on freehold land. The assets’ residual values and useful 
economic lives are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at the 
date of each statement of financial position. The following useful 
economic life is applied:
 – freehold buildings – 50 years
 – leasehold land and buildings – the shorter of 50 years and the 
period of the lease
 – plant and machinery – 3 to 15 years
 – fixtures and fittings – 3 to 10 years.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within 
operating profit before other items in the consolidated income 
statement. When re-valued assets are sold, the amounts included 
in other reserves are transferred to retained earnings.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether its property, 
plant and equipment may be impaired. If any such indication exists, 
the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial 
recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite 
or infinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful 
economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation 
period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a 
finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting 
period. The amortisation expense on intangible assets arising from 
business combinations with finite lives is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement as an ‘other item’ (see note 3a). 
The following useful life is applied:
 – software – amortised on a straight line basis over three years
 – trademarks – amortised on a straight line basis over 20 years
 – design library – amortised on a straight line basis over 20 years
 – supply agreement – amortised on a straight line basis over 
three years
 – order book – amortised on a straight line basis over two years
 – customer relationships – amortised on a straight line basis over 
ten years.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, 
but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is 
reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues 
to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite 
to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Investment property
The Group applies the cost model in accounting for investment 
property. The investment property relates to land held at cost less 
any provision for impairment.
Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease 
is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the 
lease. The arrangement is (or contains) a lease if fulfilment of the 
arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets; 
and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even 
if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. Leases in 
which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are 
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments 
made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from 
the lessor) are charged to the consolidated income statement on 
a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases 
of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement 
at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments.
Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and 
finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance 
charges, are included in borrowings. The interest element of the 
finance cost is charged to the consolidated income statement over 
the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. Property, 
plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated 
over the term of the lease or the useful economic life, if shorter.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, 
either legal or constructive, as a result of a past event and it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 
the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation applying a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current risks specific to the liability. Where 
there is appropriate insurance in place, the benefit of any insurance 
reimbursement is recognised as an asset only when virtually certain 
in line with IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets’.
There is a history of claims being made against the Group for 
compensation arising from alleged exposure to products previously 
manufactured which contained asbestos. Where the Group has 
deemed that it is appropriate to do so, settlement has been made. 
A provision has been made for the costs which the Group is 
expected to incur in respect of lodged and future industrial disease 
claims to the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated.
The provision includes the cost of claims that are expected to be 
made under the Scheme of Arrangement (see note 35) and other 
industrial disease claims.
Contingent consideration arising on a business combination is 
initially measured at its fair value. Contingent consideration 
arrangements classified as liabilities arising from a business 
combination should be subsequently measured at fair value 
through profit or loss. 98 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Inventories
Inventories which include raw materials and finished goods are 
stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is 
determined using the first-in first-out method. The cost of finished 
goods comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and 
related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity).
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less selling expenses. Allowance is made for 
obsolete and slow moving items based on annual usage.
Revenue recognition
The revenue recognition policy in relation to construction contracts 
and maintenance contracts is shown below. Revenue is shown net of 
value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. Claims on customers are claims made for 
work outside of contractual terms and, as such, are only recognised 
in revenue once accepted by the customer.
Construction contracts
Construction contracts relate to services provided to customers 
undertaking construction projects either on a short or long-term basis.
For short-term contracts, revenue is recognised where persuasive 
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or 
services have been rendered, the risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can 
be reliably measured and collection of the related receivable is 
reasonably assured.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised under the percentage 
of completion method, based upon the percentage of costs to date 
compared to the total estimated contract costs, contractual 
milestones or performance. An expected loss on the construction 
contract is recognised as an expense immediately. When the 
outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, 
revenue is recognised only to the extent that contract costs are 
probable of being recoverable, and contract costs are recognised 
as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Maintenance contracts
Revenues from maintenance contracts are recognised where 
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred 
or services have been rendered, the risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can 
be reliably measured and collection of the related receivable is 
reasonably assured.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted and are expected to apply to the accounting period.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial 
statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if 
they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax 
is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the 
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or 
loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the 
statement of financial position and are expected to apply when the 
related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income 
tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed 
in the foreseeable future.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either 
the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an 
intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation ceases 
from the moment it is classified as held for sale. These are 
recognised separately within current assets on the face of the 
consolidated statement of financial position.
Disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying 
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when 
the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for sale 
in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed 
sale within one year from the date of classification.
The losses and cash flows that relate to the businesses that have 
been classified as held for sale and which meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as per IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations’ are presented separately from 
continuing operations within the consolidated income statement 
and statement of consolidated cash flows.
Employee benefits
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution 
pension schemes.
Defined contribution pension scheme
A defined contribution pension scheme is a scheme to which the 
Group makes fixed contributions with no legal or constructive 
obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold 
sufficient assets to settle its post-employment benefits. The pension 
expense for defined contribution schemes represents contributions 
payable in the year.
Defined benefit pension scheme
The liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial 
position in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation at the period end date less the fair 
value of the plan assets. The defined benefit scheme is closed to 
new participants. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
tri-annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit 
method and this valuation is updated at the date of the statement of 
financial position. The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows 
using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and 
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related 
pension liability.
Current and past service costs and finance costs are charged to 
operating profit. In addition, interest on the net defined benefit 
pension obligation is recognised in profit or loss calculated using the 
discount rate used to measure the pension obligation. Actuarial gains 
and losses arising from new valuations and from updating the latest 
actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at the date of the statement of 
financial position are recognised in full in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income.
The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses (to the extent that any 
surpluses are considered recoverable) are recognised in full and 
presented on the face of the consolidated statement of financial 
position.
Under IFRIC 14 the recoverability of a surplus must be assessed 
against the minimum funding requirements of the pension scheme.
The Group operates gratuity schemes in certain overseas countries. 
These are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee 
Benefits’ and accounting follows the same principles as for a defined 
benefit scheme. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 99 
Annual Report 2016
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) 
and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method. Issue costs together with finance costs are charged 
to the consolidated income statement over the term of the 
borrowings and represent a constant proportion of the balance of 
capital repayments outstanding.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has 
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the date of the statement of financial position.
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which 
are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get 
ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those 
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their 
intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific 
borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period 
in which they are incurred.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater 
than twelve months after the date of the statement of financial 
position date. These are classified as non-current assets. The 
Group’s loans and receivables comprise of ‘trade and other 
receivables’ in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised and carried at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any provision for 
impairment. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held 
on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities 
in the consolidated statement of financial position unless a cash 
pooling arrangement is in place.
Restricted funds, being cash balances held for the purpose of settling 
tax liabilities and the costs of industrial disease claims made under the 
Scheme of Arrangement (see note 35) are excluded from cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and 
hedging activities
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and 
interest rate fluctuations. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured at their fair value. The fair value of interest rate swaps 
is determined by reference to market values of similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
 – net investment hedges when hedging the exposure to changes 
in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign 
operations
 – cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The Group formally designates and documents the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the 
inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management 
objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
The documentation also includes identification of the hedging 
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk 
being hedged and how the Group will assess the effectiveness of the 
hedging instruments in offsetting the exposure to changes in the fair 
value of the hedge or the cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at inception and 
on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair 
values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the 
consolidated income statement. 
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives 
designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the 
hedging relationship, as follows:
a) Net investment hedges
For net investment hedges, the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised 
directly in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the 
consolidated income statement when the foreign operation is 
partially disposed of or sold.
b) Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on 
the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the 
ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the consolidated income 
statement when the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised 
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is 
revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is 
ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 
gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to 
the consolidated income statement. 100 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Fair value measurement
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed 
in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 – Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities
 – Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable
 – Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end 
of each reporting period.
Refer to note 26 (f) for further details.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain 
employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised 
as an expense in the consolidated income statement with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The fair values of these payments 
are measured at the dates of grant using option pricing models, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards 
are granted. The fair value is recognised over the period during which 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to 
the Group’s estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, either 
due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to 
non-market based performance conditions not being met.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates 
of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. If the options 
vest, the Company can either issue new shares or purchase back 
shares from the market, which are then held in an employee benefit 
trust account until the options are exercised. Proceeds received on 
the exercise of share options, if any, are credited to share capital 
and share premium.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the 
grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash settled transaction.
Any awards which are granted with a dividend equivalence are 
based on vesting percentage assumptions, which are revised at the 
end of each reporting period. Any adjustments to the original 
estimates, if any, are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to liabilities. A liability 
is recognised within other provisions over the vesting period and will 
be settled by cash, therefore the charge in relation to the dividend 
equivalence is treated as a cash settled transaction.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM, who is responsible 
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Board.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market 
risk (including currency, cash flow interest rate and fair value interest 
rate risks), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk 
management programme focusses on the unpredictability of financial 
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the 
Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department 
under policies approved by the Board of directors. Group treasury 
identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation 
with the Group’s operating units. The Board provides written 
principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies 
covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange, interest rate and 
credit risks, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative 
financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the 
case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when declared 
and paid. In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the 
shareholders at the AGM.
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in two key currencies. 
The movements in exchange rates against Sterling for these two 
currencies are detailed below:
Year ended
31 December 2016
Year ended
31 December 2015
Closing Average Closing Average
AUD 1.71 1.81 2.03 2.09
USD 1.24 1.35 1.48 1.51
3 Group specific accounting measures
To be able to provide readers with clear, meaningful and consistent 
presentation of financial performance, the Group reflects its 
underlying financial results in the ‘business performance’ column 
within the consolidated income statement. Business performance 
excludes ‘Other items’ and ‘Exceptional items’, which are considered 
non-operational in their nature and which are reported separately 
in a different column within the consolidated income statement.
a) Other items
Other items are those items which the directors believe are relevant to 
the understanding of the results for the year and which are excluded 
from the adjusted measures. Other items include administration 
expenses, financial incomes and financial costs associated with 
industrial disease claims and certain post-acquisition charges, including 
amortisation of acquired intangibles arising from business combinations.
b) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which are of a non-recurring 
nature or, in the judgement of the directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Items which 
may be considered exceptional in nature include significant 
write-downs of goodwill and other assets, significant changes 
in asset values as a result of changes in accounting estimates, 
business acquisition costs and restructuring costs. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 101 
Annual Report 2016
4 Significant judgements and estimates
Certain of the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2 
require critical accounting estimates that involve subjective 
judgements and the use of assumptions, some of which may relate 
to matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change.
a) Judgements
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are:
(i) Revenue recognition and assessment of long-term contract 
performance
The Group generally accounts for long-term construction contracts 
using the percentage of completion method as performance of the 
contract progresses. This method requires judgement to determine 
accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards contract 
completion and may involve estimates of the total contract costs, 
remaining costs to completion, total revenues, contract risks and 
other judgements.
(ii) Carrying value of property, plant and equipment
Assessing whether property, plant and equipment may be impaired 
requires a review for indicators of impairment and, where such 
indicators exist, an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount by 
reference to value in use. Management are required to exercise 
significant judgement in reviewing for and identifying asset indicators 
of impairment and subsequently calculating value in use.
(iii) Trade and other receivables
The Group provides for likely non-recovery of receivables to the 
extent that the carrying value is more than the present value of 
expected future cash flows. Assessing the value of the provision 
requires significant management judgement and review of individual 
receivables based upon individual customer creditworthiness, 
current economic trends and analysis of historical bad debts.
(iv) Deferred tax assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets on all applicable 
temporary differences where it is probable that future taxable profits 
will be available for utilisation. This requires management to make 
judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred tax 
that can be recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of 
future taxable profits.
(v) Defined benefit pension scheme
The cost and the obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme is based on a number of selection assumptions. These 
include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, longevity and 
expected return on the assets of the plan. Differences arising from 
actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected 
in future periods. The effect of changing these assumptions is 
described in note 19.
b) Estimates
The key assumptions affected by future uncertainty that have a 
significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
(i) Onerous contracts
Provision is made for future losses on long-term contracts where 
it is considered that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues 
in future years. Estimating future losses involves assumptions of 
contract performance targets and likely levels of future cost 
escalation over time. A provision for onerous contracts of £3.0 million 
is recorded at 31 December 2016 (2015: £3.1 million), as shown in 
note 29.
(ii) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. This requires 
estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which 
the goodwill is allocated. Calculation of value in use requires estimation 
of expected future cash flows from each of the cash-generating units 
and also to determine a suitable discount rate to calculate the 
present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of goodwill 
at 31 December 2016 was £132.9 million (2015: £118.0 million), 
as shown in note 15.
(iii) Provision for industrial disease claims
To the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated as at 
31 December 2016, a provision has been made for the costs which 
the Group is expected to incur in respect of lodged and future 
industrial disease claims for which the Board believes the Group to 
be liable arising from alleged exposure to previously manufactured 
asbestos products, notwithstanding the matters disclosed under 
note 34 ‘Industrial disease claims provision and contingent liabilities’. 
The most recent full actuarial valuation was completed in January 
2017 in respect of the period up to 31 December 2016 and the next 
full valuation is scheduled to be completed in respect of the period 
up to 31 December 2019. The amount of the provision is based on 
historic patterns of claim numbers and monetary settlements as well 
as published tables of projected disease incidence. Key assumptions 
made in assessing the appropriate level of provision include the 
period over which future claims can be expected, the nature of 
claims received, the rate at which claims will be filed, the rate of 
successful resolution as well as future trends in both compensation 
payments and legal costs. Management monitors claims received 
on an ongoing basis as well as any other factors which would require 
a change to the assumptions or trigger a full actuarial review in the 
current year. When determining the appropriate level of provision, 
the Board has considered various potential, threatened and actual 
claim types and has relied on appropriate legal and other 
professional advice.
The total industrial disease claims provision at 31 December 2016 
increased to £172.5 million (2015: £95.5 million) as a result of a 
number of factors, including the reduction in the discount rate used 
in the triennial actuarial valuation, a provision recognised for insurer 
employers liability claims following a determinant judgement in this 
litigation in July 2016, an additional provision for the insurer product 
liability claims following the agreed settlement reached after the year 
end (see note 39) and a consideration of potential further claims of 
a similar nature.
(iv) Income tax
Group entities can be subject to routine tax audits and also a 
process whereby tax computations are discussed and agreed with 
the appropriate authorities. Whilst the ultimate outcome of such tax 
audits and discussions cannot be determined with certainty, 
management estimates the level of required tax provisions on the 
basis of professional advice and the nature of current discussions 
with the tax authority concerned. 102 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
5 Segment information
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board (Chief Operating Decision Maker ‘CODM’) 
that are used to make strategic decisions. The CODM considers the business from a geographic perspective and the Group reports three 
regional segments and a central support function. The main profit measure used by the CODM in its review is adjusted operating profit.
The Group has re-organised its geographical reporting segments during the year. The change in reporting segments has been performed 
to align external reporting with the revised internal management structure. Sakhalin is now reported within ‘Asia Pacific’ and both Azerbaijan 
and Kazakhstan are now reported within ‘Middle East’, with these having all previously been reported within ‘UK, Europe & CIS’. Additionally, 
the ‘UK, Europe & CIS’ segment has been renamed ‘UK’ and ‘MENA’ has been renamed ‘Middle East’. All prior year figures have been 
restated accordingly. 
Each regional segment derives its revenues from the provision of critical industrial services focussed on the energy and natural resources 
sectors. No operating segments have been aggregated.
The segment information for the year ended 31 December 2016 is as follows:
2016
UK
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 370.8 191.6 301.1 – 863.5
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 14.2 19.7 21.3 (7.1) 48.1
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures – 7.3 – – 7.3
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) after franchise fees 14.2 27.0 21.3 (7.1) 55.4
Other and exceptional items (88.2)
Net finance costs (10.8)
(Loss) before tax (43.6)
2015 restated
UK
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 388.4 174.6 148.4 – 711.4
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 31.5 21.3 3.5 (6.6) 49.7
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures – 2.8 – – 2.8
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) after franchise fees 31.5 24.1 3.5 (6.6) 52.5
Other and exceptional items (12.6)
Net finance costs (10.8)
Profit before tax 29.1
Segmental adjusted operating profit/(loss) in the table above is shown after charging franchise fees. Adjusted operating profit before franchise
fees is set out in note 7. There were no significant sales between segments in either year.
Other segment items included in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2016 Note
UK 
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Depreciation (excluding discontinued operations) 17 5.1 8.1 4.8 – 18.0
Amortisation 15 3.2 – – – 3.2
2015 Note
UK 
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Depreciation (excluding discontinued operations) 17 5.2 6.5 4.2 – 15.9
Amortisation 15 3.4 – – – 3.4
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 103 
Annual Report 2016
5 Segment information (continued) 
The geographical origin of revenue based on location of the entity is analysed as follows:
Note
2016
£m
Restated
2015
£m
Continuing operations
United Kingdom 368.5 385.7
Australia 226.1 113.6
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 81.4 70.0
Qatar 43.6 54.6
Abu Dhabi 40.8 34.6
South Korea 37.9 0.2
Singapore 19.0 0.8
Rest of the world 46.2 51.9
Revenue from continuing operations 863.5 711.4
Discontinued operations 13 6.5 5.3
Total revenue 870.0 716.7
The Strategic report section in this Annual Report and Accounts provides an analysis of revenues between maintenance support services 
(being services to plant operators to assist with their maintenance and production support activities) and construction support services (being 
services to engineering and contracting companies to support major construction projects). This split in customer base and revenue does not 
represent an operating segment as multi-discipline services are provided to all customers and as such the segmental analysis is only 
presented by geographic segments. The prior year comparatives in the table above have been restated to show the revenue of South Korea 
separately from the rest of the world.
Revenue from continuing operations derived from maintenance support services was £521 million (60%) (2015: £474 million (67%)) and 
revenue derived from construction support services was £342 million (40%) (2015: £237 million (33%)).
Revenue from the largest client represented 19% of total revenue relating to project activity in Australia and the top ten clients represented 
54% of revenue (2015: 45%). Revenue from the second largest client represented 10% of total revenue and related to activity across all 
geographic segments.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, investments, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other receivables. 
Segment liabilities consist of operating liabilities.
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2016 and capital expenditure for the year are as follows:
2016 Note
UK
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Unallocated
£m
Group
£m
Assets – continuing 165.2 202.9 127.5 6.2 202.6 704.4
Assets held for sale 17 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Assets directly associated with disposal 
group held for sale 13 – – 1.2 – – 1.2
Total assets 165.5 202.9 128.7 6.2 202.6 705.9
Non-current assets included in total assets
Goodwill and intangibles – continuing 58.6 57.8 33.9 – – 150.3
Other – continuing 26.8 45.2 18.9 2.3 42.6 135.8
Total non-current assets 85.4 103.0 52.8 2.3 42.6 286.1
Liabilities – continuing 59.1 63.8 69.6 183.0 214.2 589.7
Liabilities – discontinued operations – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Liabilities directly associated with disposal 
group held for sale 13 – 0.3 2.1 – – 2.4
Total liabilities 59.1 64.2 71.7 183.0 214.2 592.2
Capital expenditure – property, 
plant and equipment 17 2.4 8.7 3.8 0.2 – 15.1 104 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
5 Segment information (continued)
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2015 and capital expenditure for the year are as follows:
2015 restated Note
UK
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Unallocated
£m
Group
£m
Assets – continuing 185.7 163.8 76.9 8.7 134.4 569.5
Assets directly associated with disposal 
group held for sale 13 – 0.2 0.8 – – 1.0
Total assets 185.7 164.0 77.7 8.7 134.4 570.5
Non-current assets included in total assets
Goodwill and intangibles – continuing 61.6 48.3 28.6 0.1 – 138.6
Other – continuing 32.8 31.8 18.6 1.8 29.7 114.7
Total non-current assets 94.4 80.1 47.2 1.9 29.7 253.3
Liabilities – continuing 58.5 55.7 24.1 102.4 198.7 439.4
Liabilities – discontinued operations – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Liabilities directly associated with disposal 
group held for sale 13 – 0.5 1.2 – – 1.7
Total liabilities 58.5 56.3 25.3 102.4 198.7 441.2
Capital expenditure – property, 
plant and equipment 17 8.5 9.1 2.5 – – 20.1
The geographical origin of non-current assets held by the Group has not been disclosed as the necessary information is not available and the 
cost to develop it would be excessive. The prior year comparatives for Central and UK assets have been restated to correct the allocation of 
assets between these two segments. There is no effect on total assets.
Liabilities of discontinued operations of £0.1 million (2015: £0.1 million) relate to liabilities held in India. Assets and liabilities held for sale in both 
2016 and 2015 relate to the discontinuation of operations in Hong Kong and Kazakhstan.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise:
Note
2016 2015 
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Deferred tax 20 39.1 (4.7) 20.7 (5.4)
Current tax 28 – (13.7) – (6.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 24 121.5 – 81.4 –
Restricted deposits: current 24 38.5 – 23.3 –
Restricted deposits: non-current 24 3.5 – 9.0 –
Bank loans 25 – (195.8) – (187.3)
Total unallocated 202.6 (214.2) 134.4 (198.7)
6 Operating profit/(loss)
 Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Analysis of operating profit/(loss)
Continuing operations
Revenue 863.5 711.4
Cost of sales (730.6) (587 .9)
Gross profit 132.9 123.5
Operating expenses (84.8) (73.8)
Operating profit before joint ventures and other items and exceptional items 48.1 49.7
Other items 8a (88.2) (3.4)
Exceptional items 8b – (9.2)
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 18 7.3 2.8
Operating profit/(loss) (32.8) 39.9
Cost of sales consists principally of direct labour, materials and other direct costs which include foreign exchange gains and losses and 
operating lease payments.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 105 
Annual Report 2016
6 Operating profit/(loss) (continued)
The following items have been charged to the consolidated income statement:
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Employee benefit expense (excluding discontinued operations) 9 550.0 442.3
Auditor’s remuneration 10 1.3 1.3
Amortisation 15 3.2 3.4
Depreciation (excluding discontinued operations) 17 18.0 15.9
(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 (0.4) (0.4)
Operating lease payments including hire of plant and machinery 15.7 11.7
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) 1.1 (0.5)
7 Adjusted measures
The Group seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by exceptional or other items, both considered 
non-operational in nature. These measures are described as ‘adjusted’ and are used by management to measure and monitor performance. 
Other items and exceptional items have been excluded from the adjusted measures:
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax (43.6) 29.1
Other items 8a 88.2 3.4
Exceptional items 8b – 9.2
Interest income on restricted funds 11 (0.4) (0.3)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 11 3.2 3.3
Adjusted profit before tax 47.4 44.7
Operating profit/(loss) (32.8) 39.9
Other items 8a 88.2 3.4
Exceptional items 8b – 9.2
Adjusted operating profit 55.4 52.5
Adjusted operating profit margin 6.4% 7.4%
Adjusted operating profit 55.4 52.5
Depreciation – continuing operations 17 18.0 15.9
Adjusted EBITDA 73.4 68.4
Net debt 36.2 76.6
Unamortised borrowing arrangement costs 3.4 2.0
Restricted funds 24 42.0 32.3
Less: cash transferred to assets of disposal group held for sale 13 (1.2) (1.0)
Adjusted net debt 80.4 109.9
Finance costs (11.3) (11.2)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 11 3.2 3.3
Adjusted finance costs (8.1) (7.9)
Certain central operations and management are based in Singapore with responsibility for management and development of non-UK 
intellectual property. Franchise agreements facilitate the charging of franchise fees from Singapore to the Group’s non-UK trading businesses 
with such costs being reported through segment operating profit. 106 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
7 Adjusted measures (continued)
The segmental adjusted operating profit before franchise fee charges is as follows:
2016
UK
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Revenue 370.8 191.6 301.1 – 863.5
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 14.2 22.4 27.0 (15.5) 48.1
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures – 7.3 – – 7.3
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 14.2 29.7 27.0 (15.5) 55.4
2015 restated
UK
£m
Middle East
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Revenue 388.4 174.6 148.4 – 711.4
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 31.5 24.7 7.8 (14.3) 49.7
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures – 2.8 – – 2.8
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 31.5 27.5 7.8 (14.3) 52.5
8 Other items and exceptional items
a) Other items
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Continuing operations
In operating profit:
 Amortisation of intangibles arising on business acquisitions 15 3.2 3.4 
 Post-acquisition management compensation 0.3 0.2
 Charge/(credit) to provision for industrial disease claims 29 79.2 (0.6)
 Litigation costs and other expenses for industrial disease claims 5.5 0.4
Other items from continuing operations included within operating profit 88.2 3.4
b) Exceptional items
2016
£m
2015
£m
(i) Continuing operations
 Acquisition-related costs – 0.4
 Impairment of goodwill – 8.8
Exceptional items from continuing operations included within operating profit – 9.2
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
(ii) Discontinued operations
In loss from discontinued operations:
 Impairment of goodwill 13 – 3.4
 Impairment of assets held for sale 13 – 1.8
 Other 13 – 0.4
 (Release) of provision for exit costs 13 – (0.7)
Exceptional items included within loss from discontinued operations – 4.9
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 107 
Annual Report 2016
9 Employee benefit expense
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 501.3 398.5
Social security costs 28.7 29.6
Share options charge/(credit) for the year 31 1.6 (0.4)
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 19 15.0 13.2
Other employee benefit costs 19 3.4 1.4
Total (excluding discontinued operations) 550.0 442.3
All of the figures in the above table exclude discontinued operations. The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) 
in 2016 was 16,102 (2015: 16,462). The remuneration paid to directors of the Group is disclosed in note 36 ‘Related party transactions’ and 
the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 77.
10 Auditor’s remuneration
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor and associates for:
The audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3
The interim review of the parent company and consolidated interim financial statements 0.1 0.1
The audit of the Company’s subsidiary company financial statements 0.8 0.7
Tax compliance and advisory services 0.1 0.2
Total 1.3 1.3
Included in the 2015 balance is an amount of £0.1 million of over runs for the 2014 audit which was allocated to the audit of the parent company 
and the consolidated financial statements. There are no such costs in 2016 in relation to the 2015 audit. The comparative has been restated to 
represent the prior year numbers to correspond to the 2016 audit fee allocation. This has no effect on the total amount for the prior year.
11 Finance income and costs
Note
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Interest income: 
 Short-term bank deposits 0.1 0.1
 Interest on restricted funds 24 0.4 0.3
Finance income 0.5 0.4
Interest expense:
 Bank borrowings (7.9) (7.7)
 Finance leases (0.2) (0.2)
 Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 29 (3.2) (3.3)
Finance costs (11.3) (11.2)
Net finance costs (10.8) (10.8)
12 Income tax
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Current tax:
UK 2.2 2.1
Overseas 9.4 6.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 (1.1)
Deferred tax:
UK (13.4) 1.0
Overseas (2.4) (0.2)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.5)
Income tax (credit)/expense (3.6) 8.1 108 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
12 Income tax (continued)
The difference between the actual tax charge and the charge that would have arisen using Jersey’s standard corporate income tax rate of 0% 
(2015: 0%) is explained in the table below:
2016 
£m
Restated
2015
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax – continuing operations (43.6) 29.1
Profit/(loss) before tax – discontinued operations 0.3 (0.3)
Total taxable profit/(loss) (43.3) 28.8
Tax calculated at the standard rate of corporate income tax in Jersey of 0% (2015: 0%) – –
Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.6 (1.6)
Share option charge 0.1 –
Effect of different overseas tax rates (9.1) 6.1
Goodwill write-off – 1.8
Unrelieved overseas tax 2.2 2.2
Deferred tax asset not recognised in respect of losses 5.4 (0.3)
Tax in respect of joint ventures – (0.6)
Expenses non-deductible 2.6 1.1
Income not taxable (2.1) (0.8)
Increase in tax provisions 2.4 –
Recognition of unrecognised losses (6.6) –
Change in tax rates 0.6 0.2
Other 0.6 –
Discontinued operations adjustment (0.3) –
Tax (credit)/charge (3.6) 8.1
Included within the tax credit of £3.6 million (2015: charge of £8.1 million) is a tax credit of £13.2 million (2015: charge of £0.1 million) relating 
to exceptional and other items. The local tax rate is applied to the underlying costs or income, however certain exceptional costs due to their 
very nature will not have an associated tax charge or credit. The overall effective rate applied to these costs will vary year upon year depending 
on the location and the nature of the cost. The Group has uncertain tax positions that are disclosed in note 34. No movements on these 
positions are included in the tax charge for the year.
Factors affecting current and future tax charges
As a Group involved in worldwide operations, Cape is subject to several factors that may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and 
mix of profitability in different jurisdictions, tax rates imposed and tax regime reforms. Legislation has been enacted in the UK to reduce the 
standard rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020. Any UK deferred tax balances have therefore been 
measured at an appropriate rate depending on when the deferred tax balance is expected to unwind.
13 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
Analysis of the result of discontinued operations and the result recognised on the re-measurement of assets and liabilities of the disposal 
group is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Revenue 6.5 5.3
Expenses (6.2) (5.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax of discontinued operations 0.3 (0.3)
Deferred income tax (charge) – (0.2)
Exclude: share of loss attributable to non-controlling interest – 0.2
Profit/(loss) after tax of discontinued operations before exceptional items 0.3 (0.3)
Exceptional items:
 Impairment of goodwill – (3.4)
 Impairment of assets held for sale – (1.8)
 Other – (0.4)
Release/(charge) of provision for exit costs – 0.7
Profit/(loss) after tax of discontinued operations after exceptional items 0.3 (5.2)
Discontinued operations in 2016 and 2015 primarily relate to the planned termination of operations in Hong Kong. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 109 
Annual Report 2016
13 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale (continued)
The major classes of assets and liabilities directly associated with the disposal group classified as held for sale relate to discontinued 
operations in Hong Kong and Kazakhstan and are split as follows:
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale Note
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Trade and other receivables 1.7 1.8
Cash 1.2 1.0
Goodwill 15 3.4 3.4
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale before impairment 6.3 6.2
Impairment of assets associated with disposal group held for sale (5.1) (5.2)
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale after impairment 1.2 1.0
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade and other payables (2.0) (1.2)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale before impairment (2.0) (1.2)
Provision for exit costs (0.4) (0.5)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale after impairment (2.4) (1.7)
Net (liabilities) of disposal group held for sale (1.2) (0.7)
The fair value of the net liabilities held for sale have been calculated based on the estimated realisable value on the open market less costs 
to sell. This is in accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’. The related fair values discussed 
above are classified as Level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy.
14 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) for the year equals the loss after tax attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders of £41.1 million 
(2015: profit after tax of £15.5 million) divided by the weighted average number of issued ordinary shares of 121,020,614 (2015: 121,072,777).
When the Group makes a profit from continuing operations, diluted EPS equals the profit attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders 
divided by the diluted weighted average number of issued and potential issuance of ordinary shares. When the Group makes a loss from 
continuing operations, diluted EPS equals the loss attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders divided by the basic (undiluted) 
weighted average number of issued ordinary shares. This ensures that EPS on losses is shown in full and not diluted by unexercised share 
options or awards.
Share options and awards are considered dilutive when the average share price during the year is higher than the average exercise price of 
the option or award and attainment of attaching performance criteria can be determined with appropriate certainty. Out of the 1,420,734 
options granted in the current period, 1,136,038 options are not considered dilutive.
2016 
Shares
2015 
Shares
Basic weighted average number of shares 121,020,614 121,072,777
Adjustments:
Weighted average number of outstanding share options 1,104,473 563,679
Diluted weighted average number of shares 122,125,087 121,636,456
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares that the Company holds in an employee benefit trust. The weighted average 
number of shares held in the trust during the year was 83,323 (2015: 31,160). 110 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
14 Earnings per ordinary share (continued)
2016 2015
Earnings
£m
EPS
pence
Earnings
£m
EPS
pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share
Continuing operations (41.4) (34.2) 20.7 17.1
Discontinued operations 0.3 0.2 (5.2) (4.3)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (41.1) (34.0) 15.5 12.8
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share
Continuing operations (41.4) (34.2) 20.7 17.0
Discontinued operations 0.3 0.2 (5.2) (4.3)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (41.1) (34.0) 15.5 12.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share – continuing operations
Earnings/(loss) from continuing operations (41.4) (34.2) 20.7 17.1
Amortisation of intangibles 3.2 2.6 3.4 2.8
Post-acquisition management compensation 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2
Exceptional items – – 9.2 7.5
Industrial disease related costs and interest income 87.6 72.4 2.8 2.3
Tax effect of adjusting items (13.2) (10.9) 0.1 0.1
Adjusted basic earnings per share 36.5 30.2 36.4 30.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share – continuing operations
Earnings/(loss) from continuing operations (41.4) (34.2) 20.7 17.0
Dilutive effect of loss from continuing operations – 0.3 – –
Amortisation of intangibles 3.2 2.6 3.4 2.8
Post-acquisition management compensation 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2
Exceptional items – – 9.2 7.5
Industrial disease related costs and interest income 87.6 71.7 2.8 2.3
Tax effect of adjusting items (13.2) (10.8) 0.1 0.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 36.5 29.9 36.4  29.9
The adjusted earnings per share calculations have been calculated after excluding the impact of amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring 
costs, exceptional items, industrial disease claims related costs and interest income on restricted funds and the tax impact of these items. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 111 
Annual Report 2016
15 Intangible assets
Note
Goodwill
£m
Trademarks
£m
Supply 
agreements
 £m
Other 
customer-
related 
intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 257.0 6.8 2.6 13.8 5.8 286.0
Acquired through business combination 2.3 – – 3.1 – 5.4
Disposals – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (7.1) – – – – (7.1)
Transfer to assets held for sale 13 (3.4) – – – – (3.4)
At 31 December 2015 248.8 6.8 2.6 16.9 5.7 280.8
Exchange adjustments 39.3 – – – 0.3 39.6
At 31 December 2016 288.1 6.8 2.6 16.9 6.0 320.4
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2015 129.8 0.3 0.7 1.5 5.6 137.9
Amortisation charge – 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4
Impairment 8.8 – – – – 8.8
Disposals – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (7.8) – – – – (7.8)
At 31 December 2015 130.8 0.6 1.6 3.6 5.6 142.2
Amortisation charge – 0.3 0.9 1.9 0.1 3.2
Exchange adjustments 24.4 – – – 0.3 24.7
At 31 December 2016 155.2 0.9 2.5 5.5 6.0 170.1
Net book amount:
At 1 January 2015 127.2 6.5 1.9 12.3 0.2 148.1
At 31 December 2015 118.0 6.2 1.0 13.3 0.1 138.6
At 31 December 2016 132.9 5.9 0.1 11.4 – 150.3
Impairment tests for goodwill
As required by IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of each 
cash-generating unit (CGU) is based on a value in use calculation. £8.8 million of goodwill was impaired in 2015 in relation to the Asia CGU, 
reflecting a downward revision in the shorter-term cash flow projections in light of current market conditions.
Each CGU’s value in use was calculated by taking the Group’s five-year cash flow forecasts and then applying a long-term growth rate to the 
periods beyond the fifth year, discounted back using a pre-tax discount rate. These present values were then compared to the combined 
carrying value of the CGUs’ assets (goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment). The key assumptions used in preparing 
the discounted cash flows were as follows:
EBITDA and cash flow projections
EBITDA and capital expenditure in the five-year forecast commenced with the most recently approved annual budget, years two to five were 
prepared on a country by country basis by considering past performance, long-term market share and estimates of market growth by sector. 
All cash flows associated with future capital expenditure that would enhance the performance of the CGUs were then removed from the 
discounted cash flows. Cash flow projections were calculated in real rather than nominal terms.
Discount rate
The discount rate reflects the estimated post-tax rate of return that would be expected from a rational investor over the period of the forecast, 
which is then adjusted to a pre-tax discount rate by reference to the Group’s five-year cash tax forecast. The post-tax discount rate was 
calculated using the Capital Asset Pricing Model approach, with the risk-free rate based on UK Government gilts, the beta derived via weekly 
observations over a five-year period and the risk premium based on a consistent long-term average return on shares. Adjustments were then 
made to the discount rate of each CGU to reflect different risks associated with those CGUs (both specific risk premiums and in respect of 
local risk free rates). The pre-tax discount rates applied are set out in the table on the following page.
Long-term growth rates
Long-term growth rates were also applied to each CGU separately. Considerations to derive the growth rates included long-term GDP growth 
and projected growth rates in the supply and demand for energy. The long-term growth rates applied are also set out on the following page. 112 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
15 Intangible assets (continued)
Given the current uncertainty surrounding market conditions, management have taken a prudent view on the real long-term growth rates 
applied to the cash flow projections for the purpose of impairment testing, as indicated below. Management are of the opinion that over the 
short to medium term, actual growth rates will be in excess of those used in the projections.
The assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations were as follows:
Goodwill
£m
Discount
rate
Long-term 
growth rate
Headroom
£m
UK 18.9 10.2% – 73.0
Middle East 57.6 12.6% – 105.8
Australia 22.9 11.1% – 34.1
Asia 11.1 15.1% – 5.3
Motherwell Bridge 20.1 10.2% – 13.0
Cape Engineering Services 2.3 10.2% – 11.1
132.9 242.3
When assessing the carrying values of goodwill in the individual CGUs, management have considered the impact of cash flows arising from 
industrial disease claims. Under the Court approved Scheme of Arrangement (the Scheme), see note 35, the liability is shared by the Scheme 
companies and cash flows generated from the entire Group are used to settle those liabilities. Whilst it is not practicable to allocate industrial 
disease claims cash flows to specific CGUs, management have reviewed the discounted cash flows associated with this liability and are 
satisfied that at the Group level significant overall headroom remains.
Sensitivities
The table below discloses what changes in the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts:
Discount rate  
to reach 
impairment
Long-term 
growth rate  
to reach 
impairment
UK 28.3% (100.0%)
Middle East 27.9% (68.9%)
Australia 27.4% (98.5%) 
Asia 22.2% (19.9%)
Motherwell Bridge 13.7% (5.7%)
Cape Engineering Services 49.6% Note*
* Note: while the level of headroom is significant, it is not practicable to calculate
Sensitivities were also applied to the five-year cash flow compound annual growth rates. There was sufficient headroom in each of the CGUs 
with flat or negative growth rates still providing headroom.
16 Investment property
The investment property is an area of freehold land with a carrying value of £2.0 million (2015: £2.0 million) being cost less provision for 
impairment and a fair value of £2.0 million (2015: £3.4 million). There are no accumulated impairment losses. No significant rent is received 
from the property.
The Group has determined that the highest and best use of the freehold land is its current use.
The fair value of the investment property is based upon an average of valuations as at 31 December 2016 performed by accredited 
independent valuers, who are specialists in valuing investment properties. A valuation model in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and 
Valuations Standards Manual has been applied. Investment property is classified as Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 113 
Annual Report 2016
17 Property, plant and equipment
During the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group acquired assets with a cost of £15.1 million (2015: £20.1 million) and received proceeds 
from asset sales of £3.1 million (2015: £2.9 million) as shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows representing the actual cash outflow.
Land and 
buildings
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Assets under 
course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 20.9 10.1 160.8 0.3 192.1
Exchange adjustments – – 2.8 – 2.8
Additions 0.6 0.6 18.1 0.8 20.1
Reclassification (0.2) – – 0.2 –
Acquired through business combination 0.5 – 0.1 – 0.6
Disposals (0.7) (1.4) (9.7) – (11.8)
At 31 December 2015 21.1 9.3 172.1 1.3 203.8
Exchange adjustments 2.1 0.9 24.9 0.2 28.1
Additions 0.8 0.5 13.1 0.7 15.1
Reclassification 1.0 (4.3) 4.3 (1.0) –
Disposals (0.1) (0.2) (9.7) (0.5) (10.5)
Transfer to non-current assets held for sale (0.3) – – – (0.3)
At 31 December 2016 24.6 6.2 204.7 0.7 236.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2015 5.2 8.7 100.9 – 114.8
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.2 2.0 – 2.3
Charge for the year 1.1 0.8 14.0 – 15.9
Disposals (0.3) (1.3) (7.8) – (9.4)
At 31 December 2015 6.1 8.4 109.1 – 123.6
Exchange adjustments 0.8 0.6 17.0 – 18.4
Reclassification – (4.1) 4.1 – –
Charge for the year 1.2 0.7 16.1 – 18.0
Disposals (0.1) (0.2) (7.5) – (7.8)
At 31 December 2016 8.0 5.4 138.8 – 152.2
Net book amount
At 1 January 2015 15.7 1.4 59.9 0.3 77.3
At 31 December 2015 15.0 0.9 63.0 1.3 80.2
At 31 December 2016 16.6 0.8 65.9 0.7 84.0
The depreciation charge of £18.0 million (2015: £15.9 million) has been charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement. 
Exchange adjustments relate to the translation of assets held by foreign operations into the presentation currency.
During 2016, £0.3 million of land and buildings was reclassified to non-current assets held for sale. This is presented separately within current 
assets on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position. Negotiations for the sale are currently ongoing and is expected to be 
completed in the near future.
The Group leases property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements. At 31 December 2016, the net carrying amount of 
property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts held under finance lease: plant and machinery £0.4 million (2015: £0.6 million) 
and land and buildings £1.7 million (2015: £1.8 million). Additions during the year include £nil (2015: £nil) of property, plant and machinery 
under finance leases.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Net book amount 2.7 2.5
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment – continuing operations 0.4 0.4
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – continuing operations 3.1 2.9 114 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
18 Investment in joint ventures
The Group holds interests in several joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s principal joint ventures are set 
out below. All have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares which are indirectly held and their country of incorporation is also the 
principal place of operation. The joint ventures’ activities are to provide critical industrial services focussed on the energy and natural resource 
sectors, which are aligned to the Group’s strategy.
Country of 
incorporation
%
interest held
SOCAR-Cape LLC Azerbaijan 49%
Ship Support Services Limited UK 50%
Olio Cape Sdn BHD Malaysia 49%
Nuclear New Build Industrial Services Limited UK 50%
The aggregated impact of joint ventures on the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Carrying amount of investments at 1 January 2.8 –
Add: Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 7.3 2.8
Less: 2016 dividends received (3.6) –
Foreign exchange 0.7 –
Carrying amount of investments at 31 December 7.2 2.8
Under the equity method of accounting the Group does not recognise its share of post-tax losses from a joint venture to the extent that these 
cumulative losses exceed the carrying amount of the investment in that joint venture. The consolidated statement of cash flows shows 
dividends received of £3.9 million, which also includes the receipt of a dividend that was declared in 2015 but paid in 2016 of £0.3 million. 
Current assets of the joint ventures total £38.4 million (2015: £31.3 million), of which £9.4 million (2015: £13.7 million) is attributable to 
individually immaterial joint ventures. Included in current assets is £13.9 million (2015: £1.4 million) of cash and cash equivalents, of which 
£0.7 million (2015: £1.2 million) is attributable to individually immaterial joint ventures.
Non-current assets of the joint ventures total £15.6 million (2015: £11.6 million) and is wholly attributable to the material joint venture. Current 
liabilities of joint ventures total £39.4 million (2015: £37.4 million), of which £9.4 million (£13.7 million) is attributable to individually immaterial 
joint ventures.
Net assets of the joint ventures are £14.6 million (2015: £5.5 million), of which Cape’s share is £7.2 million (2015: £2.8 million).
Total revenue of the joint ventures is £132.8 million (2015: £124.5 million), of which £62.3 million (2015: £64.1 million) is attributable to 
individually immaterial joint ventures. The post-tax profit of the joint ventures is £15.0 million (2015: £9.6 million) and is wholly attributable to 
the material joint venture. The proportion attributable to the Group before and after offsetting previously unrecognised losses is £7.3 million 
(2015: £4.8 million) and £7.3 million (2015: £2.8 million) respectively. Included in these results is a charge of £0.1 million for depreciation and 
amortisation (2015: £nil).
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2016 (2015: none) and no capital commitments at 31 December 2016 (2015: none).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 115 
Annual Report 2016
19 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a final salary defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme for employees within the UK and provides 
pensions for employees of overseas companies in accordance with local requirements and practices. The assets of both the defined benefit 
and defined contribution schemes are held in trustee administered funds. The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the 
plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy. The latest full valuation of the defined benefit scheme was assessed by independent 
qualified actuaries as at 6 April 2016 using the projected unit method. The valuation showed that the assets of the main defined benefit scheme 
had a market value of £156.6 million and was 98% funded. Included within the assets balance is an amount of £99.6 million in respect of 
insurance policies covering pensioner liabilities. The next full valuation is due to be prepared as at 6 April 2019.
Some of the Group’s overseas subsidiary undertakings operate leaving indemnity schemes as required by local laws and regulations. These 
schemes are unfunded. The provision for leaving indemnities is based on the number of years’ service and the current salary of the employee.
The pension expense in the year for the defined contribution pension scheme is £3.0 million (2015: £3.1 million). The expense equalled the 
Group contributions to the scheme. The Group incurred an expense in the year for non-Group operated defined contribution schemes of 
£12.0 million (2015: £10.1 million). Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis. Under the Schedule of Contributions agreed as part of the 
6 April 2016 valuation process, expected annual contributions to defined benefit schemes are £0.6 million for a period of eight years and five 
months. The estimated duration of the liabilities is 20 years.
The defined benefit scheme disclosures in respect of the Group are as per below:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Consolidated statement of financial position:
Pension benefit assets – 0.5
Pension benefit liabilities (0.3) (0.3)
(0.3) 0.2
Leaving indemnities (16.9) (13.5)
(17.2) (13.3)
Consolidated income statement charge for:
Leaving indemnities charged through cost of sales (note 9) 3.4 1.4
3.4 1.4
2016
£m
2015
£m
Re-measurement of net defined benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income in the year (before tax) (1.1) (0.8)
Cumulative re-measurement gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income (before tax) (56.9) (55.8)
Pension benefits
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are determined as follows:
2016 
£m
Restated 
2015 
£m
Present value of funded obligations (140.4) (133.6)
Fair value of plan assets 150.4 144.9
10.0 11.3
Restriction of surplus (10.4) (11.1)
Deferred tax 0.1 –
Net (liability)/asset in the consolidated statement of financial position (0.3) 0.2
The comparative above has been restated to correct the restriction of surplus from £11.2 million to £11.1 million. 
In accordance with IFRIC 14, the Group must consider the minimum funding requirements of the pension scheme. This has resulted in the 
recognised surplus on the main scheme being reduced to £nil at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil). This has also resulted in the interest income 
being restricted to £nil.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Interest income on plan assets 5.3 5.3
Interest expense (4.9) (4.9)
Restriction of interest income in accordance with IFRIC 14 (0.4) (0.4)
Total – –
The actual return on plan assets was £16.9 million (2015: £1.7 million).  116 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Beginning of year 144.9 148.7
Interest income on plan assets 5.3 5.3
Re-measurement of plan assets 11.8 (3.6)
Assets distributed on settlements (1.4) –
Employer contributions (0.4) 0.1
Benefits paid (9.7) (5.6)
Administrative expenses (0.1) –
End of year 150.4 144.9
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Beginning of year 133.6 136.9
Interest expense 4.9 4.9
Actuarial gain – experience adjustments (8.6) –
Actuarial losses – changes in financial assumptions 23.0 (1.2)
Actuarial gain – changes in demographic assumptions (1.6) (1.6)
Trustees tax charge liability on surplus refund 0.2 –
Liabilities extinguished on settlement (1.4) –
Past service costs – 0.2
Benefits paid (9.7) (5.6)
End of year 140.4 133.6
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
2016 2015
Discount rate 2.70% 3.80%
Future salary increases 3.75% 4.40%
Future pension increases 3.10% 2.95%
CPI Inflation rate 2.25% 2.40%
RPI Inflation rate 3.25% 3.25%
Post retirement mortality rate 1.00% 1.00%
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2016 is as shown below:
Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Inflation rate
Sensitivity level
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
Impact on defined benefit obligation 25.3 (30.8) (0.8) 0.7 (17.8) 15.8 (6.6) 6.2
Impact on plan assets (12.2) 14.1 – – 14.7 (12.6) 1.5 (1.4)
Impact on net pension asset 13.1 (16.7) (0.8) 0.7 (3.1) 3.2 (5.1) 4.8
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation and the 
plan assets as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivities of changes in 
any of the principal actuarial assumptions are calculated in isolation holding all other assumptions constant. Limitations of the methods and 
assumptions used include using a roll forward approach, by using the results of the last full triennial valuation prepared to 6 April 2016, rather 
than a full valuation of all assets and liabilities at the end of the current financial period.
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is as shown below:
Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Inflation rate
Sensitivity level
1% increase
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
Impact on defined benefit obligation 23.8 (29.0) (1.0) 0.9 (16.7) 14.8 (6.2) 5.6
Impact on plan assets (11.3) 12.9 – – 11.0 (9.7) (2.0) 1.8
Impact on net pension asset 12.5 (16.1) (1.0) 0.9 (5.7) 5.1 (8.2) 7.4
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 117 
Annual Report 2016
19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Mortality rate
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice in accordance with published statistics and scheme experience. 
The average remaining life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date is as follows:
2016 2015
Male 24.2 23.5
Female 25.9 25.6
The average remaining life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date for the main scheme 
is as follows:
2016 2015
Male 25.6 25.2
Female 27.5 27.3
Pension benefits
Plan assets are comprised as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Quoted
Diversified growth funds 25.9 26.1
Index-linked gilts 8.1 6.4
Fixed interest gilts 1.6 1.3
Bonds 4.5 5.3
Equities 15.0 13.6
55.1 52.7
Unquoted
Insurance annuities 91.0 87.8
Property 3.9 4.0
Cash 0.4 0.4
95.3 92.2
Total 150.4 144.9
Risk exposure to the Group
Since the pension liability is adjusted to inflation rate, the pension plan is exposed to UK inflation, interest rate risks and changes in the life 
expectancy for pensioners. As the plan assets relating to the main scheme include investments in quoted equity shares of entities in the 
manufacturing and consumer products sector, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk. More than 60% of the plans assets are 
invested in insurance annuities. Insurance annuities effectively mitigate the risk from changing inflation rates. Any asset investment carries 
a counter party risk.
20 Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The net movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January 15.3 16.8
Exchange adjustments 2.4 (0.8)
Consolidated income statement charge:
 Continuing operations 16.6 (0.4)
 Discontinued operations – (0.1)
 Acquisition of subsidiary – (0.2)
Tax credited directly to the consolidated statement of changes in equity – 0.1
Tax credited/(charged) directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.1 (0.1)
At 31 December 34.4 15.3 118 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
20 Deferred income tax (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment 5.0 5.2 (1.6) (1.1) 3.4 4.1
Other 0.3 0.3 (3.1) (4.1) (2.8) (3.8)
Retirement benefits – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Provisions 11.2 4.7 – – 11.2 4.7
Employee share options 0.3 0.5 – (0.1) 0.3 0.4
Tax losses carried forward 22.3 10.0 – – 22.3 10.0
39.1 20.7 (4.7) (5.4) 34.4 15.3
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the 
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Accelerated
capital 
allowances
£m
Provisions
£m
Tax losses
£m
Pension
£m
Hedging
£m
Share 
options
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 4.1 4.7 10.0 (0.1) – 0.4 (3.8) 15.3
Credited/(charged) to the
consolidated income statement (0.5) 5.5 10.7 – – (0.1) 1.0 16.6
Credited directly to 
consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Exchange differences (0.2) 1.0 1.6 – – – – 2.4
At 31 December 2016 3.4 11.2 22.3 – – 0.3 (2.8) 34.4
Deferred tax assets 5.0 11.2 22.3 – – 0.3 0.3 39.1
Deferred tax liabilities (1.6) – – – – – (3.1) (4.7)
At 31 December 2016 3.4 11.2 22.3 – – 0.3 (2.8) 34.4
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Provisions
£m
Tax losses
£m
Pension
£m
Hedging
£m
Share
options
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 2.1 6.8 11.1 – 0.1 0.4 (3.7) 16.8
(Charged)/credited to the 
consolidated income statement 1.8 (1.9) (0.7) – (0.1) (0.1) 0.5 (0.5)
Credited directly to 
consolidated statement 
of changes in equity – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
(Charged) directly to 
consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income – – – (0.1)  – – – (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.2) (0.7)  –  – – – (0.8)
Acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 – 0.3 – – – (0.6) (0.2)
At 31 December 2015 4.1 4.7 10.0 (0.1) – 0.4 (3.8) 15.3
Deferred tax assets 5.2 4.7 10.0 – – 0.5 0.3 20.7
Deferred tax liabilities (1.1) – – (0.1) – (0.1) (4.1) (5.4)
At 31 December 2015 4.1 4.7 10.0 (0.1) – 0.4 (3.8) 15.3
The Group has a deferred tax asset of £8.4 million (2015: £9.0 million) relating to Australian tax losses. The Group fully expects to offset these 
losses against future profits following successful contract wins in Australia and therefore no de-recognition is deemed necessary. The Group 
has a deferred tax asset of £12.2 million (2015: £0.3 million) relating to United Kingdom tax losses. The Group fully expects to offset these 
losses against future profits in the United Kingdom.
Deferred taxation has not been provided in the event of the distribution of the un-appropriated profits or reserves of certain overseas 
subsidiary undertakings as the Group does not currently intend to make such distributions.
At the date of the statement of financial position, the Group has unrecognised tax losses of £29.9 million (2015: £27.1 million) available for 
offset against future profits, subject to agreement with the tax authorities. The losses carried forward in certain entities can only be utilised 
against future profits of those entities. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as there is uncertainty in respect 
of their future recoverability.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 119 
Annual Report 2016
20 Deferred income tax (continued) 
There are no income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends in either 2016 or 2017 by the Group to its shareholders. 
There is no expiry date on tax losses recognised.
Legislation has been enacted in the UK to reduce the corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020. Any UK deferred 
tax balances have therefore been measured at an appropriate rate depending on when the deferred tax balance is expected to unwind. 
21 Inventories
2016
£m
2015
£m
Materials 6.6 5.4
Work in progress 7.1 7.0
Finished goods – 0.3
13.7 12.7
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense has been charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement and amounted 
to £83.3 million (2015: £117.4 million).
22 Construction contracts
2016
£m
2015
£m
Construction contract revenue recognised in the period 230.0 109.0
2016
£m
2015
£m
Gross amounts due from customers for construction contract work (presented as an asset within amounts 
receivable on contracts and work in progress) 32.3 14.6
Gross amounts due to customers for construction contract work (presented as a liability within payments received 
on account) (7.4) (7.3)
24.9 7.3
2016
£m
2015
£m
Construction contract costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses to date) 420.8 234.3
Less progress billings (395.9) (227.0)
24.9 7.3
Advances received as at 31 December 2016 amounted to £7.4 million (2015: £7.3 million). Customer retentions as at 31 December 2016 
amounted to £10.2 million (2015: £11.0 million). Trade receivables arising from construction contracts are all due for settlement within one year.
23 Trade and other receivables
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Trade receivables 134.3 123.0
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (7.3) (8.0)
Trade receivables – net 127.0 115.0
Amounts recoverable on contracts 94.3 59.4
Receivables from joint ventures 4.0 7.4
Other receivables 8.7 10.2
Prepayments 10.6 6.8
244.6 198.8
The fair values of trade and other receivables equal the carrying amounts.
Receivables from joint ventures are repayable on demand and bear no interest.
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £7.3 million (2015: £8.0 million) were individually impaired and fully provided for. The individually 
impaired receivables mainly relate to contracts within the Middle East region. The calculation of impairment was based on the Group’s 
accounting policy in respect of trade receivable balances together with any specific circumstances relating to the balance. See the following 
page for the movements in the provision for impairment of receivables. 120 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
23 Trade and other receivables (continued)
Provision for impairment of trade receivables:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January 8.0 9.8
Provisions charged 1.3 4.3
Provisions utilised (1.5) (1.8)
Provisions released (1.9) (4.6)
Exchange adjustments 1.4 0.3
At 31 December 7.3 8.0
Provisions for impaired receivables are included in cost of sales in the consolidated income statement. Amounts charged to the provision 
of impairment of trade receivables are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovery.
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £91.4 million (2015: £82.5 million) were neither past due nor impaired.
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £34.6 million (2015: £32.4 million) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of these 
receivables is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Less than 3 months 26.1 25.0
3 to 6 months 8.2 4.2
7 to 12 months 0.3 1.7
Over 12 months – 1.5
34.6 32.4
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £3.1 million (2015: £3.1 million) were past due and partially impaired. The ageing analysis of 
these receivables is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Less than 3 months 0.2 –
3 to 6 months 1.0 1.9
7 to 12 months 1.9 0.9
Over 12 months – 0.3
3.1 3.1
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £5.2 million (2015: £5.0 million) were past due and fully impaired. The ageing analysis of these 
receivables is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Less than 3 months – –
3 to 6 months – –
7 to 12 months 1.1 1.7
Over 12 months 4.1 3.3
5.2 5.0
The impaired receivables mainly relate to contracts within the Middle East region. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not 
contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable 
mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
24 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted deposits
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 121.5 81.4
Restricted deposits: non-current 3.5 9.0
Restricted deposits: current 38.5 23.3
Total restricted deposits 42.0 32.3
Restricted current deposits include £0.2 million (2015: £0.2 million) held for the settlement of a tax liability. The balance of the restricted 
deposits relate to funds that are restricted for use in settling industrial disease claims under the Scheme of Arrangement that was put in place 
in 2006 to provide for the long-term financing of asbestos-related industrial disease claims. The key features of the Scheme of Arrangement 
are set out in note 35. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 121 
Annual Report 2016
24 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted deposits (continued)
Analysis of cash flows relating to restricted deposits:
Note
2016 
£m
2015
£m
At 1 January 32.3 29.9
Payment of Scheme creditors (3.7) (3.7)
Interest received 11 0.4 0.3
Receipt of funds 13.0 6.2
Transfer of funds – (0.4)
At 31 December 42.0 32.3
25 Borrowings
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Non-current:
Finance leases 2.9 2.9
Bank loans 195.8 187.3
Total non-current borrowings 198.7 190.2
Current:
Finance leases 0.1 0.1
Other third-party loan 0.9 –
Total current borrowings 1.0 0.1
Total borrowings 199.7 190.3
Bank borrowings
On 23 June 2016, the Company agreed to amend and extend its existing revolving credit facility, increasing the facility by a further £5 million 
to £300 million and retaining the £50 million accordion feature. The facility has a contractual maturity of 23 June 2020, extending the existing 
debt facility by two years, with an option to extend the facility by a further year by mutual consent. 
The Group’s bank loans of £195.8 million (2015: £187.3 million) are stated net of unamortised issue costs of £3.4 million (2015: £2.0 million).
 
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying amount Fair value
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Finance leases 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9
Bank loans 195.8 187.3 193.6 184.2
198.7 190.2 196.5 187.1
The fair value of non-current borrowings includes unamortised borrowing arrangement costs. Fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing 
borrowings and loans are determined by using a discounted cash flow method with a discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate 
as at the end of the reporting period. Accordingly, the related fair values disclosed above are classified as Level 2 in the fair value 
measurement hierarchy.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s total borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Australian dollar 22.6 20.8
Sterling 177.1 169.5
199.7 190.3
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Floating rate:
– Expiring beyond 1 year 100.8 105.8
The Group has two finance leases in place (2015: two). One expires in 2032 with an effective interest rate of 7.2% whereas the other lease 
expires in 2098 with an effective interest rate of 3.2%.  122 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
25 Borrowings (continued)
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments
2016
£m
Present 
value of 
minimum
lease 
payments
2016
£m
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments
2015
£m
Present 
value of 
minimum
lease 
payments
2015
£m
In 1 year or less 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1
Between 1 and 5 years 1.0 0.3 1.0 0.3
Over 5 years 5.8 2.6 6.2 2.6
7.1 3.0 7.4 3.0
The difference between the future minimum lease payments and present value of minimum lease payments represents finance charges.
Financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Effective interest rate % Maturity
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current:
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.1
Other third-party loan (AUD) 2% Mar-17 0.9 –
Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1.0 0.1
 Effective interest rate % Maturity
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current:
Obligations under finance leases 2.9 2.9
Loans:
£177,500,000 GBP LIBOR + 2.35 Jun-20 177.5 –
AUD37,100,000 AUD LIBOR + 2.35 Jun-20 21.7 –
£168,515,000 GBP LIBOR + 2.35 Apr-18 – 168.5
AUD42,100,000 AUD LIBOR + 2.35 Apr-18 – 20.7
Other third-party loan (AUD) 5.29 May-17 – 0.1
Unamortised borrowing costs – – (3.4) (2.0)
Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 198.7 190.2
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 199.7 190.3
26 Financial instruments
Except for cash and restricted deposits (see note 24), details of financial instruments are set out below.
2016
Loans and
receivables
£m
Fair value
through 
income
statement
£m
Other 
financial
liabilities at 
amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Assets per the consolidated statement of financial position
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 234.0 – – 234.0
234.0 – – 234.0
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) – – (196.7) (196.7)
Finance lease liabilities – – (3.0) (3.0)
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities and payments on account) – – (129.1) (129.1)
– – (328.8) (328.8)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 123 
Annual Report 2016
26 Financial instruments (continued)
2015
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Fair value  
through 
income
statement
£m
Other
financial 
liabilities at 
amortised
cost
£m
*Restated
total
£m
Assets per the consolidated statement of financial position
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 192.0 – – 192.0
192.0 – – 192.0
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) – – (187.3) (187.3)
Finance lease liabilities – – (3.0) (3.0)
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities and payments on account) – – (85.6) (85.6)
– – (275.9) (275.9)
* The comparatives have been restated to exclude payments on account from trade and other payables
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate and fair value 
interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focusses on the unpredictability of financial 
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to offset certain risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by the Group Treasury function under policies approved by the Board. Group treasury identifies, 
evaluates and where appropriate uses derivative financial instruments to offset financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating 
units. The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as foreign 
exchange, interest rate and credit risks, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of 
excess liquidity. Disclosures in respect of the Group’s financial risks are set out below.
a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than 
the functional currency of its operating units. The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to Sterling 
which is the reporting currency of the Group. The Group has no financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2016 2015
£m % of total £m % of total
Australian dollar 48.4 19.8 21.3 10.7
Euro 0.1 – 0.2 0.1
Sterling 78.3 32.0 96.1 48.3
Qatari riyal 15.2 6.2 21.2 10.7
Saudi Arabian riyal 38.4 15.7 29.9 15.0
Singapore dollar 6.0 2.5 1.4 0.7
UAE dirham 13.6 5.6 8.9 4.5
US dollar 24.2 9.9 4.9 2.5
Other currencies 20.4 8.3 14.9 7.5
244.6 100.0 198.8 100.0
The key foreign currencies from which revenues are derived are the Australian dollar and the US dollar. Movements in the Qatari riyal, the 
Saudi Arabian riyal and the UAE dirham correlate with movements in the US dollar, therefore these have been included within the US dollar 
sensitivity analysis below. The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling against these five 
currencies. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not deemed material.
2016
Change  
in rate
2016 Effect  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
2016 Effect  
on equity  
£m
Australian dollar +5% 0.7 3.1
Australian dollar -5% (0.6) (2.8)
US dollar +5% 2.1 9.4
US dollar -5% (1.9) (8.5)
2015
Change  
in rate 
2015 Effect  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
2015 Effect  
on equity  
£m
Australian dollar +5% – 1.8
Australian dollar -5% – (1.6)
US dollar +5% 1.2 7.2
US dollar -5% (1.1) (6.5) 124 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
26 Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from the possible changes in interest rates on borrowings drawn under the Group’s syndicated debt 
facility. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group reviews its interest rate exposure, taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions and alternative financing. 
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s cash and bank borrowings are at 
floating rates of interest.
Management perform a sensitivity analysis on the impact of reasonable movements in interest rates on Group profit and equity. The impact 
of a 1% increase in interest rates was determined as an additional charge to profit and reduction in equity of £2.5 million (2015: £1.3 million).
b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and deposits with financial institutions.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk (see note 23 ‘Trade and other receivables’ for additional information) is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The Group has an established credit policy under which each new customer is analysed for creditworthiness 
before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings, and in 
some cases bank references. 
The Group’s largest customer accounted for 19% of revenue in 2016 (2015: 12%).
c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due (see note 25 ‘Borrowings’ and note 27 
‘Trade and other payables’ for additional information). The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have 
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or 
damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group has estimated its anticipated contractual cash outflows including interest payable in respect of 
its bank borrowings and finance leases. The principal assumptions are based on conditions prevailing at the date of the statement of financial 
position but assume a rise in interest rate of 1.0%. These cash outflows can be analysed by maturity as follows:
2016
Within
1 year
£m
Between
1 and
2 years
£m
Between
2 and
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Estimated future cash outflows
Borrowings (excluding finance leases liabilities) 7.7 6.6 220.6 234.9
Finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.3 6.5 7.1
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities and payments on account) 129.1 – – 129.1
137.1 6.9 227.1 371.1
2015 Restated
Within
1 year
£m
Between 
1 and
2 years
£m
Between 
2 and
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Estimated future cash outflows
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 7.9 8.1 215.5 231.5
Finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.3 6.9 7.4
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities and payments on account) 85.6 – – 85.6
 93.7 8.4 222.4 324.5
*  The comparatives have been restated to exclude payments on account from trade and other payables. The finance liabilities have also been restated to represent the 
future minimum lease payments
d) Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or 
adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends payable to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue 
new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group defines capital as the equity attributable to shareholders of the parent of £110.7 million 
(2015: £126.4 million) and adjusted net debt (this adjusted measure is defined in note 7 ‘Adjusted measures’). During the year, the Group 
complied with covenants in place under the unsecured £300 million syndicated revolving credit facility entered into on 23 June 2016. 
There was no breach of borrowing covenants after the year end up to the date of signing of this report.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.
2016 
Ratio
2015 
Ratio
Ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1.1:1 1.6:1
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 125 
Annual Report 2016
26 Financial instruments (continued)
e) Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
On inception derivatives are accounted and measured at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value. The gain or loss on 
re-measurement is taken to the consolidated income statement. At 31 December 2016 the main floating rates were GBP LIBOR and 
AUD LIBOR. 
In 2014, the Group entered into an interest rate cap for a period of three years, terminating in February 2018. The derivative is for £70 million 
and gives protection to the Group against its GBP borrowings when LIBOR exceeds the strike price of 2.5. The fair value of this is immaterial.
f) Fair values
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and other borrowings with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their 
book values. In the case of the bank loans and other borrowings due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure 
purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar 
financial instruments. 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the period.
27 Trade and other payables
2016
£m
2015
£m
Payments received on account 15.4 14.8
Trade payables 48.6 42.8
Social security and other taxes 27.8 20.4
Other payables 16.5 9.0
Accrued expenses 64.0 33.8
172.3 120.8
28 Current income tax liabilities
2016
£m
2015
£m
Overseas taxation 14.3 7.9
UK taxation (0.6) (1.9)
13.7 6.0
29 Provisions
Onerous
contracts
£m
Legal
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Industrial 
disease
claims
£m
Total
Group
£m
At 1 January 2016 3.1 1.4 3.7 8.2 95.5 103.7
Utilised (0.1) – (0.8) (0.9) (5.4) (6.3)
Charged to the income statement 1.1 – 2.4 3.5 79.2 82.7
Released to the income statement (1.4) – – (1.4) – (1.4)
Discount unwind 0.1 – – 0.1 3.2 3.3
Foreign exchange 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2016 3.0 1.4 5.3 9.7 172.5 182.2
2016
Current provisions 1.8 1.4 3.5 6.7 34.6 41.3
Non-current provisions 1.2 – 1.8 3.0 137.9 140.9
3.0 1.4 5.3 9.7 172.5 182.2
2015
Current provisions 2.3 1.4 1.8 5.5 5.3 10.8
Non-current provisions 0.8 – 1.9 2.7 90.2 92.9
3.1 1.4 3.7 8.2 95.5 103.7
Onerous contracts
A provision is made for onerous contracts where it is considered that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years. Inherent 
uncertainties in measuring the provision relate to estimates of the future costs expected to be incurred and of revenues expected to be 
received. The majority of this is expected to be settled in 2017, with the remaining balance expected to be settled in over one year.
Legal
The Group is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims. The directors, having considered the 
facts and circumstances of each item, including legal advice where appropriate, have established a provision to cover the costs of future 
settlements. Uncertainties relate to whether the Group is successful in defending any action. These are expected to be settled in 2017. 126 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
29 Provisions (continued)
Other
Other provisions comprise of various provisions including disposal costs on businesses being divested, restructuring provisions, property related 
provisions, post-acquisition management compensation and national insurance on share based payments. Inherent uncertainties in measuring 
the provision relate to estimates of disposal costs associated with any businesses being divested, estimates of expected restructuring costs and 
expected property costs and estimates of contingent consideration on acquisitions. These costs are expected to be settled in 2017 and 2018.
Industrial disease claims
To the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated as at 31 December 2016, a provision has been made for the costs, which the Group 
is expected to incur in respect of lodged and future industrial disease claims for which the Board believes the Group to be liable, arising from 
alleged exposure to previously manufactured asbestos products, notwithstanding the matters disclosed under note 34 ‘Industrial disease 
claims provision and contingent liabilities’. The most recent full actuarial valuation was completed in January 2017 in respect of the period up 
to 31 December 2016 and the next full valuation is scheduled to be completed in respect of the period up to 31 December 2019. The amount 
of the provision is based on historic patterns of claim numbers and monetary settlements as well as published tables of projected disease 
incidence. Key assumptions made in assessing the appropriate level of provision include the period over which future claims can be expected, 
the nature of claims received, the rate at which claims will be filed, the rate of successful resolution as well as future trends in both compensation 
payments and legal costs. Management monitors claims received on an ongoing basis as well as any other factors which would require a 
change to the assumptions or trigger a full actuarial review in the current year. When determining the appropriate level of provision, the Board 
has considered various potential, threatened and actual claim types and has relied on appropriate legal and other professional advice.
The provision for industrial disease claims is discounted at rates between 0.72% and 1.92% (2015: 2.67%) being the appropriate risk free rates 
as at the balance sheet date, over the term of the liabilities, being approximately 40 years.
The amount charged to the income statement of £79.2 million is a result of a number of factors, including the reduction in the discount rate 
used in the triennial actuarial valuation, a provision recognised for insurer employers liability claims following a determinant judgment in this 
litigation in July 2016, an additional provision for the insurer product liability claims following the agreed settlement reached after the year end 
(see note 39) and a consideration of potential further claims of a similar nature.
The directors anticipate that, assuming no material deterioration in trading performance and no material change in legal precedence or 
judgment, the Group will be able to sufficiently fund its subsidiary Cape Claims Services Limited to satisfy all claims that will be settled under 
the Scheme of Arrangement and will be sufficiently funded to satisfy all other UK claims settled outside of the Scheme of Arrangement.
30 Commitments
a) Capital commitments
The Group (excluding joint ventures) had the following capital expenditure contracted for at the date of the statement of financial position but 
not yet incurred:
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment 3.0 2.2
b) Operating lease commitments
The Group enters into leases of varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights in respect of property and items of plant and machinery. 
Total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are due:
2016
£m
2015
£m
In one year or less 5.0 3.7
Between one and five years 4.9 4.1
Over five years 0.5 0.9
10.4  8.7
31 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares of 25p each
2016
Number
of shares
2016
£m
2015
Number of
shares
2015
£m
Authorised 200,000,000 50.0 200,000,000 50.0
plc Scheme Share of £1 each
Authorised, issued and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 1 – 1 –
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
Issue of shares – – – –
Exercise of share options – – – –
At 31 December 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
Treasury shares:
At 1 January 31,160 – 31,160 –
Share buyback 330,000 (0.8) – –
Exercise of share options (279,646) 0.7 – –
At 31 December 81,514 (0.1) 31,160 –
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 127 
Annual Report 2016
31 Share capital and reserves (continued)
Treasury shares
The Group has an employee benefit trust holding shares to satisfy the exercise of share options. All these shares have been classified in the 
consolidated statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity. At 31 December 2016, 81,514 (2015: 31,160) shares were held 
by the Cape plc Employee Benefit Trust. During April 2016, the Trust purchased 330,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company for 
the purpose of enabling the Trustee to satisfy existing awards and future awards granted by the Company. As at 31 December 2016, 279,646 
options had been exercised, with the remaining 50,354 shares being held in the Trust in addition to the amount brought forward of 31,160. 
Special reserve
The special reserve was created in 2008 by court order upon cancellation of the share premium and retained earnings. The special reserve 
is not distributable and restrictions exist over its use.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of financial statements of foreign operations.
Other reserves
Other reserves relates to hedging reserves held in respect of net investment hedges.
plc Scheme Share
The plc Scheme Share is held by the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The rights attaching to the share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs and 
do not confer any right to receive a distribution or return of surplus capital save that the holder will have the right to require the Company to 
redeem the share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme. The share carries two votes for every vote which the 
holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage 
in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association without the prior consent 
of the holder of the share.
Share based payments
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is the conditional award of ordinary shares granted at no cost to the participant employees or executive 
directors of the Group. Awards are made upon the terms set out in the plan and such other additional terms as the Board shall determine. 
Depending on the scheme, vesting of these awards is subject to Cape plc’s Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (DEPS) meeting the 
specified performance criteria over a three-year vesting period.
For the 2013 award, specific EPS targets for the final year of the vesting period were set to 29 pence for the minimum of 30% of the shares 
awarded to vest and 36 pence for all of the shares awarded to vest. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subject to continued 
employment. In 2016, 39% of the awards vested.
The final year performance criteria for the 2014 awards are based on the 2013 adjusted diluted EPS growth of the Retail Price Index (RPI) 
plus 3% for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for all the shares awarded to vest, 
calculated on an annual compounded basis. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subject to continued employment.
The final year performance criteria for the 2015 awards are based on the 2014 adjusted diluted EPS growth of the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 
3% for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for all the shares awarded to vest, calculated on 
an annual compounded basis. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subject to continued employment. The shares issued 
under the 2015 PSP have an exercise price of £nil and under the fair value model used by the Company are deemed to have a fair value 
equivalent to the share price on the day of grant less the fair value of the dividends foregone during the vesting period. Therefore, the shares 
granted at 19 March 2015 had a fair value of 201.5 pence.
For the 2016 award, specific EPS targets for the final year of the vesting period were set to 26 pence for the minimum of 30% of the shares 
awarded to vest, 29 pence for 50% of the shares awarded to vest and 33 pence for all the shares awarded to vest. The contractual life of the 
award is three years and is subject to continued employment. The shares issued under the 2016 PSP have an exercise price of £nil and under 
the fair value model used by the Company are deemed to have a fair value equivalent to the share price on the day of grant less the fair value 
of the dividends foregone during the vesting period. Therefore, the shares granted at 29 April 2016 and 1 September 2016 had a fair value of 
191.4 pence and 174.9 pence respectively. The 2016 award also includes the implementation of a dividend equivalence, which is based upon 
the vesting percentage and the value of the dividends expected to be paid during the vesting period. This will be paid via cash settlements on 
the number of options expected to vest at the end of the vesting period. A liability of £0.1 million has been recognised during 2016 and is 
included within other provisions.
The Employee Incentive Plan (EIP) allows the Group to grant options to directors and senior employees. The last tranche of this scheme was 
awarded in 2008. The EIP carries a non-market based performance criteria. The contractual life of the options is ten years. The options 
become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to a growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding an 
average 3% compounded annually above the growth in the consumer price index over the same period. Exercise of an option is subject to 
continued employment. 128 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
31 Share capital and reserves (continued)
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the 
calculation for the current year are as follows:
Employee 
Incentive Plan
Weighted average fair value at measurement date 80.9p
Share price at grant date 269.0p
Exercise price 269.0p
Vesting period 3 years
Expected option life 3.95 years
Risk free interest rate 2.18%
Expected share price volatility 28%
The expected share price volatility is based on historic volatility. The expected option life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk 
free rate of return is the yield on a five-year zero coupon UK Government bond. The assumed dividend yield is zero.
The number and weighted average exercise price of the share options under the PSP and the share awards under the EIP are as follows:
Performance Share Plan
Number of  
share options 
2016
Number of  
share options 
2015
Outstanding at 1 January 3,057,630 2,352,771
Exercised (279,646) –
Granted 1,420,734 1,237,636
Forfeited (200,972) (246,279)
Lapsed (552,862) (286,498)
Outstanding at 31 December 3,444,884 3,057 ,630
On 29 April 2016 and 1 September 2016, 1,380,303 and 40,431 share options respectively were awarded to executive directors and 
employees under the Performance Share Plan which vest after three years subject to performance criteria being met (2015: 1,237,636). If the 
criteria are met, the awards vest at no cost to the employees and executive directors. The weighted average price of share options exercised 
during the period was 230.5 pence.
Out of the 3,444,884 outstanding PSP awards (2015: 3,057,630), 76,220 shares were exercisable (2015: nil). All PSP share options are at no 
cost to the participant. 279,646 options were exercised in the year (2015: none).
Employee Incentive Plan
Weighted
average
exercise price
2016
pence
Number
of share
options
2016
Weighted
average
exercise price
2015
pence
Number
of share
options
2015
Outstanding at 1 January 269.0 10,000 269.0 10,000
Outstanding at 31 December 269.0 10,000 269.0 10,000
All of the options outstanding at 31 December 2016 were exercisable (2015: all were exercisable).
Share options and awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Performance Share Plan expiry date 2016 2015
31 March 2018 76,220 913,798
31 March 2019 914,723 943,980
19 March 2020 1,094,541 1,199,852
29 April 2021 1,318,969 –
1 September 2021 40,431 –
3,444,884 3,057 ,630
Employee Incentive Plan expiry dates
Exercise price 
per share  
pence 2016 2015
22 March 2017 269.0 10,000 10,000
 10,000 10,000
The total charge for the year, including national insurance, relating to employee share based payment plans was £1.9 million (2015: credit of 
£0.4 million), of which £1.8 million (2015: £0.4 million) related to equity settled share based payment transactions and £0.1 million related to 
cash settled share based payment transactions (2015: £nil). At 31 December 2016, there is an amount of £0.5 million (2015: £0.3 million) 
included within ‘other’ provisions as per note 29, which relates to national insurance payable on share based payment charges.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 129 
Annual Report 2016
32 Dividends per share
An interim dividend was paid on 7 October 2016 amounting to 4.5 pence per share (2015: 4.5 pence per share). Interim dividends are 
recognised when paid. A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.5 pence per share (2015: 9.5 pence per share), 
amounting to £3.0 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting convened for 10 May 2017, making a total dividend of 7.0 pence 
per share for the year (2015: 14.0 pence per share). These consolidated financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
33 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt (excluding restricted deposits)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents including net foreign exchange differences 40.1 3.4
Drawing on borrowings (7.3) (13.2)
Finance leases and borrowings on acquisition – (0.8)
Foreign exchange movements on foreign currency denominated loans (3.5) 1.8
Movement in cash transferred to disposal group held for sale 0.2 (0.1)
Movements in adjusted net debt during the year 29.5 (8.9)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted deposits – opening (109.9) (101.0)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted deposits – closing (80.4) (109.9)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted deposits is calculated by deducting current and non-current borrowings from cash and cash 
equivalents (see note 7).
34 Industrial disease claims provision and contingent liabilities
The Board considers that the provision of £172.5 million for industrial disease claims as at 31 December 2016 captures all expected material 
industrial disease scheme liabilities for which the Board believes the Group to be liable at the balance sheet date. 
The Group continues to receive claims, from both individuals and insurance companies, in connection with historical alleged exposure to 
asbestos. Where claims are determined to have merit, the costs are provided for and claims are settled in the ordinary course, otherwise 
claims are defended. As legal precedent in the area of industrial disease claims continues to evolve, new developments and new types of 
claims give rise to inherent uncertainty in both the future level of asbestos-related disease claims and of the legal and other costs arising 
from such claims. If any such claim were to be successful, it might lead to future claims against the Group which may result in a significant 
additional liability over and above that recognised under the existing provision and which could have material and continuing impacts on the 
Group and its stakeholders, including but not limited to impacting the implementation of the Group’s strategic plans, potentially including the 
Company’s capacity to pay a dividend and a material reduction in the percentage of each claim paid out to individual claimants (in respect of 
damages and claimant legal costs) under the Cape Scheme. 
The Group has previously disclosed that Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (CIH) has been engaged in litigation funded by Aviva plc, 
RSA Group and Zurich Insurance Group (Insurer Litigants) in respect of historic and current payments made by them in their capacity as 
providers of employer liability insurance in relation to claims by employees and former employees of third-party companies arising from 
asbestos-related diseases (Insurer PL Litigation). The six-week trial in respect of the Insurer PL Litigation concluded on 23 February 2017, 
following which the Board received an updated opinion from Leading Counsel which reinforced the Board’s view that the merits of the 
Group’s defence are persuasive and that there are substantial evidential burdens upon the Insurer Litigants. Nonetheless, and as previously 
disclosed, the Board was mindful that there remains a risk that the Insurer PL Litigation could have a material adverse impact on the Scheme, 
and in turn upon the Group and its stakeholders. The Board therefore concluded that it was in the best interests of Cape and its shareholders 
to settle at the agreed level outlined below, thus removing a significant risk to the business, removing the distraction of a likely protracted 
appeals process and enabling management to focus on the development of the core business. On 12 March 2017, the Group reached 
agreement to settle the Insurer PL Litigation for a consideration of £18.0 million payable immediately and a deferred payment of up to 
£34.5 million payable in the period 2018 to 2023, enabling this litigation to be resolved outside of the court process. These payments and an 
additional allowance to reflect the potential of further claims of a similar nature, discounted using an appropriate discount rate, have been 
charged to profit or loss during the year and included in the industrial disease claims provision held as at 31 December 2016 as per note 29. 
The settlement of the Insurer PL Litigation does not imply any acceptance of liability on Cape’s behalf. 
As also previously disclosed, Aviva plc has sought to establish contribution and indemnity claims (Insurer EL Claims) against the Group in 
respect of employee liability settlements that it has made in response to policies that Aviva underwrote for a liquidated Cape subsidiary during 
the period 1956 to 1966 and for which Aviva has already benefited from the associated insurance premiums. A sequence of preliminary court 
hearings were held during the year in respect of the Insurer EL Claims culminating in a determinant judgment on 19 July 2016, with some 
issues found in favour of Cape and some against. Cape has been granted leave to appeal on the majority of potential appeal issues it had 
raised. At the same time, Aviva plc was granted leave to cross-appeal. The appeal hearing will be held in July 2017.
During 2014, a fatality of a Cape employee was suffered at a client’s offshore installation. The investigation by the enforcing authorities is 
ongoing. At the date of the statement of financial position no amounts have been provided in respect of this matter. It is not practicable to 
provide an estimate of the financial effect and there is uncertainty relating to the amount or timing of any outflow. 
The Group is responding to an enquiry by HMRC with regard to the UK tax consequences of a transfer of intellectual property to Singapore 
in 2011. HMRC has challenged the accounting treatment adopted in the audited financial statements, and the gain arising thereon. Cape’s 
analysis is that the accounting treatment applied is correct and in line with the relevant accounting standards. In 2015, a tax tribunal 
determined that the accounting treatment adopted in a case which has similarities with the accounting for the transfer of the Cape intellectual 
property was in line with the accounting standards being applied, and that a company cannot be forced to apply a different interpretation 
where the treatment adopted is valid. The Board expects to successfully defend against the HMRC challenge based on tax and accounting 
advice received. The possible UK corporation tax liability that may arise in connection with the enquiry is up to £14.0 million as at 
31 December 2016.
The Group is required to issue trade finance instruments to certain customers. These include tender bonds, performance bonds, retention 
bonds, advance payment bonds and standby letters of credit. At 31 December 2016, the Group’s bank facilities relating to the issue of bonds, 
guarantees and letters of credit amounted to £66.3 million (2015: £59.3 million). 130 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
35 The Scheme of Arrangement
On 14 June 2006, the Cape Scheme became effective and binding upon the following 13 companies:
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (formerly Cape Intermediate Holdings plc)
Cape Building Products Limited
Cape Calsil Systems Limited
Cape Contracts International Limited
Cape Durasteel Limited
Cape East Limited
Cape Industrial Services Limited
Cape Industries Limited
Cape Insulation Limited
Cape Specialist Coatings Limited 
Predart Limited
Somewatch Limited 
Somewin Limited
The Cape Scheme is a court-sanctioned scheme established to provide recompense for individual claimants in respect of asbestos-related 
industrial diseases contracted as a result of Cape’s historic use of asbestos in manufacturing processes and who are unable to recover under 
insurance policies. The Cape Scheme also provides a structural protection for the Group’s trading stakeholders.
The detailed terms of the Scheme are set out in the Scheme itself, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies, which is 
also on the Cape plc website www.capeplc.com/investors/shareholder-information/shareholder-documents, the Articles of Association of 
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (CIH), Cape Claims Services Limited (CCS) and Cape plc and a number of other ancillary agreements. 
The effect of the Scheme as a whole can be summarised as follows:
(a)  While Scheme creditors retain their rights against Scheme companies, and may bring proceedings against Scheme companies for 
declaratory relief to determine whether they have a claim and, if so, of what amount, their rights, subject as provided in sub-paragraphs 
(k) and (m) below are only enforceable against CCS under the terms of the Scheme guarantee.
(b)  CCS was funded in the first instance with a sum of £40.0 million which represented what was considered to be a sufficient sum to 
discharge CCS’s liabilities to Scheme creditors payable over at least eight years from 1 January 2006. The use of these funds is 
restricted to the payment of established Scheme claims and Scheme creditor costs.
(c)  The sum of £40.0 million was not calculated by reference to an estimate of the likely amount of Scheme claims. It simply represented the 
aggregate of the amount that Cape was able to raise from its shareholders and the level of debt which Cape could reasonably maintain for 
the purposes of the Scheme. Of fundamental importance to the Scheme are the provisions as to topping up of that sum described below.
(d)  Every three years an assessment of the projected Scheme claims against Scheme companies payable by CCS over the following nine 
years is undertaken, by reference to which there will be established the Funding Requirement.
(e)  In the event that an assessment reveals a shortfall between the Scheme assets and the Funding Requirement, Cape will top up CCS’s 
funding over the following three years provided that sufficient cash is available, Cape’s obligation being limited to 70% of the Group’s 
consolidated adjusted operational cash flow (including, for example, adjustments to take account of acquisitions, an element of capital 
expenditure and repayment of borrowing facilities). During 2016, a top up of £13.0 million was made to the Scheme (2015: £6.2 million).
(f)  Should Cape not be able to meet its top up obligation in any one year, it will be required to make good the shortfall in the next year, 
again subject to sufficient cash being available.
(g)  Alongside the Funding Requirement there is the Scheme Funding Requirement which will be assessed every year by reference to 
projected Scheme claims against Scheme companies payable by CCS over the next six years.
(h)  If at any time the ratio of the Scheme assets to the Scheme Funding Requirement (the Scheme Funding Percentage) falls below 60%, 
CCS will have the ability to reduce the percentage (the Payment Percentage) of each established claim which it pays to Scheme creditors 
until such time as the Scheme Funding Percentage is restored to 60%.
(i)  Cape plc is permitted to pay dividends provided that at the time of payment (i) the Scheme Funding Percentage in relation to the last 
preceding financial year was certified to be not less than 110%, (ii) the directors of Cape plc certify that they anticipate that the Scheme 
Funding Percentage for the current and following financial year will be not less than 110% and (iii) the Payment Percentage has not at any 
time within the previous 40 business days been below 100%. Any distribution which Cape plc proposes to make to its shareholders may 
not, without the consent of the Scheme Shareholder, exceed the greater of (i) 50% of the consolidated adjusted operating profit of the 
Group for the last preceding financial year and (ii) the aggregate of any permitted dividends made in the preceding financial year. This 
restriction therefore places a cap on the amount of dividends that Cape plc may pay in any one year.
(j)  There have been established special voting shares (the Scheme Shares) in CCS, CIH and Cape plc which are held by an independent 
third party (the Scheme Shareholder) on trust for Scheme creditors. The Scheme Shares have special rights which are designed to 
enable the Scheme Shareholder to protect the interests of Scheme creditors.
(k)  In the case of certain Scheme creditors (Recourse Scheme Creditors), who are those Scheme creditors whose claims are in whole or 
in part the subject of a contract of insurance (Recourse Scheme Claims), their rights to enforce their Recourse Scheme Claims against 
a relevant Scheme Company will revive in certain circumstances. These circumstances are where the relevant Scheme Company is 
insolvent or where there has been a specified reduction in the Payment Percentage and if the Scheme creditor was able to bring about 
the insolvency of the relevant Scheme Company he would be able to recover greater compensation from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) or, in certain circumstances, from a solvent insurer than is available from CCS at that time under the 
Scheme. There will be a specified reduction if either (i) the Payment Percentage has been reduced below 100% but above 50% and 
the Scheme creditor has not been paid in full after 12 months or (ii) the Payment Percentage is reduced to 50% or below.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 131 
Annual Report 2016
35 The Scheme of Arrangement (continued)
(l)  Each Scheme Company will agree to hold on trust for any Scheme creditor concerned the proceeds of any policy of insurance (or any 
compensation received from the FSCS) referable to that Scheme claim.
(m)  The restriction described in sub-paragraph (a) above will not apply to proceedings to enforce the right to confer under sub-paragraph (l) above.
(n)  There are provisions contained in two reimbursement agreements which preserve certain rights of proof by CCS and Cape plc 
respectively in any insolvency of Cape plc or any of the other Scheme companies.
(o)  In support of the above, on 6 May 2011, CIH, Cape plc and CCS entered into a new Guarantee and Funding Agreement whereby Cape plc 
agreed to make certain additional funding available to CIH in connection with CIH’s commitments under the Funding Agreement, as well as 
to guarantee all present and future payment obligations of Cape plc and CCS under the Funding Agreement. In addition, a Scheme Share 
in Cape plc (referred to in paragraph (j) above) was issued to the Scheme Shareholder which has similar rights to the Scheme Shares in 
CIH and CCS and which will afford the Scheme Shareholder substantially the same rights to those provided by the Scheme Shares in CIH 
and CCS.
36 Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
are not disclosed in this note. Other related party transactions are disclosed below.
a) Compensation of key management
2016
£000
2015
£000
Aggregate emoluments 4,973 3,988
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 121 82
5,094 4,070
The key management is considered to comprise of the executive and non-executive directors as well as the members of the executive 
committee. Details of the executive directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 77.
No directors accrued benefits under the Group’s defined benefits pension scheme (2015: none).
b) Other related party transactions
As at the year-end there was a net balance of £4.0 million (2015: £7.4 million) owed by joint ventures. These amounts are unsecured, have no 
fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand. Amounts owed by joint ventures are assessed for recoverability and, where necessary, 
provided for in line with normal commercial transactions. Sales by the Group to joint ventures during the year amount to £13.1 million 
(2015: £20.6 million).
37 Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures
The subsidiaries which form part of the Group and joint ventures are listed below:
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership  
% Key
Altitude Scaffolding Limited UK 100 A
Cape UK Holdings Newco Limited UK 100 A
Cape Industrial Services Group Limited UK 100 A
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited UK 100 A
Cape UK Trading Limited UK 100 A
Cape Calsil Group Limited UK 100 A
Cape Engineering Services Limited UK 100 A
Cape (Group Services) Limited UK 100 A
Cape Overseas Limited UK 100 A
Cape Treasury Limited UK 100 A
Cape Admin 1 Limited UK 100 A
Cape Admin 2 Limited UK 100 A
Cape HoldCo Limited UK 100 A
Cape Calsil Systems Limited UK 100 A
Cape Calsil International Limited UK 100 A
Cape East (UK) Limited UK 100 A
Cape Industrial Services Limited UK 100 A
Cape Industrial Services Europe Limited UK 100 A
Cape Painting Contractors Limited UK 100 A
Cape Claims Services Limited UK 100 A
Cape Pension Trustees Limited UK 100 A
Cape Defined Pension Trustees Limited UK 100 A
Cape Industrial Services Holdings Limited UK 100 A
Cape Contracts International Limited UK 100 A
Cape Specialist Coatings Limited UK 100 A
Cape Insulation Limited UK 100 A
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership  
% Key
Cape Building Products Limited UK 100 A
Cape Industries Limited UK 100 A
Cape Durasteel Limited UK 100 A
Cape East Limited UK 100 A
Cape Environmental Services 
Offshore Limited
UK 100 A
Cape Environmental Services 
Onshore Limited
UK 100 A
Datadeep Limited UK 100 A
DBI Industrial Services Limited UK 100 A
DBI Endecon Limited UK 100 A
Endecon Limited UK 100 A
Joseph Nadin Scaffolding Limited UK 100 B
Leaflike Limited UK 100 A
Motherwell Bridge Limited UK 100 A
MB Engineering Services Limited UK 100 C
Nuclear New Build Industrial Services 
Limited*
UK 50 A
Powerplant Support Services Limited UK 100 A
Predart Limited UK 100 A
R.B. Hilton Limited UK 100 A
Somewatch Limited UK 100 A
Somewin Limited UK 100 A
Ship Support Services Limited* UK 50 A
Woodlands Park Property Limited UK 100 A
YL Holdings Limited UK 100 A 132 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership  
% Key
SOCAR-Cape LLC* Azerbaijan 49 MM
Cape PCH LLC Azerbaijan 100 NN
Cape Kazakhstan LLC Kazakhstan 100 OO
* Joint ventures
Where ownership percentage is less than 100%, control of 
subsidiaries has been established through the contractual 
arrangements in place with the other shareholders. Group 
undertakings operate principally in the countries in which they 
are incorporated.
Cape Claims Services Limited is the Group company against which 
claims made under the Scheme of Arrangement are enforceable and 
in which the Scheme funding is accounted for. Cape International 
Holdings Pte Limited is 90% owned by the parent company 
(Cape plc) and 10% owned by Cape Industrial Services Limited.
Key Registered address
A Drayton Hall, Church Road, West Drayton, Middlesex, UB7 7PS, 
United Kingdom
B 2 Blythswood Square, Glasgow, G2 4AD
C The Bridge Works, PO Box 4 Logans Road, Motherwell, Scotland, ML1 3NP
D NexiaPerth, Level 3, 88 William Street, Perth, Western Australia, 6000
E Room 007, Inya Lake Hotel #37, Kaba Aye Pagoda Road, Mayangone 
Township, Yangon, Myanmar
F Section 5, Allotment 16, Douglas Street, Level 12, Deloitte Tower, 
Port Moresby, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea
G Workshop 7, 7/F., Goodview Industrial Building, No. 11 Kin Fat Street, 
Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong
H 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902
I One Temasek Avenue, #09-03 Millenia Tower, Singapore 039192
J No. 130/74 S.K. Pattaya Building, 5th Floor, Moo 12, Soi Chaiyapruk 1, 
Nongprue Sub-district, Banglamung District, Chonburi Province
K No. 215 Soi Sukhumvit Road, Klongtoey Sub-District, Klongtoey District, Bangkok
L 6th Floor, NOL Tower, Madrigal Business Park, Ayala Alabang, Muntinlupa 
City, Metro Manila
M 6th Floor, iHub1, Northgate Cyberzone, Filinvest Corporate City, Alabang 
Zapote Road, Muntinlupa City
N 114 VA Rufino Ave., Legaspi Village, Makati City, Metro Manila
O Taman Tekno BSD Sektor XI Blok A/2, Desa Setu, Kecamatan Setu, 
Tangerang Selatan
P Kawasan Komersial Cilandak, Gedung 411AE
Q (Jangpyeong-dong) 80, Jangpyeong 3-ro, Geoje-si, Gyeongsangnam-do
R Unit 701, 7th Floor, Vietcomreal Building, No. 68 Nguyen Hue Street, 
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
S Level 8, Symphony House Block D13, Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, 
Jalan PJU 1A/46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
T Nemours Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands
U PO Box 72690, Jumeirah Business Centre No 1, Office No 2102 – 
Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Cluster G, Dubai, UAE.
V PO Box 347, Mussafah Industrial area, Street No.M-14, Block No.64/65, 
Abu Dhabi, U.A.E
W PO Box 26208, Yard 971, Road 115, Block 601, North Industrial Area, 
Sitra, Kingdom of Bahrain
X PO Box 414, Postal Code 130, Al Mawellah (South) Way No 1984, 
Block No.319, Building No.6015, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman
Y PO Box 47145, Fahaheel – 64022, Kuwait
Z PO Box 12573, Office No. (L05-2FL-01) – 02nd Floor, Barwa Commercial 
Avenue Type 5 Building No. 100, Street No. 965, Zone No. 56 Doha, Qatar
AA PO Box 2081, Postal Code 31964. Al Jubail, Industrial City, KSA.
BB PO Box 31216, Postal Code 31964. Al Khobar, Al Bandariya, Al Mutlaq 
Commercial Park, KSA
CC G14/G15/G16 Komplek Harapan, Lot No. 3038, Jalan Setia Di-Raja, 
Kuala Belait Ka3131, Negara Brunei Darussalam
DD Continental group of Companies, Opp. Sakinaka Vihar Road, Chandivali, 
Mumbai 400072
EE Russian Federation, 693000, Sakhalinskaya Region, Kosmonavta Popovicha 
street, 100, floor 6
FF 5th Floor, Bermuda House, 36C Dr Roy’s Drive, PO Box 1044, Grand 
Cayman KY1-1102, Cayman Islands
GG 22A, Gerrard Road, Ikoyi, Lagos
HH Crossbow House, 78 Cospicua Road, Paola, Malta
II Shaabit Tripoli, Tripoli, Libya
JJ George Stephensonweg 15, 3133KJ Vlaardingen, PO Box 160, 3130AD 
Vlaardingen, Netherlands
KK The Ninth Buildings Project –Building No.08 –Ground Floor- Flat No.2, 
Behind Infantry Parlor – Arouba Road – Salah Salem Street
LL 2 Rue de la Bahri, Elmohgoun, Arzew, 31200, Algeria
MM 49, Tbilisi Avenue, Yasamal District, AZ1065, Baku, Azerbaijan
NN 11 “A” Zakir Street, Baku, Azerbaijan, AZ1031
OO Republic of Kazakhstan, 090300, Burlin region, Aksai town, Druzhbi narodov n2
Name
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership  
% Key
York Linings International Limited UK 100 A
Cape Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Cape Industrial Services Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Cape Marine and Offshore Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Cape Australia Onshore Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Cape (CHS) Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Concept Hire Pty Limited Australia 100 D
PCH Offshore Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Ridgebay Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Total Corrosion Control Pty Limited Australia 100 D
Cape Myanmar Company Limited Myanmar 100 E
Cape Papua New Guinea Limited Papua New 
Guinea
100 F
Cape Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100 G
Cape Hong Kong Fuji Limited Hong Kong 80 G
Cape International Holdings Pte Limited Singapore 100 H
Cape East Pte Ltd Singapore 100 H
CG Purchasing Pte Ltd Singapore 100 I
Cape East (Holdings) Limited Thailand 49 J
Cape East (Thailand) Limited Thailand 49 J
PCH Thailand Co Limited Thailand 49 K
Cape Global Manpower Solutions Inc Philippines 25 L
Cape East Philippines Inc Philippines 100 M
T&H Investments & Holding Corporation Philippines 40 N
PT Cape East Indonesia Limited Indonesia 90 O
PT PCH Indonesia Indonesia 100 P
Cape East Jusik Hoesa Korea 100 Q
Cape Vietnam LLC Vietnam 100 R
Cape East Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 S
Olio Cape Sdn Bhd* Malaysia 49 S
Cape BVI (No1) Limited British Virgin 
Islands
100 T
Cape Regional Services DMCC Dubai 100 U
Cape East Limited LLC Abu Dhabi 49 V
Cape East SPC Bahrain 100 W
Cape East & Partners LLC Oman 65 X
Cape East General Contracting 
Company W.L.L
Kuwait 49 Y
Cape East Limited Company W.L.L Qatar 49 Z
Cape Industrial Company Limited Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia
100 AA
R.B. Hilton Saudi Arabia Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia
100 BB
Cape International Sdn Bhd Brunei 100 CC
Cape Industrial Services Private Limited India 100 DD
Cape Industrial Services LLC Russia 100 EE
Cape Industrial Services (Sakhalin) LLC Russia 100 EE
Cape Cayman (No.2) Ltd Cayman 
Islands
100 FF
MB Operations Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 GG
Cape East Libya Limited Malta 100 HH
Cape Libya Industrial Services, 
Security and Safety Joint Company
Libya 65 II
Cleton Insulation BV Netherlands 100 JJ
Cleton Continental Europe BV Netherlands 100 JJ
Cape East Egypt LLC Egypt 100 KK
Cape East Algeria SARL Algeria 99 LL
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
37 Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures (continued) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 133 
Annual Report 2016
38 Non-controlling interests
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) is provided below. 
Proportion of equity interest held by Cape:
Name 
Country of 
incorporation 2016 2015
Cape East Limited Co W.L.L Qatar 49% 49%
Summarised income statement:
2016
£m
 2015
£m
Revenue 43.6 54.6
Cost of sales (35.2) (50.2)
Administrative expenses (3.4) (3.0)
Other expenses (0.4) (0.4)
Profit before tax 4.6 1.0
Income tax (charge)/credit (0.3) 0.1
Profit after tax 4.3 1.1
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest 1.4 0.3
Dividends of £1.8 million were paid to the NCI in 2016 (2015: Nil). The percentage of profit attributable to NCI fluctuates annually due to the 
impact of foreign exchange translation.
Summarised statement of financial position:
2016
£m
 2015
£m
Non-current assets 3.3 3.8
Current assets 27.6 31.5
Current liabilities (15.9) (19.1)
Non-current liabilities (4.8) (4.6)
Accumulated balance of material non-controlling interest:
2016
£m
 2015
£m
Cape East Limited Co W.L.L 4.3 2.9
39 Post balance sheet events
As disclosed in note 34, the six-week trial in respect of the Insurer PL Litigation concluded on 23 February 2017. Subsequent to this date, 
the Group reached agreement to settle this litigation for a consideration of £18.0 million payable immediately and a deferred payment of up 
to £34.5 million payable in the period 2018 to 2023, enabling this litigation to be resolved outside of the court process. These amounts and 
an additional charge to reflect the potential of further claims of a similar nature, discounted using an appropriate discount rate, have been charged 
to profit and loss during the year and are included in the industrial disease claims provision held as at 31 December 2016 as per note 29. 134 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Parent company statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Administrative expenses (1.2) (1.5)
Operating (loss) (1.2) (1.5)
Finance costs (1.4) (1.3)
Finance income 1.4 1.3
Investment income – 5.2
Profit/(loss) before tax (1.2) 3.7
Tax expense – –
Profit/(loss) for the year (1.2) 3.7
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – –
Total comprehensive income/(expense) (1.2) 3.7 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 135 
Annual Report 2016
Parent company statement of financial position 
at 31 December 2016
Note 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Non-current assets
Investments 5 127.9 126.2
Trade and other receivables 6 45.5 44.1
Total non-current assets 173.4 170.3
Total assets 173.4 170.3
Equity
Share capital 8 30.3 30.3
Share premium account 1.0 1.0
Treasury shares 8 (0.1) –
Profit and loss account 35.9 53.1
Total equity 67.1 84.4
Non-current liabilities 7 46.1 49.4
Current liabilities 7 60.2 36.5
Total equity and liabilities 173.4 170.3
The financial statements on pages 134 to 141 were approved by the Board of directors on 14 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Joe Oatley  Chief Executive
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 136 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Parent company statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Share capital
£m
Share premium
 account
 £m
Treasury 
shares
 £m
Profit and loss 
account
 £m
Total 
equity
£m
At 1 January 2015 30.3 1.0 – 66.8 98.1
Profit for the financial year – – – 3.7 3.7
Other comprehensive income – – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – – 3.7 3.7
Dividends – – – (17.0) (17.0)
Share options:
– value of employee services – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2015 30.3 1.0 – 53.1 84.4
(Loss) for the financial year – – – (1.2) (1.2)
Other comprehensive income – – – – –
Total comprehensive (expense) – – – (1.2) (1.2)
Dividends – – – (17.0) (17.0)
Share options:
– value of employee services – – – 1.7 1.7
– share buyback – – (0.8) – (0.8)
– exercise of share schemes – – 0.7 (0.7) –
At 31 December 2016 30.3 1.0 (0.1) 35.9 67.1 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 137 
Annual Report 2016
Parent company statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2016
 £m
2015
 £m 
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) before tax (1.2) 3.7
Adjusted for non-cash items:
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (1.4) (1.3)
Increase in current and non-current liabilities 20.4 14.6
Cash generated from continuing operations 17.8 17.0
Cash flows from investing activities – –
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid (17.0) (17.0)
Share buyback (0.8) –
Net cash used in financing activities (17.8) (17.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year – – 138 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Notes to the parent company financial statements
1 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies.
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by the Company
Several new standards and amendments apply for the first time in 2016, however they do not have a significant impact on the annual financial 
statements of the Company. These new standards and amendments that are applicable to the Company are listed below:
 – Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations
 – Annual Improvements to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
 – Annual Improvements to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle
b) New and amended standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following standards and interpretations in issue which will have an effect for the Company have not yet been adopted by the Company:
 Effective dates
Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017
Amendments to IFRS 2: Clarification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2017
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
The directors do not expect the adoption of these standards and interpretations to have a material impact on the Company financial 
statements in the period of initial application. 
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted and are expected to apply to the accounting period.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition 
of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a 
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined 
using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the statement of financial position and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in 
the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the 
same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share based payments
The Company issues equity settled share based payments to certain Group employees which are measured at fair value and recognised as 
an expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair values of these payments are measured 
at the dates of grant using option pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted. The fair 
value is recognised over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the estimate of the 
number of awards which will lapse, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance 
conditions not being met. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 139 
Annual Report 2016
1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest, based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income statement, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity. If the options vest, the Company can either issue new shares or purchase back shares from the 
market, which are then held in an employee benefit trust account until the options are exercised. Proceeds received on the exercise of share 
options are credited to share capital and share premium. The addition to the Company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings is reduced 
on the issue of share incentives as these are recharged to the subsidiaries.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost less any provision for impairment. Cost is deemed to be the fair value of the 
consideration paid. Impairment reviews are performed by the directors when there has been an indication of potential impairment. In the 
opinion of the directors, the fair values of the net assets of the Company’s subsidiaries are not less than the book values at which they are 
recorded in their respective balance sheets.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are 
included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the date of the statement of financial position date. These are 
classified as non-current assets. The Company’s loans and receivables comprise of ‘trade and other receivables’ in the statement of financial 
position. These are initially recognised and carried at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities
Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities such as accruals and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and 
subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when declared 
and paid. In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
2 Significant judgements and estimates
Certain of the Company’s accounting policies described in note 1 require critical accounting estimates that involve subjective judgements 
and the use of assumptions, some of which may relate to matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change.
a) Judgements
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are:
(i) Trade and other receivables
The Company provides for likely non-recovery of receivables to the extent that the carrying value is more than the present value of expected 
future cash flows. Assessing the value of the provision requires significant management judgement. Trade and other receivables comprises 
of just Group receivable balances, which are reviewed by management on an individual basis to assess the likelihood of non-recovery.
(ii) Investments
The Company recognises investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provision for impairment. Impairment reviews are performed by the 
directors when there has been an indication of potential impairment. This requires management to exercise significant judgement in reviewing 
and identifying potential indicators of impairment and subsequently calculating fair value.
3 Employees and directors
Details of directors’ remuneration, share based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 77 form 
part of these financial statements. Details of material employee share based payments are provided in note 31 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Details of the remuneration of the executive directors are provided in note 10.
2016
£m
2015 
£m
Employee costs 0.5 0.5
4 Auditors’ remuneration
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for:
2016
£m
Restated
2015
£m
The audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3
The interim review of the parent company and consolidated interim financial statements 0.1 0.1
0.4 0.4
Included in the 2016 balance is an amount of £nil relating to negotiated overruns for the 2015 audit (2015: £0.1 million relating to the 2014 
audit), which has been allocated to the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements. The comparative has been 
restated to represent the audit fee allocation and to also adjust the total fee from £0.5 million to £0.4 million. 140 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Notes to the parent company financial statements 
continued
5 Investments
Subsidiary undertakings
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Cost
At 1 January 126.2 126.6
Additions – –
Adjustments* 1.7 (0.4)
At 31 December 127.9 126.2
Net book amount
At 31 December 127.9 126.2
*  Adjustments relate to the share based payment charge of £1.7 million (2015: credit of £0.4 million) as detailed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements 
(excluding national insurance)
Refer to note 37 to the consolidated financial statements for the Company’s subsidiary listing as at 31 December 2016. The Company directly 
owns 100% of Cape UK Holdings Newco Limited and 90% of Cape International Holdings Private Limited but indirectly controls 100% 
through its 100% indirect shareholding in Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited.
6 Trade and other receivables
2016
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings: non-current 45.5 44.1
Non-current amounts owed by Group undertakings are denominated in Sterling and are due to be repaid in 2018. Interest is received on the 
balance based on the average UK LIBOR rate for the year, plus a margin. At the date of the statement of financial position, £nil (2015: £nil) of 
amounts owed by Group undertakings were impaired. All movements in amounts owed to Group undertakings are treated as non-cash
movements.
7 Liabilities
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Accruals 0.6 0.6
Other creditors 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed to Group undertakings: current 59.5 35.8
Total current liabilities 60.2 36.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings: non-current 46.1 49.4
Total liabilities 106.3 85.9
Non-current amounts owed to Group undertakings are denominated in Sterling and are due to be repaid in 2018. Amounts owed to Group 
undertakings less than one year are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand. Interest is paid on the balance 
based on the UK LIBOR rate for the year plus a margin. The amounts owed to Group undertakings denominated in Singapore dollars at 
31 December 2016 is nil (2015: SGD 0.1 million). All movements in amounts owed to Group undertakings are treated as non-cash movements.
The carrying value of current and non-current liabilities approximates fair value. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 141 
Annual Report 2016
8 Share capital
Ordinary shares of 25p each 
2016
Number
of shares
2016
£m
2015
Number of
shares
2015
£m
Authorised 200,000,000 50.0 200,000,000 50.0
plc Scheme Share of £1 each
Authorised, issued and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 1 – 1 –
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
Issue of shares – – – –
Exercise of share options – – – –
At 31 December 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
Treasury shares:
At 1 January 31,160 – 31,160 –
Share buyback 330,000 (0.8) – –
Exercise of share options (279,646) 0.7 – –
At 31 December 81,514 (0.1) 31,160 –
Treasury shares
At 31 December 2016, 81,514 (2015: 31,160) shares were held by the Cape plc Employee Benefit Trust. During April 2016, the Trust purchased 
330,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company for the purpose of enabling the Trustee to satisfy existing awards and future awards 
granted by the Company. As at 31 December 2016, 279,646 options had been exercised, with the remaining 50,354 shares being held in the 
Trust in addition to the amount brought forward of 31,160.
plc Scheme share
The plc Scheme share is held by the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The rights attaching to the share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs and 
do not confer any right to receive a distribution or return of surplus capital save that the holder will have the right to require the Company to 
redeem the share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme.
The share carries two votes for every vote which the holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution 
proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association without the prior consent 
of the holder of the share.
9 Contingencies
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of parent company guarantees entered into in the normal course of business, including, 
for the avoidance of doubt, a parent company guarantee in respect of the deferred payment element of the Insurer PL Litigation settlement 
agreed on 12 March 2017.
10 Related party transactions
There have been no material transactions between the Company and other related parties during the year other than what is disclosed in 
notes 6 and 7. Other related party transactions are disclosed below.
Compensation of key management:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Aggregate emoluments 0.5 0.5
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes – –
0.5 0.5
The key management is considered to comprise of the executive and non-executive directors. Details of the executive and non-executive 
directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 77.
No directors accrued benefits under the Group’s defined benefits pension scheme (2015: none).
11 Dividends
An interim dividend was paid on 7 October 2016 amounting to 4.5 pence per share (2015: 4.5 pence per share). Interim dividends are 
recognised when paid. A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.5 pence per share (2015: 9.5 pence per share), 
amounting to £3.0 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting convened for 10 May 2017, making a total dividend of 7.0 pence 
per share for the year (2015: 14.0 pence per share). These financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
12 Capital and financial risk management
Details of how capital and financial risks are managed are provided in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements. 142 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
£m (unless otherwise specified)
Year
ended
31 December
2016
Year
ended
31 December
2015
Year
ended
31 December
2014
Year
ended
31 December
2013
Year
ended
31 December
2012
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 863.5 711.4 690.5 674.9 746.0
Operating profit before exceptional and other items 48.1 49.7 52.3 40.3 27.6
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) from joint ventures 7.3 2.8 – 0.3 0.1
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional and other items 55.4 52.5 52.3 40.6 27.7
Other items – Amortisation of intangibles (3.2) (3.4) (2.6) – (0.3)
Other items – Industrial disease costs (84.7) 0.2 (8.4) (15.3) (1.2)
Other items – Post-acquisition management compensation (0.3) (0.2) (0.7) – –
Other items – Contract claims – – – – (9.0)
Exceptional items – (9.2) (0.9) (14.9) (150.4)
Operating profit/(loss) (32.8) 39.9 39.7 10.4 (133.2)
Profit/(loss) before tax (43.6) 29.1 30.0 0.4 (143.2)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (40.0) 21.0 22.6 (2.3) (162.4)
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 0.3 (5.2) (12.2) (5.0) (42.6)
Profit/(loss) for the year (39.7) 15.8 10.4 (7.3) (205.0)
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc (41.1) 15.5 10.4 (6.8) (206.6)
Non-controlling interest 1.4 0.3 – (0.5) 1.6
Consolidated statement of financial position
Non-current assets 286.1 253.3 260.9 231.1 232.2
Net current assets 189.1 177.8 160.0 138.8 168.9
Non-current liabilities (361.5) (301.8) (293.4) (236.7) (230.8)
Net assets 113.7 129.3 127.5 133.2 170.3
Earnings/(loss) per share Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
– Basic total operations (34.0) 12.8 8.6 (5.6) (172.5)
– Diluted total operations (34.0) 12.7 8.6 (5.6) (172.5)
Adjusted diluted EPS – continuing operations 29.9 29.9 30.0 23.3 12.7
Adjusted diluted EPS – total operations 30.1 29.6 28.9 19.7 9.9
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS – continuing operations – (0.3%) 28.8% 83.5% (71.0%)
Five-year financial summary (Unaudited) Cape plc 143 
Annual Report 2016
Notes Notes 
continued Designed and produced by Gather
www.gather.london
The paper used in this Report is derived 
from sustainable sources Cape plc
Drayton Hall
Church Road
West Drayton
Middlesex
UB7 7PS
United Kingdom
