 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
2016
   FOCUSING ON
G ROW T H  
MARKETS
   WORLDWIDE STRATEGIC REPORT
THE GROUP
STRATEGIC REPORT
01 Highlights
02 Group at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 Group Strategy
07 Business Strategies
08 Chief Executive’s Review
14 Risk Management
17 Viability Statement
18 Financial Review
20 Key Performance Indicators
21 The Board
22 Corporate Responsibility
CONTENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
25 Corporate Governance Report
28 Audit Committee Report
30 Remuneration Committee Report
36 Nominations Committee Report
37 Directors’ Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
 of Carr’s Group plc
45 Consolidated Income Statement
46 Consolidated and Company Statements 
 of Comprehensive Income 
47 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
48 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
49 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
50 Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
51 Principal Accounting Policies
56 Notes to the Financial Statements
94 Five Year Statement
96 Directory of Operations
IBC Registered Office and Advisers
CARR’S GROUP PLC IS FOCUSSED ON THE 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF AGRICULTURE 
AND ENGINEERING.
Carr’s Group plc is an international 
business. During the year it 
operated across Agriculture, Food 
and Engineering, supplying over  
35 countries around the world. 
On 3 September 2016 the Food 
division was sold* and the Group 
continues with two divisions 
Agriculture and Engineering.
The Agriculture division comprises 
an international feed block 
supplement business with 
manufacturing locations in the 
USA, UK and Europe. In the UK 
the division also sells animal feed, 
fertiliser, animal health products,  
oil, farm machinery and rural 
supplies from its 40 locations.
The Engineering division designs, 
manufactures and supplies 
specialist precision parts, 
equipment, robotics and remote 
handling products from three 
sites in the UK and one site in 
Germany. These highly specialised 
products and services are supplied 
predominately into the nuclear  
and oil and gas markets.  
The Group is listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
*For further details of the disposal see page 4. 01
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
EARNINGS PER SHARE**
* restated for IAS 19 Revised
** restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015
2.7% UP FROM 2015 
3.8p
DIVIDEND PER SHARE**
3.7p
3.8p
3.4p
3.2p
2.9p
7.0% UP FROM 2015
10.7p
2.8% UP FROM 2015
£14.1m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
4.9% DOWN FROM 2015 
£314.9m
REVENUE
Continuing operations only
9.9p
10.0p
10.7p
9.7p
9.0p
£13.2m
£13.7m
£14.1m
£13.5m
£12.3m
£341.8m
£373.9m
£323.6m
£331.3m
£314.9m
FURTHER INVESTMENT IN OUR RETAIL NETWORK
ENGINEERING  
SIGNIFICANT CONTRACT WINS
FOOD  
DISPOSAL OF FOOD DIVISION
View this report online
www.carrsgroup.com 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
2014
2014
2014
2014
2013
2013*
2013*
2013
2012
2012
2012
2012
2015
2015
2015
2015
2016
2016
2016
2016 02
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP AT A GLANCE:
STRENGTH THROUGH DIVERSITY
Carr’s is an international group focussed on developing innovative solutions for our global customers. The Group’s 
distribution network spans over 35 countries worldwide, and the geographic and divisional diversity lies at the 
centre of our strategy. During the year the Group consisted of three divisions, however, on 3 September 2016 the 
Food division was sold leaving the Agriculture and Engineering divisions, which operate in markets that offer growth 
prospects. Our diverse geographic and divisional exposure provides strength in an increasingly volatile global 
economic environment.
AGRICULTURE
OVERVIEW AND MARKETS
The Agriculture division develops and supplies 
a range of branded innovative animal nutrition 
products into the livestock industries as well  
as servicing the UK farming and rural 
communities through a network of retail  
stores and fuel businesses.
Carr’s develops and manufactures branded 
molasses-based feed supplements, in the  
form of high and low moisture feed blocks, 
which enrich the diet of all types of  
farm animals. 
EMPLOYEES TOTAL: 594
427 167
Operational Locations
The division’s products are manufactured in  
the USA, Germany and the UK, which are  
sold through a vast distributor network across  
the UK, Europe, New Zealand and North America. 
Customer Base
Leading livestock farmers across the globe  
in the dairy, beef, sheep, pig and equine sectors.
ENGINEERING
OVERVIEW AND MARKETS
The Engineering division designs and 
manufactures bespoke equipment for use in the 
nuclear, oil and gas, and petrochemical industries. 
Products include manipulators, robotics, 
specialist fabrication and precision machining.
Carr’s is focussed on the design and manufacture 
of pressure vessels and steel fabrications together 
with specialist remote handling technology, 
robotics and radiation protection equipment for 
use in environments inaccessible to humans.
EMPLOYEES TOTAL: 296
247 49
Operational Locations
The division is based in a number of key 
locations across the UK and in Germany, 
distributing to clients around the world 
including Europe, North and South America, 
Russia, Australia, Japan and South Africa.
Customer Base
Key players across the worldwide nuclear, 
research, oil and gas, and petrochemical 
industries.
FOOD
OVERVIEW AND MARKETS
The Food division supplied bakeries, food 
manufacturers and multiples across the  
UK, using the latest milling technologies  
and sourcing the best wheat either from  
the UK or overseas.
Operational Locations
The division operated from two strategically 
located dockside sites in the UK, on the coast 
EMPLOYEES TOTAL: 218
181 37
at Silloth in Cumbria and at the state-of-the-art  
site at Kirkcaldy in Fife, as well as a third mill  
at Maldon in Essex.
Disposal
On 3 September 2016 the division was sold to 
Whitworths Holdings Ltd, for more information 
see page 4.  03
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
JAPAN
SOUTH AFRICA
MAURITIUS
ARGENTINA
NEW ZEALAND
AUSTRALIA
CANADA
SOUTH KOREA
TURKEY
CYPRUS JORDAN
KAZAKHSTAN
PAKISTAN
QATAR EGYPT
UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES
KUWAIT
IRAN
ICELAND
RUSSIA
CHINA
TAIWAN
INDONESIA
GERMANY
USA
UK
 
FRANCE
BELGIUM
SWITZERLAND
ITALY
NETHERLANDS
CZECH 
REPUBLIC
SWEDEN
NORWAY
AUSTRIA
UK
GERMANY
 
IRELAND 
SPAIN
PORTUGAL
FRANCE
SWITZERLAND
NETHERLANDS
CZECH 
REPUBLIC
SLOVAKIA
POLAND
ESTONIA
FINLAND 
SWEDEN
NORWAY
BELGIUM
ITALY
DENMARK 
AUSTRIA
UK
GERMANY
ROMANIA
SERBIA
HUNGARY
UKRAINE
LITHUANIA
BELARUS
LATVIA
GREECE
BULGARIA
CROATIA
INTERNATIONAL 
DISTRIBUTION
Our Engineering and Agriculture  
divisions distribute to customers  
all over the world.
UK
LOCATIONS
AGRICULTURE
EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTION
 HEAD OFFICE
 AGRICULTURE
 FOOD
 ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING
EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTION 04
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
It has been a significant year in the strategic 
development of the Group with the disposal 
of the Food division at the end of the year. As 
discussed below, we believe this action by the 
Group enhances shareholder value as a result  
of having a much stronger focus on growing  
both the Agriculture and Engineering divisions.
In trading terms, the year has seen depressed 
farmgate milk prices, which for most of the 
year adversely impacted our farming customers. 
The Engineering division also continues to 
be negatively impacted by the current low oil 
price. In addition, the North of England was 
affected by severe floods during December 
2015. Despite these challenges, the Group 
has delivered a robust performance ahead of 
last year. The Board recognises this strong 
performance and thanks every one of our 
employees and our management team for  
their expertise, dedication and support.
Revenue for the year from continuing operations 
fell by 4.9% to £314.9m (2015: £331.3m). 
Profit before tax from continuing operations, 
excluding a profit from discontinued operations 
of £2.8m, was up 2.8% to £14.1m (2015: 
£13.7m). This comprised an 8.6% increase in 
Agriculture operating profit to £10.3m (2015: 
£9.4m), and a 4.9% reduction in Engineering 
operating profit to £2.5m (2015: £2.6m). 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations were up by 7.0% to 10.7 pence per 
share (2015: 10.0 pence), with fully diluted 
earnings per share of 10.5 pence (2015: 
9.7 pence) and adjusted earnings per share, 
excluding non-recurring items and amortisation 
of intangibles, of 10.9 pence (2015: 10.2 
pence). Net cash at the year end was £8.1m 
(2015: net debt of £24.4m).
STRATEGIC REFOCUSING
Following an approach by Whitworths Holdings 
Ltd for the acquisition of Carr’s Flour Mills 
Ltd (the Food division), the Board undertook a 
strategic review of the Group’s three divisions.  
It concluded that the nature of the offer presented 
an excellent opportunity to realise the value  
of the Food division, whilst allowing the Group 
to further strengthen its focus on growing both 
the Agriculture and Engineering divisions in  
a way that could enhance shareholder value. 
A decision was therefore taken by the Board 
to dispose of the Food division for a gross 
consideration of £36.0m on a cash and debt 
free basis (the Disposal). The purchase price 
was subject to an adjustment based on actual 
working capital at the date of sale compared 
to the agreed average working capital. After 
adjustment for the carrying value of net debt 
amounting to £7.9m and the allowance for an 
estimated working capital adjustment of £3.2m, 
the Group received £24.9m in cash.
Given the significant amount of cash realised 
from the Disposal, the Board decided to return 
£16.0m of the net proceeds of the Disposal to 
shareholders in the form of a special dividend, 
which took place on 7 October 2016. The 
Group’s modest debt position after the special 
dividend enables it to pursue acquisition 
opportunities as and when appropriate. The 
Board believes that taking into account the 
£16.0m returned to shareholders and the 
potential investment in growth opportunities 
utilising the £8.9m cash retained from the net 
proceeds of the Disposal, the transaction should 
contribute to an increase in shareholder value.
Consistent with the above, on 24 October 2016, 
the Group has recently acquired a German 
engineering company, STABER GmbH (formerly 
called Städele GmbH), a long term supplier to 
our German remote handling business, for a 
gross consideration of €7.85m. This acquisition 
will enhance the intellectual property and 
growth potential of the existing German remote 
handling business.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank  
the employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd for all  
of their support and dedication over the years.  
I am pleased that in joining Whitworths 
Holdings Ltd, they have joined a company that 
is fully committed to continuing to build on 
the strong foundations laid out by Jonathan 
Dodgson Carr when he started the business  
back in 1831. I would also like to welcome  
the employees of STABER to the Group.
BUSINESS REVIEW
In Agriculture, our international feedblock 
business has delivered another excellent 
performance, driven by a strong performance 
in the USA where we have seen a significant 
increase in demand. Sales volumes have 
increased as a result of the strength of our 
branded product offering and the rebuilding  
of beef herds. In accordance with our strategy, 
we continue to invest in our production facilities 
and R&D programme, both in the UK and 
internationally, to drive future growth in existing 
markets and expansion into new geographies. 
Our UK retail business continued to build on 
the momentum established in previous years, 
with the expansion of the Country Store network 
into new territories both organically and through 
acquisitions. I am pleased that by the end of 
this calendar year we will be operating from 
41 locations across the UK. In the financial 
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that the Group 
has delivered a solid set of results in the 
context of a challenging market.
“
” 05
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
year we acquired Green (Agriculture) Co in 
Northumberland and Phoenix Feeds Ltd  
in Lancashire, expanding our customer base in 
both regions. We welcome our new colleagues. 
We are grateful to our customers who have 
continued to support our business during 
this challenging year. We believe our strong 
geographic presence, the relevance of our 
product offering, and continued excellent 
customer service will be key requirements in 
supporting them over the forthcoming year.
Our Engineering division has had another tough 
year, impacted by the continuing downturn  
in the oil and gas market and several contract 
delays. The division is beginning to see the 
benefit of the resurgence in the UK nuclear 
market with several new contract wins, in 
particular the largest ever contract secured  
by the division awarded by Sellafield with a 
value of approximately £48m over the next  
ten years. We remain confident in the medium 
term prospects of the division as we continue  
to focus on nuclear and adjacent markets. 
GOVERNANCE
The Board is mindful of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and takes its responsibilities 
very seriously. It continues to strive to comply 
with all areas of the Code and a full report on 
Corporate Governance can be found on pages  
25 to 27. All Directors will be standing for 
election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)  
on 10 January 2017.
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a 2.7% increase in the 
final dividend to 1.9 pence per ordinary share, 
which together with the two interim dividends  
of 0.95 pence per ordinary share paid on  
13 May and 7 October 2016, make a total of  
3.8 pence per share for the year (2015: 3.7 
pence), representing an increase of 2.7%. The 
final dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, 
will be paid on 13 January 2017 to Shareholders 
on the register on close of business 16 December 
2016, and the shares will go ex-dividend on  
15 December 2016. 
This final dividend and the two interim 
dividends are in addition to the special dividend 
of 17.54 pence per ordinary share paid on  
7 October 2016 following the disposal of  
Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd. 
THE BOARD 
Last year, John Worby was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Board, taking 
over as Senior Independent Director and Audit 
Committee Chairman from Alistair Wannop 
and Robert Heygate respectively. The Board 
has been further strengthened this year with 
the appointment of Non-Executive Director 
Ian Wood, who has extensive experience in 
the engineering and energy sectors, previously 
working for Centrica plc. 
In addition, on 10 September 2015 it was 
announced that Robert Heygate had decided 
to stand down from the Board after 25 years’ 
service, with effect from 30 April 2016. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Bob for 
his contribution, dedication, enthusiasm, and 
support during his time with Carr’s.
OUTLOOK
The disposal of the Food division will support the 
Group’s ambition to achieve further growth and 
development in line with its strategic objectives 
across its remaining two divisions, Agriculture 
and Engineering. The Board sees opportunities 
for international growth of our feedblock business 
and to further build on our nuclear business 
capability in the short and medium term, as well 
as continuing to strengthen our UK Agricultural 
business. We will continue to identify acquisition 
opportunities while investing in our existing 
business for the future.
The Board’s expectations for the current 
financial year remain unchanged. Trading in 
the first quarter has started positively with a 
continued stabilising of farmgate milk prices. 
The climate of uncertainty relating to the UK’s 
exit from the European Union will continue 
in the short term, and there is medium term 
risk associated with UK Agriculture which is 
dependent on future Government policy and 
the terms of exit from the EU. In overall terms, 
some of the difficulties experienced in the UK 
as a result of Brexit have been offset as a result 
of the exchange rate benefit from overseas 
operations. The Board will continue to monitor 
the position and believe that the Group is 
well placed to respond to any challenges and 
opportunities that may arise.
CHRIS HOLMES DL
Chairman
16 November 2016 06
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP STRATEGY
To be recognised as a truly international business at the 
forefront of technology and innovation
VISION
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
• Build business value by focussing on markets with growth potential
• Grow and diversify our international footprint
• Differentiate ourselves through innovation and technology
• Lead in our chosen markets
Seen and recognised as  
leaders in innovation 
Delivering growth through 
acquisition aligned  
to strategy
Investment in assets to 
ensure long term competitive 
advantage 
Investing in people that  
will shape the business in 
ten years’ time 
TECHNOLOGY                                                                                                                        INVESTMENT
 ADDED VALUE
PEOPLE
ACQUISITIONS
AGRICULTURE
ENGINEERING 07
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
BUSINESS STRATEGIES
We aim to succeed by being selective in what we do. We constantly strive  
to build deep and long lasting relationships with customers across a range  
of carefully chosen markets.
FOCUSED ON GROWTH MARKETS
• Increased UK feed volumes against a national average 
decline and growth of 10.2% in USA block sales
• Retail development and growth
• New block plant in Silver Springs, USA
®
• New products – Megastart
® 
and Piglyx
®
• New markets – New Zealand and South America
• New products such as the Demo 2000 Telbot
®
• Closer integration and marketing of combined offerings 
across the Engineering division
• Development of design department that is driving new 
contract wins
• New markets – USA
The last two years have been tough across the global 
agricultural market as the farming commodity cycle moves 
towards a cyclical low. However, the medium to long term 
outlook remains bright. The world’s population is expected  
to reach over nine billion people by 2050, an increase of over 
two billion on the current level. This growth combined with 
continued urbanisation particularly in emerging economies 
will drive demand for both food and agricultural products  
and the need for technologies to drive productivity.
A resurgent UK nuclear industry offers a range of exciting 
opportunities both in new build and decommissioning. 
In oil and gas, global markets have been challenging and  
this is set to continue through the next year. Opportunities  
are emerging in other related markets such as defence  
and aerospace.
AGRICULTURE ENGINEERING
OUR KEY STRENGTHS
Global Markets
Wide range of export markets across the globe 
supplied from key manufacturing plants in UK, 
mainland Europe and across the United States.
Core Competencies
Deep industry knowhow delivering market 
leading solutions backed up with world leading 
engineering capability.
Market Leading Products
Leading branded products such as Crystalyx
®
  
and SmartLic
®
 in Agriculture and Telbot
®
  
and A1000 robots in Engineering.
Doing the Right Thing
Management style that encourages 
entrepreneurial drive and innovation backed  
up by key values – respect, trust and integrity. 08
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
INTRODUCTION
2016 was the beginning of a transformational 
period for the Group culminating at the end 
of the financial year with the disposal of the 
Food division. The Group sold Carr’s Flour 
Mills Ltd (the Food division) to Whitworths 
Holdings Ltd, representing an exciting stage 
in the Group’s strategic development. The 
disposal enables the Group to focus on the 
Agriculture and Engineering divisions to drive 
future growth and improve the financial returns 
for our shareholders. Both of these divisions are 
internationally recognised for manufacturing 
value added and technologically advanced 
products with market leading brands.
Our strategy remains centred around four  
key pillars:
•  investing in our people, who are vital to  
the long term success of the business;
•  investing in our asset base, to ensure we 
retain our competitive advantage;
•  driving product innovation across each  
of our divisions; and
•  delivering growth through acquisitions  
and organic expansion.
These strategic pillars are at the heart of each 
division, and their continued implementation 
has ensured we have once again delivered 
another record year of profit for the Group.
Our investment in the business has continued 
to be a priority. Major projects commenced and 
completed in the year include:
•  £0.9m reconfiguration of feedblock site at Ayr;
•  £0.5m new silos at feedblock site in Silloth;
•  £1.7m acquisition of Phoenix Feeds Ltd  
in June 2016;
•  €1.0m high moisture feedblock plant in 
Oldenburg commissioned;
•  £0.3m acquisition of Green (Agriculture)  
Co September 2015;
•  £0.2m on new and redeveloped country  
stores at:-
 – Wigton
 – Leek
 – Penicuik
•   $0.5m office expansion at AFS;
•  €0.9m commencement of Wälischmiller 
showroom; and
•   £0.5m additional fuel tankers across the 
existing fuel depots.
After the year end the Group acquired  
STABER GmbH, formerly called Städele GmbH, 
a family owned engineering business located 
near the Group’s existing German operations in 
Markdorf. STABER has designed and developed 
specialised intellectual property, which will be 
strategically beneficial to the Group’s German 
operations in both the near and long term. This 
purchase is fully aligned with the Engineering 
division’s growth strategy of capitalising on the 
global resurgence of nuclear decommissioning 
as well as the use of robotic technologies in 
highly explosive environments.
OUTLOOK
The disposal of the Food division leaves 
the Group well placed to capitalise on the 
opportunity it presents by pursuing further 
organic and acquisitive growth in its two 
remaining higher margin divisions. 
 
The Board is keen to pursue opportunities on 
the international expansion of the feedblock 
division into new territories and pursue further 
opportunities in animal supplementation. In 
Engineering, there will be a focus on expanding 
the markets, territories and capabilities of the 
highly specialised remote handling engineering 
business, both organically and acquisitively,  
as well as pursuing complementary acquisitions 
that are strategically aligned to that division. 
The Group is operating in challenging global 
markets and as a result of the decision to leave  
the EU, the UK faces a period of uncertainty 
in the short-term. The Group is well placed to 
capitalise on any opportunities this presents,  
and with its inherent operational and geographical 
diversity is in a strong position to deal with 
this uncertainty. The current financial year has 
started positively and trading is in line with the 
Boards’ expectations.
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OPERATING PROFIT BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£10.3m
8.6% UP
FROM 2015
ENGINEERING 
£2.5m
4.9% DOWN
FROM 2015
We have once again  
delivered another  
record year of profit  
for the Group.
“
” 09
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Agriculture division has reported another 
record year, driven by its operational and 
geographic diversity. 
FEEDBLOCKS
Overall our global feedblock sales volumes  
were up 6.0% on last year.
Sales of feedblocks in the USA were at 
unprecedented levels with sales volumes, 
excluding joint ventures, up 5.1% on last year. 
Record production levels have been driven by 
an increase in market size with the continued 
rebuilding of the beef herds across our key 
territories, in addition to market share gains. 
The new SmartLic
®
 feedblock plant at Silver 
Springs, Nevada, was commissioned in the 
year with the first product being produced in 
January 2016. This plant will significantly 
extend the market reach and penetration in the 
western states of the USA, and alleviate the 
capacity pressure currently experienced by the 
Belle Fourche plant, South Dakota, which has 
been operating at capacity throughout the year. 
The Silver Springs plant is expected to make  
a full contribution in the current financial year, 
with the primary feedblock season in the  
region being August to February. 
Sales of feedblocks in the USA through 
our joint venture operations at Shelbyville, 
Tennessee and Sioux City, Iowa were up 
34.2% on last year. As a result of the success 
of the joint venture at Shelbyville, the Board 
has decided to expand our operations with the 
construction of a $4.6m new low moisture 
feedblock plant alongside the existing high 
moisture feedblock facility. It is anticipated 
that this will be completed within the current 
financial year ahead of the main feedblock 
season at the start of the 2018 financial year. 
This will extend our ability to supply low 
moisture blocks to the significant market of 
the eastern states of the USA, which cannot 
be reached by our existing operations. 
The exportation of Horslyx
®
, a product for 
the equine leisure market, into the USA has 
continued, with the business now working 
with several new distributors down the East 
Coast. We have continued with our UK 
research into the benefits of Megastart
®
 
and, following the successful conclusion of 
University trials, it has been demonstrated 
that Megastart
®
 significantly increases 
production of colostrum, which will improve 
the profitability of our UK dairy farm  
and suckler herd customers.
We continue to develop opportunities to 
expand geographically. The first shipment of 
Crystalyx
®
 into South America occurred in the 
year to facilitate the commencement of trials 
at FAI Farms (a commercial research institute 
in Brazil) and the Instituto de Zootecnia near 
Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo State.
The opportunities for expansion in New 
Zealand continue to be assessed, although 
progress was delayed during the year as a 
result of the adverse impact of the depressed 
global milk market on dairy farming in New 
Zealand. However, the New Zealand market 
continues to be a promising expansion 
opportunity for the feedblock business, and 
our medium term objective of building a low 
moisture block plant remains unchanged.
Operating profit for the year increased by 8.6%  
to £10.3m (2015: £9.4m) on revenue down  
by 4.4% to £284.8m (2015: £297.7m). 
AGRICULTURE
8.6% UP FROM 2015 
£10.3m
OPERATING PROFIT
£10.3m
£9.4m 2015
2016 10
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
UK AGRICULTURE 
The retail business has delivered a record 
performance, with the Country Store network 
across Northern England and Southern 
Scotland delivering a 5.0% increase in  
like for like sales and a 16.0% increase in 
total sales following the integration of the 
acquisitions of Green (Agriculture) Co and 
Reid and Robertson Ltd in September 2015 
and June 2015 respectively.
The strategy for the retail business has been 
to expand the geographic reach into adjacent 
territories, redevelop existing facilities and 
expand the product offering for the benefit 
of rural communities. During the year the 
product offer at the Balloch, Oban and Ayr 
stores has been extended, the Leek store has 
been refurbished and a new store at Wigton, 
Cumbria, has been opened. A new Country 
Store at Penicuik, Midlothian, is due to 
open on 1 December 2016 and will have a 
significant focus on the local equine market 
in addition to supplying our normal range 
of products and services. The opening of 
Penicuik will bring our total retail footprint  
to 41 locations.
In September 2015, Green (Agriculture) Co, 
an agricultural merchant business based at 
Morpeth, Northumberland was acquired. This 
retail business is situated near the existing 
machinery only Country Store and enhances 
the offering to the local community. It has 
been successfully integrated into the network 
of Country Stores and has made a positive 
contribution during the year.
In June 2016, Phoenix Feeds Ltd, an 
agricultural merchant business specifically 
retailing animal feed and based in  
Lancashire, was acquired and has been 
successfully integrated. 
During the year, compound feed volumes 
increased by 2.1% as a result of market 
share gains. This is a particularly robust 
performance against a market backdrop  
that declined by 4% nationally. However,  
due to the pressure on dairy farm incomes 
and the competitive nature of the feed 
market, margins were significantly reduced 
year on year.
Total machinery sales have been severely 
impacted by the downturn in farm incomes  
with sales declining 8.1% year on year.  
National tractor sales have declined 14.8%.
The oil distribution business has performed 
well with sales volumes increasing 7.1%  
year on year. This is a result of market share 
gains and the corresponding increase in  
the truck fleet. 
The flooding in December 2015 in the North 
of England had a significant impact on the 
Lancaster feed mill and the AminoMax
®
 
manufacturing facility. Global sales volumes 
of AminoMax
®
, the patented animal bypass 
protein product for dairy cows, are down 
3.9% as a result of the pressure on dairy 
farm incomes and the downtime at the  
UK manufacturing facility resulting from  
the floods. 
MARKET CONDITIONS
Farmer confidence remained low during 
the year with the farmgate milk price only 
stabilising towards the end of the financial 
year, causing significant pressure on farm 
incomes which is set to continue through 
the current financial year. The uncertainty 
following the outcome from the EU 
referendum, particularly relating to the future 
of the single farm payment and support for UK 
farmers in general, is likely to result in volatile 
market conditions for the foreseeable future. 
However, in the short-term UK livestock and 
dairy prices have responded positively due  
to the devaluation of Sterling.
The division is well placed both operationally 
and geographically to adapt to future variable 
market conditions whilst continuing to 
support our farming customers. 11
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
This year the Engineering division has 
made significant progress in its objective to 
reposition its focus on nuclear and adjacent 
markets, such as defence. This is evidenced 
by a number of significant contract wins and 
strengthening of the management teams in 
the UK, along with increased coordination 
and integration of activities within the 
division. Unfortunately, the benefits from 
these actions have been offset in the short 
term by customer delays in the awarding of 
some nuclear contracts and the continued 
depressed oil and gas market. Nevertheless, 
the division’s performance for the full year 
was satisfactory in the context of challenging 
market conditions. The overall split of nuclear 
and non-nuclear work of the division in 2016 
was 69% nuclear (2015: 62% nuclear).
UK MANUFACTURING BUSINESS
Revenues have declined in the year following 
the completion of the large BP contract in 
2015 and as a result of contract delays, 
however, the outlook looks more promising  
in the nuclear market following a number  
of sizeable contact wins.
The UK manufacturing business was 
awarded The Sellafield Vessels and Tanks 
Category Management Framework contract. 
This contract, with a value of £48m at the 
time of the tender, was won through an open 
European Tendering process. The Framework 
contract secures a position of exclusivity to 
design and manufacture Sellafield’s highest 
complexity vessels for the next 10 years. This 
is a significant milestone for the Engineering 
division, being the largest ever contract 
secured by the business, and underpins the 
growth and development of our Engineering 
division over the medium term. 
During 2015 the business created a new 
design department, to further enhance services 
available to customers for the design of a wide 
range of mission critical equipment, including 
steel fabrications and pressure vessels. The 
design business is integrated with the business’ 
production capability to maximise innovation 
and improve efficiency. During the year it 
concluded an important design and build 
project for a skip conveyor system for the First 
Generation Magnox Storage Pond (FGMSP) 
project in Sellafield. This system is the first of 
its kind, and is fundamental to assisting in the 
retrieval and removal of radioactive waste from 
one of the storage ponds in Sellafield. 
Despite the partial recovery of the oil price 
towards the end of the 2016 financial year, 
the oil and gas market remains depressed, 
particularly in the exploration and production 
sector, which has consequently had an adverse 
impact on the business during the year. The 
focus on the nuclear industry has continued 
although, as previously reported, the transition 
by part of the manufacturing business away 
from oil and gas to nuclear has been slower  
than initially anticipated due to contract delays. 
The UK nuclear industry has benefited 
from the Government’s commitment to both 
the on-going decommissioning process 
and nuclear new build, and as a result the 
division is seeing an increase in the number 
of tenders and subsequent contract wins. 
The Government and international investor 
commitment to the Hinkley C power station 
is a significant vote of confidence in new 
nuclear in the UK and will have boosted the 
potential for the other developments, not 
least with the Horizon project in North Wales 
and the NuGEN project in Cumbria.
Operating profit for the year decreased by  
4.9% to £2.5m (2015: £2.6m) on revenue  
down by 10.2% to £30.1m (2015: £33.5m).
ENGINEERING
4.9% DOWN FROM 2015 
£2.5m
 OPERATING PROFIT
£2.5m
£2.6m 2015
2016 12
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
REMOTE HANDLING BUSINESS
During the year the remote handling 
business performed in line with the Board’s 
expectations with several major projects 
completed. The Demo 2000 Telbot
®
 project, 
for the inspection of oil and gas tanks in 
Norway, completed successfully in December 
2015. This project developed a robotic system 
for vessel inspection and cleaning, the first in 
the world to be certified for use in the most 
highly explosive of environments. Statoil, 
a partner in the project, has subsequently 
invested further in the business to develop 
a lighter weight version of the Demo 2000 
Telbot
®
 for use on off-shore platforms, where 
there are strict machinery weight restrictions. 
The business has completed two major 
contracts for Sellafield, one for the Silo 
Direct Encapsulation (SDP) project and the 
other for the Box Encapsulation Plant (BEP) 
project. In early 2015, Sellafield awarded 
a contract for the design and production of 
a robot to assist in the removal of high-
level toxic nuclear waste on the site in the 
SDP project. This robot, Sally Telbot
®
, was 
successfully tested in Germany for 1200hrs 
without failure and proved to perform the 
tasks 40% faster than the previously tested 
hydraulic arms. Following its success, an 
order was placed for a second Sally Telbot
®
, 
which has been manufactured during 
the year with successful factory testing 
completed before the year-end and delivery 
to Sellafield in November 2016.
Completion of the contract for two A1000 
power manipulators for the nuclear facility  
at Dounreay in Scotland was completed in  
the year. An A1000 has also been delivered 
to Mitsui in Japan for trial work in a future 
decommissioning project to be undertaken 
at the Fukushima nuclear facility, and the 
business was also awarded a contract for 
the design and manufacture of the highly 
specialised A1000 power manipulator to 
Sellafield for the BEP project. Production  
has almost completed and factory acceptance 
tests will commence in January 2017.
Following on from the development and 
extensive trials in Japan and Germany of 
Robbie, the V1000 robot, a remote controlled 
handling vehicle, the business has received 
its first order for delivery in 2017. Robbie 
will be used in the vitrification plant on the 
WAK GmbH Karlsruhe site in Germany. The 
plant contains high level toxic waste and dust 
particles making it too hazardous for human 
presence. Robbie will assist the A1000 
power manipulators already in the plant  
to continue with their decommissioning. 
A major contract, of c£1.8m in value, with 
Cavendish Nuclear for the supply of Master 
Slave Manipulators into Sellafield was 
completed successfully during the year. 
Further progress was made in the USA nuclear 
market, with two small orders for Master 
Slave Manipulators received in the year, one 
for the USA National Laboratory at Idaho and 
the other for the USA National Laboratory 
at Oakridge, both due in November 2016. 
Although small, these orders demonstrate 
further progress being made by the business 
in the penetration of the US market. 
The business continues to face the ongoing 
macroeconomic pressures resulting from the 
political issues in Russia and the delay in 
funding in Japan in the short term. This  
is offset by the on-going resurgence in the 
UK nuclear market. 
On 24 October 2016, the German remote 
handling business acquired one of its 
primary suppliers, STABER GmbH, formerly 
called Städele GmbH, including all of its 
associated intellectual property for a total 
cash consideration of @7.85m. STABER 
and Wälischmiller, a subsidiary of Carr’s 
Engineering Ltd, have been working together 
closely for over 50 years and most recently 
STABER has been a key supplier of parts for 
the remote handling business. During 2014 
and 2015 STABER was intrinsic in assisting 
Wälischmiller in the development of the 
Demo 2000 Telbot
®
, a robotic system for 
vessel inspection and cleaning in the oil and 
gas market, and the first in the world to be 
certified for use in the most highly explosive 
of environments. STABER has designed and 
developed specialised intellectual property 
(“IP”) which will be strategically beneficial to 
Wälischmiller in both the near and long term. 
This IP will accelerate the ongoing strategic 
development work on the Telbot
®
 and the 
Demo 2000 Telbot
®
 by Wälischmiller.
The Engineering division is a well-established 
supplier of high integrity equipment to the 
nuclear industry. With agreements in place  
with leading UK and Global nuclear 
companies, it is well positioned to secure 
high value, long term contracts to build on 
its existing decommissioning portfolio and 
potential defence opportunities through the  
UK Successor and Defence programmes.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 13
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
The floods in December 2015 in Cumbria 
directly affected one of the Food division’s 
major customers, which had a consequential 
impact on sales volumes in the year. Due to 
appropriate and comprehensive insurance 
cover, the floods had no financial impact  
on the business.
Underlying sales volumes grew 3.54%, in 
spite of the changes in the consumer market, 
notably the decline in consumption of the 
traditional sliced loaf and the concurrent 
increase in the consumption of bake-off 
products. The division’s performance has 
also been supported by the investment made 
by the Group in the mill at Kirkcaldy and 
excellent long term relationships  
with customers. 
The 2015 UK wheat harvest was in excess 
of 16 million tonnes, although the quality 
was variable. The wheat price volatility in 
the market has continued, with significant 
price falls experienced in early 2016. Carr’s 
approach to risk management, which seeks 
to match sales contracts with raw materials 
commitments, served to minimise the impact 
of that volatility. 
The flour market continues to decline, is over 
supplied and is operating in a challenging 
consumer environment with limited growth 
opportunities for the Group. This, coupled 
with the need for significant future capital 
investment, resulted in the Group being 
exposed to an increased risk profile. 
At the year-end we announced the disposal of 
the Food division to Whitworths Holdings Ltd. 
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
16 November 2016
Profit for the year from discontinued  
operations was £2.8m (2015: £3.0m).
FOOD
6.5% DOWN FROM 2015 
£2.8m
PROFIT FROM  
DISCONTINUED  
OPERATIONS
£2.8m
£3.0m 2015
2016 14
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT
OUR RISK APPETITE AND APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT
Our success as a Group depends on the ability to identify and maximise the opportunities generated by our 
businesses and the markets in which we operate. In doing so, we continue to develop an embedded approach  
to risk management which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the heart of our strategy.
KEY RISKS
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK
Safety
The safety of our employees, contractors and suppliers  
and the communities in which we operate is paramount. 
We must operate within local laws, regulations, rules, and 
ordinances relating to health, safety, and the environment, 
including emissions.
We have Health and Safety policies that apply to all facilities, with dedicated 
staff to ensure they are embedded within our culture and regularly measured 
and assessed. This includes an annual compliance programme, which reports 
monthly to the Executive Directors, highlighting any issues that require action, 
including training needs. Regular training in this area is also provided to key 
personnel in the Group’s locations.
Additionally, the Board receives and reviews a Health and Safety report at each 
Board meeting, and also meets annually with the Health and Safety Manager 
to discuss the Group’s safety performance and areas for improvement.
Business Continuity
The operation of manufacturing plants involves many risks that 
could cause a temporary or permanent stoppage in production 
and could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The Group has Business Continuity arrangements in place to enable continuity 
of supply, as quickly as practicable, of product to customers in the event of a 
natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure. A programme of insurance 
is also in place to protect against the cost of major business interruptions.
The Group adopts a risk profile aligned to our 
vision to be recognised as a truly international 
business at the forefront of technology and 
innovation. Our available capital and resources 
are applied to underpin our four strategic pillars: 
acquisitions, people, investment and innovation.
Our approach to risk management is designed  
to provide reasonable assurance that our assets 
are safeguarded. The risks facing the business 
are assessed and, where possible, mitigated 
and all relevant information is disclosed and 
reported to the Board.
ORGANISATION AND PROCESS
The Board assumes overall responsibility for 
the management of risk and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems.
The Board has established a clear organisational 
structure with well-defined accountabilities for 
the principal risks the Group faces in the short, 
medium, and long term, across all divisions. 
This is overseen by the Executive Directors, 
who have an active responsibility for focusing 
on the principal areas of risk to the Group. 
The Board reviews these risk areas, including 
consideration of environmental, social, and 
governance matters, and retains responsibility 
for determining the nature and extent of the 
risks that the Group is prepared to undertake. 
This review is undertaken quarterly.
For each of our principal risks we have a 
risk management framework detailing our 
assessment of the risk, the controls we  
have in place, who is responsible for managing 
the risk, as well as any further mitigating  
actions required.
BOARD’S ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE  
WITH THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Board review the principal risks quarterly. 
This is supported by an annual review of the risk 
management system undertaken by the Audit 
Committee. Details of the activities of the Audit 
Committee in relation to this can be found in 
the Audit Committee Report on pages 28 to 29. 
Decisions that could have a material impact  
on the Group are reviewed as and when required 
at Board meetings.
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS
Our business is subject to a variety of risks and 
uncertainties. On the following pages we have 
identified the risks we regard as most relevant 
to our Group and performance at this time. 
These may change as the Group develops over 
the year. We have commented on mitigating 
actions that we believe help us manage these 
risks. However, we may not be successful 
in deploying some or all of these mitigating 
actions. If the circumstances in these risks 
occur or are not successfully mitigated, our 
cash flow, operating results, financial position, 
business and reputation could be materially 
adversely affected. 15
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK
People
Performance, knowledge, and skills of employees are central  
to the success of the Group. We must attract, integrate, 
and retain the talent required to fulfil our strategic growth 
ambitions. Inability to retain key knowledge, and adequately 
plan for succession could have a negative impact on the 
Group’s performance.
The Group has remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward 
employees with the ability and experience to execute the Group’s strategy.
Management development programmes are in place, alongside detailed 
succession planning across the Group. Succession plans for senior roles  
are reviewed by the Nominations Committee annually.
Commodity Costs
Margins may be affected by fluctuations in crop prices due to 
factors such as harvest and weather conditions, crop disease, 
crop yields, alternative crops, and by-product values.
In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts,  
or due to competitive markets, we may not be able to pass  
on to customers the full amount of raw material price increases 
or higher energy, freight or other operating costs.
The Group has a number of strategies in place to manage this risk.  
These include:
• strategic long term relationships with suppliers;
• multiple-source suppliers for key ingredients;
•  raw material and forward energy purchasing policies to provide security of 
supply and cost;
•  the use of derivatives where most beneficial to hedge exposure to movements 
in future prices of commodities; and
•  close monitoring of contract execution to ensure supply is within agreed terms.
Product Innovation Risk
Our commercial success depends, in part, on innovation 
and then obtaining and maintaining trademark and patent 
protection on certain products and technology.
Failure to innovate could have an adverse effect on our 
business. We must also successfully defend trademarks and 
patents against third party challenges or infringements.
The Group invests heavily in research and development to innovate across  
its businesses. For new innovations, there is an organised and secure process 
for identifying and recording innovations, trade secrets, and potentially 
patentable ideas.
The Group has an in-house Legal Counsel to monitor and oversee this risk, 
supported by expert intellectual property lawyers in multiple jurisdictions.
Strategic Partners
The Group has a number of strategic partners, particularly in 
the Agriculture division, who are involved either as joint venture 
partners or significant minority shareholders. A successful 
working relationship with these partners in paramount to those 
businesses’ success.
Close working relationships are maintained with all the Group’s strategic 
partners. This includes regular meetings, both formally and informally, 
and close involvement in the setting and monitoring of strategy for those 
businesses. In addition, arrangements are appropriately documented in 
contracts and legal agreements.
Treasury
We are exposed to a variety of financial risks in relation  
to treasury.
The Group must ensure that it has an adequate level of 
facilities to provide sufficient funding to operate its businesses 
and to develop growth opportunities.
Changes to the value of currencies can fluctuate widely  
and could have a significant impact on a division’s results.  
Furthermore, because the Group has international businesses  
it is subject to exchange risks in the translation of the 
underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
The level of facilities are regularly reviewed by the Group Finance Director,  
and these are also regularly reported to and discussed by the Board.
The Group operates a treasury policy of hedging all significant transactional 
currency exposures. Additionally, translational hedging instruments are used  
to limit the potential impact of fluctuating currencies on reported earnings 
from foreign subsidiaries.
For interest rate risk on floating rate debt, we maintain a mix of fixed rate  
debt, primarily finance lease, and floating rate debt. These levels are 
monitored and assessed against forecast changes in interest rates and  
forward guidance from interest rate setting authorities. 16
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK
Acquisitions
The Group is acquisitive and is therefore exposed to the 
possibility of acquiring a company based on inaccurate 
information, unrealistic synergies and financial benefits,  
or an inappropriate deal structure. 
Failure to effectively integrate acquired businesses could  
also undermine any expected synergies.
A thorough and careful due diligence process is undertaken, utilising relevant 
skilled internal personnel, as well as external expertise when required. 
Individual business unit and Group resource is used to analyse potential 
synergies and financial benefits. Consideration is given to the composition 
and skills of the management team of the acquired company and support 
and relevant training is provided by Group personnel to ensure a successful 
integration. The deal structure and proposed financing arrangements are 
determined on a case by case basis. 
Post-acquisition reviews are also undertaken to identify any areas for 
improvement in future transactions.
Customer Demand
Changes in customer demand, be that retail or commercial 
customers caused by economic factors could result in a fall 
in demand for the Group’s product offering, resulting in a 
significant loss in revenue. 
The Group operates in diverse worldwide markets, which provide resilience  
for the Group against difficulties faced by any one market or economy.  
The businesses are managed flexibly to react to changing demands in their 
own sector.
Reliance on Key Customers
Some businesses within the Group have a significant  
proportion of their revenue generated from a small number  
of key customers. A loss of a number of these customers  
could adversely affect the performance of a division and  
in turn the Group. 
The businesses have established good long term relationships with key 
customers to ensure that demands and expectations are met. The Group is 
constantly investing in its businesses to ensure that they are able to satisfy 
customer needs and are market leaders. 
The Group is continually working on identifying new markets, products,  
and opportunities to expand the customer base of all its businesses. 
Reliance on Key Ingredients
Our feed block business relies on a key ingredient of molasses. 
Should there be volatility in the molasses market or should a 
crop disaster result in little to no harvest, this could adversely 
affect business performance. 
Our feed block businesses acquire molasses from a variety of sources 
worldwide and therefore there is no over reliance on any one producer. The 
molasses market is international and therefore it is unlikely that molasses 
could not be sourced from an alternative location should any one harvest  
be adversely impact by a natural disaster. In addition, research remains 
underway to establish alternative ingredients to molasses. 
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
The Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme. 
The funding of the scheme could be adversely affected by a 
number of factors including: investment returns, interest rate 
fluctuations, members’ longevity and government gilt rates  
that are used to determine the value of liabilities. Changes  
in all or some of these inputs could increase the cost to the 
Group of funding this scheme in the future.
The scheme closed to future accrual on 31 December 2015. As at the last 
triennial actuarial valuation, the scheme was fully funded. This funding level is 
monitored on a quarterly basis by both the Company and the scheme Trustees.
The scheme also has a dynamic de-risking programme in place, with an 
investment strategy designed to reduce the volatility of the funding level in 
changeable markets. 
Brexit
The UK’s impending exit from the European Union (EU) 
highlights a number of risks for the Group, particularly in the 
Agriculture division.
Part of our customer base is inherently reliant on agricultural 
subsidies from the EU, and therefore future government 
policy and support for the agricultural sector will potentially 
impact on our customers with a knock on effect to our 
agricultural business.
Similarly, for some areas of the business the Group imports raw 
materials from within the EU. The imposition of tariffs or other 
related cost increases could impact the cost base of the Group.
The Group benefits from its operational and geographic diversity and is not 
substantially dependent on the EU for either raw materials or revenues. 
We will continue to monitor developments and incorporate these into our 
future business planning. 17
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The Group’s business model and strategy are 
central to an understanding of its prospects,  
and details can be found on pages 6 to 7.  
The Group is very diverse both operationally  
and geographically. The Group set down  
a strategic plan two years ago, which is subject 
to ongoing monitoring and development as 
described below.
The Group’s focus is particularly on developing 
the supplements business, because of the 
opportunities for international expansion 
and product development, and its nuclear 
engineering business because of the global 
expansion opportunities in the nuclear sector 
and adjacent markets.  
The Group’s prospects are assessed primarily 
through its strategic planning process. This 
process is led by the Chief Executive across all 
aspects of the Group. The Board participates 
fully in the annual process through an annual 
strategy day, detailed strategic presentations 
on all areas of the business by business leaders 
throughout the year, and an annual half-year 
strategic update. Part of the Board’s role is  
to consider whether the plan continues to  
take appropriate account of the changing 
external environment.
The output of the strategic planning process 
is a set of Group strategic objectives and 
a number of strategic priorities for the 
forthcoming financial year. The latest updates 
to the strategic plan were finalised in July 
2016 following this year’s review. This 
considered the Group’s current position and the 
development of the business as a whole over 
the next three years.
Given the nature of the business cycles in both 
Agriculture and Engineering, it was decided 
that a period of three years to 31 August 2019 
was the most appropriate for the purpose of a 
viability assessment. The Group has prepared 
detailed financial forecasts for the 3 year 
period to 31 August 2019, so that 2 years 
10 months remains at the time of approval of 
this year’s annual report. The first year of the 
financial forecasts form the Group’s operating 
budget and is subject to a re-forecast process 
at the half-year. The second and third years are 
in a similar level of detail.
The Group’s principal risks are set out on  
pages 14 to 16. The purpose of the principal 
risks table is primarily to summarise those 
matters that could prevent the Group from 
delivering on its strategy. A number of other 
aspects of the principal risks – because of their 
nature or potential impact – could also threaten 
the Group’s ability to continue in business in 
its current form if they were to occur. Of the 
principal risks identified, the following are 
the most important to the assessment of the 
viability of the Group:
1.  Treasury;
2.  Commodity costs;
3.  Reliance on key ingredients;
4.  Strategic partners; and
5.  Consumer demand
It was determined that none of these individual 
risks would, in isolation, compromise the 
Group’s viability.
Although the strategic plan reflects the 
Directors’ best estimate of the future prospects 
of the business, they have also tested the 
potential impact on the Group of a number of 
scenarios over and above those included in 
the plan by quantifying their financial impact 
and overlaying this on the detailed financial 
forecasts in the plan. These scenarios represent 
‘severe but plausible’ circumstances that the 
Group could experience.
The scenarios tested included:
• Significant reductions in profitability and 
associated cashflows associated with the risks 
highlighted above, with consumer demand 
affecting all business units and additional 
impacts on Agriculture business units from 
commodity costs, reliance on key ingredients, 
and from strategic partners; and
• Interest costs increasing by a factor of two.
The results of this stress testing showed  
that, due to the stability of the core business, 
the Group would be able to withstand the 
impact of these scenarios occurring over the 
period of the financial forecasts by making 
adjustments to its operating plans within  
the normal course of business.
The Group also considered a number of 
scenarios that would represent serious threats 
to its liquidity. None of these was considered  
to be plausible.
Based on their assessment of prospects and 
viability above, the Directors confirm that they 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the three  
year period ending 31 August 2019.
The Directors also considered it appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis, as explained in the Basis 
of accounting paragraph in the principal 
accounting policies. 18
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT  
AND PERFORMANCE
REVENUE
Reported revenues from continuing operations 
were £314.9m, 4.9 per cent behind last year 
(2015: £331.3m). 
Revenues have fallen primarily as a result of 
lower raw material prices, which because of 
the nature of some of our contracts can directly 
affect sales values, and also because of a 
reduced level of activity in Engineering.
OPERATING PROFIT
Group operating profit from continuing 
operations of £12.8m is up 5.6 per cent  
on last year (2015: £12.1m). As a percentage  
of revenues, Group operating margin is 4.1  
per cent compared to 3.6 per cent in 2015. 
Following the disposal of the Food division,  
the results of the Food division for the year  
of £2.8m (2015: £3.0m) are shown separately 
in the results of discontinued operations.
Operating profits from continuing operations 
per division and as a percentage of divisional 
revenues are as follows:
SHARE OF ASSOCIATE AND JVS
The Group’s share of the post-tax result 
in its associate and joint ventures was 
£2.1m, compared to £2.3m in 2015. The 
result reflected a decrease in its associate’s 
profitability, primarily due to reduced feed 
margins, offset by a slight increase in 
aggregated joint venture profitability with  
a strong US performance offsetting a  
reduction in European feed blocks caused  
by the ongoing issues in the dairy sector.
FINANCE COSTS
Net finance costs of £0.8m were higher than the 
previous year (2015: £0.7m), reflecting lower 
interest receivable in the year. Interest cover was 
19.2 times compared to 20.4 times in 2015.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
Profit before tax from continuing operations  
at £14.1m was 2.8 per cent higher than in  
the previous year (2015: £13.7m).
Operating Profit
2016
£m
2016
%
2015
£m
2015
%
Agriculture
Engineering
10.3
2.5
3.6
8.3
9.4
2.6
3.2
7.9
NEIL AUSTIN
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The key features  
of the year have 
been the record 
profit before tax 
for the Group, for 
another successive 
year, continued 
capital investment 
across all three 
divisions and the 
disposal of the  
Food division.
“
” 19
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
TAXATION
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from 
activities after net finance costs and excluding 
profits from associate and joint ventures  
was 24.2 per cent (2015: 26.4 per cent).  
A reconciliation of the actual total tax charge  
to the standard rate of corporation tax in the  
UK of 20 per cent is given in note 6 to the 
financial statements.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The profit attributable to the equity holders  
of the Company amounted to £12.5m (2015: 
£12.0m), and basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations was 10.7p (2015: 
10.0p), an increase of 7 per cent.
Adjusted earnings per share of 10.9p (2015: 
10.2p) is calculated by dividing the profit 
attributable to equity holders for the year, 
before non-recurring items and amortisation 
of intangible assets, by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the year. 
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
The Group acquired the business and assets  
of Green (Agriculture) Co in September 2015  
for a consideration of £0.3m.
In June 2016 the Group acquired the entire 
issued share capital of Phoenix Feeds Ltd  
for a consideration of £1.7m, including 
contingent consideration of £0.5m. This 
business was hived up on acquisition into  
our UK Agriculture business.
On 3 September 2016 the Group disposed of 
its Food division for a gross consideration of 
£36m, receiving net proceeds of £24.9m after 
adjusting for net debt and working capital. 
Consequently the segmental analysis presented 
in the financial statements has been restated 
to reallocate central costs previously borne 
by the Food division to alternative segments. 
The disposal resulted in a small profit on sale 
of £39,000, which has been included in the 
results of discontinued operations.
CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT
Due to the disposal of the Food division and  
the special dividend not being paid until post 
year end, the Group was in a net cash position 
at 3 September 2016.
A free cash flow of £6.5 million was generated 
in the year, representing an increase of 11.9  
per cent on £5.8 million in the previous year. 
Headroom against existing facilities was 
£23.0m at the year end. Other than the  
Group’s overdraft, which is renewable annually, 
the Group’s existing facilities are due for 
renewal in July 2019.
PENSIONS
The Group operates its current pension 
arrangements on a defined benefit and defined 
contribution basis. The defined benefit scheme 
is closed to new members and during the year 
was closed to future accrual. The closure 
resulted in a negative past service cost, net  
of associated costs, of approximately £0.3m. 
The scheme currently has 112 deferred 
members and 224 current pensioners.  
It received £0.8 million during the year in 
additional deficit reduction contributions 
from the Group in accordance with the 2011 
actuarial valuation as agreed between the 
Company and the Trustees. Deficit reduction 
contributions ceased on 31 December 2015  
as per the agreed recovery plan. 
The valuation on an IAS 19 accounting basis 
showed a surplus before the related deferred  
tax liability in the scheme at 3 September 2016 
of £0.3m (2015: £1.8m). Actuarial losses  
of £2.7m (2015: £2.8m) have been  
recognised in the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income.
The Group and the Trustees continue to work 
together to introduce ways of de-risking the 
defined benefit scheme to provide less volatility 
in the scheme’s assets and liabilities in the 
future. Several initiatives were introduced  
during the year.
NEIL AUSTIN
Group Finance Director
16 November 2016
Cash flow and net (debt)/cash 2016
£’000
Operating profit from continuing operations
Depreciation and profit on disposal
Amortisation
EBITDA (excluding associate and joint ventures)
Increase in inventories 
Increase in receivables
Decrease in payables
Other
Net operating cash flow
Net interest
Taxation
Cash flow from continuing operations
Maintenance capex
Net cash from discontinued operations
Free cash flow
Expansionary capex
Acquisitions/disposals
Dividends
Loans and Finance leases received/paid
Other
Increase in cash and cash equivalents
Opening cash and cash equivalents
Closing cash and cash equivalents
Opening net debt
Increase in cash and cash equivalents
Change in borrowings
12,770
3,504
205
 16,479
(1,620)
(3,606)
(3,226)
(1,770)
6,257
(518)
(1,098)
4,641
(1,764)
3,620
6,497
(4,024)
22,664
(3,347)
(3,078)
4,800
23,512
16,275
39,787
(24,413)
23,512
9,045
Closing net cash 8,144 20
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
£5.8m
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
We monitor our performance against the strategy by means of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’):
3.7% 12.9% (4.4)% 17.9%
(5.5)%
Comments 
Revenues are monitored by the Board, although because of 
the nature of our businesses it is not, by itself, an indicator  
of growth. Our volume driven businesses are all subject  
to significant raw material price variations, the majority of 
which are passed through to selling prices. Hence falling  
raw material prices are expected to lead to falling revenues. 
The reduction in the year reflected lower commodity prices  
in Agriculture and contract delays in Engineering.
Definition 
Year on year increase/
(decrease) in sales 
revenue excluding the 
impact of acquisitions 
and disposals.
UNDERLYING SALES  
GROWTH/DECLINE
13.1%
Comments 
Gross margin is a reflection on how successfully we have 
managed raw material price volatility in our markets, together 
with how successful we have been in pricing in other areas of 
our business in competitive markets. Our gross margin from 
continuing operations grew to 13.1% in the current year, which 
highlights how we continue to manage input price volatility.
Definition 
Gross profit as a 
percentage of sales 
revenue.
GROSS MARGIN
4.1%
Comments 
The underlying Group operating margin reflects the gross 
margin achieved, which is described above, but also indicates 
the efficiency of our operations from both an administrative 
and distribution perspective. The growth in underlying 
operating margin from continuing operations to 4.1% relates 
to both of these aspects.
Definition 
Operating profit before 
non-recurring items 
and amortisation, as a 
percentage of revenue.
ADJUSTED GROUP 
OPERATING MARGIN
£6.5m
Comments 
This KPI indicates how much cash has been generated by 
the Group’s operations that is available for expansionary 
capital investment, paying dividends, or financing/repaying 
borrowings. The increase in FY16 is predominantly due  
to an increase in EBITDA year on year.
Definition 
Cash generated from 
operating activities 
including all cashflows 
from discontinued 
operations, less 
maintenance capital 
expenditure.
FREE CASH FLOW
18.9%
Comments
Return on net assets increased to 18.9% this year. This has 
been calculated after adjusting year end net assets for the 
£16m special dividend arising from the disposal of the Food 
business. That disposal reduced the Group’s asset base in 
the year.
Definition
Profit before tax,  
non-recurring items 
and amortisation  
as a percentage of  
net assets.
RETURN ON NET ASSETS
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
2015 2015 2015 2015 2015
2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 (5.5)% 13.1% 4.1% £6.5m 18.9% 21
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE BOARD
1 TIM DAVIES 
Chief Executive Officer
Tim joined Carr’s in March 2013 as Chief Executive. Tim was formerly 
the Group Managing Director at Openfield. Prior to this, he progressed 
from Sales Director to Managing Director of Grainfarmers plc in 2005. 
He subsequently led the successful merger of Grainfarmers plc and 
Centaur Grain Ltd in 2008, forming Openfield, the largest farmer-owned 
grain marketing business in the UK. Tim continued in his role as Group 
Managing Director until 2013. He has been a Director of the Agricultural 
Industries Confederation since 2003.
2
 NEIL AUSTIN
Group Finance Director
Neil joined Carr’s in January 2013 and became Group Finance Director 
in April 2013. Neil was formerly a Director at PwC, having joined as 
a graduate in their Newcastle office in 1997. He was appointed as a 
Director of the Newcastle office in 2007 with lead responsibility for part 
of the Assurance practice, and has experience with FTSE 350 companies 
and multi-nationals.
3
 CHRIS HOLMES
Board Chairman
Nominations Committee Chairman
Chris joined Carr’s in 1991 as the Managing Director of the Agriculture 
business, having previously worked for J Bibby & Sons. Chris was 
appointed Chief Executive in 1994, and remained in that role until he was 
appointed Chairman in 2013. He commenced as Chairman of Carlisle 
Youth Zone in 2013 and is a Non-Executive Director of Break 90 Limited. 
4
 ROBERT HEYGATE
Non-Executive Director
Robert joined Carr’s as a Non-Executive Director in 1991. He is the  
joint Managing Director of Heygate & Sons Ltd, the UK’s largest 
independent flour milling company, which is also engaged in animal  
feed compounding and other agricultural activities. Robert retired  
from the Board on 30 April 2016.
5
 ALISTAIR WANNOP
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Alistair was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005. Alistair has been 
the Chairman of both the County NFU and the MAFF northern regional 
advisory panel. He has served as a Director of The English Farming and 
Food Partnership, Rural Regeneration Cumbria, and Cumbria Vision. 
Alistair is a fellow of the Royal Agricultural Society of England.
6
 JOHN WORBY
Senior Independent Director
Audit Committee Chairman
John was appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2015. John is 
currently a Non-Executive Director of Fidessa plc, Senior Independent 
Director of Hilton Food Group plc and Chairman of the audit committee  
of both companies. John was previously the Finance Director of Genus  
and a Non-Executive Director of Cranswick plc. John is a chartered 
accountant and a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
7
 IAN WOOD
Non-Executive Director
Ian was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. He retired as the 
Commercial Director, International Business Development for Centrica 
(previously British Gas) in January 2016 and having held a number of 
positions with the Company, covering various aspects of the business 
including engineering, customer services, industrial and commercial 
marketing, and energy trading within the UK, Continental Europe and 
North America. Ian is a Director of Talkin Energy Ltd.
8
 KATIE WOOD
Company Secretary
Katie was appointed Counsel and Assistant Company Secretary in 2010. 
She became Company Secretary in January 2013, whilst maintaining 
her role as Counsel. Katie is a solicitor and has worked with FTSE and 
NASDAQ companies, and has a breadth of experience in corporate, 
commercial and employment matters. She is an Associate of the  
Chartered Institute of Secretaries.
1 2 3 4
5 6 8 7 22
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group maintains its emphasis on ensuring it operates  
with ethical responsibility and remains committed to all aspects  
of corporate social responsibility.
PEOPLE
People are fundamental to every business and 
our employees are critical to the successful 
delivery of our strategic objectives; one of the 
four key pillars being “investing in people,  
who are vital to the long term success of  
the business”.
Our values of trust, respect, and integrity 
run throughout all our businesses. Our high 
levels of teamwork and co-operation are a 
major contributing factor to our success. We 
remain committed to employee engagement 
throughout the Group, and employees are kept 
up-to-date with the Group’s performance and 
development through regular briefing notes.
Identifying talent and people development 
will remain key priorities for us going forward. 
We remain committed to providing a working 
environment that:
• is consistent and fair;
• is free from discrimination; 
• aids development and skills;
• supports employee engagement.
Sharesave
The Group operates a sharesave scheme,  
in which currently all UK based employees are 
entitled to participate. The Group recognises 
that the scheme is a well-established method 
of employee engagement, facilitating ownership 
in the Group.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to an active equal 
opportunities policy promoting an environment 
free from discrimination, harassment and 
victimisation, where everyone will receive equal 
treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic 
or national origin, disability, age, marital status, 
sexual orientation or religion. All decisions 
relating to employment practices will be 
objective, free from bias and based solely upon 
work criteria and individual merit. The Group 
is responsive to the needs of its employees, 
customers and the community at large. We are 
an organisation which uses everyone’s talents 
and abilities and where diversity is valued.
The Group employs, 1,139 people. 
The split is as follows:
  
 871 Men
 268 Women
Senior Managers and Executives,  
male and female: 
  
 11 Men
 4 Women
Employees with disabilities
It is our policy that people with disabilities 
should have full and fair consideration for 
all vacancies. We remain committed to 
maintaining the current open, fair and non-
discriminatory recruitment process operated 
throughout the Group, and seek to have full 
engagement with any employee who becomes 
disabled during their employment.
Year overview
This year has seen significant delivery in 
development at all levels. 
We have successfully delivered a Group Wide 
Senior Leadership Development Programme 
over the last 12 months with the participants 
now working on Strategic Business Projects 
ready for delivery in January 2017. 
This programme has been run with one of our 
development partners, the Brathay Trust. The 
Trust was founded in 1946 and is a registered 
Charity with the principal business activities 
comprising of Professional Development, 
Children and Young People’s Services, and  
the Brathay Research and Evaluation Hub. 
As a social enterprise, Brathay is committed to 
a policy of Corporate Social Responsibility. All 
profits from Brathay Professional Development 
are utilised by the Brathay Trust to carry out 
youth development work – this work focuses  
on young people from all backgrounds and 
aims to help them cultivate a positive sense  
of themselves and others that allows them  
to succeed and flourish.
The Programme Objectives have been:
• To provide participants with an increased 
self-awareness around their working style 
and impact on others to improve their overall 
effectiveness as leaders of the future.
• To gain feedback on performance and 
leadership style and to explore how 
leadership and organisational climate  
drives business performance.
• To challenge current leadership style and to 
develop new ways of working, by employing 
an active, experiential learning approach.
• To increase participants management and 
leadership skills, knowledge and awareness.
• To create opportunities to learn from key 
business managers and to share best practice 
across the Group’s businesses.
A full review of the programme will take place 
on completion of the business projects but the 
Group has already seen significant development 
of the participants with many positive examples 
of personal and professional progression. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
ONGOING COMMITMENT TO 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
24%
76%
73%
27% 23
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
In January 2016 Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Ltd commenced a Branch Supervisors’ 
Development Programme:
• To provide supervisors with the necessary 
knowledge, skills and behaviours to increase 
their effectiveness in their current roles.
• To equip supervisors with the managerial 
skills necessary for them to adapt to  
changing demands.
• To provide a structured development 
programme which will enable supervisors  
to fulfil their potential within the company.
This programme has successfully combined 
learning managerial skills along with the 
operational and product knowledge required 
to be successful in this role. Feedback has 
been obtained throughout the programme 
providing real time opportunity to adapt and 
amend the programme and its content to 
ensure appropriate learning and development 
is adding value and enabling line management 
to respond effectively and efficiently. 
Based on the success of this programme so 
far, we have adapted the content and run this 
programme within Carr’s Engineering Ltd. 
Bendalls, part of Carr’s Engineering Ltd, 
has undergone a significant culture change 
programme this year focussing on motivation, 
change and growth. The feedback from this 
programme has identified many aspects 
of business improvement and personal 
developmental goals as well as identifying 
further development requirements in the areas  
of engagement, quality and Health & Safety. 
HEALTH & SAFETY
The Group is committed to the maintenance 
of high standards of health and safety for all 
its employees, visitors, customers, and others 
who may be affected by its business activities. 
There is also recognition of the need to 
continually improve safety performance.
The CEO, Group FD and Group Risk Manager 
meet monthly in advance of each Board meeting 
to review Health and Safety. It is a standard 
Board meeting agenda item and enables review 
of accident statistics, auditing activity and other 
initiatives as well as ensuring the Board are 
alerted to key risk management and legislative 
changes. The Board also endorses an ongoing 
programme of safety improvements.
Arrangements have been further improved by 
the appointment of Non-Executive Director Ian 
Wood, who has the Board oversight for health 
and safety. This is a significant step and builds 
on our arrangements to ensure they are more in 
line with the recommendations of the Institute 
of Directors and HSE.
A comprehensive Branch Supervisor training 
programme was conducted throughout the year 
and this included a health and safety module.
The Group Risk Manager continuously monitors 
safety performance to ensure there is a high 
standard of health and safety management 
across all Group businesses. This year the 
programme of audits was extended to include 
the wholly-owned USA businesses.
The overall number of accidents across the UK 
Group companies was 41, a 19.6% reduction 
on the 51 recorded in the previous year. The 
number of RIDDOR reportable injuries has also 
reduced 16.7%, from 6 to 5. 
In terms of the Group as a whole, including 
the overseas businesses, the total number of 
accidents was 59, a reduction of 14.5% on  
the 69 the previous year.
In addition the number of days lost in the 
year arising from RIDDOR reportable injuries 
and overseas equivalents was 119, a 7.0% 
reduction from 128 the previous year.
The Board is committed to improving standards 
of health and safety and remains confident the 
overall trend of reduction in accident numbers 
will continue.
 
SUSTAINABILITY 
The Group continues to make progress 
towards its target of obtaining 25% of  
the Group’s energy from carbon neutral 
sources by 2020.
Continued investment in energy efficient 
lighting and processes continues to reduce 
the carbon generation. The Group wide 
Environmental Reporting System is fully 
operational for both UK and overseas 
subsidiaries and each location reports the 
following monthly data and performance 
against pre set benchmarks.
•  Energy and Carbon Generation
• Water Utilisation
• Waste Generation and Recycling 
• Transport Fuels
• Environmental Legislation / Compliance
Environment Legislation & Compliance
All of the UK Group Engineering sites  
are now utilising green renewable grid 
supplied electricity.
During 2015 the Group undertook a full 
Energy Audit in accordance with the 
mandatory Energy Savings Opportunity 
Scheme, and the findings and energy saving 
opportunities identified from the audit were 
presented to the CEO and duly signed off  
as required by the statutory legislation.
Carbon Generation Report
The Group did not generate any additional 
greenhouse gases other than C0
2 from the 
utilisation of grid supplied electricity and 
natural gas during 2016.
The energy intensive operations of the Food 
division and the UK feedblock business 
continued to be in receipt of Climate Change 
Discount Agreements in exchange for target 
carbon reductions. As a result of the sale 
of the Food division on 3 September 2016, 
energy consumption will reduce in 2017. 
Detailed below is the C0
2 generation for all 
of the Group’s subsidiary companies and 
compares actual volume against previous year.
It should be noted that this does not include 
transport C0
2 generated for the period 
2015/16 and depicts manufacturing and 
retail carbon footprint data from utilities only. 
This is reported separately in this statement.
Division CO 2 Tonnes 2015/16 CO 2 Tonnes 2014/15
Food  12,242  14,256
UK Agriculture  4,699  3,970
USA Agriculture  6,050  7,052
Engineering  273  821
Head Office  21  51
Sub Total  23,285  26,150
Transport   4,405  5,038
Total   27,690  31,188
CARR’S GROUP CARBON C0 2 GENERATION 2015/16 V 2014/15 24
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Electricity and Gas Utilisation
Annual UK Group Electricity Consumption for 2015 /16   30,893,521 Kwh 
Group Overseas Electricity Consumption for 2015 /16   6,877,221 Kwh
Annual UK Group Gas Consumption for 2015 /16   8,885,006 Kwh
Group Overseas Gas Consumption for 2015 /16    6,015.602 Kwh
Total Other Fossil Fuel Consumption for 2015 /16  1,554,112 Kwh
Transport Fuels
During 2016 the Group utilised  
1,643,993 litres of Diesel Fuel for  
Own Fleet Vehicles and Company Cars 
throughout its UK operations.
The C0
2 generated from this fuel  
consumption during 2016 is 4,405  
tonnes, down 12.6% (2015: 5,038).
CARR’S GROUP PLC TOTAL UK ENERGY  
BY SUBSIDIARY
Total CO
2
 Generated by the Group
Combining the C0
2 generated through  
operation and fuel consumption the total Group 
C0
2 Generation for the year is 27,690 tonnes.  
On a like for like basis this resulted in an 
annual decrease 11.3%.
Intensity Metric
Due to the diverse nature of the operations  
of the Group it was decided that people were 
the best measure for the intensity metric.  
The 2016 intensity metric is 24.3 C0
2 tonnes 
per employee, being 27,690 C0
2 Tonnes / 
1,134 employees, down 16.2% from 29 C0
2 
tonnes per employee in 2015. 
The C0
2 emissions data is reported in metric 
tonnes. The C0
2 emissions data has been 
calculated on the basis of measured energy 
and fuel use and multiplied by relevant 
C0
2 conversion factors, as approved by the 
Department of Energy. Fuel and energy use are 
based on direct measurement verified through 
purchase invoices for the vast majority of our 
sites. In certain instances, an exceptionally 
small number of invoices were not available, 
therefore it has been necessary to estimate 
energy and fuel usage. 
Environmental Compliance 
There have been no breaches of environmental 
legislation during the year and the large 
manufacturing sites continued to operate within 
the emission levels set by the UK Environment 
Agency and their current permit conditions.
All sites operate within the framework of  
a full Environmental Management System.
Waste Reduction and Recycling targets have 
been set for each subsidiary for 2017.
All Group employees are actively encouraged to 
reduce waste and improve energy efficiencies.
COMMUNITY
Supporting the communities in which we 
operate is exceptionally important to the Group. 
The support that has been provided throughout 
the year has been varied, from charitable 
donations to volunteer work. 
During the year one of our Agriculture 
businesses Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) 
Ltd became part of a global project launched 
by Zeus Packaging Group to support children’s 
charities in Ireland, the UK, Spain, Portugal, 
New Zealand and Australia. The initiative saw 
Carrs be provided with the exclusive distribution 
rights of Zeus Purple Silage wrap and Purple 
Netwrap in the UK to support WellChild, the 
national charity for sick children.
In addition, to the proceeds Carrs raised, it 
launched a competition to support WellChild. 
Farmers were challenged to create eye-catching 
displays from their purple hay bales. They 
could customise their bales with special 
packs provided by Carrs. Farmers taking part 
submitted photos of their creation, which 
were then displayed on social media. The 
best display received two tickets for the 
prestigious WellChild Awards 2016 which took 
place in London in October. This was a star 
studded event, which was attended by a host 
of celebrities, and WellChild Patron Prince 
Harry, with awards being given to inspirational 
children coping with serious illness,  
caring children and to dedicated child  
health professionals.
During the year we continued to contribute to 
the Cumbria Community Foundation, which 
during the year, supported those in Cumbria 
badly affected by the floods of winter 2015. 
Carr’s also maintained its relationship with 
Carlisle Youth Zone, which continues to serve 
the social, recreational and emotional needs  
of young people in the Carlisle area.
27.6% 
24.3% 
12.5% 
12.5% 
5.2%
5.1%
2.3%
1.1%  6.6%
2.5% 
0.3% 
  Flour: Kirkcaldy
  Flour: Silloth
  Flour: Maldon
  Caltech 
   CBAS  
Commercial Fleet
   Wallace Oils 
Commercial Fleet
   JWF Commercial 
Fleet 
   Scotmin 
Commercial Fleet
  Company Cars
  CBAS Sites
  Old Croft  25
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
Significant changes made to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 have applied to the 
Group for the first time this year. These changes 
have facilitated an overarching review of how 
the Group approaches risk management. Risk 
management is underpinned by Carr’s core values 
of openness, respect and a can-do attitude.  
An overview of the revised risk management 
process now in place and the principal risks  
of the Group are on pages 14 to 16. 
Carr’s approach to governance is outlined in  
the following report, which describes how the 
Group has integrated the main principles of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.  
The Board considers that it complied with the 
Code throughout the year, with the exception  
of B.1.1 as set out on page 27. 
The corporate governance of the Company is 
continuously being reviewed as the Company 
develops, to ensure that the stakeholders’ 
interests are always aligned with the Company.
CHRIS HOLMES DL
Chairman
16 November 2016
The powers of the Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. In addition, 
the Directors have responsibilities and duties 
under legislation, in particular the Companies 
Act 2006.
During the year ended 3 September 2016,  
the Board comprised two Executive Directors,  
a Chairman, and at least three Non-Executive 
Directors (Ian Wood from 1 October 2015, Bob 
Heygate retired on 30 April 2016). There is a 
Company Secretary to the Board. The biographies 
of the Board can be found on page 21.
Statement by the Directors on compliance  
with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The UK Corporate Governance Code dated 
September 2014 issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council is applicable to listed 
companies, and sets out standards of good 
practice in relation to issues such as:
• Board composition and effectiveness;
• the role of Board committees;
• risk management;
• remuneration; and
• relationships with shareholders.
We are required to state how we have applied 
the principles contained in the Code and 
disclose whether we have complied with the 
provisions of the Code during the year. The 
Board consider that the Company has, during 
the year ended 3 September 2016, complied 
with the requirements of the Code, save for 
provision B.1.1. 
The Company is aware of its ongoing corporate 
governance obligations and appointed a new 
independent Non-Executive Director, Ian Wood, 
who commenced on 1 October 2015 and is 
a member of the Remuneration, Audit and 
Nominations Committees. 
THE BOARD
The Directors have a collective duty to promote 
the long term success of the Company for its 
shareholders. In determining long-term  
strategy and objectives of the Group, the  
Board is mindful of its duties and 
responsibilities to shareholders as well as 
employees and other stakeholders. The 
Board reviews management and financial 
performance, and monitors strategic delivery 
and achievement of business objectives.
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
Governance plays a vital role, 
and the Board is committed  
to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance. 
“
”
The Board’s time can be grouped in to six 
key areas as outlined below. A portion of their 
time is also spent on administrative matters.
Strategy Setting strategic targets. 
Reviewing new business 
developments, including 
potential acquisitions.
Research and technology.
Risk Group’s risk and internal 
control framework.
Governance Legal updates and new 
disclosure requirements.
Internal Board review.
Succession planning.
Finance Budget approval.
Oversight of the preparation 
and management of the 
financial statements.
Dividend policy.
Pensions strategy.
Stakeholder 
engagement
AGM and other shareholder 
feedback.
Investor calls, meetings  
and roadshows.
Safety Health & Safety monthly 
updates and management. 26
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED
The Board met 13 times throughout the 
year. In addition to the regular scheduled 
meetings throughout the year, unscheduled 
supplementary meetings may also take place 
as and when necessary. During this financial 
year there were three unscheduled meetings 
in relation to the disposal of the Food division. 
Directors who are unable to attend a particular 
meeting receive relevant briefing papers and are 
given the opportunity to discuss any issues with 
the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group 
Finance Director. During this year there were  
no Director absences from the Board meetings.
To enable the Directors of the Board to carry 
out their responsibilities all Directors have full 
and timely access to all relevant information. 
The Board has a schedule of matters for its 
discussion, which is reviewed against best 
practice. A summary is shown below and a full 
schedule is available on the Company’s website. 
The Board is responsible for:
• the Group’s strategy;
• acquisitions and divestment policy;
• corporate governance, risk and environment 
policy and management;
• approval of budgets;
• general treasury policy;
• major capital expenditure projects;
• dividend policy; and
• monitoring the Group’s profit and cash  
flow performance.
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit, 
Remuneration, and Nominations Committees to 
carry out certain tasks as defined in their written 
terms of reference approved by the Board; these 
are also available on the Company website. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates that 
there should be a clear division of responsibility 
between the running of the Board and executive 
responsibilities for running the Company.
The Chairman was responsible for:
• setting the Board agenda;
• the leadership of the Board and ensuring  
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role;
• providing strategic insight from his long 
business experience in the industry and  
with the Company; and
• providing a sounding board for the Chief 
Executive on key business decisions and 
challenging proposals where appropriate.
The Chief Executive was responsible for:
• the day-to-day management of the Group’s 
business;
• leading the business and the rest of the 
management team in accordance with the 
strategy agreed by the Board; 
• leading the development of the Group’s 
strategy with input from the rest of the Board; 
• leading the management team in the 
implementation of the Group’s strategy; and
• bringing matters of particular significance 
to the Chairman for discussion and 
consideration by the Board if appropriate.
Elections
The Company’s Articles of Association provide  
that one third of the Directors retire by rotation 
each year at the Annual General Meeting, however, 
the Company has deemed it best practice to 
require all the Directors to retire annually. 
Attendance & Agenda
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors 
are supplied with detailed and comprehensive 
papers covering the Group’s strategy and 
operations. Members of the executive 
management team can attend and make 
presentations as appropriate at meetings  
of the Board. The Company Secretary is 
responsible to the Board for the timeliness  
and quality of information.
Details of the number of meetings of, and 
members’ attendance at, the Board, Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees 
during the period are set out in the table below.
Support 
Directors can obtain independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense in 
performance of their duties as Directors. 
None of the Directors obtained independent 
professional advice in the period under review. 
All Directors have access to the advice and the 
services of the Company Secretary. In addition 
to these formal roles, the Non-Executive 
Directors have access to senior management 
of the business either by telephone or via 
involvement at informal meetings.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s 
Articles of Association require the Board to 
consider any potential conflicts of interest. The 
Board has a policy and procedures for managing 
and, where appropriate, authorising actual or 
potential conflicts of interest. Under those 
procedures, Directors are required to declare 
all directorships or other appointments to 
organisations that are not part of the Group and 
which could result in actual or potential conflicts 
of interest, as well as other situations which 
could result in a potential conflict of interest. 
The Board is required to review Directors’ 
actual or potential conflicts of interest at least 
annually. Directors are required to disclose 
proposed new appointments to the Chairman 
before taking them on, to ensure that any 
potential conflicts of interest can be identified 
and addressed appropriately. Any potential 
conflicts of interest in relation to proposed 
Directors are considered by the Board prior to 
their appointment. In this financial year there 
have been no declared conflicts of interest.
BOARD EVALUATION 
This year the Board conducted an internal 
evaluation. Improvements have continued to be 
implemented throughout the year following last 
year’s evaluation. One of the areas highlighted 
for focus in the next financial year was for Board 
meetings to take place at different operational 
sites, to provide the Non-Executive Directors 
with a greater opportunity to meet employees 
and see the diverse nature of the Group’s 
operations first hand. An agenda for Board 
meetings has been set for the current year  
which incorporates these visits. The Board  
will undertake an externally facilitated 
evaluation in the financial year ending 2017.
The Chairman appraised the individual 
performance of the Directors and the Non-
Executives met and appraised the performance 
of the Chairman.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s key function is to  
review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
financial reporting and performance of the 
external auditor.
Meetings Attendance
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
Committee
No. of meetings
Chris Holmes
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
Alistair Wannop
John Worby
Ian Wood**
Robert Heygate***
13
13
13
13
13
12
8
4
4
4
3
4
4
1
3
*                     2
*                     2
3
3
2
3
1
*                     1
*                     1
1
1
1
–
* part of the meetings by invitation
** attended all meetings since his appointment
*** attended all meetings up until his retirement
*
* 27
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Audit Committee comprised of four Non-
Executive Directors: John Worby (Chairman), 
Chris Holmes, Robert Heygate (up until 30 April 
2016), Ian Wood (from 1 October 2015) and 
Alistair Wannop. The Board considers that the 
Committee meets the main requirements of the 
Code for a company of Carr’s size. The work, 
responsibilities and governance of the Audit 
Committee are set out on pages 28 to 29. The 
Chair of the Audit Committee will be available 
at the AGM to answer any shareholder questions 
on the Committee and its activities.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee 
comprised of Alistair Wannop (Chairman),  
Chris Holmes, Robert Heygate (up until 30 April 
2016), John Worby, and Ian Wood (from  
1 October 2015). The work, responsibilities and 
governance of the Remuneration Committee 
are set out on pages 30 to 35. The Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee will be available at 
the AGM to answer any shareholder questions 
on the Committee and its activities.
Nominations Committee
During the year the Nominations Committee 
comprised of Chris Holmes (Chairman), Alistair 
Wannop, Robert Heygate (up until 30 April 
2016), John Worby and Ian Wood (from  
1 October 2015). The work, responsibilities 
and governance of the Nominations Committee 
are set out on page 36. The Chair of the 
Nominations Committee will be available at the 
AGM to answer any shareholder questions on 
the Committee and its activities.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises and values the 
importance of good communications with all 
shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue 
with institutional shareholders and analysts, 
and hosts presentations on the preliminary and 
interim results. Shareholders have access to the 
Company’s website at www.carrsgroup.com.
We engage with our shareholders through our 
regular communications. Significant matters 
relating to trading or development of the 
business are disseminated to the market by 
way of Stock Exchange announcements. We 
announce our financial results on a six monthly 
basis with all shareholders receiving a half year 
statement, and we produce trading updates 
during the year. All reports and updates are 
made available on our website.
The Annual General Meeting provides all 
shareholders with the opportunity to develop 
further their understanding of the Company. 
It is the principal forum for all the Directors 
to engage in dialogue with private investors. 
All shareholders are given the opportunity to 
raise questions on any matter at the meeting. 
The Group aims to send notices of Annual 
General Meetings to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the meeting, as required by 
the Code, and it is the Company’s practice to 
indicate the proxy voting results on all resolutions 
at the meetings. Following the AGM the voting 
results for each resolution are published and are 
available on the Company’s website.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
The Directors have also reviewed the financial 
statements and taken as a whole consider 
them to be fair, balanced and understandable, 
and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility 
for the Group’s systems of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness, including: 
financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management, which safeguard the 
shareholders’ investment and the Group’s 
assets. Such a system can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss, as it is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any 
significant losses caused by breaches of internal 
control in the year.
The Group operates within a clearly defined 
organisational structure with established 
responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines 
to the Board. The organisational structure 
has been designed in order to plan, execute, 
monitor and control the Group’s objectives 
effectively and to ensure that internal control 
becomes embedded in the operations. The 
Board confirms that the key on-going processes 
and features of the Group’s internal risk based 
control system, which accord with the Turnbull 
guidance, have been fully operative throughout 
the year and up to the date of the Annual Report 
being approved. These include: a process to 
identify and evaluate business risk; a strong 
control environment; an information and 
communication process; a monitoring system 
and a regular Board review for effectiveness. 
The Group Finance Director is responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s internal controls. 
The Group’s internal controls systems cover 
controls over the financial reporting process, 
including monthly reporting from subsidiaries, 
its associate and joint ventures. This reporting is 
subject to detailed review by the Chief Executive 
and the Group Finance Director and detailed 
validation by the Group finance team, and 
forms the basis for information presented to and 
reviewed by the Board. All monthly reporting is 
prepared in line with Group accounting policies, 
which are reviewed annually and are also 
subject to review by the external auditors.
The management of the Group’s businesses 
identified the key business risks within their 
operations, considered the financial implications 
and assessed the effectiveness of the control 
processes in place to mitigate these risks. The 
Board reviewed a summary of the findings 
and this, along with direct involvement in 
the strategies of the businesses, investment 
appraisal and budgeting process, enabled the 
Board to report on the effectiveness of internal 
control. A summary of the risk management 
framework and key risks to the business are set 
out on pages 14 to 16.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE
The Board considers that it complied with the 
Code throughout the year, with the exception  
of the following:
• B.1.1 requires all Non-Executive Directors to 
serve for less than 9 years. Alistair Wannop 
commenced as a Non-Executive Director in 
2005 and therefore during the year he ceased 
to be deemed as independent in accordance 
with the Code. Alistair’s agricultural 
knowledge, expertise and work in some of the 
communities in which we operate has resulted 
in him making very valuable contributions to 
the Board over the last 9 years. The Board 
consider that notwithstanding his length of 
service, his professionalism and actions show 
him to be independent. 
• B.1.1. The Board considered Bob Heygate 
to be independent during his time on the 
Board in the year, notwithstanding his long 
directorship and substantial shareholding. 
Bob Heygate’s wealth of knowledge of the 
flour milling industry has been valuable to 
the Board. Despite being on the Board for 
25 years, Bob continued to question with 
the impartiality expected of a Non-Executive 
Director. In addition, his shareholding aligns 
his interests with other shareholders.
By order of the Board
KATIE WOOD
Company Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
16 November 2016 28
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
INTRODUCTION
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am 
pleased to present this report to shareholders. 
The purpose of the report is to highlight the 
areas that the Committee has reviewed and 
how we have discharged our responsibilities 
effectively during the year.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The key responsibility of the Committee is  
to provide effective governance over  
the appropriateness of the Company’s  
financial reporting. 
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is 
required, amongst other things, to:
• monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company including the 
appropriateness of the accounting policies 
adopted and whether the Annual Report  
was fair, balanced and understandable; 
• review, understand and evaluate the Company’s 
internal financial risk, and other internal 
controls and risk management systems; 
• oversee the relationship with the external 
auditors, making recommendations to the 
Board in relation to their appointment, 
remuneration and terms of engagement; 
• monitor and review the effectiveness of 
the external audit including the external 
auditors’ independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness and to approve the policy  
on the engagement of the external auditors 
to supply non-audit services; and
• keep under review the requirement for  
and extent of internal audit activities in  
the Company.
The terms of reference can be found on the 
Company’s website www.carrsgroup.com.
MEETINGS
The Audit Committee met three times during 
the year, and has an agenda linked to the Group 
financial calendar. It invites the Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and external auditors to attend its 
meetings. The Committee met with the external 
auditors at the conclusion of the audit without 
the Executive Directors being present.
The Committee has met once since the end  
of the financial year to consider the results  
and Annual Report for the year ended  
3 September 2016.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
Set out below is a summary of the key areas 
considered by the Committee during the year 
and up to the date of this report.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed 
reports and information provided by both 
the Group Finance Director and the external 
auditors in respect of the half year and annual 
financial report.
During the year the Group also received and 
responded to a letter from the FRC in relation  
to the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.  
All questions raised were discussed with  
the Committee and the response was approved 
by the Committee prior to submission. The  
FRC subsequently confirmed it was satisfied 
with the responses, which included clarifying 
some disclosures in the 2016 Annual Report 
and Accounts.
An important responsibility of the Audit 
Committee is to review and agree significant 
estimates and judgements made by 
management. To satisfy this responsibility, the 
Committee reviewed a written formal update 
from the Group Finance Director on such issues 
at the two meetings that reviewed the half year 
and year end results, as well as reports from 
the external auditors. The Committee carefully 
considered the content of these reports in 
evaluating the significant issues and area of 
judgement across the Group.
The key areas of judgement in the year were  
as follows:
•  The assumptions adopted for the accounting 
valuation of our defined benefit pension 
scheme. The Committee concluded that the 
assumptions used were appropriate;
• Potential impairment of goodwill for historic 
acquisitions, especially in relation to Chirton 
Engineering given the continued issues 
in the oil and gas market. The Committee 
reviewed the assumptions used and the 
impact of sensitivities and agreed that no 
provision for impairment was required;
• Provisioning policies in relation to accounts 
receivable, particularly in the Agriculture 
division. The Committee determined that the 
judgements made were appropriate to justify 
the provisions held at 3 September 2016;
• Provisioning policies in relation to 
contractual disputes. The Committee 
determined that the judgements made were 
appropriate to justify the provisions held at  
3 September 2016;
• The treatment of certain bid costs in the 
Engineering division in relation to a large 
contract win in the year. The Committee 
concluded it was satisfied with the 
accounting treatment;
• Accounting treatment of the disposal of the 
Food division, and associated disclosures. 
The Committee concluded that the 
disclosures and accounting treatment were 
appropriate; and
• Revenue recognition in the Engineering 
division, particularly in relation to part 
completed contracts at the year end.  
The Committee focussed on the recognition 
JOHN WORBY
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 29
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
of revenue and profit or losses on long  
term contracts and agreed with 
management’s judgements.
The Committee, further to the Board’s request, 
has reviewed the annual report and financial 
statements with the intention of providing advice 
to the Board on whether, as required by the 
Code, ‘the annual report and accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the company’s 
performance, business model and strategy’.
To make this assessment, the Committee 
reviewed a report prepared by the Group 
Finance Director outlining the key matters 
worthy of consideration. We also considered 
the KPIs included in the Strategic Report (see 
page 20) and concluded that, whilst they were 
appropriate for our shareholders’ understanding 
of the performance, position and future 
prospects of the business, there could be further 
inclusion of additional non-financial KPIs. In 
addition, the Committee also considered and 
was satisfied that all the key events and issues 
which have been reported to the Board in the 
CEO’s monthly report during the year, both good 
and bad, have been adequately referenced or 
reflected within the annual report.
The Committee has also reviewed the Group’s 
disclosures in relation to the Group’s going 
concern and viability statement disclosures.  
It received a written report prepared by the 
Group Finance Director which enabled it to 
review the base assumptions and various 
sensitised scenarios throughout the forecast 
period. The Committee was comfortable with  
the disclosures made.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
During the year the Committee reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
and risk management systems. 
The Committee reported to the Board that 
it had reviewed and was satisfied with the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
control and risk management systems. During 
2016/17 the Group will aim to develop a more 
integrated risk and assurance framework as  
a further improvement to the internal control 
and risk management systems.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
recommendations for the appointment, 
reappointment or removal of external auditors 
and for approval of their remuneration. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and its 
predecessor firms have been the Auditor for 
Carr’s Group plc since the Company first listed 
on the London Stock Exchange in 1972. 
The Audit Committee assesses annually the 
qualification, expertise and independence  
of the auditors and the effectiveness of the 
audit process.
Subject to the ongoing satisfactory 
performance of the external auditors, the 
Committee expects to carry out a tendering 
process for the 2019 year end following the 
conclusion of the five year term of the  
current audit partner. This will comply  
with the EU/FRC rotation requirements
Following approval by shareholders to re-
appoint PwC at last year’s AGM, the Audit 
Committee reviewed and approved the terms  
of engagement and remuneration of the 
external auditors.
AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS
The effectiveness of the external audit 
process is dependent on appropriate audit risk 
identification at the start of the audit cycle. 
PwC present their detailed audit plan to us 
each year identifying their assessment of  
these key risks.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and 
quality of the audit process and addressing 
these key risks is formed by, amongst other 
things, the reporting from the auditors and  
also seeking feedback from management  
on the audit process.
The Committee remain satisfied with PwC’s 
performance and is of the view that there is 
nothing of concern that would impact the 
effectiveness of the external audit process.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
The Group meets its obligations for maintaining 
an appropriate relationship with the external 
auditors through the Audit Committee, whose 
terms of reference include an obligation to 
consider and keep under review the degree 
of work undertaken by the external auditor 
other than the statutory audit, to ensure such 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
In accordance with the Auditing Practices Board 
Ethical Standards, PwC has to implement rules 
and requirements which include that none of 
their employees working on our audit can hold 
any shares in Carr’s. PwC is also required to 
tell us about any significant facts and matters 
that may reasonably be thought to bear on their 
independence or on the objectivity of the lead 
partner and the audit team. The lead partner in 
the audit team must change every five years.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved 
the non-audit services policy, the objective of 
which is to ensure that the provision of such 
services does not impair, or is not perceived to 
impair, the external auditors’ independence or 
objectivity. The policy imposes guidance on the 
areas of work that the external auditors may 
be asked to undertake and those assignments 
where the external auditors should not be 
involved. There is a further category of services 
for which a case-by-case decision is necessary. 
In order to ensure that the policy is effective 
and the level of non-audit fees is kept under 
review, major work to be awarded to the audit 
firm must be agreed in advance by the Audit 
Committee Chairman. For the 2016 financial 
year end, the non-audit to audit services ratio 
was 0.4. Note 3 on page 58 provides further 
detail on non-audit service fees.
Previously, PwC had undertaken our tax 
compliance activities in addition to their role 
as auditors. Rule changes meant that this 
was no longer possible for our 2016 year end 
and beyond, so with effect from 1 September 
2016 PwC are no longer undertaking any 
tax compliance activities and the Group has 
appointed an alternative adviser.
Taking into account our findings in relation 
to the effectiveness of the audit process and 
in relation to the independence of PwC, the 
Committee is satisfied that PwC continues to 
be independent, and free from any conflicting 
interest with the Group. As a result, the 
Committee has recommended to the Board 
that PwC be proposed for reappointment at the 
forthcoming AGM in January 2017.
INTERNAL AUDIT
Consideration was given to whether there 
should be a formal internal audit function 
within the Group. The Committee agreed that 
in view of the absence of any significant control 
issues having arisen no such internal audit 
function was required. The Committee will 
keep this under review.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
The Committee also reviewed its terms of 
reference, its effectiveness, and the Group’s 
whistleblowing policy.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be 
available at the Annual General Meeting to 
respond to any shareholder questions that  
might be raised on the Committee’s activities.
JOHN WORBY
Audit Committee Chairman
16 November 2016 30
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
INTRODUCTION
This report sets out the Group’s remuneration policy 
and details of remuneration paid to Executive  
and Non-Executive Directors during the year.
ROLE
The main role of the Remuneration Committee 
is to determine the remuneration for the 
Executive Directors, in agreement with 
the Board. The Committee is responsible 
for all aspects of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration, including bonus and long term 
incentives, and makes recommendations 
regarding awarding long term incentives to 
senior management. It reviews the long term 
incentives to ensure they are aligned with the 
development of the Group and the business 
needs. The policy that has been adopted was 
created by taking into account the need to 
create shareholder value and therefore putting 
in place the appropriate incentives for the 
Executive Directors.
The Committee considered the following  
during the year:
• total remuneration and review of base pay  
for the Directors;
• annual earnings of the Directors, including 
the outcome of annual bonus plans; 
• the LTIP for the Executive Directors and  
senior management; and
• potential alternative arrangements for 
Directors following changes to tax rules in 
relation to pension contributions.
The Remuneration Committee currently 
comprises Alistair Wannop (Chairman), Chris 
Holmes, John Worby and Ian Wood. Neil 
Austin and Tim Davies attend meetings of the 
Committee by invitation and in an advisory 
capacity. No Director attends any part of a 
meeting at which his own remuneration is  
discussed. The Chairman and the Executive 
Directors determine the remuneration of the 
other Non-Executive Directors. The remuneration 
of the Chairman is determined by the Board. 
The Committee has access to advice from the 
Company Secretary and to detailed analysis 
of executive remuneration in comparable 
companies. The Chair of the Committee will be 
available at the AGM to answer any shareholder 
questions on the Committee and its activities.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
• determine the total remuneration packages, 
authorise terms and conditions, and issue 
contracts for the Board;
• approve the design and determine the targets 
for performance related pay schemes of the 
Executive Directors; and
• review the design of any share incentive plans 
for approval by the Board and shareholders.
REMUNERATION POLICY
In this forward looking section we describe our 
remuneration policy for the Board. This includes 
considerations when determining policy,  
a description of the elements of the reward 
package, and an indication of the potential 
future value of this package for each  
Executive Director. 
There have been no changes to the policy during 
2015/16. From 2016/17, it is our intention 
to amend the policy in relation to pension 
contributions to enable the Group to pay cash in 
lieu of pension contributions following changes 
to the UK tax regime for pensions. In addition, 
the Executive Directors’ bonus will now include 
an element connected to strategic objectives 
as well as profit before tax. We will continue 
to review the policy each year to ensure it 
continues to support the Group’s strategy. 
CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DETERMINING 
REMUNERATION POLICY
The Group’s policy is that the overall 
remuneration package offered should be 
sufficiently competitive to attract, retain 
and motivate high quality executives and to 
align the rewards of the Executive Directors 
with the progress of the Group, whilst giving 
consideration to salary levels in similar size 
quoted companies in similar industry sectors.
The remuneration package is split into two parts:
• a non-performance related element represented 
by basic salary (including benefits); and
• a significant performance related element in 
the form of an annual profit related bonus 
and a Long Term Incentive Plan.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS
Our Group strategy and business objectives are 
the primary consideration when we are selecting 
performance measures for incentive plans. 
Targets within incentive plans that are related  
to internal financial measures, such as 
profit, are typically determined based on our 
budgets. The threshold and maximum levels 
of performance are set to reflect minimum 
acceptable levels at threshold and very 
stretching but achievable levels at maximum. 
At the end of each performance period we 
review performance against the targets, using 
judgement to account for items such as 
foreign exchange rate movements, changes in 
accounting treatment, and significant one-off 
transactions. The application of judgement 
is important to ensure that final assessments 
of performance are fair and appropriate. In 
addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews 
the bonus and incentive plan results before any 
payments are made to Executive Directors or 
any shares vest and has full discretion to adjust 
the final payment or vesting downwards if they 
believe the circumstances warrant it.
ALISTAIR WANNOP
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
As Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee  
I am pleased to present the 
Remuneration Committee’s 
annual report on Directors’ 
remuneration for the year  
to 3 September 2016. 
“
” 31
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ELEMENT
PURPOSE  
AND LINK  
TO STRATEGY POLICY AND APPROACH OPPORTUNITY
CHANGE 
OF POLICY 
VERSUS 
2015?
Base salary To attract and retain the 
best talent.
Salaries are reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing  
1 September. The decision is influenced by:
• level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities of individual;
• business performance, economic climate and market conditions;
• increases elsewhere in the Group; and
• external comparator groups (used for reference purposes only).
Base salary 
increases are 
applied in 
line with the 
outcome of 
the annual 
review.
No.
Pension To remain competitive in 
the market place.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a defined contribution  
pension arrangement or to receive a cash alternative to those contributions.
Company contributions are 15% of base salary.
15% of base 
salary.
Yes.
Benefits To aid retention and 
remain competitive in 
the market place.
These include permanent health insurance, private medical insurance 
and life assurance. Relocation benefits may also be provided in the case 
of recruitment of a new Executive Director.
Market rate 
determines 
value.
No.
Annual 
cash bonus
Designed to reward 
delivery of key strategic 
priorities during the year.
Bonus levels and appropriateness of performance measures and 
weighting are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support 
our strategy. Performance is measured against stretching profit related 
targets and achievement of strategic objectives, and is usually paid in 
November each year for performance in the previous financial year.  
The bonuses payable are capped at a maximum of 100% of base salary.
Maximum of 
100% of base 
salary.
Yes.
Save As 
You Earn 
(SAYE)
To encourage employee 
involvement and 
encourage greater 
shareholder alignment.
A SAYE scheme is available to eligible staff, including Executive 
Directors. Currently there is a 3 year and a 5 year scheme in operation.
N/A No.
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
To motivate and 
incentivise delivery of 
sustained performance 
over the longer term, 
and to support and 
encourage greater 
shareholder alignment.
Award levels and vesting are reviewed annually to ensure they continue  
to support the Group’s strategy. Awards are capped at the equivalent  
of 100% of base salary at the date of award.
Three awards remain unvested: one maturing in 2016, one in 2017  
and one in 2018. The awards vest based on three year performance 
periods. A minimum average annual growth in adjusted EPS of 3%  
is required to vest 25%, with a sliding scale up to 100% vesting at  
an annual average growth of 10%.
Maximum of 
100% of base 
salary.
No.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE 32
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
REMUNERATION
Our policy is for the Executive Directors to 
review the remuneration of Non-Executive 
Directors annually following consultation with 
the Chairman. Remuneration reflects:
• the time commitment and responsibility of 
their roles;
• market rate; and
• that they do not participate in any bonus, 
pension or share based scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are engaged on one 
year fixed-term letters of appointment that set 
out their duties and responsibilities.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
The Committee believes that it is important for 
a significant investment to be made by each 
Executive Director in the shares of the company 
to provide alignment with shareholder interests. 
Executive Directors are required to build up 
a shareholding equivalent to 200% of base 
salary over a five year period. This guideline was 
introduced in 2015.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
The remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director would be set in accordance with the 
terms of the Company’s approved remuneration 
policy in force at the time of appointment.
Buy-out awards
In addition, the Committee may offer additional 
cash and/or share-based elements (on a one-
time basis or ongoing) when it considers these 
to be in the best interests of the Group (and 
therefore shareholders). Any such payments 
would be limited to a reasonable estimate of 
value of remuneration lost when leaving the 
former employer and would reflect the delivery 
mechanism (i.e. cash and/or share-based), time 
horizons and whether performance requirements 
are attached to that remuneration. 
Maximum level of variable pay
The maximum initial level of long-term 
incentives which may be awarded to a new 
Executive Director will be limited to the 
maximum Long Term Incentive Plan limit of 
100% of base salary. Therefore the maximum 
initial level of overall variable pay that may be 
offered will be 200% of base salary (i.e. 100% 
annual bonus plus 100% Long Term Incentive 
Plan). These limits are in addition to the value 
of any buy-out arrangements which are governed 
by the policy above.
In the case of an internal appointment, any 
variable pay element awarded in respect of the 
prior role would be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any 
other previously awarded entitlements would 
continue, and be disclosed in the next annual 
report on remuneration.
Base salary and relocation expenses
The Committee has the flexibility to set the 
salary of a new appointment at a discount to the 
market level initially, with a series of planned 
increases implemented over the following few 
years to bring the salary to the appropriate 
market position, subject to individual 
performance in the role.
For external and internal appointments, the 
Committee may agree that the Group will meet 
certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors
For the appointment of a new Chairman or 
Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement 
would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy in force at that time. 
ESTIMATES OF TOTAL FUTURE POTENTIAL REMUNERATION FROM 2017 PAY PACKAGES
The tables below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration of each Executive 
Director based on the remuneration opportunity granted in the 2017 financial year.  
Potential outcomes based on different scenarios are provided for each Executive Director.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
Fixed Consists of base salary, pension and other benefits.
Base salaries are as at 1 September 2016.
Benefits are valued using the figures in the total remuneration for the  
2016 financial year table, adjusted for any benefits that will not be provided 
during 2017. 
Pensions are valued by applying the appropriate percentage to the base salary.
Base 
£’000
Benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
267
197
1
1
40
30
308
228
On target Based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with plan 
and the threshold level was achieved under the LTIP .
Maximum Assumes that the full stretch target for the LTIP are achieved, and maximum 
performance is obtained under the annual bonus scheme.
Tim Davies, Chief Executive Officer
Neil Austin, Group Finance Director 
         LTIP  Annual bonus  Salary and benefits
Fixed On target Maximum
800
600
400
200
0
800
600
400
200
0
Fixed On target Maximum
Total:
£842,000
Total:
£622,000
Total:
£492,000
67
Total:
£364,000
49
Total:
£308,000
Total:
£228,000
308
267
267
308 308
117
228
197
228 228
87
197
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 33
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS  
OF APPOINTMENT
The Group’s current policy is not to enter into 
employment contracts with any element of 
notice period in excess of one year. Dates of 
service contracts and first appointment to the 
Board for all Directors are given opposite.
  
For early termination, the Remuneration 
Committee will consider circumstances, 
including any duty to mitigate, and determine 
any compensation payments accordingly.
Copies of Executive Directors’ service contracts 
and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of 
appointment are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office during normal 
hours of business and will be available at the 
Company’s AGM.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Remuneration Committee
In this section we give details of the composition 
of the Remuneration Committee and activities 
undertaken during the 2016 financial year. 
 
2016 AGM
The 2015 remuneration report received a 
99.52% vote in favour, with 0.48% against. 
Shareholder contact
No shareholders have contacted the 
Remuneration Committee during the year  
to share views regarding remuneration.
Date of service contract/
letter of appointment
Date first appointed
to the Board
Executive Directors
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
18 October 2012
1 January 2013
1 March 2013
1 May 2013
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Holmes
Alistair Wannop
John Worby
Ian Wood
15 September 2016 
15 September 2016 
15 September 2016 
15 September 2016
7 January 1992
1 September 2005
1 April 2015
1 October 2015
 Salary/Fees Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Executive Directors
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
264 
195
261
193
1
1
35
1
145
107
261
193
81
60
315
233
40
29
39
29
531
392
911
649
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Holmes
Alistair Wannop
John Worby
Ian Wood
2
Robert Heygate
77
37
37
34
24
77
36
15
                   
—
3                  
36
 —
 —
 
1                 
—
 —
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
77
37
37
34
24
77
36
15
—
36
1 Represents a 5 month period – pro rata would be £36,000
2 Represents an 11 month period – pro rata would be £37,000
3 Represents an 8 month period – pro rata would be £37,000
2016 Remuneration (Audited Information)
In this section we summarise the pay packages 
awarded to our Executive Directors for 
performance in the 2016 financial year versus 
2015. The table below shows all remuneration 
that was earned by each individual during the 
year and includes a single total remuneration 
figure for the year. The value of the annual 
bonus was earned in the year but will be paid 
out as cash in the following financial year.
The Remuneration Committee reviews all 
incentive awards prior to payment and has full 
discretion to reduce awards if it believes this 
is appropriate. The Committee did not exercise 
any discretion in determining the annual bonus 
payout for this year.
The performance period for the 2013 LTIP 
awards has completed, and the awards vested  
at 37.45% on the expiry of the three year 
period, which was on 14 November 2016. 
Therefore, the share price used to value the 
awards in the table below has been taken as  
the average price in the final quarter of the 
2015/16 financial year. 34
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
2016 ANNUAL BONUS PAYOUT
The annual bonus is payable based on adjusted 
profit before tax (PBT) performance of different 
parts of the Group, and an element payable 
based on total Group performance. If the Group 
target is achieved, regardless of individual 
divisional performance, then the maximum 
bonus is payable. 
Agriculture
Food
Engineering
Group
20%
20%
20%
40%
Adjusted PBT is calculated as reported PBT 
after adding back or deducting any one-off 
items outside of normal trading that were not 
anticipated at the time the performance targets 
were set, such as acquisition related costs.
In the 2016 financial year the adjusted PBT 
target for the Group was set at £18.4m for 
maximum pay-out. The target for maximum 
pay-out was not reached, and accumulating 
divisional performance versus targets and the 
Group performance versus the target equated  
to a total pay-out of 55%.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS DURING 
THE YEAR
The 2016 long-term awards were made  
in line with the remuneration policy as  
disclosed in our 2015 remuneration report.  
The performance conditions are based on 
annual average growth in adjusted EPS over  
a three year period.
Average annual growth %
3
10
% vesting
25
100
Nothing is payable below 3%, and a sliding scale 
operates between this and the maximum available.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
The Executive Directors are also eligible to 
participate in the UK all-employee plans.
The Carr’s Group Sharesave Scheme 2016 is  
a HM Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) approved 
scheme open to all staff permanently employed 
in a UK Group company as of the eligibility 
date. Options under the plan are granted at 
a 20% discount to market value. Executive 
Directors’ participation is included in the option 
table later in this report.
TEN YEAR HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE
 
Carr’s Group plc    FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
31/08/06
30/11/06
28/02/07
31/05/07
31/08/07
30/11/07
29/02/08
31/05/08
31/08/08
30/11/08
28/02/09
31/05/09
31/08/09
30/11/09
28/02/10
31/05/10
31/08/10
30/11/10
28/02/11
31/05/11
31/08/11
30/11/11
29/02/12
31/05/12
31/08/12
30/11/12
28/02/13
31/05/13
31/08/13
30/11/13
28/02/14
31/05/14
31/08/14
30/11/14
28/02/15
31/05/15
31/08/15
30/11/15
29/02/16
31/05/16
31/08/16 35
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN THE SHARES  
OF THE COMPANY (AUDITED INFORMATION)
A summary of interests in shares and  
scheme interests as at 3 September 2016,  
of the Directors who served during the year  
is given opposite.
PERFORMANCE SHARES (AUDITED INFORMATION)
The maximum number of outstanding shares 
that have been awarded to Directors under the 
LTIP are currently as follows:
CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION
In the table opposite we show the percentage 
change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration 
between 2015 and 2016 financial years 
compared to the other UK employees.
RELATIVE SPEND ON PAY
The table shows the relative importance  
of spend on pay compared to distributions  
to shareholders.
ASSESSING PAY AND PERFORMANCE
In the table opposite we summarise the Chief 
Executive’s single remuneration figure over  
the past 5 years, as well as how variable  
pay plans have paid out in relation to the 
maximum opportunity.
Total number 
of interests in 
shares
Vested 
LTIP
Unvested 
LTIP
SAYE (unvested 
without performance 
conditions)
Executive Directors
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
20,000
20,000
247,131
182,874
344,174
254,692
5,328
8,881
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Holmes
Alistair Wannop
John Worby
Ian Wood
Bob Heygate
1,230,000
22,610
25,000
1,000
452,250
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
2013/14 award 2014/15 award 2015/16 award
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
152,260
112,670
163,360
120,890
180,814
133,802
Tim Davies Other UK employees
Base pay
Benefits
Annual bonus
1%
0%
-45%
1%
0%
-39%
2016
£’000
2015
£’000 % change
Employee costs
Dividends paid to shareholders
38,390
3,347
39,148
3,110
-1.9%
7.6%
2012
Chris 
Holmes
£’000
2013
Tim
Davies
£’000
2014
Tim
Davies
£’000
2015
Tim
Davies
£’000
2016
Tim
Davies
£’000
Single figure of total remuneration
Annual variable element (actual award
  versus maximum opportunity)
Long-term incentive (vesting versus
  maximum opportunity)
573
100%
N/A
283
1
100%
N/A
559
100%
N/A
911
100%
100%
531
55%
37.45%
1 Represents a 6 month period – pro rata would be £566,000
By order of the Board
ALISTAIR WANNOP 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 November 2016 36
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIR OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
This year the Committee continued to focus on 
Board succession plans and the outcomes are 
set out in this report.
COMPOSITION AND CONSTITUTION
The Nominations Committee comprises the 
Chairman of the Company and all the Non-
Executive Directors. 
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee meets at least once a year.  
It reviews the structure, size and composition 
of the Board and considers the optimal level of 
independence and diversity of skills, knowledge, 
experience and gender required for the Board 
to operate effectively. It is responsible for 
considering and making recommendations to 
the Board on new appointments of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors. It also gives due 
consideration to succession planning throughout 
the Group, taking into account the challenge 
and opportunities facing the Group and the 
skills and expertise needed within the Board  
and senior management in the future.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee met on two occasions in the year 
to consider the following matters:
• the Committee’s Terms of Reference to ensure 
they reflect the Committee’s remit; 
• the succession plans in place for senior 
management across the Group; and
• the structure, size, composition and diversity 
of both the Board and its Committees.
BOARD SUCCESSION PLANNING
Ian Wood joined the Board on 1 October 2015. 
The appointment was made after conclusion of 
a process which included using independent 
external search consultants. Biographical details 
are set out on page 21.
At the end of April 2016 one Board member, 
Bob Heygate, resigned following 25 years 
of service to the Board. Bob Heygate had 
previously been the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, which he relinquished for this 
financial year, enabling John Worby to take  
over that role. Biographical details can be  
found on page 21. 
As a result of the succession planning over the 
last two years, the Board’s size has increased to 
4 Non-Executive Directors from 3 Non-Executive 
Directors. The number of Executive Directors 
remains unchanged. 
RE-ELECTION
At the Annual General Meeting on 10 January 
2017 all the Directors will stand for re-election 
in accordance with best practice under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting its reasons for supporting the 
re-election of the Directors at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. Their biographical 
details on page 21 demonstrate the range of 
experience and skills which each brings to the 
benefit of the Company.
The Chair of the Nominations Committee will 
attend the Annual General Meeting to respond 
to any shareholder questions that might be 
raised on the Committee’s activities.
On behalf of the Board
CHRIS HOLMES DL
Chair of the Nominations Committee
16 November 2016 37
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
THE DIRECTORS SUBMIT THEIR REPORT AND THE AUDITED ACCOUNTS  
OF THE COMPANY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER 2016.
The Company is a public limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales 
whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered 
office is Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
A review of the results can be found on pages 
18 to 19.
2016 2015
First Interim dividend per
  share paid on 13 May 2016
Second Interim dividend per
  share paid on 7 October 2016
Final dividend per share 
  proposed
0.950p
0.950p
1.9p
0.925p
0.925p
1.85p
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, 
the final dividend will be paid on 13 January 
2017 to members on the register at the close  
of business on 16 December 2016. Shares  
will be ex-dividend on 15 December 2016.
The Group profit from continuing activities 
before taxation was £14.1m (2015: £13.7m). 
After taxation charge of £2.9m (2015: £3.0m), 
the profit from continuing operations for the 
year is £11.2m (2015: £10.7m).  
Future developments of the Group have  
been discussed in the Strategic Report on 
pages 8 to 13.  
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS
During the year ended 3 September 2016 the 
Group contributed £32,175 (2015: £43,920) 
in the UK for charitable purposes. Further 
details have been included with the Corporate 
Responsibility statement on pages 22 to 24.  
There were no political donations during the 
year (2015: £Nil).
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has a single class of share  
capital which is divided into Ordinary Shares  
of £0.025 each. The movement in the share 
capital during the year is detailed in note 26  
to the financial statements.
At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors 
received authority from the shareholders to:
Allot Shares – this gives Directors the authority 
to allot authorised but unissued shares and 
maintains the flexibility in respect of the 
Company’s financing arrangements. The 
nominal value of ordinary shares which the 
Directors may allot in the period up to the  
next Annual General Meeting to be held on  
10 January 2017, is limited to £741,020.61 
which is equal to 33 percent of the nominal 
value of the issued share capital on 11 November 
2015. The Directors do not have any present 
intention of exercising this authority other  
than in connection with the issue of ordinary 
shares in respect of the Company’s share  
option plans. This authority will expire at the 
end of the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 10 January 2017.
PENSIONS
Estimates of the amount and timing of future 
funding obligations for the Group’s pension 
plans are based on various assumptions 
including, among other things, the actual and 
projected market performance of the pension 
plan assets, future long-term corporate bond 
yields, longevity of members and statutory 
requirements. The Group continued to make 
monthly payments to reduce the Group’s 
pension fund deficit, totalling £0.8m in the 
year, which ended on 31 December 2015.
The Group continually reviews this risk and 
takes action to mitigate where possible. In 
addition, while the Group is consulted by the 
Trustees on the investment strategies of its 
pension plans, the Group has no direct control 
over these matters as the Trustees are directly 
responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note  
25 in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEES
The Company is committed to its employees 
and further details on the Company’s policies 
and commitment can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on pages 22 to 24.
ENVIRONMENT
The Company’s report on sustainability 
including carbon footprint and energy usage  
is on pages 23 to 24. 38
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Disapplication of rights of pre-emption – this 
disapplies rights of pre-emption on the allotment 
of shares by the Company and the sale by the 
Company of treasury shares. The authority will 
allow the Directors to allot equity securities for 
cash pursuant to the authority to allot shares 
mentioned above, and to sell treasury shares for 
cash, on a pro rata basis to existing shareholders 
(but subject to any exclusion or arrangements 
as the Directors consider necessary or expedient 
in relation to fractional entitlements, any legal, 
regulatory or practical problems or costs under 
the laws or regulations of any overseas territory 
or the requirements of any regulatory body or 
stock exchange) and otherwise on a pro rata 
basis up to an aggregate nominal amount  
of £112,275.85, representing 5 percent  
of the Company’s issued share capital as at  
11 November 2015. This authority will expire  
at the end of the Annual General Meeting to  
be held on 10 January 2017.
To buy own shares – this authority allows the 
Company to buy its own shares in the market, 
as permitted under the Articles of Association 
of the Company, up to a limit of 10 per cent of 
the Company’s issued share capital. The price 
to be paid for any share must not be less than 
0.25p, being the nominal value of a share, and 
must not exceed 105 percent of the average 
middle market quotations for the ordinary shares 
of the Company as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 
business days immediately preceding the day on 
which the ordinary shares are purchased. The 
Directors have no immediate plans to exercise 
the powers of the Company to purchase its own 
shares and undertaken that the authority would 
only be exercised if the Directors were satisfied 
that a purchase would result in an increase in 
expected earnings per share and was in the 
best interests of the Company at the time. This 
authority will expire at the end of the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 10 January 
2017. The Directors would consider holding  
any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant 
to this authority as treasury shares.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by  
the Companies Act 2006, in the ordinary shares 
of the Company, other than in respect of options 
to acquire ordinary shares (which are detailed  
in the analysis of options included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
30 to 35), are as follows:
All the above interests are beneficial.  
The following transactions took place after  
3 September 2016: I. Wood acquiring 9,000 
shares on 12 September; T. Davies exercising 
options over 190,110 and selling 89,896 
shares; N. Austin exercising options over 
140,680 and selling 66,559 shares, on  
5 September 2016. 
TREASURY SHARES
To enable vesting of the Group’s long term 
incentive plan, on 14 November 2016 
178,027 ordinary 2.5 pence shares were  
held in treasury.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to 
the provisions of the Articles of Association and 
to any special rights or restrictions as to voting 
attached to any class of shares in the Company 
(of which they are none), the holders of the 
Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a 
poll for every Ordinary Share held. No member 
shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting 
or class meeting in respect of any shares held if 
any call or other sum then payable in respect of 
that share remains unpaid. Currently all issued 
shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising  
voting rights in respect of the resolutions to  
be considered at the Annual General Meeting  
to be held on 10 January 2017 are set out  
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, 
declare a dividend to be paid to the members, 
but no dividend shall exceed the amount 
recommended by the Board. The Board may 
pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate 
dividend, whenever the financial position of the 
Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies 
its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned 
and paid pro rata according to the amounts  
paid up on the shares.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
The Company is aware of the following interests 
at 14 November 2016 in the 91,377 ,291 
ordinary shares of the Company, as required  
by the Companies Act 2006:
Interest of the Directors
At 3 September 2016
Ordinary 
Shares
At 29 August 2015
Ordinary 
Shares
T J Davies 20,000 20,000
N Austin 20,000 20,000
C N C Holmes 1,230,000 1,252,500
A G M Wannop 22,610 22,610
J G Worby 25,000 25,000
I Wood 1,000 —
All the above interests are beneficial.
Major Shareholders
Number of shares
% of issued share 
capital
Heygate & Sons Limited 12,652,870 13.85
T W G Charlton 4,550,000 4.98
Goldman Sachs Securities (Nominees) Ltd (ILSEG) 3,746,500 4.10
Rathbone Nominees Limited 3,240,650 3.55
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited (928488) 2,968,940 3.25 39
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CHANGE OF CONTROL
There are no agreements that the Company 
considers significant and to which the  
Company is party that would take effect,  
alter or terminate upon change of control  
of the Company following a takeover bid,  
other than the following:
• The Company is party to a number of  
banking agreements which upon a change  
of control of the Company are terminable  
by the bank immediately.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARING  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial period. 
Under that law the Directors have to prepared 
the Group and parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union. Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state  
of affairs of the Group and the Company and  
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements;
• prepare the financial statements on the  
going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are  
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position  
of the Company and of the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and  
the Group and hence for taking reasonable  
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination  
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the annual  
report and accounts, taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for shareholders  
to assess a company’s performance, business 
model and strategy. 
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF 
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
The Directors who were members of the Board 
at the time of approving the Directors’ Report 
are listed on page 21. Having made enquiries  
of fellow Directors each of these Directors,  
at the date of this report, confirms that:
• he is aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and 
• he has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on page 21 confirm that,  
to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs  
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; 
• the Chief Executive’s Review includes a fair 
review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the  
Group; and
• the Risk management review provides 
a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that the Company faces.
By order of the Board
KATIE WOOD
Company Secretary
16 November 2016 40
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARR’S GROUP PLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Carr’s Group plc’s Group financial statements 
and Company financial statements (the 
“financial statements”) give a true and fair 
view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 3 September 2016 
and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s  
and the Company’s cash flows for the year 
then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006; and
Overview
•  Overall Group materiality: £845,000 which represents slightly below 5% of profit before tax from 
continuing and discontinued operations.
• We identified six reporting units within the Agriculture, Food and Engineering divisions alongside 
the Company, which in our view required an audit of their complete financial information. Four of 
these reporting units were deemed financially significant and the other  
three were selected for particular risk characteristics, which included coverage of the risks relating 
to pension assumptions, fraud in revenue recognition, and of the profit from the associate.
• Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed on two further 
reporting units based in the UK, in order to gain coverage of individually material financial 
statement line items.
• Goodwill impairment in Chirton Engineering
• Defined benefit pension scheme surplus
• Receivable provisioning
• Disposal of the Food division
• Fraud risk in revenue recognition
Materiality
Audit scope
Area of 
focus
• the financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements of  
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards  
the Group financial statements, Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the 
Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual 
Report”), comprise:
• the Consolidated and Company Balance 
Sheets as at 3 September 2016;
• the Consolidated Income Statement and the 
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income for the year  
then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statements  
of Cash Flows for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated and Company Statements  
of Changes in Equity for the year then ended;
• the accounting policies; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which 
include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been 
presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from  
the financial statements and are identified  
as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the financial 
statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and 
applicable law.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining 
materiality and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we looked at where the Directors 
made subjective judgements, for example in 
respect of significant accounting estimates that 
involved making assumptions and considering 
future events that are inherently uncertain.  
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk 
of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence 
of bias by the directors that represented a risk  
of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit, including 
the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. 
We have also set out how we tailored our audit 
to address these specific areas in order to 
provide an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, and any comments we make on the 
results of our procedures should be read in this 
context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 
OUR AUDIT APPROACH 41
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS
Goodwill impairment in Chirton Engineering
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions and 
estimates within the principal accounting policies and note 10.
The Group has a material goodwill balance in respect of the 
acquisition in 2014 of Chirton Engineering. The downturn in 
the oil and gas market has adversely affected the expected 
performance of this business giving rise to an increased risk  
of impairment. The Directors’ assessment of the ‘value in use’ 
of the Cash Generating Unit involves judgements about the 
future results of the business and the discount rates applied  
to future cash flow forecasts.
We reviewed the composition of future cash flows to ensure that all relevant 
elements were included or excluded as appropriate. We compared current 
year actual results with the FY16 figures included in the prior year forecast 
to assess the accuracy of management’s historic forecasts. We challenged 
management’s assumptions within the forecasts for short and mid-term growth 
by comparing to the previous performance of the business and understanding 
and validating the measures implemented by management to achieve this 
growth. We considered the suitability of the discount rate by assessing the 
cost of capital for the company and comparable businesses. We assessed 
the sensitivity analysis performed by management and determined that the 
calculations were most sensitive to the assumptions regarding profits in the 
terminal period. We reviewed the adequacy of the disclosures given in note 10 
in respect of the impairment assessment performed by management.
Defined benefit pension scheme surplus
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions and 
estimates within the principal accounting policies and note 25.
The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme with 
post-retirement assets of £73.7m and post-retirement 
liabilities of £73.4m. The valuation of the Group surplus 
is sensitive to changes in key assumptions such as the 
discount rate, inflation and mortality estimates. The setting 
of these assumptions is complex and an area of judgement. 
Changes in any of these assumptions could lead to a material 
movement in the net surplus.
We tested the membership census data used in the valuation of the scheme 
to payroll information. We benchmarked and performed sensitivity analysis 
on key variables in the valuation model including salary increases, mortality 
rates, inflation and discount rates. We obtained third party confirmations 
over ownership and valuation of pension scheme assets. We ensured that the 
Company is entitled to recognise any surplus by examining the Trust Deed  
and Rules documentation.
Receivable provisioning
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions and 
estimates within the principal accounting policies and note 19.
Within the Agriculture division there are material amounts  
of trade receivables that are past due and there has historically 
been a slower collection pattern within this division. 
Management’s provisions in respect of these amounts are  
an area of subjectivity with respect to the recoverability  
of balances.
We understood management’s receivables provisioning policy and tested 
the accuracy of the aging of balances in order to recalculate management’s 
provision. We analysed the provision to identify significant balances for which 
the methodology had not been applied and understood and validated any such 
exceptions. We performed testing over the operating effectiveness of controls with  
respect to approval of credit limits and monthly reviews of the receivables ledger. 
For individually significant aged receivables balances, we understood the rationale 
for management’s provision by considering historic payment patterns and other 
supporting information. We tested the levels of cash received after the year end  
on overdue receivables balances to assess the adequacy of the provision made.
Disposal of the Food division
The sale of the Food division on 3 September 2016 represented 
a significant transaction in the year and triggered disclosure 
requirements to present discontinued operations. We focussed 
on ensuring the completeness and accuracy of these disclosures. 
As the sale took place on the last day of the financial year, we 
also considered cut-off to be a relevant risk.
We reviewed the disclosures presented for discontinued operations and 
ensured that these only related to the Food division. We reviewed the sale 
documentation to ensure that the disposal took place before year end. We 
performed testing over the profit from discontinued operations line by testing 
the revenue and expenses of the division prior to disposal and the profit on 
disposal calculation.
Fraud risk in revenue recognition 
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions and 
estimates within the principal accounting policies. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition. We have determined this to apply specifically 
to the occurrence of revenue in all divisions because of the 
pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results. 
Within the Agriculture and Food division this is specifically 
in relation to whether a sale has occurred and within the 
Engineering division this is in relation to the judgements 
involved in long term contract accounting.
Our testing of revenue transactions focused on demonstrating a service had  
been provided or a sale had occurred. 
For the Agriculture and Food divisions this involved testing the operating 
effectiveness of controls around dispatches and invoicing in certain components, 
as well as substantively testing that revenue agreed to accounts receivable and 
cash received. Where revenue did not directly agree to accounts receivable or 
cash further work was performed to understand and substantively test those 
transactions. From the work we performed no material exceptions were noted. 
For the Engineering division we focused on the judgements required to 
account for long term contracts. This involved reading extracts of the related 
contracts in order to understand the nature of services provided. We also 
evaluated management’s assessment of the stage of completion of significant 
contracts through performing a look back test to assess management’s previous 
estimations as well as on a sample basis agreeing the inputs into the calculation 
of the revenue to supporting documentation and reperforming the calculation. 
From the work we performed no material exceptions were noted. 
  42
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARR’S GROUP PLC CONTINUED
Overall Group 
materiality
£845,000 (2015: £875,000).
How we 
determined it
5% of profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations based  
on preliminary numbers.
Rationale for 
benchmark 
applied
We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the 
shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally 
accepted auditing benchmark.
Reporting unit 
materiality
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less 
than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across 
components was between £300,000 and £800,000. Certain components 
were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our 
overall group materiality.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that 
we performed enough work to be able to give an 
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the geographic structure of 
the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
 
The Group is structured in two business divisions, 
Agriculture and Engineering. The Food division 
is a discontinued operation within the year. The 
Group financial statements are a consolidation 
of 14 reporting units, comprising the Group’s 
operating businesses within these business 
divisions. The Group operates mainly in the  
UK but has a global presence particularly  
in the USA and Germany.
 
Within the Agriculture division significant 
operations include subsidiaries Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Sales) Ltd and Carrs Agriculture 
Ltd as well as an associate Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Operations) Ltd all located within 
the UK. Animal Feed Supplement, Inc is also a 
significant operation located in the USA. Within 
Food the only operation was Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd, 
located in the UK, this was disposed of within 
the year. Finally within the Engineering division 
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH, located in 
Germany, is the largest contributor to profit  
before tax.
  
The Group also has centralised functions such  
as a treasury function and a payroll function 
which includes the pension scheme 
administration, all performed by the Company.
 
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited six of the 
nine reporting units located in both the UK and 
in the USA. For another two he attended the 
clearance meeting. The final reporting unit was 
audited by another firm operating under our 
instruction and the clearance meeting was 
attended by conference call by a senior member 
of the audit team.
 
These 9 reporting units accounted for 100%  
of revenue and 89% of PBT.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by 
our application of materiality. We set certain 
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped 
us to determine the scope of our audit and the 
nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
on the individual financial statement line items 
and disclosures and in evaluating the effect  
of misstatements, both individually and on  
the financial statements as a whole. Based  
on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the financial statements as a  
whole as follows:
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we 
would report to them misstatements identified 
during our audit above £42,000 (2015: 
£44,000) as well as misstatements below  
that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the Directors’ statement, set out on 
page 17, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if we have anything material 
to add or to draw attention to in relation to 
the directors’ statement about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. We have nothing material to  
add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the 
Directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and Company 
have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the Directors intend them to do so, 
for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit we 
have concluded that the Directors’ use of the 
going concern basis is appropriate. However, 
because not all future events or conditions 
can be predicted, these statements are not a 
guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Corporate 
Governance Statement set out on pages 25  
to 27 with respect to internal control and  
risk management systems and about share 
capital structures is consistent with the 
financial statements. 43
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• information in the Annual Report is:
− materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
− apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
− otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to  
report.
• the statement given by the directors on page 27, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to  
report.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 28 and 29, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work  
of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to  
report.
• the Directors’ confirmation on pages 14 to 16 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code,  
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would  
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
• the Directors’ explanation on page 17 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to  
how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that  
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will  
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including  
any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the Directors’ statement that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the Directors’ 
statement in relation to the longer-term viability 
of the Group. Our review was substantially less 
in scope than an audit and only consisted of 
making inquiries and considering the Directors’ 
process supporting their statements; checking 
that the statements are in alignment with the 
relevant provisions of the Code; and considering 
whether the statements are consistent with  
the knowledge acquired by us in the course  
of performing our audit. 
We have nothing to report having performed  
our review. 44
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARR’S GROUP PLC CONTINUED
Adequacy of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been 
kept by the Company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 
2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, certain 
disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions  
to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate 
governance statement has not been prepared  
by the Company. We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to ten further provisions  
of the Code. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 39, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us  
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for  
any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly agreed by  
our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors;  
and the overall presentation of the  
financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures  
in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to 
the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing the 
effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
BILL MACLEOD (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
16 November 2016 45
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   (Restated)
  2016 2015
 Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations  
Revenue 2 314,907 331,285
Cost of sales  (273,712) (288,553)
Gross profit  41,195 42,732
Distribution costs  (15,975) (15,580)
Administrative expenses  (12,450) (15,062)
Group operating profit 3 12,770 12,090
Finance income 5 236 338
Finance costs 5 (1,009) (1,045)
Share of post-tax profit in associate  1,239 1,500
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures  842 807
Profit before taxation 2 14,078 13,690
Taxation 6 (2,907) (3,010)
Profit for the year from continuing operations  11,171 10,680
Discontinued operations 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 7 2,817 3,013
Profit for the year  13,988 13,693 
Profit attributable to   
Equity shareholders  12,455 11,989 
Non-controlling interests  1,533 1,704
  13,988 13,693
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence)   
Profit from continuing operations  10.7 10.0
Profit from discontinued operations  3.1 3.4
 9 13.8 13.4
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  10.5 9.7
Profit from discontinued operations  3.0 3.2
   9 13.5 12.9
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER 2016 46
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
   2016 2015 2016 2015
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the year  13,988 13,693 26,362 2,870
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently 
  to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange translation gains/(losses)  
  arising on translation of overseas subsidiaries  2,860 (249) — —
Net investment hedges  687 338 — —
Taxation charge on net investment hedges  (137) (69) — —
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently 
  to profit or loss:
Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligation:
 – Group 25 (2,725) (2,848) (2,725) (2,848)
 – Share of associate  (1,216) 70 — —
Taxation credit/(charge) on actuarial (losses)/gains  
 on retirement benefit obligation:
 – Group 17 490 570 490 570
 – Share of associate  205 (14) — —
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, 
  net of tax  164 (2,202) (2,235) (2,278)
Total comprehensive income for the year  14,152 11,491 24,127 592
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity shareholders  12,619 9,787 24,127 592
Non-controlling interests  1,533 1,704 — —
   14,152 11,491 24,127 592
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER 2016 47
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group  Company
  (Restated)
   2016 2015 2016 2015
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 10 11,440 10,849 — —
Other intangible assets 10 286 448 — —
Property, plant and equipment 11 35,811 58,385 — — 
Investment property 12 182 636 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 13,16 — — 11,478 12,205
Investment in associate 13,14 8,667 8,439 245 245
Interest in joint ventures 13,15 6,257 5,012 272 272
Other investments 13 72 79 — —
Financial assets 
– Non-current receivables 19 50 50 17,486 —
Retirement benefit asset 25 311 1,767 311 1,767
Deferred tax assets 17 — 861 2 3
   63,076 86,526 29,794 14,492
Current assets
Inventories  18 33,423 35,031 — —
Trade and other receivables  19 56,940 64,454 18,831 36,845
Current tax assets 20 303 839 922 1,564
Financial assets 
– Derivative financial instruments 24 — 50 — 30
– Cash and cash equivalents  21 48,411 20,052 37,945 8,973
   139,077 120,426 57,698 47,412
Total assets   202,153 206,952 87,492 61,904
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– Borrowings 23 (21,642) (18,721) (5,974) (690)
– Derivative financial instruments 24 (20) (72) — —
Trade and other payables 22 (46,823) (54,496) (2,214) (1,915)
Current tax liabilities  (470) (472) — —
    (68,955) (73,761) (8,188) (2,605)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings 23 (18,625) (25,744) (15,889) (16,414)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (1,817) (4,184) (56) (353)
Other non-current liabilities 22 (2,668) (4,300) — —
   (23,110) (34,228) (15,945) (16,767)
Total liabilities  (92,065) (107,989) (24,133) (19,372)
Net assets   110,088 98,963 63,359 42,532
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital  26 2,280 2,244 2,280 2,244
Share premium   9,111 8,615 9,111 8,615
Treasury share reserve  (8) — (8) —
Equity compensation reserve  706 1,138 759 1,239
Foreign exchange reserve  2,895 (515) — —
Other reserve   207 862 — —
Retained earnings   81,540 74,706 51,217 30,434
Total shareholders’ equity  96,731 87,050 63,359 42,532
Non-controlling interests  13,357 11,913 — —
Total equity   110,088 98,963 63,359 42,532
The financial statements set out on pages 45 to 93 were approved by the Board on 16 November 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Tim J Davies Neil Austin
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY BALANCE SHEETS
AS AT 3 SEPTEMBER 2016 48
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER 2016
   Treasury Equity Foreign  Total Non-
 Share Share Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ controlling  Total
 Capital Premium Reserve Reserve  Reserve Reserve Earnings Equity Interests Equity
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 August 2014  2,235 8,453 — 640 (535) 875 67,996 79,664 10,163 89,827
Profit for the year — — — — — — 11,989 11,989 1,704 13,693
Other comprehensive   
  income/(expense) — — — — 20 — (2,222) (2,202) — (2,202)
Total comprehensive         
  income — — — — 20 — 9,767 9,787 1,704 11,491
Dividends paid — — — — — — (3,110) (3,110) — (3,110)
Equity settled share-  
  based payment  
  transactions, net of tax — — — 498 — — 40 538 46 584
Allotment of shares 9 162 — — — — — 171 — 171
Transfer — — — — — (13) 13 — — —
At 29 August 2015  2,244 8,615 — 1,138 (515) 862 74,706 87,050 11,913 98,963
At 30 August 2015  2,244 8,615 — 1,138 (515) 862 74,706 87,050 11,913 98,963
Profit for the year — — — — — — 12,455 12,455 1,533 13,988
Other comprehensive         
  income/(expense) — — — — 3,410  — (3,246) 164 — 164 
Total comprehensive  
  income — — — — 3,410 — 9,209 12,619 1,533 14,152 
Dividends paid — — — — — — (3,347) (3,347) — (3,347)
Equity settled share-  
  based payment  
  transactions, net of tax — — — (432) — — 321 (111) 15 (96)
Allotment of shares 36 496 — — — — — 532 — 532
Purchase of own shares
  held in trust — — (12) — — — — (12) — (12)
Dissolution of 
  dormant subsidiaries — — — — — — — — (104) (104)
Transfer — — 4 — — (655) 651 — — —
At 3 September 2016 2,280 9,111 (8) 706 2,895 207 81,540 96,731 13,357 110,088
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative accounting impact, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes 
over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the consolidated income statement. During the year 
£264,000 (2015: £40,000) was transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings in respect of options exercised in the year 
and £57,000 was also transferred on the disposal of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd.
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve  
was reclassified to other reserves.
During the year £642,000 (2015: £nil) was transferred from other reserves to retained earnings in respect of previous revaluations of property  
owned by Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd, a subsidiary undertaking which was sold during the year.
An adjustment of £104,000 (2015: £nil) has been made to remove balances in respect of dormant subsidiaries dissolved in the year from  
non-controlling interests. 49
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Treasury Equity   
  Share Share Share Compensation Retained Total
  Capital Premium Reserve Reserve  Earnings Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 August 2014 2,235 8,453 — 699 32,956 44,343
Profit for the year — — — — 2,870 2,870
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (2,278) (2,278)
Total comprehensive income — — — — 592 592
Dividends paid — — — — (3,110) (3,110)
Equity settled share-based payment 
  transactions, net of tax — — — 540 (4) 536
Allotment of shares 9 162 — — — 171
At 29 August 2015 2,224 8,615 — 1,239 30,434 42,532
At 30 August 2015 2,244 8,615 — 1,239 30,434 42,532
Profit for the year — — — — 26,362 26,362
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (2,235) (2,235)
Total comprehensive income — — — — 24,127 24,127
Dividends paid — — — — (3,347) (3,347)
Equity settled share-based payment       
  transactions, net of tax — — — (480) 7 (473)
Allotment of shares 36 496 — — — 532
Purchase of own shares held in trust — — (12) — — (12)
Transfer — — 4 — (4) —
At 3 September 2016 2,280 9,111 (8) 759 51,217 63,359
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative accounting impact, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes over 
the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement where it relates to employees of the 
Company and to investment in subsidiaries where it relates to employees of the subsidiaries. During the year £7,000 (2015: £4,000) was transferred 
from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings and £321,000 (2015: £45,000) was transferred from the equity compensation reserve to 
investment in subsidiaries in respect of options exercised in the year.
 
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER 2016 50
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
   2016 2015 2016 2015
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 29 6,257 9,120 (2,299) (2,915)
Interest received  155 194 877 884
Interest paid  (673) (685) (420) (359)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (1,098) (3,853) 777 (92)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 
  in continuing operations  4,641 4,776 (1,065) (2,482)
Net cash generated from operating activities in 
  discontinued operations  5,477 5,200 — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities  10,118 9,976 (1,065) (2,482)
 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of overdraft/cash acquired)  (1,258) (1,749) — —
Disposal of subsidiary, net of costs (including cash disposed)  23,922 — 6,685 —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 4,802 4,200
Net receipt/(payment) of loans to subsidiaries  — — 14,259 (2,602)
Return of investment in joint venture  — 488 — —
Dividend received from joint venture  113 — — —
Loans to joint ventures  2,332 129 1,768 —
Loan repaid by associate  500 500 500 500
Other loans  (20) 220 — —
Purchase of intangible assets  (62) (15) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   349 436 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (5,788) (4,621) — —
Purchase of own shares held in trust   (12) — (12) —
Redemption of preference shares in joint venture 13 150 150 — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 
  in continuing operations  20,226 (4,462) 28,002 2,098 
Net cash used in investing activities in discontinued operations  (449) (1,323) — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities  19,777 (5,785) 28,002 2,098
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  26 532 171 532 171 
Net proceeds from loans from subsidiaries  — — 5,368 —
Net proceeds/(costs) from issue of new bank loans  153 9,061 (15) 4,854
Finance lease principal repayments  (925) (990) — —
Repayment of loan from related party  (500) (500) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (1,614) (4,880) (550) (1,383)
Decrease in other borrowings  (192) (3,638) — —
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (3,347) (3,110) (3,347) (3,110)
Receipt of grant income  — 200 — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities in  
  continuing operations  (5,893) (3,686) 1,988 532
Net cash used in financing activities in discontinued operations  (1,408) (1,105) — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities  (7,301) (4,791) 1,988 532
Effects of exchange rate changes  918 (150) 47 3
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   23,512 (750) 28,972 151
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 21 16,275 17,025 8,973 8,822
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  21 39,787 16,275 37,945 8,973
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER 2016 51
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The consolidated and Company financial statements are prepared on a 
going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) and International Financial Reporting Standards 
Interpretation Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations endorsed by the 
European Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and  
domiciled in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded  
on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office  
is Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at 
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting year. Although these estimates are 
based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, 
actual results ultimately may differ materially from the estimates.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently, other than where  
new policies have been adopted.
The consolidated and Company financial statements are prepared under 
the historic cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial 
assets and financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) 
at fair value through profit or loss.
The prior year consolidated income statement has been restated for the 
reclassification to interest income of the net interest on the net defined 
benefit retirement asset previously recognised within operating profit. 
Comparatives at 29 August 2015 have been restated by £141,000, 
increasing finance income and reducing operating profit with no  
impact to profit before tax.
The prior year balance sheet has been restated for the grossing up 
of cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, included within 
current borrowings, for accounts with right of offset within the same 
banking facility. Comparatives at 29 August 2015 have been restated 
by £3,564,000, increasing both cash and cash equivalents and current 
borrowings with no impact to net assets.
The accounting policies for the Group and Company are as follows:
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Group plc 
and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results 
of its associate and joint ventures. The financial information of the 
subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures is prepared as of the same 
reporting date and consolidated using consistent accounting policies. 
Group inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised 
profits arising from Group inter-company transactions, are eliminated 
in full. Profits and losses on transactions with the associate and joint 
ventures are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during the current 
and prior financial year were included in the financial statements from 
the effective date of control or up to the date of cessation of control. The 
separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the acquired subsidiary 
undertakings were incorporated into the financial statements on the basis  
of the fair value as at the effective date of the Group acquiring control.
IFRS 10 introduced a new definition of control which could affect whether an 
entity is consolidated into the Group accounts. An investor controls an investee 
when it is exposed, or has right, to variable returns from its involvement  
with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its  
power over the investee. Control requires power over the investee, exposure,  
or rights, to variable returns and the ability to use power to affect returns.
Subsidiaries are entities that meet the new definition of control.  
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which  
the Group ceases to control them. 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence 
but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are entities over which the Group 
has joint control, established by contractual agreement. Investments in 
associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. 
The Group’s share of its associate and joint ventures’ post-tax profits or 
losses are recognised in the income statement, and its share of movement 
in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative movements are 
adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. The Group’s 
investment in associate and joint ventures includes any goodwill arising on 
acquisition. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture 
equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the 
Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. 
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method.  
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of 
the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. The 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree 
are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of 
the extent of any non-controlling interest. The excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised 
as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are expensed to the consolidated income 
statement in the year they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling 
interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST
IFRS 10 requires that the Group consolidate a structured entity where 
the substance of the relationship between the parties indicates that 
the Group controls the entity. The employee share trust sponsored by 
the Group falls within this category of structured entity and has been 
accounted for as if it were, in substance, a subsidiary.
CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate and joint 
ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group and Company 
is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange 
differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation, at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using 
the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements 
are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the year. 
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate on 
the transaction date is used. Exchange differences arising are recognised 
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign 
operation any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity 
are transferred to the consolidated income statement. 52
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair 
value of the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value added 
tax. Revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised when the 
Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of 
the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured 
reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the transaction will flow to the Group. Inter segmental transactions 
are on an arm’s length basis. 
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis  
of the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract.
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated total 
contract costs. No profit is recognised until a contract is at least 30% 
complete. Amounts invoiced for work completed are deducted from the 
selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of work completed are 
recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract revenue 
the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the 
consolidated income statement.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT ASSET/OBLIGATIONS
The Group offers various pension schemes to employees including a 
defined benefit pension scheme and several defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the Group’s pension schemes are held separately from those 
of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the year to which they relate.
Carr’s Group Pension Scheme (defined benefit section)
The asset recognised in the consolidated and Company balance sheet 
at the year end is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at 
the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets. Independent 
actuaries calculate the defined benefit asset annually using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using 
interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in 
the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to 
maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The service costs, including pension scheme administrative costs are 
included in operating profit in the consolidated income statement.
A credit is made within interest which represents a net interest amount 
that is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the 
year to the net defined benefit asset at the beginning of the year. The net 
interest amount also takes into account changes to the net asset during 
the year. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated 
and Company statement of comprehensive income. The pension scheme 
deficit or surplus, to the extent that they are considered recoverable,  
are recognised in full on the consolidated balance sheet.
IFRIC 14 confirms that where a company has an unconditional right to a 
refund of surplus from a defined benefit pension plan during the lifetime 
of that plan or when it winds it up, and where there is expected to be 
surplus assets, there is no limit on the asset the Company can show 
on its balance sheet. At 3 September 2016 and 29 August 2015 the 
consolidated and Company balance sheet recognises the full surplus  
on the Carr’s Group defined benefit pension scheme.
Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme
One of the Group’s subsidiaries is a participating employer in the Carrs 
Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme, which is a multi-employer defined 
benefit pension scheme. Note 25 provides further information on this 
scheme and how it has been accounted for in the consolidated accounts.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares 
that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the  
number of options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair value 
recognised as a result of this are charged or credited to the consolidated 
income statement with a corresponding adjustment to the equity 
compensation reserve.
INTEREST
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an 
accruals basis using the effective interest method. 
BORROWING COSTS
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are 
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such 
time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement in the year in which they are incurred.
OPERATING SEGMENTS
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of 
internal financial information about components of the Group that  
are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’)  
to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. 
The CODM has been identified as the Executive Directors.
The CODM considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture and Engineering. 
The previously recognised Food segment was disposed of during the year.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS
Non-recurring items that are material by size and/or by nature are 
presented within their relevant income statement category. Items that 
management consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note 
to the financial statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring 
items helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business 
performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring items include, 
but are not limited to, gains or losses on the disposal of subsidiaries/
businesses, derivative gains or losses in respect of capital expenditure, 
gains or losses on the disposal of properties, gains or losses on the disposal 
of material investments, the restructuring of businesses, the integration 
of new businesses, acquisition related costs and asset impairments.
GOODWILL
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the 
excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree. 53
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is allocated to each of the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that 
is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each 
unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the 
lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for 
internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at the operating 
segment level.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. 
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, 
which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of 
disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense  
and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 
1998 has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or 
loss on the disposal of a business.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation commences when 
assets are available for use. The expected useful lives, over which the 
assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 – 5 years
Brands 15 – 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 – 10 years
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over their 
expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a 
straight-line basis.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly 
attributable costs of preparing the assets for use.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as 
incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the extent 
that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’, 
relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount recognised  
is recoverable through future economic benefits.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
purchase price and directly attributable costs. 
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not 
depreciated. For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation  
is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values 
of the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if 
appropriate, at each financial year-end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified  
as assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete 
these assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within property, 
plant and equipment. Depreciation commences when the asset is  
ready for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged 
to the consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major 
renovations and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all 
other investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-
line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their 
estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged 
to the consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major 
renovations and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment where there are 
any events or changes in circumstances that would indicate potential 
impairment. In addition, at each reporting date, the Group assesses 
whether there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired. Where 
an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of 
recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use and is deemed for an individual asset. If the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. Discount rates 
reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used 
for the value in use calculation.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Where appropriate, cost is 
calculated on a specific identification basis. Otherwise inventories are 
valued using the first-in first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution.
Provision has been made, where necessary, for slow moving, obsolete 
and defective inventories.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and total 
expected income from the contract work.  54
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Progress payments received are deducted from the value of work in 
progress except to the extent that payments on account exceed the 
value of work in progress on any contract where the excess is included 
in trade and other payables.
Directly attributable, and separately identifiable, costs of bidding for 
contracts are included in contract costs after the point in time at which 
it is considered probable that the contract will be obtained.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated and 
Company statement of cash flows comprise cash at bank and in hand, 
money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. 
Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities  
in the consolidated and Company balance sheet.
In March 2016, the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) issued 
an agenda decision regarding the treatment of offsetting and cash-
pooling arrangements in accordance with IAS 32: ‘Financial instruments: 
Presentation’. This provided additional guidance on when bank overdrafts 
in cash-pooling arrangements would meet the requirements for offsetting 
in accordance with IAS 32. Following this additional guidance, the 
Group has reviewed its cash-pooling arrangements and has revised its 
presentation of bank overdrafts and has recognised £8.4m of bank 
overdrafts within current borrowings at the current year end that would 
previously have been offset against cash balances. Comparatives at 29 
August 2015 have been restated by £3.6m. 
GRANTS
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income 
and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal annual 
instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated income 
statement in the year to which they apply.
LEASES
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. 
Assets classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated 
balance sheet and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of 
the asset and the term of the lease. The interest element of the rental 
obligations is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
period of the lease using the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Leasehold land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments 
made to acquire leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost  
and are amortised over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter  
into operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense 
over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
TAX
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable  
to tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated and Company financial statements. 
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not 
recognised. Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group 
is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the  
tax relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which 
case the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated and Company statement of comprehensive income.
DIVIDENDS
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are 
recognised in the year that they are approved by the shareholders. 
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the year that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are received.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the consolidated and 
Company balance sheet when the Group and Company becomes a party 
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability 
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and 
default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of  
a provision for impairment, and the amount of the loss is recognised  
in the consolidated income statement. The provision is utilised when  
a trade receivable is uncollectible.
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.  
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other 
means are held at cost. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to 
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest  
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair 
value net of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or 
redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective 
interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument 
to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise. 55
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts, options and 
currency swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuating foreign exchange 
rates. These instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has 
designated foreign currency loans as a hedge against net investment in 
foreign operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used 
to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as 
an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss on 
any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the 
consolidated income statement.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
From 30 August 2015 the following became effective and were adopted 
by the Group and Company:
Amendment to IAS 19 regarding defined benefit plans
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012 and 2013
The adoption of these standards and interpretations has had no impact 
on the Group or Company’s profit for the year or equity.
NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT 
YET EFFECTIVE AND NOT EARLY ADOPTED
Amendments to IFRS 2, ‘Share based payments’ on clarifying how to
  account for certain types of share based payment transactions
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
Amendment to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 on investment entities applying 
  the consolidation exemption 
Amendment to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ on acquisition 
  of an interest in a joint operation 
IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’
Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ 
  on the disclosure initiative
Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows on disclosure initiative
Amendments to IAS 12, ‘Income taxes’ on recognition of deferred tax   
  assets for unrealised losses
Amendment to IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and 
  IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ on depreciation and amortisation
Amendment to IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and 
  IAS 41 ‘Agriculture’ regarding bearer plants
Amendments to IAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’ 
  on the equity method
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014
It is considered that the above standards and amendments, with the 
exception of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ and  
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, will not have a significant effect on the results  
or net assets of the Group or Company.
IFRS 15 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2018. The Directors are currently reviewing the impact  
this standard may have, which is of particular relevance to the 
construction contracts within the Group’s Engineering businesses.
IFRS 16 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2019. The Directors are currently reviewing the level of  
the Group’s leasing arrangements that would be brought within the  
scope of IFRS 16. 
At the date of signing the financial statements the Directors are not  
yet in a sufficiently advanced stage of their reviews to be able to  
quantify any financial impact from either of these two standards.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS, KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management  
to make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future  
as detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is 
determined each year following advice from a qualifying independent 
actuary and can fluctuate based on a number of external factors.  
Such factors include the major assumptions as shown in the table 
in note 25 and actual returns on scheme assets compared to those 
predicted in the previous scheme valuation.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment  
annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might 
be impaired. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is dependent 
on estimations of future cash flows from the cash generating unit and the 
use of an appropriate discount rate to discount those cash flows to their 
present value.
No impairment has been identified in the year (note 10).
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 19) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Under long term contracts, the Group recognises revenue and profits 
based on the percentage completion method. This requires management 
to make an assessment of the overall profitability and the stage of 
completion of the entire contract in order to determine the level of 
revenue and profit to recognise. 56
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement.  
The profit after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £26,362,000 (2015: £2,870,000).
2 Segmental information
The chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Executive Directors. Management has identified the operating  
segments based on internal financial information reviewed by the CODM. The CODM considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture and Engineering. The previously recognised Food operating segment was disposed of  
during the year. Operating segments have not been aggregated for the purpose of determining reportable segments. 
Agriculture aims to provide for all farming requirements. It derives its revenue from the sale of animal feed and feed blocks together with retail sales 
of farm equipment, fuels and farm consumables.
Engineering derives its revenue from the design and manufacture of bespoke equipment for use in the nuclear, oil and gas, and petrochemical 
industries. Products include manipulators, robotics, specialist fabrication and precision machining. 
Performance is assessed using operating profit. For internal purposes operating profit is measured in a manner consistent with that in the financial 
statements, with the exception of material non-recurring items, which are excluded.
Inter-segmental transactions are all undertaken on an arm’s length basis.
As segment liabilities are not reviewed by the CODM they are not required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.      
  
The Group has operations in the UK and overseas. In accordance with IFRS 8, entity wide disclosures based on the geography of operations  
is also presented. The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin.       
 
The segmental information for the year ended 3 September 2016 is as follows:
  Agriculture  Engineering  Group
  £’000 £’000 £’000
Total segment revenue  284,836 30,192 315,028
Inter segment revenue  (63) (58) (121)
Revenue from external customers  284,773 30,134 314,907
EBITDA
1
  12,924 3,555 16,479
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  (2,539) (1,043) (3,582)
Depreciation of investment property  (6) — (6)
Profit on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  12 72 84
Amortisation of intangible assets  (133) (72) (205)
Operating profit  10,258 2,512 12,770
Finance income    236
Finance costs    (1,009)
    11,997
Share of post-tax profit of associate    1,239
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures    842
Profit before taxation from continuing operations    14,078
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (and before profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment) 57
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Segmental information (continued)
Assets
   Agriculture  Engineering  Group
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment gross assets   149,777 52,376 202,153
 
The segmental information for the year ended 29 August 2015 (restated) is as follows:
   Agriculture  Engineering  Group  
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Total segment revenue   297,858 33,588 331,446
Inter segment revenue   (115) (46) (161)
Revenue from external customers   297,743 33,542 331,285
EBITDA
1
   11,882 3,573 15,455
  
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   (2,365) (815) (3,180)
Depreciation of investment property   (6) — (6)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment   38 (24) 14
Amortisation of intangible assets   (100) (93) (193)
Operating profit   9,449 2,641 12,090
Finance income     338
Finance costs     (1,045)
     11,383
Share of post-tax profit of associate      1,500
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures     807
Profit before taxation from continuing operations     13,690
 
Assets
  Agriculture Food  Engineering Group
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment gross assets  125,057 35,225 46,670 206,952
The Food operating segment was disposed in the year ended 3 September 2016. 
Entity wide disclosures
Revenues from external customers are derived from the sale of products by individual business segment. The breakdown of revenue by business 
segment is provided above.
Revenues from external customers: 
   2016 2015
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
UK    269,109 287,727 
Europe   13,343 13,759
USA   32,455 29,799
     314,907 331,285  58
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 Segmental information (continued)
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets:
  2016   2015
 UK Europe USA Total UK Europe USA Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Goodwill 11,108 313 19 11,440 10,520 313 16 10,849
Other intangible assets — 257 29 286 173 245 30 448 
Property, plant and equipment 22,821 6,642 6,348 35,811 48,256 6,009 4,120 58,385
Investment property 182 — — 182 636 — — 636 
Investment in associate 8,667 — — 8,667 8,439 —  — 8,439
Interest in joint ventures 1,717 2,554 1,986 6,257  1,748 2,097  1,167 5,012 
Other investments 50 — 22 72  61 —  18 79
Non-current receivables 50 — — 50 50 — — 50 
Retirement benefit asset 311 — — 311 1,767 — — 1,767
 44,906 9,766 8,404 63,076 71,650 8,664 5,351 85,665
Major customers
There are no revenues from transactions with individual customers which amount to ten percent or more of Group revenue.
3 Group operating profit
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
  Continuing Discontinued  Continuing  Discontinued
  operations  operations operations  operations
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:  
Amortisation of grants  (53) (100) (20)  (100)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (84) (6) (14) (11)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  3,582 1,875 3,180 1,879
Depreciation of owned investment property  6 13 6 14
Amortisation of intangible assets   205 14 193 15 
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses  (383) (206) 50 — 
Derivative financial instruments losses  70 74 (65) 72 
Operating lease charges  556 730 377 700 
Research and development expense  1,320 1,046 1,423 1,201 
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £15,450; 2015: £15,300)  76 — 75  —
The auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to legislation        
  (including overseas)  159 21 121  30
Total audit services  235 21 196  30
Taxation compliance services  27 —  33 —
Other taxation advisory services  70 —  35 —
Other non-audit services  6 —  19 —
Total non-audit services  103 —  87 —
 
Included within Group operating profit is the following in respect 
  of investment property leased to, and occupied by, external parties:
Rental income  (42) (13) (41) (13)
Operating expenses  44 22 42 22
  2 9 1 9 59
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4 Staff costs
 2016 2015
   (Restated) 
 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
 operations operations operations operations
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 27,321 5,643 27,114 5,896
Social security costs 3,065 581 2,933 603
Other pension costs 1,478 473 1,681 478
Share based payments (99) 3 520 64
 31,765 6,700 32,248 7,041
The prior year has been restated by £141,000 for the reclassification to interest income of the net interest on the net defined benefit retirement asset 
previously recognised within operating profit.
Included within other pension costs is a credit of £287,000 (2015: charge of £261,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme (note 25).
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the year was made up as follows:
    (Restated)
   2016 2015
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest   126 187
Net interest on the net defined benefit retirement asset (note 25)   94 141
Other interest    16 10
Total finance income    236 338
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (130) (114)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (735) (763)
Interest payable on finance leases   (78) (98)
Other interest   (66) (70)
Total finance costs   (1,009) (1,045)
The prior year has been restated for the reclassification to interest income of the net interest on the net defined benefit retirement asset previously  
recognised within operating profit.
 2016 2015
 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
 operations operations operations operations
Group Number Number Number Number
Sales, office and management 504 70 495 71
Manufacture and distribution 401 102 384 107
 905 172 879 178
Key management are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 30 to 35.
5 Finance income and finance costs 60
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
6 Taxation
(a) Analysis of the charge in the year
   2016 2015
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
  Current year    952 1,104
  Adjustment in respect of prior years    173 137
Foreign tax   
  Current year    680 621
  Adjustment in respect of prior years    — (33)
Group current tax    1,805 1,829
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences 
  Current year   1,177 1,199 
  Adjustment in respect of prior years    (75) (18)
Group deferred tax (note 17)   1,102 1,181
Tax on profit from ordinary activities    2,907 3,010
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is higher (2015: higher) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% (2015: 20.58%). The differences are  
explained below:
   2016 2015
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    14,078 13,690
Tax at 20% (2015: 20.58%)   2,816 2,817
Effects of:
  Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (416) (475)
  Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   — 148
  Tax effect of non-taxable income   (105) (31)
  Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    704 478
  Effects of changes in tax rates   (190) (13)
  Adjustment in respect of prior years    98 86
Total tax charge for the year    2,907 3,010
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
The main rate of UK corporation tax has been reduced from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and from 19% to 18% with effect from  
1 April 2020. These rate reductions were substantively enacted before the year end and as the Directors consider the deferred tax balances are 
expected to reverse after 1 April 2020 the tax rate used for deferred tax at the year end is 18%.
During the year the UK government proposed that the main rate of UK corporation tax would be further reduced to 17% instead of 18% with effect 
from 1 April 2020. This has not been substantively enacted prior to the balance sheet date. The overall effect of the further change from 18% to 17%, 
if this was applied to the deferred tax balance at 3 September 2016, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately £68,000. 61
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   2016 2015
Equity   £’000 £’000
Second interim paid for the year ended 29 August 2015 of 0.925p per 2.5p share (2014: 0.85p)  830 760
Final dividend for the year ended 29 August 2015 of 1.85p per 2.5p share (2014: 1.7p)   1,662 1,520
First interim paid for the year ended 3 September 2016 of 0.95p per 2.5p share (2015: 0.925p)   855 830
   3,347 3,110
Since the year end a second interim dividend of £866,393, being 0.95p per share, has been paid. A special dividend of £15,996,351, being 17.54p  
per share, was paid in October following the disposal of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd. The financial statements do not reflect these dividends payable.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 3 September 2016 to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,732,786,  
being 1.9p per share, making a total for the year, excluding the special dividend, of 3.8p (2015: 3.7p). Shares held in treasury do not carry entitlement  
to a dividend. The financial statements do not reflect this proposed final dividend as payable.
8 Dividends
7 Discontinued operations
On 3 September 2016 Carr’s Group plc disposed of its entire shareholding in Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd for a gross consideration of £36m on a cash  
and debt free basis, less costs to sell. 
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations, and the gain recognised on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell, is as follows:
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Revenue   71,440 80,280
Expenses   (67,950) (76,503)
Profit before taxation of discontinued operations   3,490 3,777
Taxation   (712) (764)
Profit after taxation of discontinued operations   2,778 3,013
Pre-taxation gain recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell   39 —
Taxation   — —
After taxation gain recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs sell   39 —
Profit for the year from discontinued operations   2,817 3,013 62
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
9 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 90,087,357 shares (2015: 89,574,461) in issue during the year.
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an ongoing basis. 
Therefore an adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows:
  2016 2015
    Earnings  Earnings
   Earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share  – basic    9,638 10.7 8,976 10.0
Amortisation and non-recurring items:      
  Amortisation of intangible assets    205 0.2 193 0.2
  Taxation relief on amortisation   (47) — (49) (0.1)
  Acquisition related costs
1
   7 — 58 0.1
Earnings per share – adjusted   9,803 10.9 9,178 10.2
Discontinued operations
 Earnings per share – basic   2,817 3.1 3,013 3.4
Amortisation and non-recurring items:      
  Amortisation of intangible assets    14 — 15 —
  Taxation relief on amortisation   — — (3) —
  Profit on disposal of subsidiary   (39) — — —
Earnings per share – adjusted   2,792  3.1 3,025 3.4
Total (basic)   12,455  13.8 11,989 13.4
Total (adjusted)   12,595 14.0 12,203 13.6
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary 
shares during the year, are disclosed in note 27.
  2016   2015
  Weighted Earnings  Weighted Earnings
 Earnings average number per share Earnings average number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share 9,638 90,087,357 10.7 8,976 89,574,461 10.0
 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
  Share option scheme — 78,032 — — 332,332 —
  Share save scheme — 1,317,329 (0.2) — 1,288,785 (0.1)
  Long term incentive plan — 551,437 — — 1,476,960 (0.2)
Diluted earnings per share 9,638 92,034,155 10.5 8,976 92,672,538 9.7
Discontinued operations
 Earnings per share 2,817 90,087,357 3.1 3,013 89,574,461 3.4
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Share option scheme — 78,032 — — 332,332 —
  Share save scheme — 1,317,329 (0.1) — 1,288,785 (0.1)
  Long term incentive plan — 551,437 — — 1,476,960 (0.1)
Diluted earnings per share 2,817 92,034,155 3.0 3,013 92,672,538 3.2
 12,455 92,034,155 13.5 11,989 92,672,538 12.9
1 Disallowable for tax purposes 63
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9 Earnings per ordinary share (continued)
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 30 August 2014 10,123 3,209 594 240 145 590 14,901
Exchange differences 1 — (16) — 13 (40) (42)
Subsidiaries acquired 1,050 162 — — — — 1,212
Additions  — — — — 5 10 15
At 29 August 2015  11,174 3,371 578 240 163 560 16,086
Exchange differences 3 — 31 — 25 77 136
Subsidiaries/businesses acquired 783 39 — — — — 822
Additions  — — — — 8 54 62
Subsidiary disposed — (2,094) (357) — — — (2,451)
Disposals (195) — — — — — (195)
At 3 September 2016  11,765 1,316 252 240 196 691 14,460
Accumulated amortisation 
  and impairment
At 30 August 2014 325 3,209 337 240 105 388 4,604
Exchange differences — — (6) — 9 (26) (23)
Charge for the year — 81 30 — 19 78 208
At 29 August 2015  325 3,290 361 240 133 440 4,789
Exchange differences — — 15 — 21 64 100
Charge for the year — 120 30 — 13 56 219
Subsidiary disposed — (2,094) (280) — — — (2,374)
At 3 September 2016 325 1,316 126 240 167 560 2,734
Net book amount
At 30 August 2014 9,798 — 257 — 40 202 10,297
At 29 August 2015 10,849 81 217 — 30 120 11,297
At 3 September 2016 11,440 — 126 — 29 131 11,726
During the year goodwill of £783,000 arose on acquisitions (note 28).
During the year there was a disposal of £195,000 (2015: £nil) in respect of the dissolution of dormant subsidiaries. This was partially offset by an 
adjustment to non-controlling interests of £104,000.
During the prior year goodwill totalling £1,050,000 arose on the acquisitions of WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Ltd and Reid and Robertson 
Ltd. Goodwill represented the excess of the consideration paid over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination.
10 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  2016   2015
 Adjusted Weighted Earnings Adjusted Weighted Earnings
 earnings average number per share earnings average number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Continuing operations
Diluted adjusted 
  earnings per share 9,803 92,034,155 10.7 9,178 92,672,538 9.9
Discontinued operations
Diluted adjusted 
  earnings per share 2,792 92,034,155 3.0 3,025 92,672,538 3.3
 12,595 92,034,155 13.7 12,203 92,672,538 13.2 64
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
   3 September 29 August
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd   — 195
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre   781 781
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Borders profit centre   264 264
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Wooler profit centre   369 369
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Safe at Work profit centre   568 568 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Laycocks profit centre   125 125
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Wales profit centre   626 626
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Reid and Robertson profit centre   783 783
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Greens profit centre   80 —
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd – Phoenix profit centre   703 —
Carrs Agriculture Ltd – Scotmin profit centre   2,068 2,068
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. – Silver Springs profit centre   18 15
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH   313 313
Carr’s Engineering Ltd – Bendalls Engineering profit centre   516 516
Carr’s Engineering Ltd – Chirton profit centre   4,226 4,226
   11,440 10,849 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment by estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting those cash flows 
to their present value. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at operating segment level. The key assumptions in this calculation are the levels 
of future cash flows, particularly in the perpetuity period, and the discount rate. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2017, which has been approved by the Board and 
forecast information for the four years to August 2021 based on medium term business plans and an assumption for long term growth of between 
1-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax discount rates used to discount the forecast cash flows for all cash generating units is 5.43% - 10.38% 
(2015: 7.73% - 12.76%).  
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable given 
current market conditions.
Significant headroom exists in each of the cash generating units and, based on the stress testing performed, reasonable possible changes in the 
assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of the cash generating units to equal or to exceed their recoverable amount. Given the current 
state of the oil market the Directors placed particular attention to the impairment review on the carrying value of goodwill relating to the Chirton 
profit centre. The Directors reviewed the assumptions used and the impact of sensitivities and agreed that no provision for impairment was required.
Amortisation and impairment charges are recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the Company (2015: none).
Significant cash generating units 
The following key assumptions have been used in the impairment testing for goodwill with a significant carrying value:
10 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units: 
     Long term
     average annual 
   Goodwill Pre-tax change in Long term
   carrying value  discount rate cash flows growth rate
   £’000 % % %
Cash generating unit
Carr’s Engineering Ltd – Chirton profit centre  4,226 10.38 12 2
Carrs Agriculture Ltd – Scotmin profit centre  2,068 5.43 13 2
Stress testing of the future cash flows generated from these cash generating units shows that an impairment of goodwill would potentially arise  
should cash flows fall by 40% in the Chirton profit centre and by 96% in the Scotmin profit centre. 65
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11 Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in the
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 August 2014   35,461 72,012 603 108,076
Exchange differences   (198) 300 (2) 100
Subsidiaries acquired   14 178 — 192
Additions   710 4,410 2,143 7,263
Disposals    (51) (1,419) — (1,470)
Reclassifications    133 175 (308) —
At 29 August 2015   36,069 75,656 2,436 114,161
Exchange differences   1,023 1,167 284 2,474
Subsidiaries/businesses acquired   — 25 — 25
Additions   1,512 4,791 948 7,251
Subsidiary disposed   (14,648) (41,704) — (56,352)
Disposals    (5) (1,607) — (1,612)
Reclassifications    1,721 104 (1,825) —
At 3 September 2016   25,672 38,432 1,843 65,947
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 August 2014   6,981 44,469 — 51,450
Exchange differences    42 301 — 343
Subsidiaries acquired   14 60 — 74
Charge for the year    817 4,242 — 5,059
Disposals    (14) (1,136) — (1,150)
At 29 August 2015   7,840 47,936 — 55,776
Exchange differences    193 885 — 1,078
Charge for the year    917 4,540 — 5,457
Subsidiary disposed   (3,273) (27,590) — (30,863)
Disposals    — (1,312) — (1,312)
At 3 September 2016   5,677 24,459 — 30,136
Net book amount
At 30 August 2014   28,480 27,543 603 56,626
At 29 August 2015   28,229 27,720 2,436 58,385
At 3 September 2016   19,995 13,973 1,843 35,811
Freehold land amounting to £3,008,879 (2015: £3,569,135) has not been depreciated.
The net book amount of plant and equipment includes £3,206,805 (2015: £12,261,842) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists  
of cost of £5,046,733 (2015: £16,603,001) less accumulated depreciation of £1,839,928 (2015: £4,341,159). The finance lease lessors hold  
security over the assets held under finance leases.
Under the Group’s banking facilities the lenders have legal charges over certain properties together with floating charges over the assets of certain  
businesses. The net book amount of specific assets held under legal charges at the balance sheet date was £1,667,000 (2015: £1,721,000).
Included in the above table in respect of assets held under floating charges are assets with a net book amount of £6,327,000 (2015: £23,431,000).  
This excludes specific assets under legal charge and assets secured under finance leases both of which are separately disclosed above. The prior year  
included assets within Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd which was sold during the year ended 3 September 2016. 66
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
11 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Depreciation is recognised within the Consolidated Income Statement as shown below:
   2016 2015 
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   4,896 4,373
Distribution costs   46 76
Administrative expenses   515 610
   5,457 5,059
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2015: none).
12 Investment property
    Total
Group    £’000
Cost
At 30 August 2014 and 29 August 2015    922
Subsidiary disposed    (623)
At 3 September 2016    299
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 August 2014    266
Charge for the year    20
At 29 August 2015    286
Charge for the year    19
Subsidiary disposed    (188)
At 3 September 2016    117
Net book amount
At 30 August 2014    656
At 29 August 2015    636
At 3 September 2016    182
Included within investment property at the prior year end are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book amount of these properties at  
3 September 2016 is £nil (2015: £145,000).
The fair value of investment properties at 3 September 2016 is £360,000 (2015: £1,065,000). Investment properties were valued by  
independent professionally qualified valuers in October 2016. 
There is no investment property in the Company (2015: none). 67
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Joint Other
   Associate ventures investments Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 August 2014   6,883 4,836 86 11,805
Exchange difference   — (71) 2 (69)
Return of capital invested   — (488) — (488)
Redemption of preference shares   — (150) — (150)
Share of post-tax profit   1,500 807 — 2,307
Share of gains recognised directly in equity  56 78 — 134
At 29 August 2015   8,439 5,012 88 13,539
Exchange difference   — 472 3 475
Disposals   — — (10) (10)
Redemption of preference shares   — (150) — (150)
Share of post-tax profit   1,239 842 — 2,081
Share of (losses)/gains recognised directly in equity  (1,011) 194 — (817)
Dividend paid by joint venture   — (113) — (113)
At 3 September 2016   8,667 6,257 81 15,005
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 30 August 2014, 29 August 2015 and 3 September 2016  — — 9 9
Net book amount
At 30 August 2014   6,883 4,836 77 11,796
At 29 August 2015    8,439 5,012 79 13,530
At 3 September 2016    8,667 6,257 72 14,996
 
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which 
fair value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. 
13 Investments 68
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
13 Investments (continued)
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Ltd 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
The Group does not have the ability to control the financial and operating policies of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Ltd. The Group  
has a 49% shareholding and a 43% representation on the Board of Directors of this associate.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
At the year end the associate had capital commitments of £177,966 (2015: £187,000). No contingent liabilities exist within the associate.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the Group recognises 49% in the net investment in associate, are:
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Total assets    37,438 34,199
Total liabilities   (19,751) (16,977) 
Revenues    98,445 105,162
Profit after tax   2,528 3,061
   Shares in  Joint 
   subsidiaries Associate ventures Total
Company   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 30 August 2014     18,142 245 272 18,659 
Recapitalisation   74 — — 74
Share based payment expense 
  in respect of employees of 
  subsidiary undertakings   222 — — 222
At 29 August 2015    18,438 245 272 18,955
Subsidiary disposed   (264) — — (264)
Subsidiaries dissolved   (1,605) — — (1,605)
Share based payment credit 
  in respect of employees of 
  subsidiary undertakings   (297) — — (297)
At 3 September 2016    16,272 245 272 16,789
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 30 August 2014   5,387 — — 5,387
Impairment in the year   846 — — 846
At 29 August 2015    6,233 — — 6,233
Subsidiaries dissolved   (1,439) — — (1,439)
At 3 September 2016   4,794 — — 4,794
Net book amount
At 30 August 2014   12,755 245 272 13,272
At 29 August 2015   12,205 245 272 12,722
At 3 September 2016   11,478 245 272 11,995
During the year several dormant companies with a combined cost of £1,605,000 and a combined accumulated provision for impairment of  
£1,439,000 were dissolved. In the prior year an impairment of £846,000 was recognised to impair the investment in certain dormant subsidiaries  
down to their net realisable amount. These dormant subsidiaries were dissolved in the year ended 3 September 2016.
14 Investment in associate
The associated undertaking at 3 September 2016 is:
Group and Company 69
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15 Interest in joint ventures
The joint ventures at 3 September 2016 are:
Group
 Interest held   
 Equity Non-equity Country of Country of 
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Ltd 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Ltd 50 — England  UK Holding company
Afgritech LLC 50 — USA USA Producers of ingredients 
     of animal feed
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC 50 — USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
ACC Feed Supplement LLC 50 — USA USA Manufacture of animal
     feed blocks
Silloth Storage Company Ltd 50 — England UK Storage of molasses
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting year end.
Silloth Storage Company Ltd has a 30 June accounting year end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) 
Ltd holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Ltd. Carrs Agriculture Ltd holds 50% of the 
ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Ltd. Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. holds the interest in Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC and ACC 
Feed Supplement LLC. Afgritech Ltd has 100% control of Afgritech LLC. The preference shares in Bibby Agriculture Ltd are redeemable with three 
months notice, carry no dividend entitlement except at the Directors’ discretion, and no voting rights.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
At the year end the joint ventures had no capital commitments (2015: £nil). No contingent liabilities exist within the joint ventures.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   6,232 5,737
Current assets   6,144 5,643
Current liabilities   (4,268) (5,930)
Non-current liabilities   (2,038) (775)
Income   24,204 24,607
Expenses   (23,202) (23,618)
Net finance cost   (52) (12)
 
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Ltd. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest  
in joint ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £170,000 (2015: £320,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share 
capital of Bibby Agriculture Ltd. 70
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Ltd   100  England  UK Manufacture of  
     animal feed/mineral blocks and
     ingredients of animal feed
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd   51  England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc.   100  USA USA Manufacture of 
     animal feed blocks   
Horslyx LLC   100   USA USA Distributor of
     animal feed blocks 
Carr’s Engineering Ltd   100  England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
B.R.B. Trust Ltd   100  England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Ltd   100  England UK Property holding
16 Investment in subsidiary undertakings
During the year the Company disposed of its investment in Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd (Note 7). Dormant subsidiaries are listed on the inside back cover  
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the Company with the following exceptions: Carr’s Engineering Ltd holds 100%  
of the ordinary share capital in Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH and Carrs Agriculture Ltd holds 100% of the investment in Horslyx LLC.
17 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax  
  depreciation  — — (1,230) (2,996) (1,230) (2,996)
Employee benefits  — —  (56) (353) (56) (353)
Other — 861 (531) (835) (531) 26
Tax assets/(liabilities)  — 861 (1,817) (4,184) (1,817) (3,323) 
Deferred tax net liabilities are expected to reverse after more than one year from the balance sheet date.
Movement in deferred tax during the year
 At      At
 30 August Exchange In respect of In respect of Recognised Recognised 3 September
 2015 differences acquisitions disposals in income in equity 2016
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Other  861 38 — (22) (877) — —
 861 38 — (22) (877) — —
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,996) (42) (8) 1,995 (179) — (1,230)
Employee benefits (353) — — — (193) 490 (56)
Other (835) (35) — 192 147 — (531)
 (4,184) (77) (8) 2,187 (225) 490 (1,817)
Net liabilities (3,323) (39) (8) 2,165 (1,102) 490 (1,817)
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities includes deferred tax on short term timing differences, rolled over capital gains, trading losses, capital losses, 
business combinations and overseas deferred tax. 71
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax  
  depreciation  2 3 — — 2 3
Employee benefits  — —  (56) (353) (56) (353)
Tax assets/(liabilities)  2 3 (56) (353) (54) (350)
Movement in deferred tax during the year
 At     At
 31 August Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 29 August
 2014 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2015
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Other  1,507 118 (32) (732) — 861
 1,507 118 (32) (732) — 861
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,932) (10) (39) (15) — (2,996)
Employee benefits (412) — — (511) 570 (353)
Other (767) 10 — (78) — (835)
 (4,111) — (39) (604) 570 (4,184)
Net liabilities (2,604) 118 (71) (1,336) 570 (3,323)
 
Deferred tax recognised in income includes £155,000 in respect of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd which was disposed in the current year.
   At   At
   30 August Recognised Recognised 3 September
   2015 in income in equity 2016
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Accelerated tax depreciation   3 (1) — 2
Liabilities:
Employee benefits   (353) (193) 490 (56)
Net liabilities   (350) (194) 490 (54)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
   At   At
   31 August Recognised Recognised 29 August
   2014 in income in equity 2015
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Accelerated tax depreciation   3 — — 3
Liabilities:
Employee benefits   (412) (511) 570 (353)
Net liabilities   (409) (511) 570 (350)
Tax of £120,000 (2015: £133,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
Tax of £39,000 (2015: £43,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet. 72
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
18 Inventories 
   2016 2015
Group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   8,377 10,060 
Work in progress   2,800 2,382
Finished goods and goods for resale    22,246 22,589
   33,423 35,031
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £651,000 (2015: £414,000). The amount recognised as an expense in the year in respect  
of the write down of inventories is £237,000 (2015: £66,000). The amount recognised as a credit in the year in respect of reversals of write downs  
of inventories is £nil (2015: £9,000).
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales is £272,341,000 (2015: £354,656,000).
The Company has no inventories (2015: none).
Construction contracts disclosures
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 46,980 53,428  — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (2,100) (2,070) — —
Trade receivables – net 44,880 51,358 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  5,733 3,985 — —
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 34)  — — 16,494 32,740
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 34) 1,901 4,343 1,640 3,651
Loans receivable 50 — — —
Other taxes and social security receivable 625 1,141 — —
Other receivables  1,121 1,379 370 234
Prepayments and accrued income  2,630 2,248 327 220
  56,940 64,454 18,831 36,845
Non-current:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 34) — — 17,486 —
Other receivables 50 50 — —
  50 50 17,486 —
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and 
unused provision released back to the consolidated income statement. The provision is utilised when there is no expectation of recovering 
additional cash.
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date   3,014  2,691 
Contract advances received   (1,257) (1,679)
Work in progress on construction contracts   1,757 1,012 
    
Revenue from construction contracts   21,332   23,678  
19 Trade and other receivables 73
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19 Trade and other receivables (continued)
During the year a charge of £50,000 (2015: credit of £307,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement in respect of the movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding year.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings within current trade and other receivables carry interest at Bank of England 
base rate + 2.50%, 4.50% or 4.88%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings within non-current receivables carry interest at 4.88% and 6.25%.  
Such amounts are unsecured and have a term of 5 years.
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 38,404 47,443 — —
US Dollar 1,823 630 — —
Euro  4,281 2,937 — —
New Zealand Dollar 372 348 — —
   44,880 51,358 — —
20 Current tax assets
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  303 839 710 1,256
Group taxation relief  — — 212 308
  303 839 922 1,564
 2016 2015
    Past due but   Past due but
  Gross Impairment not impaired Gross Impairment not impaired
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade 
 receivables is as  
 follows:
Not past due 23,273 (57) N/A 35,236 (123) N/A
Past due 0 – 30 days 9,354 (23) 9,331 6,800 (82) 6,718
Past due 31 – 60 days 3,876 (27) 3,849 3,724 (110) 3,614
Past due 61 – 90 days 3,569 (115) 3,454 2,667 (104) 2,563
Past due 91 – 120 days 2,184 (69) 2,115 1,282 (83) 1,199
Past 121 days 4,724 (1,809) 2,915 3,719 (1,568) 2,151
   46,980 (2,100) 21,664 53,428 (2,070) 16,245
The Company has no trade receivables (2015: none).
   
In relation to trade receivables, the major source of estimation uncertainty is the recoverable value of those receivables. The judgements applied  
to this include the credit quality of customers, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors. Individual 
customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors, and provisions for impairment are made using those judgements. Provisions for impairment 
are reviewed monthly by divisional management.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2015: none). 74
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
21 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts
 Group Company
    (Restated)  
  2016  2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet  48,411 20,052 37,945 8,973
Bank overdrafts (note 23) (8,624) (3,777) — —
Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of cash flows  39,787 16,275 37,945 8,973
The prior year has been restated by £3,564,000 to gross up bank balances with right of offset within the same facility.
22 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables  13,568 20,655 — —
Payments on account  2,497 1,279 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 34) — — 37 27
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 34) 20,676 18,045 — 1
Other taxes and social security payable  1,073 1,162 442 683
Deferred employee incentive plan — 2,324 — —
Other payables  4,193 5,836 355 241
Accruals and deferred income  4,816 5,195 1,380 963
   46,823 54,496 2,214 1,915
Non-current:
Contingent consideration 2,394 2,394 — —
Accruals and deferred income  274 1,906 — —
   2,668 4,300 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings and other related parties are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
The contingent consideration of £2,394,000 on the acquisition of Chirton Engineering Ltd in year ended 2014 remains potentially payable subject
to certain earnings criteria being met. As at 3 September 2016 this criteria was not met and therefore none of this contingent consideration is payable
within one year of the balance sheet date. The earliest that any consideration may fall due would be subsequent to year end 2017. The contingent 
consideration has not been discounted as the impact of discounting is not material.
Included within accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the year  2,008 1,628 — —
Subsidiaries disposed (1,581) — — —
Received in the year — 500 — —
Amortisation in the year (153) (120) — —
At the end of the year  274 2,008 — —
Included within:
  Current liabilities — 102 — —
  Non-current liabilities 274 1,906 — —
  274 2,008 — — 75
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Borrowings 
 Group Company
   (Restated)
1
  
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The net (cash)/borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  40,267 44,465 21,863 17,104
Cash and cash equivalents (48,411) (20,052) (37,945) (8,973)
Net (cash)/borrowings  (8,144) 24,413 (16,082) 8,131
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £9,791,000 (2015: £9,984,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, 
together with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC has legal charges over certain 
properties. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Loans from Group undertakings are non-interest bearing. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
Other loans from related parties are non-interest bearing. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is repayable on demand.
Bank loans includes a drawn down revolving credit facility of £15.0m (2015: £15.0m) which is repayable in June 2019. At the year  
end the Group had £4.5m of undrawn revolving credit facilities (2015: £2.0m). 
1 The prior year has been restated by £3,564,000 for the grossing up of cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts for accounts with right of offset within the same banking facility.
 Group Company
   (Restated)
1
  
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts  8,624 3,777 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 12,376 12,270 513 517
Loans from Group undertakings (note 34) — — 5,461 173
Other loans from related parties (note 34) — 500 — —
Finance leases 642 2,174 — —
   21,642 18,721 5,974 690
Non-current:
Bank loans  17,108 18,444 15,889 16,414
Finance leases  1,517 7,300 — —
   18,625 25,744 15,889 16,414
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  21,642 18,721 5,974 690
In the second year  1,942 3,229 513 517
In the third to fifth years inclusive  16,670 22,467 15,376 15,897
Over five years 13 48 — —
  40,267 44,465 21,863 17,104
Group and Company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £110,000 (2015: £132,000) of which £37,000 
(2015: £33,000) is deducted from current liabilities and £73,000 (2015: £99,000) is deducted from non-current liabilities. 76
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
24 Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk. These policies have 
remained unchanged throughout the year. 
Throughout this note the prior year has been restated by £3,564,000 for the grossing up of cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts for 
accounts with right of offset within the same banking facility.
Financial Instruments by currency
 
 2016 2015 (Restated)
    US  NZ   US   NZ
   Sterling Dollar Euro Dollar  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Dollar Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Other investments  50 22 — — 72 61 18 — — 79
Non-current receivables  50 — — — 50 50 — — — 50
Current trade and other receivables  45,739 3,282 4,292 372 53,685 53,596 4,177 2,944 348 61,065
Current derivatives  — — — — — — 14 36 — 50
Cash and cash equivalents  43,738 1,319 2,823 531 48,411 15,322 3,080 1,222 428 20,052
    89,577 4,623 7,115 903 102,218 69,029 7,289 4,202 776 81,296
Liabilities            
Current borrowings  20,179 205 1,258 — 21,642 17,551 213 957 — 18,721
Current derivatives  — 11 9 — 20 — 72 — — 72
Current trade and other payables  39,697 1,692 4,361 — 45,750 45,904 3,847 3,481 — 53,232
Non-current borrowings  18,625 — — — 18,625 25,744 — — — 25,744
Other non-current liabilities  2,394 — — — 2,394 2,394 — — — 2,394
    80,895 1,908 5,628 — 88,431 91,593 4,132 4,438 — 100,163
 2016 2015
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables — 17,486 — 17,486 — — — —
Current trade and other receivables 15,829 1,207 1,468 18,504 30,697 4,824 1,104 36,625
Current derivatives — — — — — 14 16 30
Cash and cash equivalents 37,463 210 272 37,945 8,173 687 113 8,973
  53,292 18,903 1,740 73,935 38,870 5,525 1,233 45,628
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 5,974 — — 5,974 690 — — 690
Current trade and other payables 1,772 — — 1,772 1,232 — — 1,232
Non-current borrowings 15,889 — — 15,889 16,414 — — 16,414
  23,635 — — 23,635 18,336 — — 18,336
Other taxes and social security receivable and prepayments are excluded from trade and other receivables in the tables above as they are not  
financial instruments. For this same reason other taxes and social security payable is excluded from trade and other payables. Deferred income  
in respect of government grants is excluded as it is not a financial liability.
Sensitivity analysis         
The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below. The Directors 
consider that a 10% (2015: 10%) weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies represents reasonable possible changes.
   2016   2015
  10%  10%  10%  10%
  weakening strengthening weakening  strengthening
  £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation (continuing operations) 709 (579) 480 (353)
Impact on total equity 3,012 (2,463) 2,521 (1,993)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other  
variables have been held constant.       77
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies  
at fixed and floating rates of interest.
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective (Restated)
  interest rate 2016 interest rate 2015
Group  % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts     2.12  8,624  2.45  3,777
Bank loans and other borrowings     2.04  29,484  2.16  30,714
Other loans — — — 500
Finance lease liabilities 2.60 2,159 2.21 9,474
   40,267  44,465
Fixed rate  2,159  9,474
Floating rate  38,108  34,491
Non-interest bearing  —  500
   40,267  44,465
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
Bank overdrafts US prime rate + 1.0% margin; US prime rate + 1.6% margin; Bank of England base rate +1.8% margin
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 1.8%; Libor + 2.0%; Bank of England base rate + 1.25% margin; 1.3%
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2016 interest rate 2015
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank loans 2.18 16,402 2.39 16,931
Loans from Group undertakings — 5,461 — 173
Floating rate  21,863  17,104
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank loans  Libor + 1.8% 78
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
24 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Sensitivity analysis
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the year is shown in the table below. The Directors consider that a 1% movement in 
interest rates represents a reasonable possible change.
 2016 2015
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation (continuing operations) 366 (366) 328 (328)
Impact on total equity 366 (366) 328 (328)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables 
have been held constant.     
Liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved  
by overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management  
of the Group’s liquidity.     
The tables below analyse the Group and Company’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted 
cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2016  2015 (Restated)
   Within One to Two to Over  Within One to Two to Over
   one two five five  one two five five
  Total year years years years Total year years years years
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000  £’000
Bank overdrafts 8,624 8,624 — — — 3,777 3,777 — — —
Bank loans and other      
  borrowings 30,632 12,807 1,726 16,099 — 32,445 12,768 1,793 17,884 —
Other loans — — — — — 500 500 — — —
Finance lease liabilities 2,362 705 668 972 17 10,338 2,482 2,131 5,666 59
Derivatives 20 20 — — — 72 72 — — —
Trade and other 
  payables 45,750 45,750 — — — 53,232 53,232 — — —
Other non-current 
  liabilities 2,394 — — 2,394 — 2,394 — 2,394 — —
   89,782 67,906 2,394 19,465 17 102,758 72,831 6,318 23,550 59
 2016  2015
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Company £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank loans 17,491 906 895 15,690 18,533 952 939 16,642
Loans from Group undertakings 5,461 5,461 — — 173 173 — —
Trade and other payables 1,772 1,772 — — 1,232 1,232 — —
 24,724 8,139 895 15,690 19,938 2,357 939 16,642
Trade and other payables in the tables above exclude other taxes and social security which do not meet the definition of financial liabilities  
under IFRS 7. Deferred income in respect of government grants has also been excluded as it does not give rise to a contractual obligation  
to pay cash. 79
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Repayment profile
  2016 2015 2016 2015
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 705 2,482 642 2,174
In the second year 668 2,131 616 1,900
In the third to fifth years inclusive 972 5,666 888 5,352
Over five years 17 59 13 48
  2,362 10,338 2,159 9,474
Less: future finance charges (203) (864)
 
Present value of lease obligations 2,159 9,474
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2015: none). 
Borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 3 September 2016, in respect of which all conditions precedent  
had been met, were as follows:
24 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Future minimum lease payments of finance leases
   2016 2015
   Floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   18,514 17,007
Expiring within two and five years inclusive   4,500 2,000
   23,014 19,007
The Company’s overdraft is within a Group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn facilities at the balance  
sheet date.
Capital risk management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns  
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated  
as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents.  
Total equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
At 3 September 2016 the Group had net cash of £8.1m (2015: net debt of £24.4m). Gearing was 24.7% at the prior year end.
The Group monitors cash balances and net debt on a daily basis to ensure adequate headroom exists on banking facilities and that it is compliant 
with banking covenants. 
Fair value hierarchy
IFRS 13 requires financial instruments that are measured at fair value to be classified according to the valuation technique used:
Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2 – inputs, other than Level 1 inputs, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived  
 from prices) 
Level 3 – unobservable inputs
All derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. There were no transfers between levels in the above hierarchy  
in either the current or prior year.
The Group holds shares in several private limited companies. These have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair value cannot be 
reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. Had fair value been applied this financial asset would have been Level 3.   80
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
24 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of Group and Company financial assets and liabilities are not materially different to book value.
Derivative financial instruments 
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group hedges foreign denominated loans against its investment in foreign subsidiaries. A foreign exchange pre-tax gain of £504,000 
(2015: £373,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of US dollar denominated loans with a fair value of $24,908,000  
(2015: $7,408,000) to sterling. A foreign exchange pre-tax gain of £183,000 (2015: pre-tax loss of £35,000) was recognised in equity during  
the year on translation of Euro denominated loans with a fair value of €1,750,000 (2015: €1,500,000) to sterling. The Group’s net investment  
hedge was fully effective in both the current and prior year and therefore no gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Currency derivatives 
The Group and Company use forward foreign currency contracts and options to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair 
value of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts and options are as below:
 2016 2015
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year (32) 7,402 (15) 515
Subsidiaries disposed 146 (1,305) — —
Losses during the year (134) (4,635) (17) 6,887
At end of the year (20) 1,462 (32) 7,402
Included within:  
  Current assets — — 40 5,193
  Current liabilities (20) 1,462 (72) 2,209
  (20) 1,462 (32) 7,402
 2016 2015
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year 10 394 — —
(Losses)/gains during the year (10) (394) 10 394
At end of the year (current assets) — — 10 394
The Company has no currency swaps (2015: none).
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts, options and currency swaps at the balance  
sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts, options and currency swaps have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses  
on currency related derivatives are included within administrative expenses.
 2016 2015
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year 30 5,066 — —
(Losses)/gains during the year (30) (5,066) 30 5,066
At end of the year (current assets) — — 30 5,066
The Group uses currency swaps to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of outstanding currency swaps are as below: 81
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 Retirement benefits
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Group Pension Scheme and Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme.
Carr’s Group
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Group Pension Scheme and offered a defined contribution and a defined benefit section. The assets of the scheme 
are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
From 1 September 2015 the defined contribution section was closed. Members of that section were enrolled in a new defined contribution scheme, 
the Carr’s Group Retirement Savings Scheme (‘Carr’s Group RSS’), set up under a Master Trust arrangement. The pension expense for the defined 
contribution section of the Carr’s Group Pension Scheme for the year was £nil (2015: £751,000). Contributions totalling £nil (2015: £47,000)  
were payable to the fund at the year end and are included in other payables.
The defined benefit section of the scheme was previously closed to new members, and has closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 
2015. Members of this section became entitled to become members of the Carr’s Group RSS from 1 January 2016. The pension contribution made 
by the Group over the year to the defined benefit section was £888,000 (2015: £2,679,000). Contributions to the scheme for the year ending 
August 2017 are expected to be £nil.
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Group Pension Scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme 
was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 31 December 2014 and updated on an approximate basis to 3 September 2016 by a 
qualified independent actuary. 
Major assumptions:     
   2016 2015
   % %
Inflation (RPI)   2.80 3.00
Inflation (CPI)   1.90 2.10
Salary increases   n/a 2.55
Rate of discount   2.05 3.80
Pension in payment increases: 
  RPI or 5.0% per annum if less   2.80 2.90
  RPI or 5.0% per annum if less, minimum 3.0% per annum   3.50 3.50
 
The mortality tables used in the valuation as at 3 September 2016 are 100% of S2PMA (males) and S2PFA (females) with allowance for mortality 
improvements using CMI_2015 with a 1.25%pa underpin. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65 as at  
3 September 2016:
   At At
   3 September 29 August
   2016 2015
Males currently age 45   23.9 years 24.2 years
Females currently age 45   26.1 years 26.6 years
Males currently age 65   22.2 years 22.5 years
Females currently age 65   24.2 years 24.7 years
 
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Service cost – including current service costs, past service costs and settlements   (426) 31
Service cost – administrative cost   139 230
Net interest on the net defined benefit asset   (94) (141)
Total (income)/expense   (381) 120
As a result of the closure to future accrual on 31 December 2015 a negative past service cost, net of associated costs, of approximately £350,000  
has been recognised in the income statement.  82
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
25 Retirement benefits (continued)
The (income)/expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations   (73,355) (60,352)
Fair value of scheme assets    73,666 62,119
Surplus in funded scheme   311 1,767
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
   2016 2015 
   £’000 £’000
Net measurement – financial   (16,623) (1,700)
Net measurement – demographic   1,051 —
Net measurement – experience   2,012 (699)
Return on assets, excluding interest income   10,835 (449)
Total remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset   (2,725) (2,848)
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:  
 2016 2015
 £’000 £’000
Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 60,352 61,948
Service cost 89 301
Interest cost 2,239 2,346
Contributions by scheme participants 61 190
Net measurement losses – financial 16,623 1,700
Net measurement gains – demographic (1,051) —
Net measurement (gains)/losses – experience (2,012) 699
Benefits paid (2,431) (6,562)
Past service cost (515) (270)
Benefit obligation at the end of the year 73,355 60,352
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of scheme assets:
 2016 2015
 £’000 £’000
Fair value of scheme assets at the beginning of the year 62,119 64,004
Interest income on scheme assets 2,333 2,487
Return on assets, excluding interest income 10,835 (449)
Contributions by employers 888 2,679
Contributions by scheme participants 61 190
Benefits paid (2,431) (6,562)
Scheme administrative cost (139) (230)
Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 73,666 62,119
 
   2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Within operating profit:
  Cost of sales    (124) 120 
  Administrative expenses    (163) 141 
Within interest:
  Finance income   (94) (141)
Total (income)/expense   (381) 120
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset to be shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:   83
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 Retirement benefits (continued)
Analysis of the scheme assets and actual return:
  Fair value of assets
    2016 2015
    £’000 £’000
Equity instruments    34,771 28,476
Property    5,449 5,637
Bonds    33,401 27,177
Cash     45  829
 
    73,666 62,119
Actual return on scheme assets    13,168 2,038 
Sensitivity analysis
A sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities: 
     Impact on
     scheme 
    Change in liabilities
    assumption 3 September 2016
Discount rate    Increase by 0.25% Decrease by £2.9m
Rate of inflation    Increase by 0.25% Increase by £1.9m
Assumed life expectancy at age 65    Increase by 1 year Increase by £2.3m
Extrapolation or combination of the sensitivity analysis beyond the ranges shown may not be appropriate.
Characteristics of the Scheme and the risks associated with the Scheme
a)  Information about the characteristics of the Scheme
i.  The Scheme provides pensions in retirement and death benefits to members. Pension benefits are linked to member’s final salary at  
31 December 2015 (or date of leaving, if earlier) revalued up to the members’ retirement date, and their length of service.
ii.  The Plan is a registered scheme under UK legislation and is contracted out of the State Second Pension.
 The Scheme is subject to the scheme funding requirements outlined in UK legislation. The scheme funding valuation of the Scheme at 
31 December 2014 revealed a deficit, and the existing recovery plan was continued to 31 December 2015. 
iii.  The Scheme was established under trust and is governed by the Scheme’s trust deed and rules dated June 2008. The Trustees are responsible 
for the operation and the governance of the Scheme, including making decisions regarding the Scheme’s funding and investment strategy in 
conjunction with the Employer.
b) Information about risks of the Scheme to the Employer
In general, the risk to the Employer is that the assumptions underlying the disclosures, or the calculation of contribution requirements are not borne  
out in practice and the cost to the Employer is higher than expected. This could result in higher contributions required from the Employer and a higher 
deficit disclosed. This may also impact the Employer’s ability to grant discretionary benefits or other enhancements to members.
i. The return on the Scheme’s assets being lower than assumed, resulting in an unaffordable increase in the required Employer contribution rate.
ii. Falls in asset values (particularly equities) not being matched by similar falls in the value of liabilities.
iii.  Unanticipated future changes in mortality patterns leading to an increase in the Scheme’s liabilities. Future mortality rates cannot be predicted 
with certainty. This is especially so bearing in mind that the youngest Scheme members could be expected to still be alive in 50 years or more 
and it is not possible to reliably predict what medical advances may or may not have occurred by this time. The average duration of the Scheme’s 
liabilities is approximately 16 years.
iv.  The potential exercise (by members or others) of options against the Scheme for example taking early retirement or exchanging a portion of  
pension for a cash lump sum. 84
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
25 Retirement benefits (continued)
Carr’s Group Retirement Savings Scheme
The Company offers membership in a Master Trust arrangement, Carr’s Group RSS, following the closure of both sections of the Carr’s Group Pension 
Scheme. The pension expense for this scheme for the year was £902,000, including £189,000 in respect of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd (2015: £nil).
Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme
One of the Group’s subsidiaries, Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd, is a participating employer in the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme, 
which is a multi-employer defined benefit pension scheme. For the reasons explained below this scheme is accounted for as a defined contribution scheme.
The scheme is closed to new entrants and has been closed to future accrual since 1 December 2007. There is currently a deficit, calculated in 
accordance with IAS 19, of £5.1m (2015: £3.2m). The sponsoring employer, Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Ltd, is currently paying £0.8m per 
annum under the terms of the recovery plan agreed between them and the Trustees of the scheme.
Under the rules of the scheme, any employer wishing to exit the scheme would trigger a partial wind-up of the scheme and would therefore be responsible 
for their s75 debt. A full wind-up of the plan would also trigger s75 debts for each participating employer.
The history of the scheme is that it was brought together from many other pension schemes and employers following multiple acquisitions over several 
years. Many of those acquisitions had little or no records of employee histories. Because of this, approximately 85% of the scheme liabilities are ‘Orphan 
Liabilities’. Under the rules of the scheme, on a wind-up the orphan liabilities would be split between the participating employers in the same proportion 
as their calculated share of non-orphan liabilities. At the last actuarial valuation, the buy-out d eficit was £15.5m and the Group’s estimated liability on 
the wind up of the scheme was £7.5m.
Because of the scheme history described above, it is not possible to calculate the Group’s share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme, and 
consequently despite it being a defined benefit pension scheme the Group treats it as a defined contribution pension scheme for accounting purposes.  
The Group does not expect to pay any contributions to the scheme in the next reporting period (2015: £nil). Currently the deficit repair contributions are 
being funded solely by the sponsoring employer and this is expected to remain the case in the future. Those deficit repair contributions are based on the 
last triennial valuation of the scheme as at 31 December 2012, which showed that the scheme had a deficit of £6.8m on a technical provisions basis. 
The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2015 is not yet finalised.
The Group’s level of participation in the scheme is estimated at 48.5%, which is based on its estimated share of the total buy-out liabilities. The Group 
has a 49% shareholding in its associate company which is the sponsoring company of the pension scheme. As a result of equity accounting for its share of 
the net assets of the associate the Group recognises 49% of the deficit calculated on an IAS 19 accounting basis within its ‘Investment in Associate’  
in its consolidated balance sheet.
Other pension schemes
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to some of its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the year 
was £508,000 (2015: £451,000). 
In addition, the Group offered a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd. The pension expense for this scheme  
for the year up to the date of disposal of the subsidiary was £205,000 (2015: £208,000). 
The pension expense in respect of defined contribution pension arrangements in foreign subsidiaries during the year was £215,000 (2015: £156,000).  
Pension contributions into NEST during the year amounted to £45,000 (2015: £38,000).
The Group also pays contributions into various defined contribution schemes acquired through business combinations. The pension expense during the 
year in respect of these schemes was £101,000 (2015: £91,000).
26 Share capital
  2016 2016 2015 2015
Group and Company Shares £’000 Shares £’000
Authorised:
  Ordinary shares of 2.5p each 140,000,000 3,500 140,000,000 3,500
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 2.5p each:   
  At start of the year 89,760,090 2,244 89,401,900 2,235
  Allotment of shares 1,432,714 36 358,190 9
At end of the year 91,192,804 2,280 89,760,090 2,244
The consideration received on the allotment of shares during the year was £532,000 (2015: £171,000).
For details of share based payment schemes see note 27.
Since the year end there was a further allotment of 6,460 shares with a nominal value of £162 due to the exercise of share options. In addition, to 
enable vesting of the Group’s long term incentive plan, on 14 November 2016 178,027 shares with a nominal value of £4,451 were held in treasury. 85
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27 Share-based payments 
Group
The Group operates two active share based payment schemes at 3 September 2016.
Under the long term incentive plan shares will be awarded to eligible individuals subject to an earnings per share (EPS) target measured against 
average annual increases over a three year period. For the awards granted in May 2013 an average annual growth of EPS must exceed 7.0% for 25%  
of the awards to vest, 50% vest at 8.1% and 100% vest at 10.2%, with a straight line calculation between 25%, 50% and 100% of the award.  
For the awards granted in November 2013, November 2014 and November 2015 an average annual growth of EPS must exceed 3.0% for 25%  
of the awards to vest and 100% vest at 10.0%, with a straight line calculation between 25% and 100% of the award.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts  
for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
          
     Share Save Share Save Share Save 
 Long Term Long Term Long Term Long Term Scheme Scheme Scheme 
 Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan (3-Year Plan (5-Year Plan (5-Year Plan 
 November 2015 November 2014 November 2013 May 2013 2014) 2014) 2011) 
Grant date 9/11/15 10/11/14 11/11/13 1/5/13 9/6/14 9/6/14 10/5/11 
Share price at grant date 
  (weighted average) £1.460 £1.600 £1.683 £1.315 £1.870 £1.870 £0.720 
Exercise price 
  (weighted average) £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £1.520 £1.520 £0.572 
Fair value per option at grant £1.344 £1.504 £1.597 £1.237 £0.490 £0.529 £0.156 
Number of employees 10 8 8 2 167 57 4 
Shares under option 624,787 512,200 475,790 330,790 428,410 281,950 19,390 
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 3 3 5 5 
Model used for valuation Market value
1
 Market value
1
 Market value
1
 Market value
1
 Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes 
Expected volatility — — — — 30.0% 26.9% 24.00% 
Option life (years) 10 10 10 10 3.5 5.5 5.5 
Expected life (years) 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 3.25 5.25 5.25 
Risk-free rate — — — — 1.51% 2.07% 2.450% 
Expected dividends 
  expressed as a 
  dividend yield 2.54% 2.81% 3.02% 2.42% 1.93% 1.93% 3.90% 
Expectations of vesting 0% 0% 25% 100% 95% 95% 95% 
1 discounted for dividends forgone over the three year vesting period
The expected volatility has been calculated using historical daily data over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option.  
The expected life is the midpoint of the exercise period. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds  
with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued. 86
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
27 Share-based payments (continued)
Number of options
        Approved
        Executive
          Share Save Share Save Share Save Share
   Long Term  Long Term  Long Term  Long Term Scheme Scheme Scheme Option
 Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan (3-Year Plan (5-Year Plan (5-Year Plan Scheme
 November 2015 November 2014 November 2013 May 2013 2014) 2014) 2011)       2006
 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number 
 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000
Outstanding:       
At 30 August 2014 —   —    475  489    544     324   778  710
Granted in the year —   512   —   —    —   —     —    —  
Exercised in the year —   —   —    —    —    —    —   (350)
Forfeited in the year —   —   —    —    (40)    —       (43)   (150)   
At 29 August 2015 — 512  475 489 504 324 735 210
Granted in the year 625 — — — — — — — 
Exercised in the year — — — (158) — — (710) (210) 
Forfeited in the year — — — — (76) (42) (6) —
At 3 September 2016 625 512  475 331 428 282 19 —
Exercisable:       
At 29 August 2015 — —   —    —    —    —    —    210 
At 3 September 2016 — — — 331 — — 19 —
Weighted average:        
Remaining contractual 
life (years) 9.00 8.00 7.00 6.00 1.25 3.25 0.25 —
Remaining expected 
life (years) 5.50 4.50 3.50 2.50 1.00 3.00 — —
The total (income)/expense recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2016 2015
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2015 — —
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2014 (128) 128
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2013 (63) 127 
Long Term Incentive Plan May 2013 — 202
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2014) 52 77
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2014) 23 33
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2011) 20 17
 (96) 584 87
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 2016 2015
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2015    — —
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2014   (84) 84
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2013   (41) 83 
Long Term Incentive May Plan 2013   — 137
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2014)    3 11 
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2014)   2 1
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2011)   1 1
     (119) 317
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the  
Company are as follows:
 2016 2015
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2015    — —
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2014 — 45
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2013 49 88
Long Term Incentive Plan May 2013 — 195
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2014) 104 83
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2014) 48 39
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2011) 3 87
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006  — 21
Total carrying amount of investments   204 558
28 Acquisitions
Green (Agriculture) Co
On 4 September 2015 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd acquired the business and certain assets of Green (Agriculture) Co for net cash 
consideration of £265,000.
The principal activity of the business acquired is that of an agricultural merchant. 
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
Phoenix Feeds Ltd
On 1 June 2016 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd acquired the entire issued share capital of Phoenix Feeds Ltd for cash consideration of 
£1,744,000 including £490,000 of contingent consideration. The contingent consideration is linked to the continued employment of key personnel 
and therefore in accordance with IFRS 3 this has not been recognised as consideration in the acquisition accounting and is instead being recognised  
in the income statement over a two year period. Given the nature of the payment it is intended to recognise this as a non-recurring item.
The principal activity of Phoenix Feeds Ltd is that of an agricultural merchant.
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Ltd
In the prior year Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd acquired the entire issued share capital of WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Ltd.  
As a condition of this acquisition the assets and liabilities not required by the Group were sold back to the vendor. The net cash consideration for  
this entire transaction was £1,030,000. 
The principal activity of WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Ltd is that of an agricultural merchant. 
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
27 Share-based payments (continued)
Company
The movement in the number of outstanding options under the share schemes for the company is not shown as it is immaterial and disclosure  
would be excessively lengthy.
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows: 88
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
28 Acquisitions (continued)
Reid and Robertson Ltd
In the prior year Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd acquired the entire issued share capital of Reid and Robertson Ltd for cash 
consideration of £869,000. 
The principal activity of Reid and Robertson Ltd is that of an agricultural merchant. 
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
All of the above purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions. Given the size of the acquisitions no separate disclosure has been presented  
on the face of the consolidated income statement as the impact would not be material.  
Aggregate disclosures  
The total goodwill arising from acquisitions in the year amounts to £783,000 (2015: £1,050,000). Goodwill, in both the current and prior year, 
represents the excess of the consideration paid over the Group’s interests in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired.
  
The following aggregated amounts have been recognised within the consolidated income statement in respect of acquisitions made in the year:
 2016 2015
   £’000 £’000
Revenue    1,868 3,589
Profit before taxation    76 85
There were no other recognised gains and losses other than the profit shown above.
Acquisition related costs amounted to £7,000 (2015: £58,000), which have been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement.
The aggregate assets and liabilities recognised in the acquisition accounting are set out below:
 2016 2015
   Fair value Fair value
   £’000 £’000
Intangible assets   39   162
Property, plant and equipment   25 118 
Inventories   118  549
Receivables   1,144  1,493 
Assets held for resale   —  116 
Cash at bank   — 150 
Bank overdraft   (12) — 
Payables   (541) (1,431)
Finance Leases   — (37)
Taxation      
– Current   (29) (200) 
– Deferred   (8) (71)
Net assets acquired   736  849 
Goodwill   783 1,050 
   1,519 1,899  
Satisfied by:     
Cash consideration   1,519 1,899
Intangible assets represents the fair value of customer relationships of Phoenix Feeds Ltd. The fair value exercise on the acquisition of the business  
of Greens (Agriculture) Co. in the year resulted in no significant intangible assets being identified other than the value of employees,  
which is not permitted to be recognised on the balance sheet. 
Assets held for resale were sold before the prior year end. 89
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28 Acquisitions (continued)
Pro forma full year information
IFRS3 (revised) requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning  
of the accounting year.
The unaudited pro forma summary below presents the Group as if the acquisitions had been acquired on 30 August 2015 (2015: 31 August 2014).
The pro forma amounts include the results of the acquisitions and the interest expense on the increase in net debt as a result of the acquisitions.  
The pro forma amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The pro forma information is provided for comparative purposes 
only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results.
 2016 2015
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Revenue    318,672 335,014
Profit before taxation    14,172 14,243
29 Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the year from continuing operations 11,171 10,680 26,362 2,870
Adjustments for:
Tax   2,907 3,010 58 232
Tax credit in respect of R & D (176) (292) — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (19,935) (4,200)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,582 3,180 — —
Depreciation of investment property 6 6 — —
Intangible asset amortisation  205 193 — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (84) (14) — —
Loss on disposal of investment 10 — — — 
Loss on dissolution of dormant subsidiary — — 85 — 
Profit on disposal of subsidiary — — (6,478) — 
Impairment of investment — — — 846
Amortisation of grants (53) (20) — —
Net fair value (gain)/loss on share based payments  (99) 520 (119) 317
Net foreign exchange differences  (383) 53 (732) (341)
Net fair value losses/(gains) on derivative financial instruments    
  in operating profit 70 (65) 30 (30)
Finance costs: 
  Interest income (236) (338) (959) (1,028)
  Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,045 1,077 464 435
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (2,081) (2,307) — —
Pension contributions – deficit reduction  (780) (2,340) (780) (2,340)
   – ongoing (108) (339) (108) (339)
IAS19 income statement (credit)/charge (excluding interest) 
  (note 25) (287) 261 (287) 261
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of  
  acquisitions and disposals):
Increase in inventories (1,620) (1,886) — —
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (3,606) 63 (193) (162)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (3,226) (2,322) 293 564
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 6,257 9,120 (2,299) (2,915) 90
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
30 Analysis of net (debt)/cash
  At  Other  At
  30 August  non-cash Exchange 3 September
  2015 Cash flow changes movements 2016
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   20,052 27,441 — 918 48,411
Bank overdrafts  (3,777) (4,847) — — (8,624)
  16,275 22,594 — 918 39,787
Loans and other borrowings:    
 – current  (12,770) 1,902 (1,374) (134) (12,376)
 – non-current   (18,444) — 1,336 — (17,108)
 
Finance leases: 
 – current  (2,174) 2,333 (801) — (642)
 – non-current  (7,300) — 5,783 — (1,517)
Net (debt)/cash   (24,413) 26,829 4,944 784 8,144
Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 30 August 2015 have been restated for the grossing up of accounts with right of offset within  
the same banking facility.
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases, including finance leases disposed with a subsidiary, and transfers between categories of borrowings. 
It also includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement. 
  At  Other  At
  30 August  non-cash Exchange 3 September
  2015 Cash flow changes movements 2016
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   8,973 28,925 — 47 37,945
Loans and other borrowings: 
 – current  (690) (4,803) (481) — (5,974)
 – non-current  (16,414) — 525 — (15,889)
Net (debt)/cash  (8,131) 24,122 44 47 16,082
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement and transfers between categories  
of borrowings.
31 Capital Commitments
 2016 2015
Group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
  for but has not been provided for in the accounts    56 22
The Company has no capital commitments (2015: none).
32 Other Financial Commitments 
Group
At 3 September 2016 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2016 2015
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  453 695
Within two and five years inclusive  748 1,104
 1,201 1,799
The Company has no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases (2015: none). 91
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33 Financial guarantees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group loans, 
overdraft, asset finance and guarantee facilities with that bank, which at 3 September 2016 amounted to £3,980,000 (2015: £8,152,000). 
 
Certain subsidiary undertakings utilise guarantee facilities with financial institutions which include their own bankers. These financial institutions in 
the normal course of business enter into certain specific guarantees with some of the subsidiaries’ customers. All these guarantees allow the financial 
institutions to have recourse to the subsidiaries if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees at 3 September 2016 was  
£3,284,000 (2015: £1,453,000).
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of the contract 
in any event. At 3 September 2016 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed and delivered have a total contract value of £nil 
(2015: £9,521,000).
The Company has provided a guarantee over the lease of a premises occupied by a subsidiary. The guarantee is in respect of prompt and full 
payment of rents due throughout the term of the lease. As at 3 September 2016 the cumulative rent payable over the remaining term of the lease  
is £1,455,000 (2015: £1,494,000).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual payment 
of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed £1,500,000 
(2015: £1,500,000).
One of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings is a participating employer in the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme. On a wind-up of the 
scheme the buy-out deficit would be split between the participating employers with the Group’s level of participation in the scheme estimated at 
48.5%. At the last actuarial valuation, the Group’s estimated liability on the wind-up of the scheme was £7.5m (2015: £7.6m).
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in.
34 Related parties 
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its Directors. The balances and transactions 
shown below were all undertaken on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Committee Report.
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by businesses controlled by key management 
  personnel (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 75 109 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  167 204 — — 92
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
34 Related parties (continued)
Transactions with subsidiaries
  Company
    2016 2015
    £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     33,861 32,602
Other receivables   119 138
    33,980 32,740
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     (5,461) (173)
Other payables    (37) (27)
    (5,498) (200)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable   2,489 2,520
Dividends received    19,935 4,200
Interest receivable    756 744
Transactions with associate
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by associate:
Trade and other receivables  152 623 12 555
Amounts owed to associate:
Trade and other payables (20,665) (18,036) — (1)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  647 967 — —
Rental income  19 19 — —
Management charges receivable 45 91 45 44
Management charges payable (202) (189) — (8)
Purchases (99,192) (92,235) — — 93
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 56 147 — —
Management charges receivable 125 110 — —
Purchases (1,116) (1,093) — —
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £nil (2015: £500,000) included within current borrowings is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son Ltd to Carrs 
Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd. This loan is interest free and unsecured. Edward Billington and Son Ltd has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Sales) Ltd.
35 Post balance sheet event
On 24 October 2016, after the year end, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of STABER GmbH, one of the primary suppliers  
to its German engineering business, including all of its associated intellectual property for €7.85 million of which €2.0 million will be deferred,  
until at the latest 30 June 2018.  
The acquisition will provide the Group with specialised IP relating to high quality, niche robotics and design technology and will further enhance  
the capability of the German business and its long term operational performance. 
 
Given that this has been a recent acquisition the identifiable assets and liabilities at completion and goodwill have yet to be finalised. The Directors 
therefore consider it impracticable to be able to disclose this information in these financial statements.
34 Related parties (continued) 
Transactions with joint ventures
 Group Company
  2016 2015 2016 2015
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by joint ventures:
Trade and other receivables 1,674 3,611 1,628 3,096
Amounts owed to joint ventures:
Trade and other payables (11) (9) — —
Included within Group trade and other receivables is £1,627,000 (2015: £3,584,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures. 
Included within Company trade and other receivables is £1,627,000 (2015: £3,095,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures. 94
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FIVE YEAR STATEMENT
  (Restated) (Restated)
1 
(Restated)
 
(Restated)
2
Continuing operations  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   323,581 373,906 341,849 331,285 314,907
Group operating profit   11,153 11,529 11,638 12,090 12,770
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items
  and amortisation  11,388 11,763 11,937 12,341 12,982
Non-recurring items and amortisation  (235) (234) (299) (251) (212)
Group operating profit    11,153 11,529 11,638 12,090 12,770
Profit on the disposal of property and investment 237 — — — —
Finance income  673 513 264 338 236
Finance costs  (1,168) (1,379) (1,171) (1,045) (1,009)
Share of post-tax profit in associate 
  and joint ventures  1,381 2,819 2,486 2,307 2,081
Profit before taxation   12,276 13,482 13,217 13,690 14,078
Taxation  (2,938) (2,989) (2,873) (3,010) (2,907)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9,338 10,493 10,344 10,680 11,171
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 565 1,822 2,549 3,013 2,817
Profit for the year  9,903 12,315 12,893 13,693 13,988
Ratios (continuing operations)
Operating margin (excluding non-recurring items
   and amortisation)  3.5% 3.1% 3.5% 3.7% 4.1%
Return on net assets (excluding non-recurring  
   items and amortisation)   19.9% 19.7% 18.8% 17.9% 18.9%
Earnings per share  – basic
3
  9.0p 9.7p 9.9p 10.0p 10.7p
 – adjusted
3
  9.1p 9.9p 10.2p 10.2p 10.9p
Dividends per ordinary share
3
  2.9p 3.2p 3.4p 3.7p 3.8p
Revenue and results included in the table above have been restated to reflect the disposal of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd. The profit after taxation from this 
business has been included within profit for the year from discontinued operations.
1 Restated for IAS 19 revised
2 Restated for the reclassification to interest income of the net interest on the net defined benefit retirement asset previously recognised within operating profit
3 Restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015 95
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     (Restated) 
  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    5,199 5,215 9,798 10,849 11,440
Other intangible assets    728 615 499 448 286
Property, plant and equipment    37,158 53,068 56,626 58,385 35,811
Investment property   1,005 675 656 636 182
Investments    8,081 10,395 11,796 13,530 14,996
Financial assets
– Non-current receivables    2 1 501 50 50
Retirement benefit asset  — — 2,056 1,767 311
Deferred tax assets    2,480 2,044 1,507 861 —
   54,653 72,013 83,439 86,526 63,076
Current assets
Inventories    27,128 33,445 33,315 35,031 33,423
Trade and other receivables    59,651 66,434 63,623 64,454 56,940
Current tax assets    — 178 47 839 303
Financial assets
– Derivative financial instruments  — 2 — 50 —
– Cash and cash equivalents   23,294 22,884 17,268 20,052 48,411
  110,073 122,943 114,253 120,426 139,077
Total assets    164,726 194,956 197,692 206,952 202,153
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings  (14,176) (15,545) (19,688) (18,721) (21,642)
– Derivative financial instruments  (309) (8) (15) (72) (20)
Trade and other payables  (56,108) (58,282) (54,236) (54,496) (46,823)
Current tax liabilities  (1,552) (1,639) (1,631) (472) (470)
  (72,145) (75,474) (75,570) (73,761) (68,955)
 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings  (11,573) (29,448) (22,189) (25,744) (18,625)
Retirement benefit obligation   (5,351) (3,272) — — —
Deferred tax liabilities  (3,733) (3,765) (4,111) (4,184) (1,817)
Other non-current liabilities  (4,064) (4,956) (5,995) (4,300) (2,668)
  (24,721) (41,441) (32,295) (34,228) (23,110)
Total liabilities  (96,866) (116,915) (107,865) (107,989) (92,065)
Net assets   67,860 78,041 89,827 98,963 110,088
 
The prior year has been restated for the grossing up of cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, included within current borrowings, for accounts 
with right of offset within the same banking facility. 96
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DIRECTORY OF OPERATIONS
Carr’s Group plc 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600  
Fax: 01228 554601 
Web: www.carrsgroup.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche, 
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 001 605 892 3421 
Fax: 001 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 105, 101 Roanoke 
Avenue, Poteau,  
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 001 918 647 8133 
Fax: 001 918 647 7318
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 569, 1700 US  
50 East, Silver Springs,  
Nevada 89429 
Tel: 001 775 577 2002 
Fax: 001 775 577 4625
Caltech 
Solway Mills, Silloth,  
Wigton, Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592  
Fax: 016973 32339
Scotmin
13 Whitfield Drive,  
Heathfield Ind Est,  
Ayr KA8 9RX 
Tel: 01292 280 909 
Fax: 01292 280 919
Aminomax 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600  
Fax: 01228 554 601
Horslyx LLC
810 Waterman Drive, 
Watertown New York  
13601, USA 
Tel: 001 315 785 3625
Fax: 001 315 785 3627
Gold-Bar Feed  
Supplements LLC*
783 Eagle Boulevard, 
Shelbyville, TN 37160, USA
Tel: 001 877 618 6455
Fax: 001 877 618 6489
Crystalyx Products GmbH* 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, 
Oldenburg, Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
ACC Feed Supplement LLC* 
5101 Harbor Drive,
Sioux City, Iowa 51111 
Tel: 001 712 255 6927 
Fax: 001 712 252 4845
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Parkhill Road, Kingstown  
Ind Est, Carlisle CA3 0EX 
Tel: 01228 529 021  
Fax: 01228 554 397 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Lansil Way, Lancaster  
LA1 3QY
Tel: 01524 597 200  
Fax: 01524 597 229
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
High Mill, Langwathby, 
Penrith CA10 1NB
Tel: 01768 889 800  
Fax: 01768 889 887
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Cold Meece,  
Stone ST15 0QW
Tel: 01785 760 535  
Fax: 01785 760 888
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Annan 
2 Annan Business Park, 
Annan, Dumfriesshire  
DG12 6TZ
Tel: 01461 202 772  
Fax: 01461 202 712
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate,  
Appleby, Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Barnard Castle 
Montalbo Road, Barnard 
Castle, Co Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537  
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Bakewell
Unit 4-6, Kingfisher Building, 
Buxton Road, Bakewell, 
Derbyshire DE45 1GZ
Tel: 01629 814 126
Fax: 01629 814 804
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Berwick upon Tweed 
29 Northumberland Road,
Berwick upon Tweed,
Northumberland TD15 2AS 
Tel: 01289 307 245  
Fax: 01289 305 727
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Brecon
Warren Road Stores,  
Warren Road, Brecon,  
Powys, LD3 8EF
Tel: 01874 623470
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Brock 
Brockholes Way, Claughton 
Trading Estate, Lancaster Old 
Road, Claughton on Brock, 
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200  
Fax: 01995 643 220
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Carlisle 
Montgomery Way, Rosehill 
Estate, Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212  
Fax: 01228 817 800
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Cockermouth 
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural 
Centre, Cockermouth CA13 0QQ 
Tel: 01900 824 105  
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Gisburn 
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, 
Gisburn, Clitheroe,  
Lancashire BB7 4LN 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Hawes 
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334  
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Hexham 
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, 
Hexham, Northumberland  
NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371  
Fax: 01434 608 938
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Jedburgh 
Mounthooly, Crailing,
Jedburgh, TD8 6TJ 
Tel: 01835 850 250  
Fax: 01835 850 748
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Kendal 
Unit 1, J36, Rural Auction  
Centre, Crooklands,  
Kendal, Cumbria LA7 7FP
Tel: 01539 566 035
Fax: 01539 566 042
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Leek 
Macclesfield Road, Leek, 
Staffordshire ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Malton 
31 Horsemarket, Malton,
North Yorkshire YO17 7NB
Tel: 01653 600 328
Fax: 01653 690 338
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Milnathort 
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ  
Tel: 01577 862 381  
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Morpeth 
Unit 20c Coopies Lane  
Industrial Estate, Morpeth, 
Northumberland NE61 6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930  
Fax: 01670 504 404
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Morpeth (Greens)
Old Station Buildings, 
Coopies Lane, Morpeth, 
Northumberland, NE61 2SL
Tel: 01670 518474/84
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Penicuik
Unit 2, 4 Eastfield Farm 
Road, Penicuik,  
Midlothian EH26 8EZ
Tel: 01968 707 040
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Penrith
Haweswater Road, Penrith 
Industrial Estate, Penrith,
Cumbria CA11 9EU
Tel: 01768 866 354
Fax: 01768 899 345
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Perth 
17/18 Arran Place, Arran 
Road, Perth PH1 3RN 
Tel: 01738 866 354
Fax: 01738 442 122
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Rothbury
The Store, Coquet View,  
Rothbury, Morpeth, 
Northumberland, NE65 7RZ
Tel: 01669 621150
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Selkirk
The Former Baxter’s Unit, 
Dunsdale Haugh, Selkirk, 
Selkirkshire, TD7 5EF
Tel: 01750 720 734
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Settle 
Unit 6, The Sidings  
Industrial Estate, Settle,  
North Yorkshire BD24 9RP 
Tel: 01729 825 812 
Fax: 01729 825 812
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Skipton 
Skipton Auction Mart,  
Gargrave Road, Skipton,  
North Yorkshire BD23 1UD
Tel: 01756 792 166
Fax: 01756 701 008 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green, 
Spennymoor, Co. Durham, 
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662 266
Fax: 01388 603 743
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Stirling
Stirling Agricultural Centre,
Stirling FK9 4RN
Tel: 01786 474 826
Fax: 01786 472 933
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Wigton
Hopes Auction Co Ltd., 
Skye Road, Wigton, 
Cumbria, CA7 9NS
Tel: 016973 45874
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Wooler
Bridge End, South Road,
Wooler, Northumberland,
NE71 6QE
Tel: 01668 281 567
Fax: 01668 283 453
Pheonix Feeds, a division  
of Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales)
1 Station Park, Ramsgreave 
Road, Blackburn,  
Lancashire BB1 9BH
Tel: 01254 240 888
Reid & Robertson, a division 
of Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales)
Ballagan, Stirling Road, 
Balloch, G83 8LY
Tel: 01389 752800
Workware
Kingstown Broadway,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 591 091
Fax: 01228 590 026
Wallace Oils, Carlisle
Kingstown Broadway,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 534 342
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Castle Douglas
Abercromby Industrial  
Park, Castle Douglas, 
Dumfriesshire,
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Dumfries
Dargavel Stores,  
Lockerbie Road,  
Dumfries, Dumfriesshire  
DG1 3PG
Tel: 01387 750 747
Fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Stranraer
Droughduil, Dunragit,
Stranraer DG9 8QA
Afgritech LLC*
810 Waterman Drive, 
Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 001 315 785 3625
Fax: 001 315 785 3627
Bibby Agriculture*
Priory House, 
Priory Street,
Carmarthen SA31 1NE
Tel: 01267 232 041
Fax: 01267 232 374
Bibby Agriculture*
1A Network House,
Badgers Way, Oxon  
Business Park, Shrewsbury,  
Shropshire, SY3 5AB
Tel: 01743 237 890
Fax: 01743 351 552
Bendalls
Brunthill Road,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0EH
Tel: 01228 526 246
Fax: 01228 525 634
R Hind
Kingstown Broadway,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 523 647
Fax: 01228 512 712
Carrs MSM
Unit 1 Spitfire Way,  
Hunts Rise, South  
Marston Park, Swindon,
Wiltshire SN3 4TX
Tel: 01793 824 891
Fax: 01793 824 894
Chirton Engineering
Unit 4A, High Flatworth,  
Tyne Tunnel Trading Estate,
North Shields, Tyne & Wear,  
NE29 7SW
Tel: 0191 296 2020
Wälischmiller 
Engineering GmbH
Schießstattweg 16, 88677
Markdorf, Germany
Tel: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
Silloth Storage Company*
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria, CA7 4JQ
* joint venture company
** associate company REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
DORMANT SUBSIDIARIES
Registered and Located
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
Company Name
B. E. Williams Ltd
Caltech Biotechnology Ltd
Carrs Animal Feed Supplements Ltd
Carrs Feeds Ltd
Carrs Fertilisers Ltd 
Carr’s International Industries Ltd
Carr’s Milling Industries Ltd
Carrs Milling Ltd
Carrs Natural Feeds Ltd 
Chirton Engineering Ltd
Forsyths of (Wooler) Ltd 
Greens Flour Mills Ltd 
Johnstone Fuels and Lubricants Ltd
Phoenix Feeds Ltd
R Hind Ltd
Reid and Robertson Ltd 
Robert Hutchison Ltd 
Safe at Work Ltd
Scotmin Nutrition Ltd 
Walischmiller Solutions Ltd 
Wallace Oils Ltd
WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Ltd
Financial Adviser and Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Ltd
2 Gresham Street,
London,
EC2V 7QP
Financial and Corporate PR Advisers
Powerscourt
1 Tudor Street,
London,
EC4Y 0AH
Solicitors
Hill Dickinson LLP
1 St Paul’s Square,
Liverpool,
L3 9SJ
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry,
34 Beckenham Road,
Beckenham,
Kent,
BR3 4TU
Registered Office
Carr’s Group plc
Old Croft, Stanwix,
Carlisle,
CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Central Square South,
Orchard Street,
Newcastle upon Tyne,
NE1 3AZ
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street,
Carlisle,
CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
37 Lowther Street,
Carlisle,
CA3 8EL
1
 100% owned by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd which is a 51% subsidiary of Carr’s Group plc.
Companies registered in England & Wales have a registered office of Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, Cumbria, CA3 9BA. Companies registered in Scotland 
have a registered office of 13 Whitfield Drive, Heathfield Ind. Est., Ayr, KA8 9RX.
 Ownership
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 51%
1
 51%
1
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 51%
1
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrsgroup.com
