 www.carpetright.plc.uk | www.carpetright.plc.uk | 3
annual report 
& accounts 2016
we are
Carpetright plc annual report and accounts 2016 www.carpetright.plc.uk | 4
Strategic report
Introduction  1
At a glance  2
Chairman’ s statement  3
Our vision 5
Our markets and trends  6
Our business model  7
Our strategy  8
Strategic update  9
Chief Executive’ s Q&A  13
Financial review  16
Measuring our performance  21
Corporate responsibility  22
Risk management  24
Principal risks and  
uncertainties  26
Directors’ report
Board of Directors  28
Corporate governance  30
Audit Committee report  33
Directors’ remuneration 
report  37
Other information  55
Financial statements
Financial statements  58
Notes to the financial 
statements  63
Group five-year 
financial summary  94
Independent auditors’ report  95
Shareholder  
information
Calendar   101 
Advisers   101
inside this  
report.
Chief 
Executive’s 
Q&A
p13
Financial 
review
p16
Our  
strategy
p8 we are
Our vision is to be the trusted choice for ooring, for life.  
We will achieve this through our strong business fundamentals  
and by putting our customers at the heart of everything we do.  
We differentiate ourselves with our clear and focused strategy  
through choice, value, making it easy and our own expertise.  
Because we’re the market leader in ooring, we can offer our customers  
the biggest and most inspiring choice to suit every stage of their life.
Details of our strategy, including a strategic update, can be found on pages 8 to 12 of this report.
More online
Increasing numbers of our shareholders 
are choosing to receive their annual report 
online.  This report, along with our other 
announcements and stakeholder 
information, can be found on our 
corporate website: carpetright.plc.uk
Increasing numbers of our shareholders 
are choosing to receive their annual report 
online.  This report, along with our other 
This Strategic Report 
was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 
27 June 2016 and was 
signed on its behalf  
by Jeremy Sampson 
– Company Secretary 
and Legal Director.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 1 Financial highlights
52 weeks 
ending
30 April 2016
Pro forma 52 
weeks ending
25 April 2015
2
52 weeks 
Change
53 weeks 
ending 
2 May 2015
Revenue £456.8m £462.6m (1.3%) £469.8m
Underlying profit before tax
1
£17.3m £13.0m 33.1% £14.2m
Profit before tax £12.8m £5.4m 137.0% £6.6m
Underlying earnings per share
1
19.3p 13.7p up 5.6p 15.5p
Basic earnings per share 14.9p 5.0p up 9.9p 6.7p
Dividend per share Nil Nil – Nil
Operating cash flow £13.3m –  – £25.1m
Group highlights
Over 
3,000
people
4
countries
572
stores
at a 
glance.
Strategic report
Carpetright plc operates through two reportable business segments: the UK and the 
Rest of Europe (comprising the Netherlands, Belgium and the Republic of Ireland).  
All references to Group represent the consolidation of these two segments. 
1. Where this report makes reference to ‘Underlying’, these relate to profit/earnings 
before exceptional items. 
2. For the UK and Republic of Ireland the 2016 accounting period represents trading 
for the 52 weeks to 30 April 2016 (the year). The comparative period 2015 
represents trading for the 53 weeks to 2 May 2015 (the prior year). Where this 
report makes reference to a 52 week basis 2015 it is the 52 weeks to 25 April 
2015. This does not affect the Netherlands and Belgium which report on a 
calendar year basis with the 2015 accounting period ending 30 April 2015. All 
figures in this report are shown before exceptional items unless otherwise stated.
2 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview
Following my appointment in November 2014, this has been my 
first full financial year as Chairman of Carpetright.  I am pleased  
to be able to report the Group continued its positive like-for-like 
sales performance and grew profits significantly during the period.  
Alongside this, we have made good progress both with extensive 
customer trials of a wide-ranging programme of initiatives to extend 
the appeal of the Carpetright brand and with our plans to address 
the significant legacy property issues within the business. 
Our strategy has a clear focus and is based on putting the 
customer at the heart of everything we do, with an integrated 
multi-channel proposition centred on Choice, Value, Making it 
Easy and our own Expertise.  We know we must innovate and 
change to differentiate ourselves from the competition.  The 
strategic update on page 9 provides more details on this plan.
Earnings and dividend
Like-for-like sales increased by 2.8% in the year in the UK and 
4.8% in the Rest of Europe.  However, total revenue for the year 
ended 30 April 2016 decreased by 2.8% to £456.8m (2015: 
£469.8m), reflecting store closures, as we continued work to 
remove overlapping catchments and improved the overall quality 
of our store estate, along with the prior year period having one 
additional weeks trading.  Underlying profit before tax increased  
by 21.8% to £17.3m (2015: £14.2m).  After the impact of 
exceptional items, profit before tax was £12.8m (2015: £6.6m).  
Underlying earnings per share increased to 19.3p (2015: 15.5p) 
and basic earnings per share was 14.9p (2015: 6.7p).  The Board 
has decided not to pay a final dividend.  In taking this decision, the 
Board has considered that whilst there has been an improvement 
in profitability during the year, the priority for the use of cash is to 
accelerate activity to reduce the Group’s fixed occupancy costs 
and to invest in our stores to broaden the appeal of the Carpetright 
brand.  The Board would look favourably on restoring the dividend 
in due course, once we are comfortable of our ability to sustain 
this without increasing our borrowings.
The Board
We have a stable and experienced Board and the CEO, Wilf Walsh, 
is supported by a strong operational team.  They are continuing 
the hard work of repositioning the business to better capitalise  
on its market leading position, to deliver the performance our 
shareholders expect and deserve.
Further details of the Board’s work can be found in the Directors’ 
report starting on page 28 of this Annual Report.
Our people
The Group is undergoing a period of significant change as we 
reposition the business.  On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank everyone who has worked for Carpetright over the past 
year.  Working in our stores, distribution centre or support offices, 
presents many challenges every day and we are grateful for the 
outstanding dedication and commitment of them all.
Bob Ivell
Chairman
“We believe that the 
strategic plan we are 
implementing will reshape 
Carpetright to ensure the 
business better capitalises 
on its market leading 
position.”
Summary and outlook 
It is pleasing to report the second year of much improved 
results, with growth in profits and like-for-like sales growth  
in both the UK and the Rest of Europe.
We believe that the strategic plan we are implementing will 
reshape Carpetright to ensure the business better capitalises 
on its market leading position.  These changes will take time  
to take full effect but the initial signs are encouraging.  We are 
absolutely focused on building on the recent improvement in 
the Group performance, as well as devoting our energies to 
revitalising our brand and operations.
Bob Ivell
Chairman
chairman’s 
statement.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 3 we are
4 www.carpetright.plc.uk | | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our vision is to be  
the trusted choice  
for flooring, for life.  
We will achieve this through our strong business 
fundamentals and by putting our customers at the  
heart of everything we do, knowing that by evolving  
we can make a difference.  
We differentiate ourselves with our clear  
and focused strategy:
Choice
Value
Making it easy
Expertise
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 5 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Choice
The widest range  
of flooring under  
one roof.
p9
Make flooring 
inspirational
New “Exclusive 
at Carpetright” 
brands
36% growth in 
hard flooring in 
concept stores Value
We’ll always provide 
value for money and 
easy ways to pay. 
p10
Compelling 
promotions Making it easy 
We’ll make it easy 
and hassle-free.
p10
Improved 
communication
Inspiring 
customers to shop 
with Carpetright Expertise
We have experts who 
will create a great 
experience every step  
of the way.
p11
Focus on our 
customer
Investing in 
our people “We expect trading patterns to remain volatile as economic and political  
uncertainty continues to impact consumer confidence across our markets.”
The period of sustained economic uncertainty has been especially 
challenging for the floorcoverings’ sector in the UK, with fragile 
consumer confidence and shoppers deferring big ticket 
purchases.  These factors combined have had a significant 
negative impact in this market over the past five years.  
Our market is highly fragmented, with approximately 4,000 
floorcoverings’ businesses.  Current estimates place the UK 
market at £2.1bn per annum for the calendar year to December 
2015, placing ourselves as the market leader with a share of 
around 21%
1
.  
The nature of our product means that the vast majority of 
customers prefer to visit a store to make their purchase, to  
give them the opportunity to see and touch their choice of 
floorcovering.  However, the internet is playing an ever-increasing  
role in pre-purchase behaviour, becoming a vital research tool  
for many customers, and the rapid growth of smart phone and 
tablet use also underlines the importance of having an effective 
and integrated digital proposition. 
Whilst macroeconomic indicators in Belgium remained  
fragile, the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland experienced  
a recovery in market conditions with an increase in reported 
consumer confidence and encouraging economic benchmarks.
In our UK business, beds provide an important complementary 
revenue stream to our core floorcoverings offer and we believe 
this category has significant further growth potential.  The total 
beds and bedding market is estimated at £3.2bn and our market 
penetration, whilst low, is growing steadily as we establish our 
credentials in this competitive sector.
We expect trading patterns to remain volatile as economic and 
political uncertainty continues to impact consumer confidence 
across our markets.
our markets 
and trends.
Strategic report continued
1. Source: Verdict floorcoverings sector 
forecast published April 2016.
6 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As a retailer, we generate profit from the combination of driving top line sales 
volumes; optimising low cost sourcing; maintaining an efficient supply chain;  
and providing our customers with excellent service.
our  
business model.
Operationally, our products and services are delivered across a national network of stores in each of the countries we operate, 
supported by country-specific websites.  The size of our operation means that we leverage advantages of scale and spread the 
cost of our back office functions.
Value 
creation
Service
We employ over 3,000 colleagues in stores, 
depots and offices across the countries in  
which we trade.  We seek to employ and retain 
ambitious, skilled individuals who are focused  
on delivering great customer service.  
We train our colleagues in both product knowledge 
and the skills required to carry out their jobs.
We offer a free estimating service, allowing 
customers to buy with confidence that the  
floorcovering will fit the relevant room.
Carpetright approved fitters are all required  
to be independently assessed by the Flooring 
Industry Trade Association (FITA) before we  
will recommend them.
Sourcing
Our buying leverage creates value.  The majority 
of our flooring products are sourced direct from 
suppliers from mainland Europe and the UK.  
Our branded beds are sourced from well  
known and respected UK-based suppliers.  
We work in coordination with our suppliers to 
design and engineer product ranges that provide 
customers with a comprehensive product choice 
at the keenest of prices, whilst ensuring that 
suppliers adhere to strict ethical trading 
practices, such as sourcing wood flooring 
products from sustainable sources.
Sales
Sales are driven through a combination  
of our reputation in the market; advertising;  
the use of promotional activity; and maximising 
market penetration through our national 
networks of stores. 
Our websites give customers the opportunity  
to conduct pre-purchase research on our  
ranges and prices; and request samples  
and estimator visits.
Supply chain
We operate a state of the art cutting and 
distribution facility, where a significant proportion 
of customers’ orders are cut-to-measure and 
despatched to stores.  These orders are 
generally delivered and fitted using one of our 
recommended independent fitters.  The majority 
of the remaining orders are either purchased 
from stock in store, or ordered and delivered 
directly to customers’ homes by the manufacturer.
The majority of beds are delivered directly 
by the manufacturer, minimising handling 
and freight costs whilst maximising 
speed of delivery and quality  
of service.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 7 our
strategy.
Strategic report continued
Our primary business objective is to maximise value for our shareholders by 
delivering long-term sustainable growth in earnings per share and cash flow.   
We do this by putting customers at the heart of everything we do in our vision  
to be the first choice for flooring, for life.  
We help customers to transform their homes with an integrated multi-channel 
proposition centred around Choice, Value, Making it Easy and our own Expertise.  
It is supported both internally and externally by our values that make up the 
essence of our company:  
We’re honest and straightforward.  
We care about customers and colleagues.  
We make it easy.
Value
We’ll always
provide value
for money
and easy
ways to
pay
The trusted choice for 
flooring, for life
Choice
The best range of 
flooring under 
one roof
Make it easy
We’ll make it easy 
and hassle-free
Expertise
We have experts
who’ll create a
great experience
the way
every step of
8 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 “We are clear about the opportunity to grow market share profitably and make 
Carpetright the first choice for customers, for life.”
strategic 
update.
Overview
Our strategic plan identifies clear areas of focus to support  
the updating and revitalising of the Carpetright retail proposition. 
Our vision is to ensure we connect better with today’s customer, 
so that future generations will continue to shop with Carpetright 
wherever they are in their particular stage of life.
Whilst we are pleased to report a second year of strong profit 
growth and ten consecutive quarters of like-for-like growth –  
the past twelve months have not been without their challenges.   
In turning the business round we are re-engineering every  
aspect of it, specifically: 
 – Who we are – The brand, culture, values and corporate 
identity
 – What we sell – Broadening our total floorcovering range  
to meet consumer demand
 – How we sell it – Embedding product training, customer 
service, Interest Free Credit and a host of other initiatives  
within the business
 – Where we sell it – Reducing and re-sizing our property portfolio
In implementing the plan we will maintain the momentum we  
have already generated and which is centred around putting  
the customer at the heart of everything we do, specifically:
1. Revitalising the Carpetright brand
2. Offering the Best Choice in Floorcoverings
3. Unbeatable Value
4. Making it Easy
5. Expertise
6. Outstanding Customer Service 
7. Managing the Store Portfolio
1. Revitalising the Carpetright brand
Customer research has told us quite clearly that, while Carpetright 
has a very high prompted brand awareness amongst consumers, 
only 50% of those surveyed would actually consider shopping 
with us.  As we reported last year, we have been testing a new 
brand identity.  After trialling this across a number of different  
store formats and locations, we have developed a new look  
which has researched extremely well.  This new identity for our 
brand, and accompanying tone of voice, is more in tune with  
the contemporary retail customer, without taking us away from  
the concept of value, which, as market leader, remains vitally 
important to our offer.
The new identity will be rolled out progressively across the  
UK estate from 1 July 2016, whenever we refresh or refurbish  
our stores.  The new identity will also feature in all our advertising 
and communications from the same date.
We trialled four new concept stores in and around London, 
beginning in August 2015.  As a group, they have delivered 
like-for-like sales growth of 9.1% in the period January-April 2016.  
The results were encouraging and we are rolling out elements  
of the new design across the chain.  We plan to focus this 
refurbishment on our highest turnover stores, our smaller High 
Street stores and those locations where we are most obviously  
at a competitive disadvantage, for example where we face 
competition from a new local market entrant.  Within twelve 
months, we expect to have around 100 stores trading under the 
new brand identity at a capital cost of around £10m.  Whilst some 
of this investment can be viewed as maintenance capital, our 
experience from the stores converted to date gives us confidence 
that we can achieve a payback within 18 months.
From 1 September 2016 all UK store staff will be adopting a new 
uniform, selected by colleagues themselves.  This programme  
will give sales colleagues in-store a more contemporary service-
oriented identity to support our strategic initiatives and has been 
well received by store teams.
To support the rebrand, in August 2016 we are starting a TV 
sponsorship package across UKTV’s lifestyle and entertainment 
channels (Home, Really, Alibi, Gold and W), sponsoring specific 
programmes (examples being Escape to the Country; DIY SOS; 
Homes Under the Hammer) to help drive recognition of the new 
brand, as well as increased consideration from potential customers.
Whilst the focus has been on the UK, we have begun a similar 
journey in the Netherlands.  At the beginning of June 2016, we 
refurbished a store in Utrecht, which takes much of the learning 
from the UK, whilst adapting it for the Dutch consumer.  Although 
it is too early to draw firm conclusions, we are encouraged by the 
initial customer response.
2. Offering the Best Choice in Floorcoverings
Our ability to offer customers a vast range of choice in 
floorcoverings is critical to our market leadership position and  
for many years we have offered the widest range and selection  
of carpet available.  We have been repositioning our carpet range 
and, just as importantly, substantially extending our offer in the 
hard flooring area as consumer tastes adapt and change through 
the various life stages.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 9 Strategic report continued
strategic update continued
A number of initiatives have been developed, in part through our 
concept stores and a variety of other trials around the country:
 – Having achieved 36% growth in hard flooring in concept  
stores since January 2016, we are introducing new in store 
sections with a new and improved range of laminate, vinyl  
and engineered wood as part of the refurbishment programme.  
We will also roll-out a new and comprehensive display of Luxury 
Vinyl Tile stands, all supplier funded, which is testimony to their 
belief in our growth potential in this area.  This initiative will 
include a range from Tarkett that allows us to compete 
head-to-head with established brands such as Amtico and 
Karndean.  The introduction of recognised brands such as 
Balterio, Kronospan and Quickstep to our range has delivered 
encouraging growth as consumer tastes continue to evolve in 
this segment.  The roll-out has to be controlled and managed 
effectively – we need to ensure that all our staff are adequately 
trained and that we have sufficient fitting capacity wherever we 
introduce the product extensions.  Preparation, ahead of fitting 
a hard floor, is key and it is a different process that is also more 
expensive than fitting a carpet.
 – We enjoyed double digit percentage growth in underlay sales  
in the year as we demonstrated to customers that proper 
underlay should not be considered an optional extra but as  
an essential ingredient that shapes how a new carpet feels, 
wears and looks.  We have invested in staff training to promote 
underlay as well as rolling out new underlay display stands 
across the estate.
 – We successfully developed a new range of products with 
‘House Beautiful’ magazine, which launched in Autumn 2015, 
and we are very encouraged by the results thus far.  We are 
extending the range from 150 stores into all Carpetright 
locations from August 2016 and will be launching some  
new additions to the ‘House Beautiful’ range at the same  
time.  We will also trial a premium range of Luxury Vinyl Tile 
products under the brand.
 – We will launch some new brands that will be ‘Exclusive at 
Carpetright’ in time for the Autumn season.  These include 
carpet under the famous ‘Kosset’ brand, and some innovative 
and eye catching designs that will only be available from us.  
Keeping the range fresh, interesting and exclusive to Carpetright 
will give us a clear edge as seasons change and customers 
look for home inspiration.
 – In the Netherlands and Belgium we have re-introduced a range 
of curtains and blinds.  This category was previously sold by 
these businesses prior to their acquisition by Carpetright in 
2001.  Comments from customers and our own teams identified 
it as an opportunity and it is now ranged in 72 stores and 
represents 6% of the total sales mix by the end of financial year.
3. Unbeatable Value
Unbeatable value will always be important to Carpetright – as 
market leader we expect to negotiate the very best terms with 
suppliers and to pass those benefits on to our customers with  
the very best prices in the marketplace.  There are three main 
anchors to our value proposition:
 – Interest Free Credit (IFC) – Launched successfully in December 
2014, IFC has grown to a sales penetration level of 16% of all 
transactions.  We increased the value of the IFC offer at 
Christmas 2015, extending the deal to 0% over a four year 
period.  IFC allows customers to get the product they love for  
a reasonable monthly fee, over a prescribed period, and allows 
for prudent customer budgeting and affordability.  Our average 
transaction value in the past year was £331, yet our average IFC 
transaction was £1,216 and it is a major value differentiator for  
us in the floorcoverings sector.
 – Never Beaten On Price – Our customer promise is clear: if you 
provide us with a quote from an alternative retailer for exactly the 
same product, we will match it.  Customers want reassurance 
that they are getting the best deal available and this rock solid 
guarantee differentiates us from the majority of our competitors.
 – Promotions – Consumer appetite for a deal has been sharpened 
by an extended period of austerity in the UK.  Carpetright will 
always have a good selection of products on promotion at any 
one time and will ensure that it operates ethically, promoting its 
products in accordance with the law.
We have rebranded our entire range of roll stock and remnant 
products under the ‘Essential Value’ brand which covers a wide 
range of budget lines that can be taken away immediately for 
self-fitting or fitted for the customer within days.  With new carpet 
available from as little as £2.99 a square metre, ‘Essential Value’ 
demonstrates to all customers, not just those on a budget, that 
Carpetright should be their first choice for value.  Additionally,  
we will use our ‘Price Checker’ on beds to highlight our value  
on comparable lines against specialist bed retailers.
4. Making it Easy
Giving great service and making the purchase an enjoyable,  
hassle free experience is really important on the floorcovering 
journey.  Unlike other relatively straightforward big ticket sales  
such as beds or sofas, ordering new flooring presents a number  
of potentially daunting obstacles to the customer – with the need  
to get someone round to complete accurate measurements and 
give an estimate of what they need and how much it will cost  
being the most significant.  Once ordered it’ s then the job of our 
recommended fitters to come to the home and complete the task. 
Our research tells us that there are a number of pinch points  
in the process – from consideration online right through to  
the “Ta Da” moment when the fitter presents the beautifully 
finished product to the customer – where we could do much 
better, specifically:
 – Improved communications and a checklist on purchasing  
to ensure customers understand exactly what happens  
once an order is taken and what happens on fitting day.
 – Regular updates by e-mail and text so that the customer’s 
mind is always at ease on the progress of their order.
 – We aim to ensure that all fitters are now equipped with  
card readers for electronic payment rather than cash.
 – We are pleased to be working with ‘Which? Trusted Traders’.  
Following their rigorous process of assessment over the  
next few months, our recommended floor and carpet fitting 
services will be endorsed by ‘Which? Trusted Traders’ to give 
potential customers additional peace of mind when choosing 
our service. 
10 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Creating a contemporary and compelling digital offer is central  
to improving customer consideration of Carpetright when they  
are researching their new flooring options.  The business has 
focused on improving the look and feel of the Carpetright website 
to ensure there is inspiration for the customer as well as improved 
navigation.  While transacting online is not a key consideration for 
the vast majority of customers, the opportunity to showcase the 
product and the store portfolio online in the research stage of the 
customer journey remains the key opportunity.  Initiatives for this 
upcoming year include:
 – A complete rebrand of the website with the new brand identity
 – “Where’s my stuff?” – customer order tracker and  
“My Account” section
 – Online estimator diary booking
 – Improved site search
 – Interest Free Credit Online
 – Room Visualiser tool 
From inspiring customers to shop with Carpetright online through 
brand advertising, consultation and advice, ordering, preparing 
the room, fitting, tidy up and disposal – our objective is to make  
a flooring purchase from Carpetright a seamless, hassle free 
experience that will encourage recommendation of the brand.
5. Expertise
Training and development within Carpetright had previously  
been sporadic.  Whilst we have a lot of incredibly knowledgeable 
people with many years of loyal service and experience within the 
Group, we needed a more co-ordinated approach to ensuring our 
colleagues are the best in the business when it comes to product 
authority and recommendation. 
We are developing an online Academy portal for training 
Carpetright staff in 2016.  This will focus initially on induction  
for new starters as well as comprehensively covering all product 
areas in depth so that we can continuously add to our colleague 
knowledge and build confidence, especially as we reach into new 
areas of the floorcoverings market.  The portal will also develop 
specific skills not only in-store but also in delivering the managers 
and leaders of tomorrow.  A new team of experienced training 
professionals will build the platform this year.
6. Outstanding Customer Service
Putting the customer at the heart of everything we do is central  
to our strategy and we have had a busy year making this come  
to life in our stores.
Back in July 2014 our score on the independent retail review 
website ‘Trustpilot’ was 1.7 out of 10.  While many colleagues were 
focusing on providing the best service, the culture of the business 
was about taking orders, making sales and earning commission.
Power has transferred from the retailer to the customer in the  
last decade.  Customers expect whatever they want, whenever 
they want with swift, efficient delivery.  Customers are all very 
quick to tell the world on various social media platforms how it 
went.  The default position is rapidly becoming excellent service, 
with consumers sharing only their bad experiences, which can 
quickly go viral severely impacting brand reputation.
We are aware through our research that compared to competitors 
our brand scores well on key areas such as ‘Value’ and ‘Range’.  
People know they can get a good deal at Carpetright and know 
that we have a broad product portfolio.  We have tended to under 
index on key measures such as ‘Trust’ and ‘Reputation’ and we 
can only address this by devoting ourselves to changing our service 
culture, which has to evolve as we improve customer perceptions.
In January 2015, we introduced our internal Customer Service 
Programme, ‘Do We Measure Up?’.  This is a scheme where 
customers are e-mailed about their experience with Carpetright  
at three stages in the Customer Journey – ‘Measuring & Estimating’; 
‘In-store experience’; and ‘Fitting’.  Customers are incentivised  
to complete the feedback with the opportunity of winning their 
carpet, or the value of their order, for free in a monthly draw.   
The top four drivers of Highly Satisfied customers are:
 – Colleague friendliness
 – Time spent understanding customer needs
 – Speed of placing the order
 – Colleague product knowledge  
Research indicates that customers are more than twice as likely 
to recommend when they are ‘Highly Satisfied’ and customers in 
this zone of satisfaction will spend 12% more on average.  Since 
launching the scheme we have moved the overall satisfaction 
rating from 71% to 76% and believe that an 80% plus score is 
well within our reach in the next twelve months.
Whilst this is our own internal measure, we are also able to  
track a Net Promoter Score, allowing us to benchmark ourselves 
against other retailers in similar sectors.  This has moved along  
a similar trajectory and now stands at 71%.  We are confident  
of continuing this improvement.
Additionally, we will be adjusting our reward and compensation 
packages away from commission payment on order taking  
and re-targeting them to successful completion of the job and  
‘Do We Measure Up?’ ratings.  An identical customer service 
programme has been launched in the Netherlands and Belgium  
in April 2016.  We expect to be able to make similar improvements 
in these businesses.
For the record, our ‘Trustpilot’ score in June 2016 was up to  
8.7 out of 10 – a significant improvement.
7. Managing the Store Portfolio
Last year, we said we anticipated being able to show positive 
results from our accelerated programme of property activity in 
2015/16.  We have been aggressively targeting that part of our 
legacy portfolio which is over-rented and made it our number one 
priority outside of our customer facing activity.  In parallel, we are 
continuing to open new stores on a selective basis, where we  
see good opportunities to bring the Carpetright brand closer  
to consumers in local markets.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 11 Strategic report continued
strategic update continued
We are managing the estate to reduce square footage, to 
eliminate store catchment overlap, improve the quality of our  
store base by moving to better locations on realistic rent deals 
and by ensuring customers can access a Carpetright store 
wherever they live in the UK.
At 30 April 2016 we had 435 stores trading in the UK.  During  
the year we opened six new stores, relocated four and closed 31 
giving a net reduction of 25 stores.  We continue to eliminate 
overlap in towns where we have more than one unit – this allows 
us to upgrade and refurbish the remaining store and to capture 
the benefit of sales transferred from the store closure.  We have, 
in addition, negotiated exits from two locations where we had 
onerous leases, removing us from all future liabilities associated 
with those properties.
The trial of our small high street concept store in Reigate has 
been a huge success and we have opened similar locations in 
affluent towns such as Bromley and Gerrards Cross, the latter 
post the year end.  We believe the lower rent high street format 
offers an exciting opportunity especially in and around the M25.
We continue to take a robust view at lease renewal, which 
provides the opportunity to secure lower rents for future years.  
Within the next five years 40% of the UK estate has a lease 
renewal scheduled, providing further opportunity to reduce  
the fixed store operating costs or to exit underperforming  
stores.  At period-end, the average length of lease had  
fallen to 6.1 years (2015: 7.1 years).
In the Rest of Europe we had 137 stores, opening eight stores 
and closing eight during the year.  In line with the UK activity, 
discussions are being held with landlords in respect of lease 
renewals and this process is delivering rental reductions.  The 
potential to secure reductions is generally dictated by the average 
length of lease remaining, with this being 2.6 years (2015: 3.1 
years) in the Netherlands and 2.3 years (2015: 1.9 years) in 
Belgium.  In the Republic of Ireland this period is 9.1 years (2015: 
10.1 years) reflecting the agreement of long-term deals during  
the expansion into this market in the period from 2001 to 2008.
We will close the Storeys brand effective 1 September 2016  
with the exception of one store in Stockton-on-Tees.  This largely 
North East based chain has struggled for a number of years due 
to underinvestment and the fact it has inevitably been competing 
with a nearby Carpetright store.  Any stores that do not transfer to 
the Carpetright brand will become a new sub-brand, ‘Carpetright 
Clearance’, which will provide a budget option that will be sufficiently 
differentiated from the main estate.  Both formats will benefit, 
unlike Storeys, from the Carpetright brand’s marketing spend  
and digital presence.
This activity is delivering an improvement in profitability.  Over  
the past two financial years, we have reduced the number of  
loss making stores in the UK to 38 locations from 67.  While  
this activity incurs a cash cost to exit leases, with net expenditure 
totalling £2.2m in the year, either by assigning to new tenants or 
returning the property to landlords, by taking this robust approach 
we are confident we are getting an acceptable financial return.
Summary
We are now confident that we have a new store format that  
is well suited to taking on the competition and increasing our  
appeal to all types of consumers on all sorts of budgets.  The 
transformation of Carpetright into a modern, sustainable market 
leader will not happen overnight, but we are positive that we  
have momentum and we are on the right path.
We were lapping our own strong like-for-like sales performance  
in the previous year and in addition we had a consumer backdrop 
which was not brim full of confidence.  We have also faced 
increased competition from a new specialist on a number of  
our UK sites.  We are convinced that we can retain our market 
share in these locations by focusing on doing the right things 
outlined above.
Through updating our brand identity and making it easy for  
the customer we believe that we can increase consideration  
of Carpetright and build average transaction values by focusing  
our staff on the following initiatives:
 – Introducing Interest Free Credit
 – Understanding customer needs and selling the right product
 – Selling appropriate underlay and high margin accessories
 – Providing a seamless, hassle free experience that will build  
our trust and reputation
We are embarking on a complete turnaround of the Carpetright 
business.  We have not rushed into the changes, as we want to 
carry the majority of our staff with us and there is much to do.   
We need to ensure that we can execute the change successfully 
within our resource capacity and that we can carry out the customer 
promise effectively so that we become a recommended retailer 
more consistently.
Building consistency of performance across the chain will be  
key to our success, as those stores that score above 75% on  
‘Do We Measure Up?’, deliver 15% IFC penetration and 50% 
underlay penetration enjoy double the like-for-like sales growth  
of the rest of the portfolio.
My personal thanks go to our Board of Directors who are as 
rightfully challenging as they are constructive and supportive,  
as well as to my Operating Committee and support office and 
warehouse staff in both Purfleet and Utrecht for their outstanding 
efforts.  We recently completed a set of regional roadshows 
meeting all our store managers and the real praise goes to our 
frontline staff in retail all across our operations for doing the most 
important job in the organisation – putting the customer at the 
heart of everything we do.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive Officer
12 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 we are
“What should we 
expect of Carpetright 
over the next twelve 
months?”
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive 
Officer
chief executive’s
Q&A.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 13 Q.  How do you rate the 
Group’s trading performance 
in the financial year?  
A.  On target.  We are pleased with our 
progress in turning the business around.  
During the year we have successfully 
trialled a number of initiatives and are  
now in a place where we are able to roll 
them out across the estate.  However,  
we recognise we are in a market where 
the competition has intensified and the 
consumer environment is uncertain.
Q.  What were the most 
important achievements  
of the year?  
A.  Hitting the numbers.  I am pleased  
with the progress of the concept stores, 
our growth in hard flooring, which is 
strategically important, as well as  
initiatives such as Interest Free Credit. 
Q.  What progress was  
made with the plans to 
revitalise the brand?  
A.  We are launching the new brand  
look effective from 1 July 2016.  This  
has been extensively researched and we 
have trialled a number of options across 
the country this year.  We believe it delivers 
a more contemporary look and is now 
suitable for roll out.
Q.  Are you moving fast 
enough to keep pace with  
the competition?  
A.  As fast as we can, given all our other 
strategic imperatives and the “day job”.  
Our objective is to tackle competition with 
a number of initiatives, including ensuring 
we have the best team to deal with it, 
refurbishment/refreshment of the physical 
environment and a competitive offer.
Q.  How did customers 
respond to the changes  
made in the trial of the  
new store format?  
A.  Positively – some areas have worked 
especially well, particularly sales of hard 
flooring and premium branded products.  
Customer research has been hugely 
positive on the uncluttered, more 
contemporary, store environment.
Q.  What changes will you  
be adopting as you move  
to refurbish the UK estate?
A.  We intend to prioritise the refit to  
our highest turnover stores, our smaller 
high street stores and areas where we  
are most obviously at a competitive 
disadvantage.  Within twelve months  
we expect around 100 stores to be  
trading under the updated brand. 
Q.  What gives you the 
confidence that you are  
on the right track with  
these plans? 
A.  Sales numbers and customer research 
feedback, as well as what our store staff 
are saying.
Q.  How long will it take for 
the changes you are planning 
to be rolled out across the  
UK estate?
A.  This is a long-term repositioning and 
revitalising of the brand, and the estate  
– it is not an affordable overnight 
transformation.  We are doing this from a 
position of market leadership and believe 
that our actions are sustainable as we 
tackle our legacy property issues and 
educate the consumer on the revitalised 
Carpetright brand.
Strategic report continued
chief executive’s Q&A continued
Q.  How have hard flooring 
sales progressed over  
the year?  
A.  Progress has been excellent – this has 
been led by fitted laminate up 21.4% and 
luxury vinyl tiles up 18.9%.  While carpet 
retains mass popularity, there is a lifestyle 
shift of spend to this category and our 
early tests on engineered wood have  
also been encouraging.
Q.  How have you  
changed your approach  
to promotions?  
A.  Gone are the days of 70% off 
“Madness” sales.  Our limit is 50% and  
we are more focused on total package 
value for the customer, including the 
product, underlay, accessories and fitting.  
Promotions will always be important for 
big ticket retailers but price compliance, 
integrity and managing promotions 
responsibly is also important in building  
our trust and reputation.
14 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Q.  What progress did you 
make with reducing store 
occupancy costs during  
the year?  
A.  Excellent – we closed 43 stores under 
pre agreed pay back criteria.  We still  
have a legacy of too many over-rented 
stores but we have made significant 
progress.  We will be gradually running  
the Storeys brand down during the next 
twelve months – turning these stores into 
Carpetright or “Carpetright Clearance” 
units.  We are opening a number of smaller 
high street stores and the early results  
look very promising.
Q.  Raising service standards 
is a key element of your plans 
– how is that initiative going?
A.  Positive.  Our Trust Pilot score in July 
2014 was 1.7 out of 10.  It’ s now up to 8.7 , 
which is excellent progress but still leaves 
room for further improvement.  Our ‘Do 
We Measure Up’ programme goes from 
strength to strength in understanding and 
acting on customer feedback.  We want  
to raise our Net Promoter Score from the 
current level of 71% and that is a major 
strategic priority.
Q.  How did the competitive 
environment change in  
the year?  
A.  Competition intensified across the  
year, largely as the result of a new market 
entrant which went head to head with our 
established stores on a number of retail 
parks.  We also saw more aggressive 
pricing from other competitors on a local 
basis but this has always been a periodic 
feature of the market – we just have to 
respond on a local level and it’ s very granular .
Q.  Will we see some of the 
changes being made in the 
UK being adopted in your 
Rest of Europe business?  
A.  It’s a very different business in Belgium 
and the Netherlands but the principles  
are still the same.  We are opening some 
new concept stores suited to their local 
market and the results have been very 
encouraging indeed.
Q.  Where do you see the 
biggest opportunity in the 
year ahead?  
A.  The rebranding is an exciting multi-year 
project.  In the short term, the biggest 
sales opportunities are in Hard Flooring 
and Beds.  Resizing the property portfolio 
and delivering more efficient service under 
our ‘Making It Easy’ project, will deliver 
like-for-like growth and the all-important 
customer recommendations.
Q.  What should we expect  
of Carpetright over the next  
twelve months?  
A.  Significant progress against all  
the strategic areas driven by ‘Putting 
customers at the heart of everything  
we do’.  We anticipate a further improved 
performance if the external environment 
and economy stay reasonably solid.
Q.  What are the key risks  
to your growth plans?  
A.  The general economy and  
customer confidence.
Q.  Where do you see  
Carpetright in five years?  
A.  A vibrant revitalised business with  
a much more rational property portfolio 
and a lower fixed cost base.  A refreshed 
brand and workforce delivering consistently 
excellent customer service.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive Officer
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 15 Summary
The 2016 financial year represents the 52 week trading period  
to 30 April 2016.  The comparative period of financial year 2015 
represents the 53 weeks to 2 May 2015.  We believe that a 
comparison to the pro forma 52 week result for the 2015 financial 
year better reflects the underlying performance of the business.  
On this basis, all commentary included in this report is based  
on the 52 week period in the prior year to 25 April 2015 unless 
otherwise stated.
Overview
Total Group revenue for the year decreased by 1.3% to £456.8m, 
consisting of a decline in the UK business of 1.3% and a decline 
of 1.2% in the Rest of Europe.  Our continued focus on rationalising 
and repositioning the store portfolio saw the Group open 18 stores 
and close 43, giving a net decrease of 25 stores and a total store 
base of 572.  The rate of revenue decline was significantly less than 
the fall in total store space, which declined by 5.4% to 5.1 million 
square feet, reflecting our success in exiting under-performing 
locations in the UK.
Group underlying operating profit increased by 32.2% to  
£19.3m, supported by the substantial reduction in property  
costs resulting from the repositioning of the UK store portfolio  
and a strengthening performance in our Rest of Europe business.  
Underlying net finance charges were £0.4m higher at £2.0m.  
These factors combined to generate an underlying profit  
before tax of £17.3m, a 33.1% increase on the prior year.
“Improvement in 
profitability supported 
by substantial savings 
in property costs and  
a strengthening 
performance in our 
Rest of Europe 
business.”
Neil Page
Chief Financial
Officer
Strategic report continued
financial 
review.
52 week  
2016  
£m 
Pro forma  
52 week  
2015  
£m
52 week 
change
53 week  
2015  
£m
Revenue 456.8 462.6 (1.3%) 469.8
Underlying operating profit 19.3 14.6 32.2% 15.8
Net finance charges (2.0) (1.6) (25.%) (1.6)
Underlying profit before tax 17.3 13.0 33.1% 14.2
Exceptional items (4.5) (7.6) 40.8% (7.6)
Profit before tax 12.8 5.4 137.0% 6.6
Earnings per share
 – underlying 19.3p 13.7p 40.9% 15.5p
 – basic 14.9p 5.0p 198.0% 6.7p
Net (debt)/cash (1.1) – – 0.5
Exceptional charges totalled £4.5m (2015: £7.6m), primarily  
costs associated with exiting under-performing stores.
As a result, Group profit before tax was £12.8m (2015: £5.4m).  
Basic earnings per share were 14.9p (2015: 5.0p).
The Group ended the year with net debt of £1.1m, an adverse 
movement of £1.6m from the £0.5m net cash in 2015.
16 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 UK – Performance review
The key financial results for the UK were:
52 week  
2016  
£m
Pro forma  
52 week  
2015  
£m
52 week  
change
53 week  
2015  
£m
Revenue 391.0 396.0 (1.3%) 403.2
Like-for-like sales 2.8% 7.3% – –
Gross profit 237.3 243.4 (2.5%) 247.6
Gross profit % 60.7% 61.4% (0.7ppts) 61.4%
Costs (220.5) (229.1) 3.8% (232.1)
Costs % 56.4% 57.9% 1.5ppts 57.6%
Underlying operating profit 16.8 14.3 17.5% 15.5
Underlying operating profit % 4.3% 3.6% 0.7ppts 3.8%
The UK portfolio is now as follows:
Store numbers Sq ft (’000)
2 May 2015 Openings Closures 30 April 2016 2 May 2015 30 April 2016
Standalone 448 5 (33) 420 3,963 3,734
Concessions 12 5 (2) 15 16 29
Total 460 10 (35) 435 3,979 3,763
In a market characterised by economic uncertainty and volatile 
consumer confidence, revenue decreased by 1.3% to £391.0m.  
We opened 10 stores and closed 35 stores in the year, which 
translated into a net space decline of 216,000 sq ft, a decrease  
of 5.4%.  After taking into account the movement in number  
of stores, like-for-like sales grew by 2.8% across the year as  
a whole, with the first half performance being stronger at 3.8%, 
followed by 1.9% growth in the second half.  At the close of  
the year there were 246 stores trading with a bed department 
(2015: 265).  Sales within the beds category now represent  
9.0% of the sales mix (2015: 8.7%).
Gross profit decreased by £6.1m to £237.3m, representing 
60.7% of sales, a decrease of 70 basis points.  The decline  
in margin rate was primarily the result of:
 – implementing market beating promotions to drive footfall  
and top line sales volumes; and
 – an increase in product lines which have lower gross margins 
such as wood flooring and beds, resulting in an adverse  
mix impact.
The total UK cost base decreased by 3.8% compared with the 
prior year to £220.5m (2015: £229.1m).  Costs as a percentage 
of sales were 56.4%, which compared favourably to 57.9% in  
the prior year.  The movement in costs was a combination of:
 – a 1.3% increase in store payroll costs to £61.4m  
(2015: £60.6m), reflecting commission payments  
associated with stronger sales growth; 
 – a 7.1% reduction in occupancy costs to £116.4m  
(2015: £125.3m), primarily the impact of the net reduction  
of 25 stores during the year along with the full year impact  
of the net reduction of twelve stores in the prior year; and
 – marketing and central support costs decreased by 1.2% to 
£42.7m (2015: £43.2m), primarily the result of one-off costs  
in the prior year associated with brand repositioning, partially 
offset by higher advertising costs.
The culmination of the above factors led to underlying operating 
profit increasing by 17.5% to £16.8m (2015: £14.3m).
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report Rest of Europe – Performance review
The key financial results for the Rest of Europe were:
2016  
£m 
2015  
£m 
Change  
(Reported  
currency)
Change  
(Local  
currency) 
Revenue 65.8 66.6 (1.2%) 4.9%
Like-for-like sales 4.8% 0.3%
Gross profit 36.9 39.6 (6.8%) (0.8%)
Gross profit % 56.1% 59.5% (3.4ppts)
Costs (34.4) (39.3) 12.5% 6.5%
Costs % 52.3% 59.0% 6.7ppts
Underlying operating profit 2.5 0.3 733.3% 664.1%
Underlying operating profit % 3.8% 0.5% 3.3ppts
The Rest of Europe portfolio is now as follows: 
Store numbers Sq ft (’000)
2 May 2015 Openings Closures 30 April 2016 2 May 2015 30 April 2016
Netherlands 93 4 (4) 93 1,046 985
Belgium 22 4 (3) 23 257 245
Republic of Ireland 22 0 (1) 21 162 157
Total 137 8 (8) 137 1,465 1,387
Gross profit percentage decreased by 340 basis points to 56.1% 
resulting principally from stronger promotions to drive top line 
sales volumes, adverse sales mix variance associated with the 
introduction of a new product category (curtains and blinds)  
and clearance activity implemented to tackle legacy stock issues  
and rationalise the range.  The improvement in volume was 
insufficient to offset the impact of a lower margin rate, resulting  
in a decrease in cash gross profit of 0.8%.  After taking into 
account exchange rate movements, this resulted in a decline  
of 6.8% in reported currency.
Operating costs in local currency reduced by 6.5%.  The  
majority of the savings were driven by a focused cost reduction 
programme initiated in the previous financial year and a reduction 
in advertising spend.  This was reflected in the decline in costs as 
a percentage of sales to 52.3%, a reduction on the prior year 
figure of 59.0%.  In reported currency, this was a reduction  
in costs of 12.5% to £34.4m.
The net result was an underlying operating profit of £2.5m,  
a £2.2m improvement on the £0.3m profit generated in the  
prior year.
Whilst macroeconomic conditions in Belgium remained fragile,  
the Netherlands and Republic of Ireland experienced a recovery, 
with an increase in reported consumer confidence and more 
encouraging economic data.
In local currency terms, the three businesses combined to produce 
a total revenue 4.9% ahead of the prior year, with like-for-like sales 
increasing by 4.8%.  There has been a sustained improvement, 
with six successive quarters of like-for-like growth.  After exchange 
rate movements, total revenue fell by 1.2% in reported currency.
Our Rest of Europe store portfolio remained level on last year  
with 137 stores, having opened eight and closed eight during  
the period.
Strategic report continued
financial review continued
18 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Net finance costs and taxation
Underlying net finance charges were £2.0m (2015: £1.6m).   
The increase was principally driven by a marginally higher  
level of average net debt over the period and amortisation  
of arrangement fees.
The taxation charge on profit for the year was £2.7m (2015: 
£2.1m).  The weighted average annual effective tax rate for the 
period is 21.3% (2015: 31.3%). The decrease in the effective  
tax rate is the outcome from improved profitability while non-
deductible items have remained stable, along with a deferred  
tax credit in the year from the fall in the main UK rate to 18%.
Exceptional items
The Group recorded a net charge of £4.5m (2015: £7.6m)  
in the year.
(Charge)
2016  
£m
2015  
£m
Losses on disposal of properties (3.6) (0.4)
Onerous lease provision (0.6) (7.0)
Impairment release/(charge):
 – store assets 0.1 (0.2)
 – freehold properties (0.4) –
Pre tax exceptional items (4.5) (7.6)
A net loss of £3.6m was made on property disposals in the year 
(2015: £0.4m loss).  This was principally the result of surrender 
premiums being paid to exit loss-making stores and associated 
asset write-offs.
At 2 May 2015 there were 14 vacant properties in the UK and 
three in the Republic of Ireland classed as onerous leases, against 
which we carried a provision.  During the year we disposed of  
four of these stores, relieving us from all future liabilities associated 
with these properties.  The charge associated with exiting these 
stores equalled the provisions carried.  There were no additions  
or re-openings of onerous stores during the period, leaving ten 
onerous stores remaining at the end of the financial period.
A detailed review of provisions held for unavoidable onerous  
lease costs for loss-making stores resulted in a charge of £0.6m 
(2015: £7.0m).
We have reviewed the carrying value of the store assets in our 
balance sheet, consistent with the approach in previous years.  
These tests have led to a net credit of £0.1m (2015: £0.2m 
charge).  The Group has entered into sale agreements for two 
freehold properties at below carrying value, offset by impairment 
adjustments at other locations, this combination led to a net 
charge of £0.4m in the period (2015: Nil).
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share of 19.3 pence (2015: 13.7 pence), 
an increase of 40.9%.  Basic earnings per share was 14.9 pence 
(2015: 5.0 pence).
Dividend
The Board has decided not to pay a final dividend (2015: nil).   
In taking this decision, the Board has considered that whilst  
there has been an improvement in profitability during the year,  
the priority for the use of cash is to accelerate activity to reduce 
the Group’s fixed occupancy costs and to invest in the remaining 
stores to broaden the appeal of the brand.  Based on our current 
outlook, we do not expect this position to change in the current 
financial year. 
Balance sheet
The Group had net assets of £74.0m at the end of the year 
(2015: £59.5m), a year-on-year increase of £14.5m.
30 April 2016  
£m
2 May 2015  
£m
Freehold & long leasehold property 61.5 64.9
Other non-current assets 107.5 106.5
Stock 41.6 34.1
Trade & other current assets 20.0 25.2
Creditors < 1 year (91.1) (97.9)
Creditors > 1 year (62.2) (69.8)
Net (debt)/cash (1.1) 0.5
Pension deficit (2.2) (4.0)
Net assets 74.0 59.5
During the period, two freehold property disposals were completed.  
The Group owns a significant property portfolio, most of which is 
used for retail purposes.  The carrying values are supported by a 
combination of value in use and independent valuations.
As a consequence of managing the estate to reduce square 
footage, eliminate store catchment overlap and improve the 
quality of our store base on realistic rent deals, the level of 
operating lease liabilities has reduced significantly to £599.3m 
(2015: £679.1m).
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 19 Cash flow
Group net debt at 30 April 2016 was £1.1m, an adverse 
movement of £1.6m on the prior year end position of £0.5m net 
cash.  The increase was driven by the improvement in underlying 
operating profit being offset by a £7.0m increase in stock to 
reduce order fulfilment lead times and the listing of higher value 
ranges, a £5.1m cash outflow related to provisions paid, £0.9m 
contributions to closed defined benefit pension schemes and  
a £4.3m increase in working capital.  This increase in working 
capital was attributable to a combination of amortisation of  
lease incentives, the timing impact from the 53
rd
 week in the  
prior year being partially offset by a negotiated quicker payment 
cycle from the third party provider of consumer credit facilities.
The resulting net inflow of cash generated by operations of 
£13.3m was offset by net capital expenditure, interest and  
tax net outflows totalling £14.7m.
The Group’s average net debt was £7.1m over the period  
(2015: £4.9m).
2016 
£m
2015  
£m
Underlying operating profit 19.3 15.8
Depreciation & other non-cash items 13.5 14.0
(Increase)/Decrease in stock (7.0) (1.0)
(Increase)/Decrease in working capital (4.3) 0.8 
Net (expenditure)/proceeds on exit of 
operating leases (2.2) 1.0 
Contributions to pension schemes (0.9) (0.9)
Provisions paid (5.1) (4.6)
Operating cash flows 13.3 25.1
Net interest paid (2.0) (1.6)
Corporation tax paid (3.0) (4.4)
Net capital expenditure (9.7) (7.6)
Free cash flows (1.4) 11.5
Other (0.2) 0.1
Movement in net debt (1.6) 11.6
Opening net debt 0.5 (11.1)
Closing net debt (1.1) 0.5
Net capital expenditure was £9.7m (2015: £7.6m).  This can be 
analysed between the following principal categories:
2016  
£m
2015  
£m
Capital expenditure (11.9) (8.8)
Proceeds from freehold property 
disposals 2.2 1.2
Net capital expenditure (9.7) (7.6)
The majority of the capital expenditure was focused on new 
stores and refurbishing existing stores, along with investing in 
store IT systems in the UK.
Current liquidity
At the year end the Group held cash balances of £8.3m  
(2015: £7.3m), principally a combination of Sterling and Euros.  
Gross bank borrowings at the balance sheet date were £7.1m 
(2015: £4.4m), all of which were drawn down from overdraft 
facilities.  The Group had further undrawn facilities of £47.3m  
at the balance sheet date.
In April 2015, the Group completed a refinancing arrangement  
of its principal facilities, providing approximately £58m of debt 
capacity split between revolving credit facilities and overdrafts  
in a mixture of Sterling and Euro currencies.  The revolving  
credit facility matures in July 2019.  In December 2015 the  
Group elected not to renew its €5.0m multi-option facility in 
Belgium due to a lack of requirement.  This action reduced  
the Group’ s total facilities in GBP terms to £54.4m.  The facilities 
contain financial covenants which are believed to be appropriate  
in the current economic climate and which are tested on a 
quarterly basis, against which the Group monitors compliance.
Pensions
At 30 April 2016 the IAS 19 net retirement benefit deficit  
was £2.2m (2015: £4.0m).  This reduction of £1.8m reflects  
a combination of the movement in financial assumptions  
and pension deficit contributions made by the Company.   
As previously announced, the Company scheme was closed  
to future accrual with effect from 1 May 2010.  The Company 
agreed a recovery plan with the Trustees in 2015 and this will  
be reviewed following the completion of the next triennial 
valuation, which will be performed as at 5 April 2017.
Neil Page
Chief Financial Officer
Strategic report continued
financial review continued
20 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide range of management information delivered in a timely manner.  
Listed below are the principal measures that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the performance of the Group.
Like-for-like sales 
% growth
Definition
Calculated as this year’s 
net sales divided by last 
year’s net sales for all 
stores that are at least 
twelve months old at the 
beginning of the financial 
year.  Stores closed during 
the year are excluded from 
both years (calculated in 
local currency).
Rationale
Maximising like-for-like 
sales opportunities drives 
cash inflow.  This KPI also 
measures the health of  
our core retail estate and 
reflects customer reaction 
to our products, proposition 
and price.
Performance
UK (%)
Rest of Europe (%)
Gross profit 
percentage
Definition
Gross profit as a 
percentage of net  
sales (calculated in  
local currency).
Rationale
Gross profit is an  
important indicator  
of the Group’s financial 
performance.  It reflects 
our ability to source 
effectively, run an efficient 
supply chain, and promote 
and deliver the correct mix 
of products to maximise 
cash margin.
Performance
UK (%)
Rest of Europe (%)
Net Promoter 
Score (NPS)
Definition
Net Promoter Score  
(NPS) is a measure of  
a customer’s willingness  
to recommend our service 
to others in terms of 
Satisfaction and Loyalty 
calculated by subtracting 
the percentage of 
Detractors from the 
percentage of Promoters.
Rationale
Customer Satisfaction 
and Loyalty are important 
indicators of the success, 
or not, of the Customer 
Journey, our colleague 
interaction and our  
range of products  
and services. 
Performance
UK
This is the first year of 
adopting Net Promoter 
Score as a KPI; in doing so 
it allows us to benchmark 
ourselves against other 
retailers in similar sectors.
Total 71%
Operating cash 
flow
Definition
This measure is 
determined by taking 
underlying operating profit 
and adding back non-cash 
items and any movements 
in working capital.  
Rationale
The Group’s ability  
to finance its future 
investment, pay 
corporation taxes,  
pay interest on its 
borrowings and make 
returns to shareholders  
is aided by strong cash 
flows from its operations.
Group (£m)
measuring our
performance.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
58.9%
61.5%
62.5%
61.4%
60.7%
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
5
10
15
20
25
30
13.3
25.1
11.3
17.4
29.1
-0.2%
2012
-2
2013 2014 2015 2016
2
4
6
8
10
2.2%
-0.2%
7.3%
2.8%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
57.0%
57.2%
56.7%
59.5%
56.1%
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0.3%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
2
4
6
-1.2%
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
-11% -8.6%
4.8%
Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report Strategic report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 21 Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) policy is designed to support 
our objectives and strategy.
Our principal areas of focus are:
 – Our customers – how our activities affect our current  
and future customers;
 – Our people – the Group’s policies and actions towards  
our employees; and
 – Our environment – the impacts we have on the wider 
environment and how we are seeking to reduce this.
Wilf Walsh is the director responsible for CR.
Our customers
Corporate responsibility starts with our relationship with 
customers and we continued a programme known as ‘Do we 
measure up?’, whereby customers are invited to rate and provide 
feedback on the three stages of their experience – in-store 
ordering, estimating and fitting.  The ratings and feedback are 
immediately available to our store and support office colleagues, 
where they are used to monitor and improve our levels of service 
to our customers.  The Executive Directors’ remuneration for the 
period was directly linked to this measure, further details of  
which can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 48.
We recognise that matters such as how we treat our people,  
the environment and ethical trading are important to customers, 
and details can be found below.
Our people
The Group employs over 3,000 people. 
Equal opportunities
The Board believes in creating, throughout the Group, a culture 
that is free from discrimination and harassment, and will not 
tolerate discrimination in any form.  We are an equal opportunities 
employer and our people and applicants are treated fairly and 
equally regardless of their age, colour, creed, disability, full or  
part time status, gender, marital status, nationality or ethnic  
origin, race, or sexual orientation.  Applications from people  
with disabilities are always fully considered.  Should an individual 
become disabled while working for the Company, efforts are 
made to continue their employment and retraining is provided,  
if necessary.
We believe the attributes of individuals and their different 
perspectives and experiences add value to our business. 
We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide us with an 
insight into different markets and help us anticipate and provide 
what our customers want from us. 
A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who were 
Directors of the Company, senior managers and other employees 
as at 30 April 2016 is set out below. 
Male Female
Directors 5 1
Senior managers 6 1
Other employees 2,575 651
Total 2,586 653
Training and development
Our training and development programmes are focused on giving 
our people the skills they need to carry out their jobs and in due 
course to move up to new roles, enabling them to develop their 
careers.  This has included training in relation to health and safety, 
Interest Free Credit, product knowledge and customer service.
Engagement
There are a number of communication channels in place to help 
people develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement 
with, the Group.  These channels include surveys, management 
briefings, briefings to stores and offices, and other less formal 
communications.  Additionally, all annual results and interim 
management statements are made available through the intranet.  
Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss 
matters of current interest and concern with their colleagues.
Share ownership
All colleagues have an opportunity to invest in the Company’s 
shares through a Savings Related Share Option Scheme. 
Over 550 colleagues participate in this scheme.
Bribery and whistleblowing 
As a responsible employer we maintain a firm stance against  
any type of corruption within the business.
There is a Group-wide Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy  
in place which requires compulsory Anti-Bribery compliance  
and a copy of the Policy is circulated to all new starters when  
they join the business.
The Group operates whistleblowing hotlines through third party 
providers enabling matters of concern to be raised with the 
Company on a named or anonymous basis.  Further details  
can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 35.
Health and safety
We operate an established process for risk assessment and 
employees are expected and encouraged to be proactive on 
health and safety issues.
Health and Safety Committees meet to review any issues to 
identify, prevent and militate against potential risks.  During the 
financial year, issues were identified concerning manual handling 
risks relating to certain products and, following a review, those risks 
were addressed through amending how products are delivered  
to store.  There have not been any fatalities this year (2015: nil).  
corporate
responsibility.
Strategic report continued
Corporate responsibility starts with our relationship with customers
22 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We have rolled out additional training in the UK and Republic  
of Ireland this year to reinforce safe working practices and 
encourage reporting of accidents, irrespective of their 
seriousness.  We believe that this explains the increase  
in reported accidents in the period to 179 (2015: 117).
Human rights and modern slavery
We do not have a specific human rights policy at present, but  
we do have policies that adhere to international human rights 
principles.  We will review from time to time whether a specific 
human rights policy is needed in the future, over and above  
our existing policies.
Our statement on modern slavery is on our website  
www.carpetright.plc.uk.
Our environment
In line with our strategy of building a sustainable business,  
we are committed to taking steps to control and minimise  
any damage our operations may cause to the environment 
through manufacturing processes, transport, energy usage  
and packaging.  In particular, we are aware of the issue of  
climate change and we are taking steps to understand and 
minimise our carbon emissions.
Products and suppliers
We have an Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct (the 
Code) to ensure that we have an ethical supply chain and require 
our suppliers to sign up to the Code.  The Code prohibits, for 
example, animal testing, the use of timber from non-sustainable 
sources and the use of certain chemicals which may be harmful 
to customers.  This code has been updated in order to make  
it clearer that modern slavery is unacceptable.
Energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions
We recognise that the Company benefits through reduced  
cost and the environment benefits by reducing our consumption 
of energy and water.  The release of greenhouse gases (ghg), 
notably CO
2
 generated by burning fossil fuels, has an impact  
on climate change, which presents a risk to both our business 
and the wider environment.  We accept our responsibility to 
continually improve our environmental performance.
We continue to benefit from the introduction of Automatic  
Meter Readers for electricity and gas, which enable us to identify 
high-use locations and take corrective action where necessary, 
together with proactive management preventing us heating  
stores overnight.
Emissions data in respect of the financial year ended 2016 is  
as follows:
Emission type
CO
2
e 
(Carbon 
Dioxide 
equivalent) 
2016
CO
2
e 
(Carbon 
Dioxide 
equivalent) 
2015 Change
Scope 1: Operation 
of facilities 8,793 9,389 (6%)
Scope 1: Combustion 5,623 5,681 (1%)
Scope 1 Emissions 14,417 15,070 (4%)
Scope 2: Purchased 
energy 19,743 20,684 (5%)
Scope 2 Emissions 19,743 20,684 (5%)
T otal emissions 34,165 35,754 (4%)
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio:
2016 2015 Change
T otal footprint 
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) 34,162 35,754 (4%)
Turnover (£m) 456.8 469.8 (3%)
Intensity ratio  
(tCO
2
/turnover £000) 0.075 0.076 (2%)
Notes:
1. Our methodology has been based on the principles of the Greenhouse  
Gas Protocol. 
2. Consumption is based on utility bills. 
3. We have reported on all the measured emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations.  
This includes Scopes 1 and 2 but excludes any emissions from Scope 3.  
The period used is 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2016.
4. Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are those 
published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs  
in 2014 – GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
5. Refrigerant fugitive emissions have been excluded as the impact  
was immaterial.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report The ERC identifies and assesses risks to the Group’s medium-
term strategy and directs the risk management processes within 
both the UK and the Rest of Europe to address each of the 
identified risks, formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely 
impact of such risk occurring.  The Chief Financial Officer provides 
regular reports to the Audit Committee in relation to its work.
The ERC also considers new and emerging risks as a standing 
agenda item, including those identified by the Board of Directors.  
The Committee has also reviewed the ranking of the business’ 
key strategic risks during the year, to ensure that this remains  
an appropriate reflection of their relative standing.  The principal 
risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set out on  
pages 26 to 27.
Oversight and assurance
Our Group Finance department is responsible for the financial 
policies and standards adopted within the Group.  It also 
manages our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely  
and accurate provision of information which enables the Board  
to discharge its responsibilities.
Our Company Secretary and Legal Director is responsible  
for maintaining and developing the Group’s framework of 
governance, including our anti-bribery policy and whistleblowing 
process, alongside ensuring that any changes to the Group’s  
legal obligations are brought to the attention of the relevant teams 
who are responsible for the implementation of any changes.
The Internal Audit department provides independent assessment 
on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes 
of risk management and control across the Group.  It achieves 
this through undertaking reviews which are approved by and 
reported to the Audit Committee.  The Group also uses the 
services of independent third party advisers and consultants  
to review controls and processes where the nature of the  
review requires expertise not available in-house.
Principal risks and uncertainties
We are subject to the same general risks as many other 
businesses; for example, changes in general economic 
conditions, currency and interest rate fluctuations, changes  
in taxation legislation, cyber-security breaches, failure of our  
IT infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, the impact of 
competition, political instability and the impact of natural disasters.  
We use our risk management process as described on page 35 
to identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such issues as they 
emerge, enabling management to take appropriate action 
wherever possible in order to control them and also enabling  
the Board to keep risk management under review.
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe  
to be the most material to our business model, which could 
adversely affect the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or 
assets of the Group and which may prevent us from achieving  
the Group’ s strategic objectives.  Additional risks and uncertainties 
currently unknown to us, or which we currently believe are 
immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
Our approach to risk management
Carpetright recognises that effective business management 
requires regular review of business risks.  We have established a 
flexible and practical framework, sponsored by senior executives, 
which aims to identify and manage the principal risks that may 
prevent us from achieving the Group’s strategic objectives.
The Board and Audit Committee
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk appetite, 
more details of which can be found on page 31.  It also has 
overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. 
In order to fulfil this responsibility, the Directors have established 
an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, 
lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated 
throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval 
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.  
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate  
and manage significant risks associated with the achievement  
of the Group’s objectives.  Because of the limitations inherent  
in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet 
the Group’s particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed 
rather than eliminate risk altogether.  Consequently, it can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee assists the Board through its work covering 
the Group’s system of internal controls, the assessment of risks 
and related compliance activities.  This includes the Committee’s 
oversight of the Group’s Internal Audit department, which:
 – undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the  
field, based on a risk assessment model;
 – provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective 
assurance on the control environment across the Group; and
 – monitors adherence to the Group’s key policies and principles.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and 
makes recommendations and escalates significant risks or issues 
to the Board as appropriate.  Its role is described in more detail 
on pages 33 to 36.
The Board has reviewed the Group’s systems of internal control 
including financial, operational and compliance controls as well  
as risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the 
guidance on internal controls set out in the Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and  
Business Control, issued by the Financial Reporting Council  
in September 2014.
Identification of business risks
An Executive Risk Committee (‘ERC’) comprising the Executive 
Directors and senior managers exists to review key risk and 
control issues, the Group’s principal risks are individually 
sponsored by a member of the ERC.  The ERC met  
quarterly during the year reported.  
risk
management.
Strategic report continued
Our markets appear to be stabilising following a period of significant  
economic turbulence. 
24 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Going concern
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements on the going concern basis, as explained  
in the Basis of preparation paragraph in note 1 to the accounts  
on page 63.
The Group is principally funded through shareholders’ funds  
and bank debt.  The principal banking facility, which includes  
a revolving credit facility for £45 million, is committed to the end  
of July 2019.  The Directors have considered the future cash 
requirements of the Group and are satisfied that the facilities are 
sufficient to meet its liquidity needs.  The facilities are subject to  
a number of financial covenants, being a leverage covenant, a 
fixed charge cover covenant, and a capital expenditure covenant.  
The fixed charge cover covenant is the most sensitive to changes 
in the Group’s profitability.
The Directors have considered the expected performance of  
the business over at least the next twelve months and modelled  
this performance against the covenants that have been set.  In 
addition, the Directors have considered the trading performance 
necessary to breach the banking covenants as well as mitigating 
factors that would be available and actionable in the event that 
the adverse trading performance became reality.
The Directors have also considered the net current liability  
position of the Group and, given the supplier payment terms  
and the expected cash generation, the Directors confirm that  
the Group is forecast to be able to meet its liabilities as they  
fall due.
The Directors confirm that, after considering the matters set out 
above, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company  
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for a minimum of twelve months following the signing of 
these accounts.  For this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  Further details 
of the Group’ s liquidity are given in the financial review on page 20.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the 
Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company 
over a longer period than the twelve months that has in practice 
been the focus of the ‘Going Concern’ provision.  The Board 
conducted the review for a five-year period, corresponding  
with the period covered by its current medium term financial 
plans.  These plans are updated annually and reflect the Group’ s 
established strategy, its existing investment commitments, 
available financial resources and long-term financing arrangements.  
The plans consider profits, cash flows, funding requirements and 
other key financial ratios over the period, as well as the headroom 
in the financial covenants contained in our banking arrangements.  
Important assumptions underlying the plans include:
 – funding for capital expenditure in the form of capital markets 
debt or bank debt will be available in all plausible market 
conditions; and
 – in the event that the UK votes to leave the European Union,  
the terms of exit are such that Carpetright would be able to 
continue to operate competitively in the same European 
markets as it presently does.
The principal risks are set out on pages 26 to 27 and the most 
relevant potential impact of these risks on viability was considered 
to be: 
 – customer proposition and changing customer preferences 
whereby a failure to anticipate and plan for changes in 
consumer tastes could have a material effect on future 
operations and financial performance; and
 – changing economic conditions which in the event of a 
significant reduction in house prices, housing transactions or 
consumer confidence, the Group would expect an adverse 
impact on its performance
The Board overlaid the potential impact of the principal risks 
which could affect solvency or liquidity in “severe but plausible” 
scenarios onto the five-year plans and concluded that the 
business would remain viable.  As part of this, they performed 
sensitivity analyses that flexed inputs to the forecasts including 
reduced income, profitability and liquidity, both individually and in 
unison, to reflect these severe but plausible scenarios.  Based on 
the results of the procedures outlined above, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year 
period of their assessment.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 25 principal risks 
and uncertainties.
Strategic report continued
Description Possible impacts Risk management actions
Customer proposition and changing customer preferences
Failure to anticipate and plan  
for changes in consumer tastes 
could have a material effect  
on future operations and  
financial performance.
 – Fail to deliver our business objectives
 – Loss of revenue
 – Diminished reputation
 – Reduction in market share
 – A reduction in customer service levels
 – Established and communicated a clear strategy
 – Prioritise investment in both our existing estate  
and online platforms
 – Strengthen customer feedback processes  
to help improve our offering
 – Refreshed our brand, marketing and  
promotional activity
 – Introduced new product ranges
 – Trialled new store designs
 – Provided clarity to our pricing structure
Economic uncertainty
Consumers need to feel confident 
to invest money in their homes.   
In the event of a significant 
reduction in house prices,  
housing transactions or consumer 
confidence, the Group would 
expect this to adversely impact  
on its performance.
 – Fail to deliver our business objectives
 – Loss of revenue
 – Reduced long-term growth and profit
 – Provide a broad range of products and price points 
in our categories to make it easy for our customers 
to trade up or down
 – Maintained a robust approach to our cost base 
 to ensure we remain competitive
 – Refreshed our brand, marketing and  
promotional activity
Property portfolio
Property costs form a significant 
part of our fixed cost base and as 
such all decisions in this area have 
an impact on the long-term value  
of the business.
 – Reduced long-term growth, profit  
and cash flow
 – Active management of the property portfolio
 – Improved the quality of the estate
 – Invested in a detailed location planning model  
which aids our understanding of store catchments 
and customer demographics 
 – Consult external advisers, where appropriate, to 
provide expert advice and inform decision making
Brand, reputation and product
The Carpetright name is a key  
asset of the business and, as the 
largest operator in its markets, 
expectations of the Group are high.
 – Fail to deliver our business objectives 
 – Diminished reputation
 – Loss of revenue 
 – Loss of consumer trust and confidence
 – Inability to recruit the best people
 – The Group works closely with its suppliers to  
ensure the products it sells are of the highest  
quality and meet the organisation’s required  
ethical and safety standards 
 – Invested in marketing designed to communicate  
our credentials on range, choice and value
 – We are investing in an online training academy  
to ensure our colleagues have the appropriate  
skills and knowledge
 – The performance of our bed delivery partner  
is continuously monitored
 – We regularly engage with our customers  
and act upon their feedback
1
1
2
2
3 5
4
5
4 6
7
6
1 2 3 5 4 6
26 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Description Possible impacts Risk management actions
Competition
The Group competes with a wide 
variety of retailers across multiple 
channels and across a broad 
spectrum of price-points.
 – Fail to deliver our business objectives
 – Loss of revenue
 – Reduced long-term growth and profit
 – Invested in marketing designed to communicate  
our credentials on range, choice and value
 – Continuous monitoring of customer service, product 
and advertising performance and competitor activity
IT performance and security
Carpetright is dependent on  
the reliability, availability and 
capability of key information 
systems and technology.
 – Diminished reputation
 – Loss of revenue
 – Loss of consumer trust and confidence
 – A reduction in customer service levels
 – Active management of our systems
 – Reviewed and tested continuity plans
 – Developed separate disaster recovery facilities
 – Regular systems’ testing by third parties to provide 
assurance as to their security
People
The Group relies upon  
attracting and retaining  
talented and appropriately  
qualified people in order to  
deliver its long-term objectives.
 – Reduced long-term growth and profit
 – A reduction in customer service levels
 – Inadequate succession planning
 – Recruit, train and develop a suitably skilled  
and qualified team
 – Monitor remuneration packages within our markets
 – Identify high fliers for accelerated promotion
Legal, regulatory and compliance
The Group risks incurring penalties, 
damages, claims and reputational 
damage arising from failure to 
comply with legislative or regulatory 
requirements across many areas 
including, but not limited to, trading, 
health and safety, employment law, 
data protection, Bribery Act, 
advertising, human rights and  
the environment.
 – Diminished reputation
 – Reduced long-term growth and profit
 – Operate a number of policies and codes of practice 
outlining mandatory requirements
 – Management is also responsible for liaising with  
the Company Secretary and external advisers to 
ensure that potential issues from new legislation  
are identified and managed
 – We have a whistle-blowing procedure and external 
helpline which enables colleagues to raise concerns 
in confidence
Cash management
The Group risks exposure to 
exchange rate, interest rate,  
liquidity and credit risks having  
an adverse or unexpected impact 
on results, funding requirements  
or purchasing ability.
 – Fail to deliver our business objectives
 – Reduced long-term growth and profit
 – Active management of our financial position to 
ensure that funding requirements are being met.
 – Bank covenant tests are regularly monitored
 – Produced weekly rolling cash flow forecasts
1 2
1
1
3
5
1
1
6
6
3
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Link to Strategy
 Brand Choice Value Making it easy Expertise Customer Service Property
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 27 board of
directors.
Bob Ivell
Non-Executive 
Chairman
Bob joined the Board as Chairman on 1 November 2014.  He is 
currently Non-Executive Chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc and 
Non-Executive Director at Charles Wells Ltd.  He was previously 
Chairman of David Lloyd Leisure Limited, Park Resorts Group 
Limited, Next Generation Clubs Pacific, the Senior Independent 
Director of Britvic plc and AGA Rangemaster Group plc and a 
Non-Executive Director of The Restaurant Group plc.  He has 
over 30 years’ experience in the food and beverage industry, 
holding executive roles with Regent Inns plc, Scottish & 
Newcastle plc and Whitbread plc, each of which involved  
the management of large consumer-facing estates.  Bob  
chairs the Nomination Committee.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive  
Officer
Wilf was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive in 21 July 
2014.  He has held senior positions in various roles, most recently 
as Chairman of Fortuna Entertainment Group NV , and was the 
Managing Director of Coral between 2000 and 2008 and prior  
to that spent six years with HMV Media Group as the Managing 
Director of HMV Germany and as Operations Director for the UK 
and Ireland.  He is a Non-Executive Director of Gala Coral.
Directors’ report
28 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Sandra Turner
Non-Executive 
Director
Sandra joined the Board in October 2010.  She spent 21 years  
at Tesco and was part of its senior management team, holding 
senior commercial and operational roles in the UK and Ireland.  
From 2003 to 2009 she was the Commercial Director of Tesco 
Ireland.  She is the Senior Independent Director of Greggs plc  
and a Non-Executive Director of McBride plc, and Huhtamäki Oyj 
and was previously a Non-Executive Director of Northern Foods 
plc and Countrywide plc.  She chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Neil Page
Chief Financial  
Officer
Neil joined Carpetright in July 2008 as Group Finance Director.  
Neil began his career with British Rail and Marks and Spencer.  
He joined Superdrug in 1991, holding a variety of finance and 
operational positions before taking up the role of Finance and  
IT Director for AS Watson (Health & Beauty) UK Ltd in July 2002.  
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants.  In his role as Chief Financial Officer he also  
has responsibility for property and supply chain activities.
David Clifford
Non-Executive 
Director
David, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Board in December 
2011.  He was previously a Senior Partner with KPMG.  
Throughout his career he held a variety of roles and led the 
Consumer Markets Unit of KPMG for a period, advising a number 
of retailers.  He is a Trustee and the Treasurer of the Gurkha 
Welfare Trust, a Trustee of the Varkey Foundation, an educational 
charity, and a Non-Executive Director of AmicusHorizon,  
a housing association.  He chairs the Audit Committee.
Andrew Page
Senior Independent 
Director
Andrew joined the Board in July 2013 and was appointed as the 
Senior Independent Director in April 2015.  He is the Chairman  
of Northgate plc and a Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan 
Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc and Schroder UK Mid 
Cap Fund plc.  He was previously a Non-Executive Director of 
RPS Group plc.  Andrew retired as Chief Executive of The 
Restaurant Group plc (“TRG”) in September 2014 after thirteen 
years with TRG.  Prior to joining TRG, he held a number of senior 
positions in the leisure and hospitality industry including Senior 
Vice President with InterContinental Hotels.  Andrew trained  
and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG.  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 29 Directors’ report continued 
corporate  
governance. 
 
30 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Introduction 
One of the Board’s key responsibilities is to ensure that the 
Company is run in the long-term interests of its shareholders and 
broader stakeholder base.  The Group recognises the importance 
of high standards of corporate governance and is committed to 
operating within an effective corporate governance framework. 
Application of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
The version of the Corporate Governance Code applicable  
to the current reporting period is the September 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code).  The Code is issued  
by the Financial Reporting Council and is available for review  
on its website. 
During the financial year ended 30 April 2016, the Company 
complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
Governance structure 
The structure of the Board and its Committees is set out below: 
The Board 
There have not been any changes to the Board this year. 
Details of the number of meetings and Board attendance are set 
out below: 
Number of meetings: 9 
Executive Directors Attendance 
Meetings 
eligible to 
attend 
Wilf Walsh 9 9 
Neil Page  9 9 
 
Non-Executive Directors Attendance 
Meetings 
eligible to 
attend 
Bob Ivell (Chairman) 9 9 
Andrew Page  9 9 
David Clifford  9 9 
Sandra Turner  9 9 
The Board views that it is appropriately balanced and currently 
consists of the Chairman, two Executive and three Non-Executive 
Directors, brief biographies of whom can be found on pages 28 
and 29.  There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure  
for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and this is 
described in the section concerning the Nomination Committee  
on pages 31 and 32. 
The Board believes that its current size and structure are appropriate 
for managing the Group in an effective and successful manner. 
Whilst not required by the Code, as the Company is outside the 
FTSE 350, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting. 
Highlights 
During the year the Board: 
 remained appropriately balanced and stable 
 determined its risk appetite and reviewed the current 
assessment of the principal risks compared to the 
desired level of risk 
 reviewed the terms of reference of its Committees 
 assessed and decided upon the Corporate strategy 
 reviewed and approved all trading announcements  
and the interim and final results 
 visited the Group’s operations in the Netherlands, 
meeting with local management and store colleagues. 
Bob Ivell
Non-Executive 
Chairman
“The Group is 
committed to 
operating within an 
effective corporate 
governance 
framework.”
30 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 www.carpetright.plc.com | 31 
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company play a key governance 
role and bring an extra dimension to the Board’s deliberations.  
The Board considered the independence of each Non-Executive 
Director against the criteria specified in the Code and has 
determined that each remains fully independent. 
An annual process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees has been undertaken.  
This was led by Bob Ivell with the assistance of the Company 
Secretary.  The results have been considered by the Board and 
confirmed the strength of leadership within the business and a 
sound governance framework, identifying only minor changes 
necessary to improve the Board’s effectiveness. 
The Non-Executive Directors meet, with no Executive Directors 
present, at least once each year.  Andrew Page, the Senior 
Independent Director, led the review of the Chairman’s performance 
by meeting with each Director and the Company Secretary 
separately and met with the Chairman to provide feedback. 
The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s objectives  
and policies, providing effective leadership and for approving  
the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital 
expenditure.  It has responsibility for the management, direction and 
performance of the Group and is accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for the proper conduct of its business.  The Board  
has a formal schedule which sets out those matters requiring  
Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision. 
The Board is responsible for determining its risk appetite and did 
so in the year.  It has regularly reviewed the current assessment of 
the principal risks compared to the desired level of risk.  Further 
details of the principal risks affecting the Group can be found on 
pages 26 and 27. 
Directors receive weekly sales updates, monthly trading results, 
commentary, briefing notes and reports for their consideration in 
advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the Group’s 
operations, to ensure that they remain briefed on the latest 
developments and are able to make fully informed decisions. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure 
whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at 
the Company’s expense.  In addition, such advice may include 
training in order to enable them to discharge their roles and 
responsibilities as a Director.  All new Directors receive an 
induction tailored to their particular requirements. 
Board Committees 
The Board has three Committees, each of which has written 
terms of reference which are available on the Company’s 
corporate website (www.carpetright.plc.uk). 
The Board periodically reviews the membership of its Committees  
to ensure that it is refreshed.  All Non-Executive Directors (other  
than the Chairman) are members of each of the Committees.   
The Company provides the Committees with sufficient resources  
to undertake their duties.  The Company Secretary, or his nominee, 
acts as Secretary to each Committee. 
The role of the Audit Committee, its members and details of how 
it carried out its duties are set out in the Audit Committee report 
on pages 33 to 36. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee, its members and details of 
how it carried out its duties are set out in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 37 to 54. 
 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Bob Ivell.  Details of its 
membership and attendance are set out below: 
Number of meetings: 
 
1 
Members Attendance 
Meetings
eligible to 
attend 
Bob Ivell (Committee Chairman) 1 1 
Andrew Page 1 1 
Sandra Turner 1 1 
David Clifford 1 1 
  
Carpetright 
plc
Board of 
Directors
Audit 
Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 31 Directors’ report continued 
corporate governance continued
 
 
32 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee include: 
 identifying and nominating candidates for appointment  
to the Board for the approval of the Board.  External 
search consultants are generally appointed to assist  
in the search process; 
 reviewing development needs of the Executives; and 
 making recommendations to the Board on Board 
composition and balance. 
 
 
The Committee considers the diversity of the Board (including 
gender) and the skills and competencies of the existing Directors 
when drawing up specifications for new appointments.  It ensures 
that the development needs of Executive Directors and other 
senior managers are addressed appropriately. 
An external search consultancy is ordinarily used in relation to  
the appointment of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee also considers whether Directors due to  
retire at an Annual General Meeting should be recommended  
for re-appointment, and whether the appointment of Non-
Executive Directors reaching the end of their three-year term 
should be renewed.  Committee members do not vote on  
their own re-appointment. 
Continuing professional development 
All Board members are updated on matters relevant to the Group, 
including legal and regulatory developments, and members of 
Board Committees are updated on matters relevant to their 
Committee membership.  In the year, the Remuneration 
Committee received updates on current best practice from  
New Bridge Street. 
The performance of individual Directors is considered as part of the 
annual Board appraisal process.  The individual development needs 
of Executive Directors are overseen by the Nomination Committee.  
Non-Executive Directors have access to professional  
development provided by external bodies.  Their continuing 
competence is considered by the Nomination Committee as  
part of the annual process of recommending the reappointment  
of Directors at the AGM. 
Share capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital and significant 
shareholders can be found on page 56. 
 
32 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
audit  
committee  
report. 
 www.carpetright.plc.com | 33 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee  
for 2016. 
The Committee plays an important part in the governance of  
the Group, with its principal activities focused on the integrity of 
financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of internal and external 
audit, risk management and the system of internal control. 
I have set out below the main matters considered by the 
Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.  We  
meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar and the 
agendas are designed to cover significant areas of risk over the 
course of the year and to provide oversight and challenge to the 
key financial judgments, controls and processes that operate 
within the Company. 
This year the Company produced its first viability statement, which 
can be found on page 25, which was reviewed by the Committee 
and approved by the Board. 
Significantly, the appointment of the auditors was retendered 
during the year, starting in April 2016, and the Committee 
recommended to the Board that PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP  
be reappointed as the auditors. 
The Committee will continue to keep its activities under review in the 
light of regulatory developments and the emergence of best practice. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee during 
the year enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters 
impacting the Group along with the oversight of its key controls. 
 
David Clifford 
Chairman of the Audit Committee  
During the year the Audit Committee 
has undertaken the following tasks: 
 considered our financial results announcements and 
financial statements and monitored compliance with 
relevant statutory and listing requirements; 
 reported to the Board on the appropriateness of our 
accounting policies and practices; 
 overseen the relationship with the external auditors 
including reviewing their independence, objectivity  
and effectiveness; 
 reviewed the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the 
Group’s accounts, approved the terms of engagement 
for the audit and reviewed their findings; 
 reviewed the process for ensuring that senior 
management confirm that they have supplied the 
auditors with relevant audit information; 
 approved the audit fees paid to the external auditors and 
reviewed the application of the policy on non-audit work 
performed by them together with the non-audit fees 
payable to them; 
 led the process of retendering the external audit; 
 reviewed the scope, resources, results and effectiveness 
of the activity of the Group internal audit department; 
 reviewed the work of the Executive Risk Committee, 
which oversees the identification and management of  
the risks to the business, together with reports on the 
Group’s systems of internal control; 
 performed in-depth reviews of specific areas of financial 
reporting, risk and internal controls and discussed these 
with the executives responsible for the relevant area; 
 considered all matters reported via the whistleblowing 
line and reports relating to frauds; 
 reviewed the viability statement; and 
 reviewed its terms of reference and effectiveness. 
“The Committee plays 
an important part in  
the governance of  
the Group.”
David Clifford
Chairman of the  
Audit Committee
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 33 Directors’ report continued 
audit committee report continued 
34 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Composition 
The Committee meets at least four times during the year.  
Meetings are attended by the members who are independent 
Non-Executive Directors and, by invitation, the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Director of Group 
Internal Audit.  The external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC), are invited to two meetings per year, preceding the 
announcement of our interim and full-year results.  Other relevant 
people from the business are also invited to attend certain 
meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into certain 
key issues and developments.  There are also regular private 
meetings with the external and internal auditors without 
management present. 
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-
Executive Directors of the Company.  The terms of reference are 
reviewed annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred 
to the Board for approval.  These are available on the Company’s 
corporate website at www.carpetright.plc.uk. 
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Clifford.  The Board  
has determined that David Clifford has recent and relevant 
financial experience.  There have not been any changes to the 
composition of the Committee in the period.  The biographies  
of the members of the Committee can be found on pages 29.  
Details of membership and attendance are set out below: 
Number of meetings: 4 
Members Attendance 
Meetings
eligible to 
attend 
David Clifford (Committee Chairman) 4 4 
Andrew Page 4 4 
Sandra Turner 4 4 
Main activities of the Committee  
during the year 
The Committee assisted the Board in carrying out its responsibilities 
in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management 
and the assessment of internal controls and has an agenda linked 
to events in the Group’s financial calendar.  It also reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function and managed 
the Group’s relationship with the external auditors.  The Committee 
chairman reported to the Board, as part of a separate agenda 
item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular 
relevance to the Board in the conduct of its work. 
A new requirement for the Company’s reporting this year, arising 
from the FRC’s September 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting,  
is the inclusion of a Viability Statement.  This is designed to be  
a longer-term view of the sustainability of the Company’s strategy 
and business model and related resourcing, in the light of 
projected wider economic and market developments.  The 
Committee oversaw the introduction of processes designed  
to enable the Board to make this statement.  The statement 
appears on page 25 together with details of the processes, 
assumptions, and testing which underpin it. 
Significantly, the appointment of the auditors was retendered 
during the year.  The process commenced in April 2016 and  
was concluded at the Board meeting in June 2016.  Details of  
the tender process can be found on page 36.  As a result of  
the process PwC was successful and will be proposed for re-
appointment at the Annual General Meeting in September 2016. 
Financial reporting 
The Committee reviewed, with management and the external 
auditors, the half-year and annual financial statements, 
concentrating on, amongst other matters: 
 the appropriateness and application of accounting policies and 
compliance with the relevant financial reporting requirements; 
 material areas in which significant judgments have been applied 
or there has been discussion with the external auditors; and 
 whether the Annual Report and Accounts contains the 
necessary disclosures to fairly reflect the Group’s financial 
condition and results of its operations. 
To aid its review, the Committee considered reports from the 
Chief Financial Officer and also reports from the external auditors 
on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit. 
The primary areas of judgment considered by the Committee in 
relation to the 2016 accounts, and how these were addressed, 
are set out below.  In all cases the Committee discussed with 
PwC its work in respect of these areas. 
Goodwill impairment testing 
The judgments in relation to goodwill impairment largely relate  
to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in  
use of the business being tested for impairment, primarily the 
achievement of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic 
assumptions underlying the valuation process.  The Committee 
addressed these matters through receiving reports from 
management and discussing the assumptions used.  The 
Committee noted that the weighted average cost of capital  
used was just outside the range used by PwC in its assessment.  
The Committee agreed that no impairment was necessary. 
Impairment of the valuation of freehold  
and long-leasehold property 
The Committee has carried out a further review of the property 
valuations.  The Committee noted that the weighted average  
cost of capital used in the Directors’ valuation was just outside  
the range used by PwC in its assessment.  Following discussions 
with both management and PwC the Committee agreed with 
management that a further £0.4m impairment of the property 
valuations is necessary. 
Onerous lease provision 
The practice is to treat a lease as being onerous if the store 
relative to the lease is closed or if the expected benefits of  
using the leased property are less than the unavoidable costs.  
34 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
 www.carpetright.plc.com | 35 
Management makes an assessment as to the cost of exiting the 
lease based on available information and knowledge of the property 
market.  The Committee has discussed with management the 
judgments and assumptions made in determining the provision and 
agreed with management that as a result of the leases of six further 
stores being identified as onerous, and four stores no longer being 
regarded as onerous, a further net provision of £0.6m should be 
made.  Further details can be found in note 5 to the financial 
statements on page 71. 
Inventory 
Details of inventory are held in three systems, the store system, 
the warehouse system and the principal accounting system.  
Manual intervention is required to check consistency between  
the systems and to ensure that the correct stock value is used  
for accounting purposes.  The Committee considered the detailed 
review of the process it had previously received and is comfortable 
with the reported stock valuation. 
Internal audit 
The Committee considered and approved the Annual Internal 
Audit plan and at each meeting reviewed reports from the Director 
of Group Internal Audit, including those showing performance 
against the plan, and approved changes as appropriate.  The 
reports include updates on audit activities, progress of the Group 
audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action 
plans to address these areas, and resource requirements of the 
Internal Audit department.  The internal audit team utilises the 
services of Deloitte LLP to assist in the discharge of its functions.  
Private discussions are held with the Director of Group Internal 
Audit as necessary throughout the year. 
Internal control 
The Committee reviewed the process by which the Group 
evaluated its control environment.  Its work here is driven primarily 
by the work undertaken by the Group’s Internal Audit department, 
which includes any reported fraud.  The Director of Group Internal 
Audit monitored the timely implementation of any recommendations 
and reported to the Committee accordingly.  The Committee also 
reviewed the documentation prepared to support the Board’s 
annual statement on internal controls before its consideration  
by the full Board. 
Whistleblowing 
The Company operates a whistleblowing telephone line in the  
UK and an email whistleblowing facility in Europe.  Both are 
operated by independent companies and reports are received  
by the Director of Group Internal Audit, the Company Secretary  
or the HR Director.  Matters reported related to individual treatment  
by line managers or colleagues, dishonesty, substance abuse  
and breach of Company policy.  In each case the issues were 
investigated, a judgment was made and action taken where 
appropriate.  The outcome of all matters was reported to the 
Audit Committee. 
Risk management 
The Group’s risk assessment process and the way in which 
significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus for 
the Committee.  The Committee received and considered reports 
from the Chief Financial Officer on the Group’s risk evaluation 
process and reviewed changes to significant risks identified.   
It also discussed emerging and potential risks. 
The Committee reviewed, in detail, the assessment and controls 
for the principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 24, 26 
and 27.  The work included a review of the controls in place to 
mitigate the risk, the assessment by the Director of Group Internal 
Audit and a discussion with the risk owner, being a senior 
executive.  The Committee considered in-depth reviews into 
finance and treasury, customer preferences, property portfolio, 
reputation, economic uncertainty and marketing strategy. 
The Committee considers these reviews to be an important  
part of its role, as they allow it to meet executive management 
responsible for these areas and undertake independent challenge 
of their activities. 
External audit 
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent  
on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit 
cycle.  The Committee received a detailed audit plan from PwC, 
identifying their assessment of these key risks.  For the 2016 
financial year the primary risks identified and how the scope of  
the audit addressed the area of focus are set out in the auditors’ 
report on pages 95 to 100. 
The Committee discusses the work done by the auditors to test 
management’s assumptions and estimates around these areas.  
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process  
in addressing these matters through the reporting it receives from, 
and discussions with, PwC at both the half-year and year-end.   
In addition, the Committee also seeks feedback from management 
on the effectiveness of the audit process. 
For the 2016 financial year, management was satisfied that  
there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary 
areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process  
to be good.  The Audit Committee concurred with the view  
of management. 
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors 
twice a year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue  
and feedback from the auditors without management being 
present.  Matters discussed include the transparency and openness 
of interactions with management and confirmation that there has 
been no restriction in scope placed on them by management.   
The Audit Committee chairman also meets with the audit partner 
from time to time outside the formal committee process. 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 35 Directors’ report continued 
audit committee report continued 
36 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Appointment and independence 
The Committee and Board place great emphasis on the 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s auditors, PwC,  
when performing their role in the Group’s reporting to 
shareholders and considering their re-appointment each year. 
The Committee reviews the independence, objectivity and 
performance of the auditors annually, including the annual report 
on the auditors produced by the Audit Quality Review Team of  
the Financial Reporting Council and the auditors’ own annual 
report on its independence. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years.  The audit of  
this Report and Accounts is the second to be carried out of  
the Group by the current audit partner. 
Re-tendering of audit services 
PwC have been auditors to the Company since 2005 when they 
were appointed following a competitive tender.  A retendering 
process was followed this year. 
All three firms invited to submit a proposal did so.  The firms  
were provided with a pack of information and met with various 
members of the management, finance, IT and Internal Audit 
teams prior to submitting their proposal.  They were advised as  
to the criteria against which their proposal would be assessed. 
The proposals were reviewed by all members of the Committee, 
and presentations made to two Committee members and the 
Chief Financial Officer. 
Following a review of the proposals and the presentations, each 
firm was assessed as to the extent to which it: 
 demonstrated experience in the retail sector and is thoughtful and 
insightful about the retail markets in which the Group operates; 
 demonstrated a good understanding of the issues facing  
the Group; 
 presented an audit approach which addresses these issues 
and provides a high degree of assurance; 
 put forward a team with an acceptable degree of chemistry; and 
 offered a competitive fee for the work proposed. 
A recommendation was made to the Committee which, in turn, 
made a recommendation to the Board which was adopted, 
namely that PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed as  
the auditors.  The auditors’ tenure runs from one AGM to the  
next and there are no contractual obligations that restrict the 
Committee’s choice of external auditors. 
Non-audit services 
To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors from becoming compromised, the Committee 
has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external 
auditors to provide non-audit services.  No changes have been 
made to this policy during the year.  This precludes the auditors 
from providing certain services such as valuation work or the 
provision of accounting services and also sets a presumption that 
the auditors should only be engaged for non-audit services where 
the appointment of an alternative supplier would be either impractical 
or inefficient, bearing in mind the particular circumstances. 
The auditors may only provide such services provided that such 
advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and 
ethical guidance.  There are financial limits in respect of which  
the engagement of PwC for non-audit services is pre-approved.  
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed  
the specified fee limits, the Audit Committee Chairman’s, or the 
Committee’s approval, depending upon the financial expenditure, 
is required before PwC can provide non-audit services. 
During the year the only non-audit services work undertaken by 
PwC related to the review of the inventory referred to on page 35, 
at a cost of £53k. 
Audit and non-audit fees 
Details of the auditors’ remuneration for audit work and non-audit 
fees for the period ended 30 April 2016 are disclosed in note 3 to 
the financial statements on page 70 and disclosed above.  The 
Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2016 after a 
review of the level and nature of work to be performed and after 
being satisfied that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the 
work required. 
Committee evaluation 
The Committee’s activities formed part of the review of Board 
effectiveness performed in the year.  Details of this process can  
be found on page 31.  No significant matters were identified 
which needed to be addressed. 
36 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016   
directors’  
remuneration  
report. 
 
Part 1 – Annual Statement from  
the Chair of the Committee 
Dear Shareholder, 
Introduction 
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on behalf of the Board. 
Our remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at our  
AGM on 4 September 2014 and became effective for three years.  
We have set out our policy again to allow cross-reference against 
its operation during the year.  
This year’s report is separated into the following parts: 
 this “Annual Statement”, which identifies the key messages  
on remuneration for the year under review and explains the 
business context in which the Committee’s major decisions 
during the period were taken; 
 a forward looking “Directors’ Remuneration Policy”, which 
became binding with effect from the AGM held on 4 September 
2014; and 
 an “Annual Report on Remuneration”, which provides 
shareholders with details of the remuneration that was actually 
delivered to the Company’s Directors during the financial year 
ended 2016 and explains how the policy referred to above will 
be applied in the financial year ending 2017 – this final part of the 
report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
Business strategy and link to remuneration policy 
The Committee’s policy is to provide remuneration packages  
for the Executive Directors that include an appropriate balance 
between the fixed and variable elements of pay, and which reflect 
their responsibilities relative to the size and nature of the business. 
It is committed to ensuring that the Executives are rewarded for 
delivering the Company’s growth plans and long-term shareholder 
value.  The Committee aims to set levels of fixed pay that are 
competitive within the markets within which it competes for talent, 
and short- and long-term incentive opportunities at levels that are 
sufficient to motivate Executives to achieve stretching short- and 
long-term goals without encouraging inappropriate behaviours.  
The remuneration strategy ensures that a significant element of 
Executives’ remuneration remains ‘at risk’. 
Activities of the Committee 
There have been no changes to the Board in the last year, which 
has meant that it has not had to consider new individuals either 
leaving or joining the Board. 
The Committee set the bonus targets for the financial year ending 
2017 and reviewed and approved the proposed award levels and 
targets for the awards under the Carpetright Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 2013 which were made in July 2015.  It also reviewed the 
likely outcome of awards which had previously been made.   
It is anticipated that awards will normally be made following the 
announcement of the Company’s annual results.  The Committee 
approved that the awards should be made deeper within the 
organisation in order to improve alignment between senior 
management and divisional and regional managers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consequently, the aggregate value of shares over which awards were 
made is greater than in previous years, although the value of awards 
made to the Executive Directors is in line with previous awards. 
The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors  
in April 2016 and determined that no increases would be made 
this year. 
The Committee reviewed its own performance in the year, and 
also the performance of the remuneration advisers to the Committee.  
Both were found to be effective, with a high level of satisfaction.  
The process is as set out on page 31. 
Incentive payments 
As described in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report 
the Group has delivered a 32.2% increase in underlying profit to 
£17.3m, and the Executive Directors achieved their strategic target  
in relation to property.  I am pleased to report that, consequently,  
the Executive Directors will receive a bonus equal to 52% of  
their respective base salaries. 
Annual incentive arrangements for the financial year ending 2017 
for Executive Directors will be again based upon the achievement 
of underlying profit targets and strategic objectives.  Subject to 
commercial confidentiality, performance against these targets  
will be disclosed in next year’s report. 
As a result of financial performance in the year ended on 30 April 
2016, none of the long-term incentive awards granted in January 
2014 will vest. 
I will be available to answer any questions at the AGM in 
September and recommend that you support the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Annual Report on Remuneration at  
our forthcoming meeting.  
 
Sandra Turner 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
“Executives  
are rewarded  
for delivering  
the Company’s  
growth plans.”
Sandra Turner
Chairman of the  
Remuneration 
Committee
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 37 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
38 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
Introduction 
This report sets out the information required by Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended).  The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors’ 
remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
As part of its responsibilities the Remuneration Committee prepares the Policy Report, below, which sets out the remuneration policy 
that has applied to the Directors of the Company since 27 April 2014 and was adopted following a binding vote at the AGM held on  
4 September 2014.  The policy report has been reproduced for information and updated to reflect the passage of time, such as change 
in tense and page references and the Executive Directors’ current remuneration packages for the purposes of the chart illustrating the 
application of the policy in the coming year. 
The Committee also determines the remuneration policy for the senior management of the Company.  Its aim is to attract, motivate  
and retain executives of the appropriate calibre and expertise, so that the Company is managed successfully for the benefit of its 
stakeholders.  The framework has been designed as an integral part of the Company’s overall business strategy.  
A description of each of the elements to be comprised in the remuneration package for the Company’s Directors is as follows: 
Policy Table – Elements of Directors’ remuneration package 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measurement 
Base salary 
Helps to recruit  
and retain  
Executive Directors. 
Reflects 
responsibilities, 
performance, 
experience and role.  
Generally reviewed annually (with  
any change effective in May) but 
exceptionally at other times of the year. 
Set with reference to individual 
performance, experience and 
responsibilities, reflecting the market  
rate for the individual and their role. 
When reviewing the salaries of the 
Executive Directors, the Committee also 
has regard to the impact on the cost of 
pension provision and pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group.  In particular, the 
Committee takes account of the level  
of salary increases awarded to other 
employees of the Group when deciding 
on increases for Executive Directors. 
Annual increases generally in line 
with the level of standard increase 
awarded to other employees. 
More significant increases may  
be awarded at the discretion of  
the Committee in connection with: 
– an increase in the scope and 
responsibility of the individual’s  
role; or 
– the individual’s development  
and performance in the role 
following appointment. 
Not applicable 
    
Benefits    
Helps recruit and 
retain Executive 
Directors. 
Executive Directors are entitled to a 
competitive package of benefits, including 
car benefits, life assurance and private 
medical cover. 
A car allowance up to a value of 
£27,500.  The cost to the Company 
of other benefits is not predetermined 
and may vary from year to year. 
Not applicable 
  
38 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measurement
Pension    
Helps recruit and 
retain Executive 
Directors. 
The Company previously operated  
a defined benefit pension plan,  
the Carpetright plc Pension Plan,  
which closed to future accrual  
from 30 April 2010. 
In its place, the Company operates a 
defined contribution Group Personal 
Pension Plan (‘GPPP’).  Executive 
Directors are offered a specific 
percentage of their base salary to  
fund their own pension provision.   
The Executive Directors are able to 
choose whether the allowance is paid  
to the GPPP or to receive the allowance 
by way of a salary supplement. 
Maximum allowance of  
20% of base salary. 
Not applicable 
    
Annual bonus    
Rewards the 
achievement of 
annual KPIs and/or 
other objectives 
linked to the 
Company’s  
strategic goals. 
Bonuses are awarded by reference to 
performance against specific targets 
measured over a single financial year. 
Any amounts awarded to an Executive 
Director under this arrangement are  
paid out in full shortly after the 
assessment of the performance  
targets has been completed. 
Bonuses do not form part  
of the Executive Directors’  
pensionable earnings. 
Bonuses are subject to clawback  
at the discretion of the Committee  
in the event of a material misstatement  
of the financial results, an error in 
assessing the size of the bonus or  
where the individual had committed  
an act of gross misconduct during  
the relevant financial year. 
Maximum (as a percentage 
of salary): 100% 
Minimum bonus that can  
be paid: 0% 
The percentage payable  
for on-target performance  
is determined by the 
Committee each year  
in light of the degree of 
stretch in the targets and 
affordability of the resulting 
bonus payouts relative to 
budgeted levels of profit. 
The measures and targets are 
set annually by the Committee in 
order to ensure they are relevant 
to participants and take account 
of the most up-to-date business 
plan and strategy. 
All or a significant majority of the 
bonus opportunity will normally 
be determined by reference  
to performance against a 
demanding Group underlying 
profit target. 
Additional targets applied  
may relate to the achievement  
of specific strategic or personal 
objectives.  These measures  
will be disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration,  
where not deemed  
commercially sensitive. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 39 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
40 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measurement
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
Incentivises 
Executive Directors 
to deliver superior 
levels of long-term 
performance  
for the benefit of 
shareholders, 
thereby aligning their 
interests with those 
of the Company’s 
investors.  
The current LTIP was approved at the 
2013 AGM (Carpetright Long Term 
Incentive Plan 2013). 
Awards consist of annual awards of 
performance shares that vest three 
years after grant to the extent that 
performance conditions have been met 
over a three year performance period. 
Awards are subject to clawback at  
the discretion of the Committee in the 
event of a material misstatement of  
the financial results, an error in the 
calculation of performance conditions  
or if the participant ceases to be 
employed as a result of misconduct. 
Awards made in the 2014 
and 2015 financial years: 
the rules permit a maximum 
of 250% of salary, although 
only approximately 150%  
of salary was, or will be, 
awarded. 
Awards from 2016 financial 
year onwards: 
normal maximum of 150% 
of salary; and 
exceptional circumstances 
maximum 250% of salary. 
Awards made prior to the 2014 
financial year are subject to 
targets based on growth in  
EPS over three years and are 
disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. 
Awards made in the 2014  
and 2015 financial years are 
subject to performance  
conditions measuring growth  
in the Company’s underlying 
profit before tax. 
For awards made in the 2014 
and 2015 financial years, 25% 
will vest at threshold. 
The Committee has discretion  
to set different targets for  
future awards.  
 
All employee share schemes, including a Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) 
Encourages a broad 
range of employees  
to become long-term 
shareholders. 
The Company operates HM Revenue and 
Customs approved Sharesave and SIP 
plans with standard terms.  
 
Sharesave and SIP 
participation limits are as  
set by the UK tax authorities 
from time to time.  
Not applicable 
Notes: 
1. A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in the table for the financial year ended 2017 is set out in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration from page 52. 
2. The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.  
However, the differences set out above arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.  
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the Executive Directors and senior executives, a greater emphasis is typically placed on performance-related pay.  
3. The following differences exist between the above policy for the remuneration of Directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: 
– a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the Executive Directors and certain senior managers; 
– store-based colleagues receive commission based upon sales achieved, and field-based colleagues receive bonuses based upon the performance  
of their sphere of responsibility; 
– participation in the LTIP is limited to the Executive Directors and certain selected senior managers.  Other employees are eligible to participate in the 
Company’s all employee share schemes; 
– under the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is lower than that provided to Executive 
Directors; and 
– benefits offered to other employees generally comprise pension and colleague discount. 
4. The Committee may grant awards under the LTIP as conditional share awards or nil (or nominal) cost options.  The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based 
awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.  The Committee may 
decide that participants will receive a dividend equivalent payment (in cash and/or shares) on or shortly following the vesting of their awards. 
5. The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus reflect the Committee’s aim that annual incentives should promote growth in underlying 
earnings, while also promoting the achievement of key non-financial objectives.  The LTIP performance measure captures long-term growth in earnings performance, 
which we believe is most closely aligned with the financial performance expected by our shareholders.  In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on 
Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, 
social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.  More generally, the Committee will ensure that the overall remuneration policy does not 
encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking. 
6. For the LTIP awards made in 2014 and 2015, the Committee decided to measure performance on a cumulative basis in order to ensure consistent enhanced 
performance as well as, given the current economic uncertainty, reducing the risk that a change in economic conditions in a single year of the performance period  
will unduly influence performance against the targets. 
7. The Company has a share ownership policy that requires the Executive Directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.  Until such a 
holding is achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a minimum value equal to 50% of the net of tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under 
the Company’s share incentive plans.  Details of the extent to which the Executive Directors had complied with this policy as at 30 April 2016 are set out on page 51. 
40 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
Incentive plan determinations and discretions 
The Committee will operate the annual bonus and LTIP according to their respective rules, the policy set out above and in accordance 
with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.  A copy of the LTIP rules is available on request from the Company Secretary.  
The Committee, consistent with market practice, is required to make certain determinations under and retains discretion over a number 
of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.  These include (but are not limited to) the following: 
 who participates in the plans; 
 the timing of grant of award and/or payment; 
 the size of an award and/or a payment (within the limits set out in the policy table above); 
 the choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out 
above and the rules of each plan;  
 discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction; 
 determination of good leaver status for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment 
chosen; and 
 making adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special 
dividends), provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy. 
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, 
be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. 
Legacy arrangements 
In approving the Policy Report, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former 
Directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders.  It is also part of this policy that we will honour payments or awards 
crystallising after the effective date of this policy but arising from commitments entered into prior to the effective date of the new  
policy, or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company. 
Consideration of employee views 
Although the Committee does not formally consult employees on executive remuneration, the Committee considers the general basic 
salary increase as well as pay and conditions for the broader employee population when determining the annual salary increases for  
the Executive Directors.   
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 41 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
42 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Application of Remuneration Policy  
 
The chart above illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three performance scenarios: 
Minimum, On-Target and Maximum.  It has been updated from last year’s policy report to reflect how the approved policy will  
be implemented in the next financial year. 
Assumptions: 
 Fixed only – fixed pay only, including base salary, pension allowance and benefits as disclosed in the single figure table on page 47. 
 On-target – fixed pay, plus 50% of salary annual bonus, plus 37.5% of salary LTIP vesting (Wilf Walsh) / 31.25% of salary LTIP 
vesting (Neil Page). 
 Maximum – fixed pay, plus 100% of salary annual bonus, plus 150% of salary LTIP vesting (Wilf Walsh) / 125% of salary LTIP  
vesting (Neil Page). 
Service agreements and policy on termination 
It is the Company’s policy to employ UK Executive Directors under contracts with an indefinite term subject to termination by notice 
given by either party, normally of 12 months or less.  Non-UK Executive Directors would be employed under contracts with similar 
terms to those of UK Executive Directors, subject to market practice and laws of any other jurisdiction where an employee is based. 
The Company seeks to avoid any payment for failure.  The circumstances of the termination (taking into account the individual’s 
performance) and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into account in every case. 
  
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
1,800
Fixed Bonus
Fixed only
40%
37%
28%
35%
Target Stretch
Wilf Walsh
Fixed only Target Stretch
Neil Page
Total remuneration (£000s)
LTIP Target performance for the LTIP is assumed to be threshold.
100%
15%
24%
61%
27%
33% 59%
23%
18%
£980
£1,726
£388
£631
£1,065
£578
100%
42 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
If the Company terminates employment without giving full notice to the Executive Director, under the Service Contracts the Company 
has the option to either: 
 pay damages calculated by reference to common law principles, including an obligation on the Executive Director to mitigate loss; or  
 make a payment in lieu of notice calculated by reference to basic salary and benefits only.  Such payments may be phased and 
would be reduced or terminated if alternative employment was secured during the notice period.  There is also a requirement to 
mitigate loss. 
The Company also retains flexibility to pay reasonable legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual that are associated with  
the termination and to provide outplacement services. 
In addition, the Company would honour any legal entitlements, such as statutory redundancy payments, that executives may have  
on termination. 
No bonuses are payable to individuals who are no longer employed or are under notice at the end of the financial year. 
Long-term incentive awards lapse on cessation of employment other than in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances (including death, 
retirement with the agreement of the Committee, redundancy, ill-health, or because the individual’s employing company or part of the 
business in which they are employed is transferred out of the Group or as otherwise determined by the Committee).  Where an 
individual is a ‘good leaver’, awards would not lapse but would normally continue to vest at the end of the original performance period 
but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.  Awards would also normally be subject to a  
pro-rata reduction to take account of the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed, although the Committee has discretion to 
disapply pro-rating in certain circumstances.  On a change of control awards would vest early, subject to performance conditions  
being achieved, and would normally be subject to a pro-rata reduction, although the Committee has discretion to disapply pro-rating. 
Neil Page and Wilf Walsh have contracts of an indefinite term, subject to a 12 month notice period.  Non-Executive Directors are entitled 
to one month’s notice. 
Recruitment remuneration 
Salaries for new hires (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Company’s intended pay 
positioning and the market rate for the role.  If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new Director on a below market salary (for 
example, to allow them to gain experience in the role), their salary may be increased to a market level over a number of years by  
way of a series of increases above the general rate of wage growth in the Group and inflation. 
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.  The Committee has discretion to set different targets and/or vary the 
weightings of the targets used in the annual bonus and LTIP for the first year following appointment.  In addition, the Committee  
may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements if it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company (and therefore 
shareholders).  Any such additional cash and/or share-based payments would be: (i) based solely on remuneration lost when leaving 
the former employer and would reflect (as far as practicable) the delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirement 
attaching to that remuneration; and (ii) delivered under the Group’s existing incentive arrangements to the extent possible, although 
awards may also be granted outside these schemes, if necessary, and as permitted under the Listing Rules. 
In the case of an internal appointment, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay  
out according to its terms of grant (adjusted as relevant to take into account the Board appointment). 
The Committee may also agree that the Company will compensate executives, both internal and external, for certain relocation 
expenses as appropriate.  Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their 
employment with the Company.  Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company. 
Fees for new Non-Executive Directors would be set in line with the policy outlined below. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 43 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
44 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Outside appointments of the Executive Directors 
Executive Directors retain remuneration from outside non-executive directorships.  Wilf Walsh is a non-executive director of Gala Coral 
and retained his fees from this directorship (£80,000). 
Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.  They are appointed for an initial three year period, subject to being  
re-elected by members annually.  
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees Helps recruit and retain high 
quality, experienced individuals. 
Reflects time commitment  
and role. 
Consist of annual basic fee plus 
additional fees payable to the 
Deputy Chairman, and the  
Chair of each of its Committees.  
Limited benefits relating to 
travel, accommodation and 
hospitality may be provided  
in relation to the performance  
of any Directors’ duties. 
Non-Executive Directors’  
fees are set by the Executive 
Directors with reference to 
external data on fee levels in 
similar businesses, having taken 
account of the responsibilities  
of individual Directors and  
their expected annual  
time commitment. 
The aggregate amount of 
Directors’ fees is limited by  
the Company’s Articles  
of Association. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received on the Directors’ Remuneration Report each year and guidance 
from shareholder representative bodies more generally.  Shareholders’ views are key inputs when shaping remuneration policy. 
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last year’s Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration,  
and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year, are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
  
44 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
Part 3 – Annual report on remuneration 
Introduction 
This annual report on remuneration provides details of the way in which the Committee implemented its policy during the financial year 
to 30 April 2016.  It also summarises how the policy contained within the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report on pages 38 to 44 will 
be applied in the financial year ending 29 April 2017. 
It has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended).  In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote 
at the forthcoming AGM on 7 September 2016. 
The Company’s auditors are required to report to Carpetright’s shareholders on the “auditable parts” of this Annual Report on 
Remuneration (which have been highlighted as such below) and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006. 
Operation of the Remuneration Committee during year ended 2016 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sandra Turner.  Details of its membership and attendance are set out below: 
Number of meetings: 3 
Members Attendance 
Meetings 
eligible to 
attend 
Sandra Turner (Committee Chairman) 3 3 
Andrew Page 3 3 
David Clifford
 
3 3 
The Non-Executive Directors who served on the Committee had no personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the 
matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.  
Biographical information on the current Committee members is shown on page 29.  The Company Secretary (Jeremy Sampson)  
acts as secretary to the Committee. 
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman (Bob Ivell), the Chief Executive (Wilf Walsh), Chief Financial Officer (Neil Page), and the 
Director of Human Resources (Lyn Rutherford) regularly attend Committee meetings.  The Committee considers their views when reviewing 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives.  They are not involved in decisions concerning their own remuneration. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s corporate website (www.carpetright.plc.uk). 
  
The responsibilities of the Committee include:
 determining and agreeing with the Board the broad remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and  
senior executives; 
 setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and Executive Directors; 
 recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for those members of senior management within  
the scope of the Committee; and 
 approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including termination arrangements. 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 45 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
46 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers if it considers this beneficial.  Over the course of the year,  
the Committee was advised by New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc).  New Bridge Street was 
appointed as advisers in 2010 following a competitive tender.  The Committee’s advisers attended two of the four Committee meetings.  
New Bridge Street, which is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct for Executive Remuneration 
Consultants, did not provide other services to the Company.  Fees paid by the Company to New Bridge Street during the year amounted 
to £25k (2015: £44k).  Although other members of the Aon plc group of companies provided insurance broking and advisory services to 
the Company, the Committee is satisfied that the provision of such services did not create any conflict of interest.  The Committee 
reviews the effectiveness and independence of its advisers at a Committee meeting on an annual basis. 
In addition, it also considered the following: 
 the level of executive and all employee salary increases; 
 performance against the targets for the 2015 annual bonus (and following the year end, the 2016 annual bonus); 
 the content of the Directors’ remuneration report; 
 the launch of an annual invitation under the SAYE scheme; and 
 its own performance. 
Statement of shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM 
The table below shows the voting outcome at the 10 September 2015 AGM for the 2015 Directors’ remuneration report. 
For (including 
discretionary 
votes) Against 
Total votes cast 
(for and against 
excluding votes 
withheld) 
Votes  
withheld
1
 
Total votes cast 
(including 
withheld votes) 
To approve the Remuneration Report 39,530,676 6,805,398 46,336,074 176,612 46,512,686 
% votes cast 85.3% 14.7% 100% – – 
Note: 
1. A vote withheld is not a vote in law. 
  
46 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
Single total figure table for the 2016 financial year (audited) 
The remuneration of the Directors for the year was as follows: 
 Notes 
Salary 
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
1 
£000 
Pension
2 
£000 
Subtotal fixed 
remuneration
£000 
Bonus
3 
£000 
Long-term 
incentives
4 
£000 
Subtotal 
variable 
remuneration 
£000 
Single 
figure for total 
remuneration 
£000 
Executive Directors          
Wilf Walsh  459 28 92 579 240 – 240 819 
Neil Page  300 28 60 388 157 – 157 545 
Total  759 56 152 967 397 – 397 1,364 
Non-Executive Directors    
Bob Ivell  150 – – 150 – – – 150 
Sandra Turner  44 – – 44 – – – 44 
David Clifford  44 – – 44 – – – 44 
Andrew Page  44 – – 44 – – – 44 
Total  282 – – 282 – – – 282 
The remuneration of the Directors for the 2015 financial year was as follows: 
 Notes 
Salary 
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
1 
£000 
Pension
2 
£000 
Subtotal fixed 
remuneration
£000 
Bonus
3 
£000 
Long-term 
 incentives
4 
£000 
Subtotal 
variable 
remuneration 
£000 
Single 
figure for total 
remuneration
£000 
Executive Directors          
Lord Harris 5 160 10 – 170 – – – 170 
Wilf Walsh 5 353 23 71 447 302 – 302 749 
Neil Page  280 29 56 365 199 – 199 564 
Graham Harris 5 180 15 36 231 – – – 231 
Martin Harris 5 98 11 20 129 – – – 129 
Total  1,071 88 183 1,342 501 – 501 1,843 
Non-Executive Directors   
Bob Ivell 5 75 – – 75 – – – 75 
Sandra Turner  44 – – 44 – – – 44 
David Clifford  44 – – 44 – – – 44 
Andrew Page  42 – – 42 – – – 42 
Baroness Noakes 5 21 – – 21 – – – 21 
Alan Dickinson 5 15 – – 15 – – – 15 
Total  241 – – 241 – – – 241 
Notes: 
1. The main benefits available to the Executive Directors during 2016 were a car allowance, life assurance and private medical cover. 
2. The pension provision is by way of a salary supplement to the Executive’s base salary. 
3. This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question.  Further information in relation to the annual bonus for 2016  
is provided on page 48. 
4. This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the relevant period.  Details of  
the vesting of the September 2012 awards (included in the 2016 Single Figure) are provided on page 49.  The LTIP award granted on 20 September 2011  
was based on EPS performance over the three years ended 2 May 2015 (included in the 2015 Single Figure); the condition was not met so no awards vested.   
Further details of the LTIP’s operation during the year ended 2016 are provided on pages 49 and 50. 
5. Part year only. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 47 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
48 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Payments to past directors (audited) 
No payment following termination was made to Lord Harris or Martin Harris. 
In respect of Graham Harris, who stepped down from the Board in May 2014, all payments following him stepping down from  
the Board are reflected in the single total figure table for the 2015 financial year, above. 
Pensions (audited) 
Executive Directors are offered an allowance of 20% of their base salary to fund their own pension provision.  The individual is able  
to choose whether this allowance is paid to the Company’s defined contribution Group Personal Pension Plan (‘GPPP’) or paid by  
way of a salary supplement. 
Wilf Walsh and Neil Page both received their allowance as a salary supplement.   
Annual incentives – 2016 structure and outcome (audited) 
In respect of the financial year ended 2016, Executive Directors were eligible to receive an annual performance bonus based on the 
achievement of performance targets relating to Group underlying profit (80% of the total opportunity) and strategic metrics linked to 
property and customer service in store (20% of the total opportunity).  Payment in respect of the achievement of strategic objectives 
was subject to an underpin based upon the Group’s financial performance. 
The strategic objectives were as follows: 
 A property-related objective.  As disclosed in the Strategic Report on page 12, we are managing the portfolio to reduce square 
footage, eliminate store catchment overlap and relocating to better locations on realistic rent deals.  During the year we opened  
six new stores and closed 31, giving a net reduction of 25 stores.  We continue to eliminate stores from towns where we have  
more than one unit.  Due to the ongoing activity in relation to the property portfolio the precise targets are commercially sensitive,  
but were met in full.  The precise targets will be disclosed once they are no longer commercially sensitive. 
 Improvement in customer service relating to the proportion of “highly satisfied” customers providing feedback averaged over the  
last three months of the financial year ended 2016.  Overall satisfaction is also measured, but the more challenging target for bonus 
purposes of customers being highly satisfied was thought appropriate for the reasons set out in the Strategic Report on page 11. 
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors for the 2016 financial year was 100% (2015: 100%) of basic salary earned  
in the financial year.  In 2016, 50% (2015: 40%) of the financial element was payable for on-target performance. 
The Committee considered the extent to which the Executive Directors had achieved the financial and strategic objectives, and agreed 
that they had been met to the extent as set out in the table below.  
Metric Threshold  Target  Maximum  
Actual 
performance 
Maximum 
percentage 
of bonus 
Actual
percentage
of bonus 
Financial 20% 
payout 
50% 
payout 
100% 
payout 
   
Underlying profit before tax (£m) 13.7 17.1 20.5 17.3 80% 42% 
Property Commercially sensitive Achieved in full 10% 10% 
Customer Service  50% 
payout 
100% 
payout 
   
Proportion of highly satisfied customers  75% 77% 73% 10% 0% 
Bonus payout     100% 52% 
 
  
48 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
  
Long-term incentives (audited) 
LTIP granted September 2012 (included in 2016 column in Single Figure Table above) 
The LTIP awards granted in September 2012, which lapsed in September 2015, were based on performance to the year ended  
2 May 2015.  There was a single EPS performance condition relating to these awards: 
Underlying EPS for the financial year ended 2 May 2015 Vesting level 
Below 21.1 pence 0% 
21.1 pence 25% 
Between 21.1 pence and 24.0 pence 25% – 100% pro rata 
24.0 pence or more 100% 
Actual underlying EPS for the full year ended 2 May 2015 was 15.5p.  As a result, none of the awards vested. 
LTIP granted in January 2014 
The LTIP awards granted in January 2014, which will lapse in January 2017, were based on performance to the year ended  
30 April 2016.  There was a single underlying cumulative profit performance condition relating to these awards: 
Underlying cumulative profit before tax over the performance period Vesting level 
Below £44m 0% 
£44m 25% 
Between £44m and £60m 25% – 100% pro rata 
£60m 100% 
Actual cumulative profit measured over the three financial years ended 30 April 2016 was £36.1m.  As a result, none of the awards  
will vest. 
LTIP granted in July 2014 
The LTIP awards granted in July 2014, which will vest in July 2017, are based on performance over the three financial years beginning 
27 April 2014.  There was a single underlying cumulative profit performance condition relating to these awards: 
Underlying cumulative profit before tax over the performance period Vesting level 
Below £35.2m 0% 
£35.2m 25% 
Between £35.2m and £51.2m 25% – 100% pro rata 
£51.2m 100% 
LTIP granted July 2015  
The LTIP awards granted in July 2015, which will vest in July 2018, based on performance over the three financial years beginning  
3 May 2015, are shown in the table below:  
  Performance condition 
 
Type of 
award 
Basis of 
grant 
Average share 
price in 5 
working days 
preceding date 
of grant 
Number of 
shares over 
which award 
was granted 
Face value 
of award 
Threshold 
vesting 
Maximum 
vesting 
Performance 
measure 
Wilf Walsh Nil cost 
option 
150% of 
salary 577p 119,324 £688,499 25% 100% 
Cumulative 
underlying 
earnings per 
share to the 
financial year 
ended 2018 
Neil Page Nil cost 
option 
125% of 
salary 
577p 64,991 £374,998 25% 100% 
 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 49 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
50 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Awards will vest according to performance against the cumulative underlying profit before tax, as set out below: 
Cumulative underlying earnings per share over the performance period Vesting level 
% of award  
that vests  
(on a straight line 
basis between 
points) 
Compound 
profit growth 
from 2015 
Less than 65.6p Nil 0% <18.1% 
65.6p Threshold 25% 18.1% 
80.2p Maximum 100% 28.6% 
All-employee share plans 
Sharesave 
There were no sharesave options granted to the Executive Directors in the year. 
Share Incentive Plan 
Carpetright operated a SIP until January 2015, when it was closed as there were fewer than 50 participants.  Neil Page participated  
in the plan, but since closure shares are being transferred out of the trust to Neil as and when they are able to be transferred to him  
on a tax-free basis. 
Summary of all share awards to Directors under the Long-term incentive and Sharesave plans 
Set out below is a summary of all share awards as at 30 April 2016. 
 
Date 
granted 
Balance 
at 2 May 
2015 
Granted 
during 
year 
Vested/ 
exercised 
during year 
Lapsed 
during 
year
Balance at 
30 April 
2016
Share 
price at 
grant/
invitation 
(p)
Exercise 
price (p)
Market 
price at 
date of 
vesting
Market 
price at 
date of 
exercise
Amount 
realised 
on 
vesting 
£000 
Date from 
which 
exercisable 
Expiry 
date Scheme
Wilf 
Walsh 
Jul 14
 
128,449 – – – 128,449 525.5 nil – – – Jul 17 Jul 27 LTIP
Apr 15 5,187 – – – 5,187 433 347 Apr 18 Oct 18 SAYE
Jul 15 – 119,324 – – 119,324 577 nil Jul 18 Jul 28 LTIP
  133,636 119,324 – – 252,960  
       
Neil 
Page 
Sep 12
1 
42,200 – – 42,200 – 664 nil – – – Sep 15 Mar 16 LTIP
Jan 14
2 
69,169 – – – 69,169 506 nil – – – Jan 17 Jan 27 LTIP
Apr 14 2,227 – – – 2,227 505 404 – – – Apr 17 Oct 17 SAYE
Jul 14
 
66,603 – – – 66,603 525.5 nil – – – Jul 17 Jul 27 LTIP
Apr 15 2,593 – – – 2,593 433 347 – – – Apr 18 Oct 18 SAYE
Jul 15  64,991 – – 64,991 577 nil – – – Jul 18 Jul 28 LTIP
  182,792 64,991 – 42,200 205,583  
Notes: 
1. The performance condition was not met and the awards lapsed in September 2015. 
2. The performance condition was not met and the awards will lapse in January 2017. 
  
50 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
Share ownership and shareholding guidelines for Directors (audited) 
The Company has a share ownership policy that requires the Executive Directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to  
the same multiple of base salary as awards are made under the LTIP (150% for Wilf Walsh, 125% for Neil Page).  Until such a holding  
is achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a minimum value equal to 50% of the net of tax gain arising from any 
vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans.  As no LTIP awards have vested, all Directors have complied with the 
guidelines, although the holdings of Wilf Walsh and Neil Page were below the target holding of base salary. 
The beneficial interests of those individuals who were Directors as at 30 April 2016 and their immediate families in the ordinary shares  
of the Company are set out in the table below.  Additionally, the Executive Directors have an indirect interest in 208,890 shares held in 
trust to satisfy awards made under the LTIP. 
 
Ordinary  
shares 
Ordinary 
shares held 
in the SIP
1 
Total
 holding 
of ordinary 
shares 
Value of holding 
as a % of salary 
on 30 April 2016
2 
Ordinary 
 shares under 
option under the 
Sharesave Plan
3
 
Ordinary 
shares subject 
to outstanding 
unvested awards 
under the LTIP
4
 
Total 
interest 
In ordinary 
shares 
Executive        
Wilf Walsh 41,278 – 41,278 27% 5,187 247,773 294,238 
Neil Page
 
27,771 1,011 28,782 29% 4,820 200,763 234,365 
Non-Executive        
Bob Ivell – – – – – – – 
Sandra Turner – – – – – – – 
David Clifford 5,000 – 5,000 – – – 5,000 
Andrew Page – – – – – – – 
Notes:  
1. Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified "holding period" of up to five years.  The receipt  
of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.  The shares held in the SIP will reduce over time as the SIP has closed.  Please  
see page 50. 
2. Share price used is the price as at 30 April 2016: 302p. 
3. None of these options are subject to a performance condition.  Details of the Sharesave interests can be found on page 50. 
4. This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the Executive Director concerned as at 30 April 2016 (i.e. including 
those granted during the year).  Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 50. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 51 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
52 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Application of the remuneration policy for the financial years ending 2016 and 2017 
Basic salary 
Executive Directors’ basic salaries have been reviewed and no increase has been made.  The current salaries of the Executive Directors 
are as follows: 
 
Base salary  
as at 2 May 
2015 
Current  
base salary 
Percentage 
change 
Wilf Walsh
 
£459,000
 
£459,000 0% 
Neil Page £300,000 £300,000 0% 
Benefits and pension 
Benefits and pension will operate in the financial year ended 2017 as per their respective policies set out in the Policy Report  
on pages 38 to 39. 
Annual bonus plan performance targets 
The annual bonus plan for the financial year ended 2017 will operate consistently with the policy detailed in the Policy Report  
on page 39. 
Performance targets for the Executive Directors for the financial year ended 2017 will be based on a combination of Group underlying profit 
(80% of the total opportunity) and strategic metrics linked to property and customer service (20% of the total opportunity).  Payment in 
respect of the achievement of strategic objectives will also be subject to an underpin based on the Group’s financial performance. 
Consistent with our policy and the Group’s practice over a number of years, the Committee has set the percentage of bonus payable 
for on-target performance in light of the degree of stretch in the targets and the affordability of the payouts to the Group.  The range  
will be to pay 0% unless a threshold level of performance has been achieved, 20% of maximum at threshold and 50% of maximum for 
achieving target.  Further details of the targets are currently commercially sensitive and the Company will not be disclosing them at the 
start of the year.  However, they will, unless they remain commercially sensitive, be disclosed retrospectively in the 2017 Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
Long-term incentive awards in the financial year ended 2017 
The Committee intends to make the next awards under the LTIP during the summer of 2016.  The terms of these awards have not yet 
been determined.  However, it is currently intended that these would be based upon growth in underlying earnings per share measured 
on a cumulative basis. 
It is anticipated that the awards for the Executive Directors will be at 150% of base salary for Wilf Walsh and 125% for Neil Page.   
The performance targets will be set taking account of quantum of the awards. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees have been reviewed and no changes were made.  The current fees are as follows: 
 Base fee 
Base fee 
for SID 
Chairman fee 
(including base  
fee and chairing  
the Nomination 
Committee) 
Additional 
fee for 
Committee 
Chairman 
Current fees £39,000 £44,000 £150,000 £5,000 
 
  
52 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
Other information 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the value, at 30 April 2016, of £100 in Carpetright plc shares on 2 May 2009 compared with that of £100 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index or the FTSE 350 General Retail Index, which the Directors believe to be the most suitable broad 
comparators.  The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends. 
 
Statement of change in total remuneration of the Chief Executive 
Total remuneration of individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive in each of the past seven years is as follows: 
Financial year 
ended Chief Executive
1
 
Total 
remuneration of 
Chief Executive
2 
£’000 
Annual variable 
element award 
rates for Chief 
Executive  
(as % of max. 
opportunity) 
Long-term 
incentive 
vesting rates for 
Chief Executive 
(as % of max. 
opportunity) 
2016 Wilf Walsh 819 52% 0% 
2015 Combined remuneration 842   
2015 Wilf Walsh (21 July 2014 to 30 April 2015) 749 86% 0% 
2015 Lord Harris (1 May 2014 to 20 July 2014) 93 0% 0% 
2014 Combined remuneration 490   
2014 Lord Harris (3 October 2013 to 30 April 2014) 249 0% 0% 
2014 Darren Shapland (1 May 2013 to 3 October 2013) 241 0% 0% 
2013 Combined remuneration 1,025   
2013 Darren Shapland (14 May 2012 to 30 April 2013) 1,007 29% 0% 
2013 Lord Harris (1 May 2012 to 14 May 2012) 18 0% 0% 
2012 Lord Harris 522 0% 0% 
2011 Lord Harris 522 0% 0% 
2010 Lord Harris 721 37% 26% 
Notes: 
1. Lord Harris stood down as Chief Executive in May 2012, at which point Darren Shapland was appointed Chief Executive.  Darren Shapland stood down on  
3 October 2013, at which point Lord Harris was appointed as full-time Executive Chairman.  Wilf Walsh joined as Chief Executive on 21 June 2014, at which  
point Lord Harris ceased to fulfil that role. 
2. The amounts shown in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single 
total figure table shown on page 47. 
  
50
100
150
200
250
300
30-Apr-16 02-May-15 26-Apr-14 27-Apr-13 28-Apr-12 30-Apr-11 01-May-10 02-May-09
Carpetright FTSE 250 Index FTSE 350 General Retailers Source: Thomson-Reuters
Value (£)
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 53 Directors’ report continued 
directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
54 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Statement of change in pay of individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive compared to other employees 
 
2016
£’000 
2015 
£’000 % change 
Chief Executive Officer     
– salary 459 441 4% 
– benefits 28 26 8% 
– bonus / payments as a result of performance 240 302 (21)%
Average per employee     
– salary 21 21 0% 
– benefits 1 1 0% 
– bonus / payments as a result of performance 8 7 14% 
The table above shows the movement in the remuneration for the role of Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year 
compared to the average (per full-time equivalent) for all employees.  The same methodology has been applied as for the Statement  
of Change in Total Remuneration for the Chief Executive by apportioning remuneration between Wilf Walsh and Lord Harris for 2015.  
Bonus figures include commission payments. 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below illustrates the change in expenditure on remuneration paid to all the employees of the Group and distributions  
to shareholders from the financial year ending 2 May 2015 to the financial year ending 30 April 2016. 
 
2016
£m 
2015 
£m 
Percentage 
change 
Overall expenditure on pay 101.1 102.0 (1)% 
Dividend plus share buyback – – 0% 
These matters were selected to be shown as they represent key distributions by the Group to its stakeholders.  Further details on 
overall expenditure on pay can be found in note 4 to the financial statements on pages 70 and 71. 
 
By order of the Board 
 
Sandra Turner 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
27 June 2016 
54 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ report continued 
other  
information. 
55 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors 
are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere  
in this Directors’ Report.  Certain other matters required to be 
reported on appear elsewhere in the Report and Accounts as 
detailed below, and each forms part of this Directors’ Report: 
 the Strategic Report, including an indication of likely future 
developments in the business, appears from the Inside Front 
Cover to page 27; 
 the Directors’ Remuneration Report appears on pages 37 to 54; 
 the Going concern statement appears on page 25; 
 the Viability statement appears on page 25; 
 a list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including 
branches outside the UK, appears on page 79; 
 changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated balance 
sheet on page 61 and in the notes to the financial statements 
on pages 63 to 93; 
 the Group’s profit before taxation and the profit after taxation 
and minority interests appear in the consolidated income 
statement on page 59; 
 a detailed statement of the Group’s treasury management  
and funding is set out in note 23 to the financial statements  
on pages 87 to 89; 
 matters concerning the employment etc. of disabled persons 
appear on page 22; 
 details of employee involvement appear on page 22; 
 disclosures concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions appear  
on page 23; 
 a statement that this Annual Report and Accounts meets  
the requirements of Provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (‘the Code’) is set out on page 30; and 
 in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4, details of dividend 
waivers appear on page 56. 
Directors’ interests 
Directors’ share interests are disclosed in the Directors’ report  
on remuneration on page 51.  Except as disclosed in this report,  
no Director had a material interest in any contract or arrangement 
with the Company during the year, other than through their 
respective service contracts.  Some Directors made purchases  
of the Company’s products in the period, on normal commercial 
terms available to all employees. 
Directors’ indemnity arrangements 
The Company has provided qualifying third-party indemnities for 
the benefit of each Director and former Director who held office 
during the financial year ended 2016.  The Company has also 
purchased and maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance throughout the financial year ended 2016. 
Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company following  
a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements and employee 
share plans.  None of these are deemed to be significant in terms 
of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole, 
except for: 
 a term loan and revolving facilities agreement dated 19 March 
2008, as amended and restated most recently on 29 April 
2015.  There is a revolving credit facility of £45m, which 
provides that on a change of control all lenders’ commitments 
are cancelled and all outstanding loans, together with accrued 
interest, will become immediately due and payable and an 
uncommitted overdraft of £7.5m.  Details of balances at the 
financial year end can be found in note 23 to the consolidated 
financial statements; and 
 under the Company’s all-employee and discretionary share 
schemes, a change of control of the Company would normally  
be a vesting event, facilitating the exercise or transfer of awards, 
subject to any relevant performance conditions being satisfied. 
The Company does not have agreements with any Director  
or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions  
in the Company’s share plans may cause options and awards 
granted under such plans to vest on a takeover. 
There is no information that the Company would be required  
to disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other 
arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company. 
Share capital 
Details of the Company’s issued share capital can be found in 
note 24 to the financial statements.  All of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law,  
are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association, copies  
of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or  
by writing to the Company Secretary.  The holders of ordinary 
shares are entitled to receive the Company’s report and 
accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the 
Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on 
the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except (i) where  
the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights 
or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder  
or any person interested in them to provide the Company with 
information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the 
Companies Act 2006 or (ii) where their holder is precluded from 
exercising voting rights by the FCA’s Listing Rules or the City 
Code on Takeovers and Mergers. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 55 Directors’ report continued 
other information continued 
56 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that might result in the restriction of transfer or  
voting rights in relation to the shares held by such shareholders. 
Shares acquired through Carpetright’s employee share schemes 
rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue and have no 
special rights.  The Trustee of the Company’s Employee Benefit 
Trust (‘EBT’) has waived its rights to dividends on shares held by 
the EBT and does not exercise its right to vote in respect of such 
shares.  Shares held in trust on behalf of participants in the All 
Employee Share Ownership Plan are voted by the Trustee as 
directed by the participants.  Details of share-based payments, 
including information regarding the shares held by the EBT,  
can be found in notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements  
on pages 89 to 91. 
Substantial shareholdings  
As at 27 June 2016, the Company has been notified of the 
following substantial shareholdings in accordance with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, other than those of the 
Directors, in the issued share capital of the Company: 
 Shares held as a percentage 
of the issued share capital
Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 20%
The Olayan Group 13%
Neptune Investment Management 11%
FIL Limited 9%
Cascade Investments LLP 6%
Aberforth 5%
Donations 
No political donations were made (2015: £nil). 
Shareholders’ views 
There is a formal investor relations programme based around  
the results presentations and interim management statements.   
All of the Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings 
should shareholders so request.  The Chairman and Executive 
Directors feed back any investor comments to the Board.  All 
Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and are 
available to answer any questions that shareholders may raise. 
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days’ notice of the 
Annual General Meeting.  As required by the Code the Board will,  
at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in 
favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of 
hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate website. 
Authority to purchase own shares 
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the 
Company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 
6,778,237 shares of one penny each.  This resolution remains 
valid until the date of this year’s Annual General Meeting.  As  
at 30 April 2016, the Directors had not used this authority.  The 
Company’s present intention is to cancel any shares acquired 
under such authority, unless purchased to satisfy outstanding 
awards under employee share incentive plans.  A resolution 
seeking renewal of the authority will be proposed at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting. 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year.  Under that law, the Directors 
have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.  The 
financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and  
of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent; 
 state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs  
as adopted by the European Union; and 
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue 
in business, in which case there should be supporting 
assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006  
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud  
and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information on the Company’s 
websites.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors whose names and details are set out  
on pages 28 and 29 of this report confirms that to the best  
of their knowledge: 
 the financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and 
56 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
carpetrightplc.com | 57 
 the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business  
and the position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
Statement of the directors in respect of the 
annual report and financial statements 
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.  When arriving at this position the Board  
was assisted by a number of processes, including the following: 
 the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior 
management with overall co-ordination by the Chief Financial 
Officer to ensure consistency across sections; 
 an extensive verification exercise is undertaken to ensure 
factual accuracy; 
 comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken 
by the Executive Directors and other senior management; and 
 a draft is considered by the Audit Committee prior to 
consideration by the Board. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
Each of the Directors of the Company has confirmed that, as far 
as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all 
steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information. 
Annual General Meeting 
The 2016 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on  
7 September 2016 at Carpetright plc, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, 
Essex RM19 1TT at 12:00 p.m.  A full description of the business  
to be conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice 
of Annual General Meeting. 
 
The Directors’ Report was 
approved and signed 
by order of the Board  
 
Jeremy Sampson 
Company Secretary and Legal Director  
27 June 2016 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 57 financial 
statements.
Contents
Consolidated income statement  59
Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income  59
Statements of changes in equity  60
Balance sheets  61
Statements of cash flow  62
Notes to the financial
statements  63
Group five-year
financial summary  94
Independent auditors’ report  95
Shareholder information 101
58 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 
for 52 weeks ended 30 April 2016 
carpetrightplc.com | 59 
 Group 52 weeks to 30 April 2016 Group 53 weeks to 2 May 2015
 Notes 
Before 
exceptional 
items
£m 
Exceptional 
items
(Note 5)
£m 
Total
£m 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m 
Exceptional 
items
(Note 5)
£m 
Total
£m 
Revenue 2 456.8 – 456.8 469.8 – 469.8
Cost of sales (182.6) – (182.6) (182.6) – (182.6)
Gross profit 2 274.2 – 274.2 287.2 – 287.2
Administration expenses (256.8) (0.9) (257.7) (273.5) (7.2) (280.7)
Other operating income/(loss) 1.9 (3.6) (1.7) 2.1 (0.4) 1.7
Operating profit/(loss)  2,3 19.3 (4.5) 14.8 15.8 (7.6) 8.2
Finance costs 6 (2.0) – (2.0) (1.6) – (1.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 17.3 (4.5) 12.8 14.2 (7.6) 6.6
Tax 7 (4.2) 1.5 (2.7) (3.7) 1.6 (2.1)
Profit/(loss) for the financial period attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company 13.1 (3.0) 10.1 10.5 (6.0) 4.5
  
Basic earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 9 19.3 (4.4) 14.9 15.5 (8.8) 6.7
Diluted earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 9 14.9 6.7
 
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 
for 52 weeks ended 30 April 2016 
 Notes 
Group 
52 weeks to 
30 April 2016
£m 
Group 
53 weeks to 
2 May 2015
£m 
Profit for the financial period  10.1 4.5
  
Items that may not be reclassified to the income statement:  
Re-measurement of defined benefit plans 22 1.1 (1.4)
Tax on items that may not be reclassified to the income statement 7 (0.4) 0.1
Total items that may not be reclassified to the income statement  0.7 (1.3)
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement:  
Exchange gains/(losses)  3.2 (5.3)
Tax on items that may be reclassified to the income statement  – –
Total items that may be reclassified to the income statement  3.2 (5.3)
   
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period  3.9 (6.6)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period attributable to equity shareholders 
of the Company  14.0 (2.1)
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 59 Financial statements continued 
Statements of changes in equity 
for 52 weeks ended 30 April 2016 
60 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Group 
Share 
capital
£m 
Share 
premium
£m 
Treasury 
shares
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
 £m 
Translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings
 £m 
Total 
£m 
At 26 April 2014 0.7 17.2 (0.3) 0.1 5.4 38.0 61.1
Profit for the period – – – – – 4.5 4.5
Other comprehensive expense for the financial period – – – – (5.3) (1.3) (6.6)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (5.3) 3.2 (2.1)
Issue of new shares – 0.2 – – – – 0.2
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust – – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 2 May 2015 0.7 17.4 (0.4) 0.1 0.1 41.6 59.5
Profit for the period – – – – – 10.1 10.1
Other comprehensive income for the financial period – – – – 3.2 0.7 3.9
Total comprehensive income for the financial period – – – – 3.2 10.8 14.0
Issue of new shares – 0.4 – – – – 0.4
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – 1.0 1.0
At 30 April 2016 0.7 17.8 (1.3) 0.1 3.3 53.4 74.0
 
Company 
Share 
capital
£m 
Share 
premium
£m 
Treasury 
shares
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
 £m 
Translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings
 £m 
Total 
£m 
At 26 April 2014 0.7 17.2 (0.3) 0.1 (0.7) 26.6 43.6
Profit for the period – – – – – 3.6 3.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – 0.3 (1.3) (1.0)
Total comprehensive income for the financial period – – – – 0.3 2.3 2.6
Issue of new shares – 0.2 – – – – 0.2
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust – – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 2 May 2015 0.7 17.4 (0.4) 0.1 (0.4) 29.3 46.7
Profit for the period – – – – – 7.2 7.2
Other comprehensive income for the financial period – – – – 0.1 0.7 0.8
Total comprehensive income for the financial period – – – – 0.1 7.9 8.0
Issue of new shares – 0.4 – – – – 0.4
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust – – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – 1.0 1.0
At 30 April 2016 0.7 17.8 (1.3) 0.1 (0.3) 38.2 55.2
60 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
Balance sheets 
as at 30 April 2016 
carpetrightplc.com | 61 
 Notes 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company
2015 
£m 
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 10 57.1 56.1 29.2 29.4
Property, plant and equipment 11 95.0 94.6 63.4 63.4
Investment property 12 14.5 17.9 4.9 8.5
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 13 – – 15.7 15.7
Deferred tax assets 21 1.9 2.2 – –
Trade and other receivables 15 0.5 0.6 43.4 45.7
Total non-current assets 169.0 171.4 156.6 162.7
Current assets   
Inventories 14 41.6 34.1 35.7 28.4
Trade and other receivables 15 20.0 25.2 14.2 20.7
Cash and cash equivalents 16 8.3 7.3 5.5 5.2
Total current assets 69.9 66.6 55.4 54.3
  
Total assets  2 238.9 238.0 212.0 217.0
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 17 (88.8) (95.6) (77.6) (84.2)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Borrowings and overdrafts 19 (7.1) (4.4) (7.1) (4.4)
Current tax liabilities (2.3) (2.3) (2.4) (2.4)
Total current liabilities (98.3) (102.4) (87.2) (91.1)
Non-current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 17 (34.3) (37.7) (43.4) (46.4)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (2.2) (2.3) (1.1) (1.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (12.6) (16.9) (12.3) (16.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (15.3) (15.2) (10.6) (11.2)
Retirement benefit obligations 22 (2.2) (4.0) (2.2) (4.0)
Total non-current liabilities (66.6) (76.1) (69.6) (79.2)
Total liabilities 2 (164.9) (178.5) (156.8) (170.3)
Net assets 74.0 59.5 55.2 46.7
Equity  
Share capital 24 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7
Share premium  24 17.8 17.4 17.8 17.4
Treasury shares 24 (1.3) (0.4) (1.3) (0.4)
Other reserves 56.8 41.8 38.0 29.0
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 74.0 59.5 55.2 46.7
These financial statements from pages 59 to 93 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 June 2016 and were signed on its  
behalf by: 
 
Wilf Walsh  Neil Page 
Directors 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 61 Financial statements continued 
Statements of cash flow 
for 52 weeks ended 30 April 2016 
62 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 Notes 
Group
52 weeks to 
30 April 
2016
£m 
* Group 
53 weeks to  
2 May 2015 
£m 
Company
52 weeks to 
30 April 
2016 
£m 
* Company
53 weeks to 
2 May 2015 
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities  
Profit before tax 12.8 6.6 9.0 4.9
Adjusted for:  
Depreciation and amortisation 2,3 12.5 13.6 10.3 11.3
Loss/(gain) on property disposals 3.6 0.4 3.5 (0.5)
Exceptional non-cash items 0.9 7.2 1.1 7.2
Share based compensation and other non-cash items 1.0 0.4 1.0 0.4
Net finance costs 6 2.0 1.6 1.7 1.4
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 32.8 29.8 26.6 24.7
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (7.0) (1.0) (7.2) (1.0)
Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables 6.2 (5.7) 10.0 (4.5)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (10.5) 6.5 (10.2) 6.1
Net (expenditure)/proceeds on exit of operating leases (2.2) 1.0 (2.2) 1.0
Contributions to pension schemes (0.9) (0.9) (0.9) (0.9)
Provisions paid  (5.1) (4.6) (4.9) (3.9)
Cash generated by operations 13.3 25.1 11.2 21.5
Interest paid (2.0) (1.6) (2.1) (1.6)
Corporation taxes paid (3.0) (4.4) (3.1) (4.4)
Net cash generated from operating activities 8.3 19.1 6.0 15.5
  
Cash flows from investing activities  
Purchases of intangible assets  (1.8) (1.7) (1.8) (1.7)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and investment property (10.1) (7.1) (8.0) (5.8)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant, equipment & investment property 2.2 1.2 1.4 0.7
Interest received – – 0.2 0.2
Net cash generated used in investing activities (9.7) (7.6)  (8.2) (6.6)
  
Cash flows from financing activities  
Issue of new shares 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2
Purchase of  treasury shares by employee benefit trust (0.9) (0.1) (0.9) (0.1)
Repayment of finance lease obligations (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) (0.2)
Movement in borrowings  29 – (4.1) – (4.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (0.7) (4.2) (0.6) (4.2)
  
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the period 29 (2.1) 7.3 (2.8) 4.7
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 2.9 (4.5) 0.8 (4.0)
Exchange differences 29 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 29,16 1.2 2.9 (1.6) 0.8
* Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current period presentation.  This has no impact in the Group’s reported opening or closing 
net cash position. 
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are reported net of overdrafts repayable on demand.  Overdrafts 
are excluded from the definition of cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the balance sheet. 
62 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
Notes to the financial statements 
carpetrightplc.com | 63 
1.  Principal accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.  These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated. 
General information 
Carpetright plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) are retailers of floorcoverings and beds.  The Company is  
listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom.  The address  
of its registered office is Carpetright plc, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, Essex, RM19 1TT. 
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out on pages 6 to 7 of the Annual Report. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements of the Group are drawn up to within seven days of the accounting record date, being 30 April of each year.  
The financial period for 2016 represents the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2016.  The comparative financial period for 2015 was 53 weeks 
ended 2 May 2015. 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union, together with those parts  
of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for pension assets and liabilities and  
share based payments which are measured at fair value.   
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its income statement  
and statement of comprehensive income.  The profit for the Company for the period was £7.2m (2015: profit of £3.6m). 
Going concern 
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its bank facilities.  The principal banking facility, which includes a 
revolving credit facility for £45 million, is committed to the end of July 2019.  The Directors have considered the future cash requirements  
of the Group and are satisfied that the facilities are sufficient to meet its liquidity needs.  The facilities are subject to a number of financial 
covenants, being a leverage covenant, a fixed charge cover covenant, and a capital expenditure covenant.  The fixed charge cover 
covenant is the most sensitive to changes in the Group’s profitability. 
The Directors have considered the expected performance of the business over at least the next twelve months and modelled this 
performance against the covenants that have been set.  In addition, the Directors have considered the trading performance necessary  
to breach the banking covenants as well as mitigating factors that would be available and actionable in the event that the adverse trading 
performance became reality. 
The Directors have also considered the net current liability position of the Group and given the supplier payment terms and the expected 
cash generation, the Directors confirm that the Group is forecast to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.  
The Directors confirm that, after considering the matters set out above, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a minimum of twelve months following the signing of these 
accounts.  For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Further information on the Group’s borrowings is given in note 19. 
New and amended accounting standards 
The following new standards and amendments to standards, which are mandatory for the first time in the financial period beginning  
3 May 2015, are relevant for the Group but have not had a material impact on the financial statements: 
 IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Employee benefits’ – clarification for accounting of employee and third party contributions (effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 February 2015); and 
 The ‘2010-2012 Improvement projects’ (effective from 1 February 2015).   
At 30 April 2016, a number of new standards and interpretations and amendments to existing standards were issued but not yet effective 
nor adopted by the EU, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.  None of these is expected to  
have a material impact to the Group, except for the following: 
 IAS 1 (amendment) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ – disclosure initiative (effective for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2016); 
 IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018); 
 IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019); 
The Group is in the process of assessing the full impact of these standards. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 63 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
64 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued  
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company  
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of a subsidiary  
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.  
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the  
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.  Where necessary, adjustments are made to the  
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.  All intra-group 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 
Exchange differences 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.  
Transactions in foreign currencies, which are those other than the functional currency of an entity, are recorded at the opening rate for 
the month in which the transaction occurs which is used as a reasonable approximation to the rate at the transaction date.  Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.  Resulting exchange  
gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period, except where they are part of a net foreign investment hedge,  
when they are recognised in equity. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date.  Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at the average rate during the period.  Differences on translation  
are recognised as a separate component in other comprehensive income.  On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative exchange 
differences for that operation are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that operation  
and are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date and are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Segment reporting 
Segmental information is presented using a ‘management approach’ on the same basis as that used for internal reporting to the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker.  The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for resource allocation and assessing performance  
of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors. 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of goods and services to customers 
outside the Group, net of returns, sales allowances, charges for the provision of interest free credit and value added and other sales  
based taxes.  Revenue from goods and services is recognised at the point the Group fulfils its commercial obligations to the customer,  
the revenue and costs in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably and collectability is reasonably assured. 
Share based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share based payments to certain employees.  The fair value of the employee services received in  
exchange for the grant of options is recognised as an expense.  The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels  
of options vesting.  The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options 
granted, excluding the impact of any service and performance conditions that are included in the assumptions about the number of options 
which are expected to become exercisable.  At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options which 
are expected to become exercisable.  It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement and  
a corresponding adjustment to equity over the vesting period. 
Treasury shares 
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (Treasury shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.  No gain or loss is 
recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments.  Any difference between  
the carrying amount and the consideration, if reissued, is recognised in share premium. 
  
64 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 65 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued  
Other operating income 
Rental income earned on investment property is recognised in other operating income, in accordance with the substance of the relevant 
rental agreements. 
Exceptional items 
Profits or losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds and the net carrying 
value at the date of sale.  Disposals are accounted for when there has been an unconditional exchange of contracts except where payment 
or completion is expected to occur significantly after exchange.  Profits/losses on property disposals and non-recurring transactions which 
are material by virtue of their size or incidence, such as major reorganisation costs, onerous leases and impairments, are disclosed as 
exceptional items. 
Tax 
Current tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. 
Deferred tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and  
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.  Deferred  
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it  
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than  
in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.  
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates of tax that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled, based on tax rates that  
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and is not discounted. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the current tax assets against the current  
tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis. 
Tax is charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity; otherwise,  
it is recognised in the income statement. 
Dividends 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, paid. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the 
acquired entity.  For the purposes of impairment, goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units)  
that is expected to benefit from the business combination.  Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or 
when there is an indication of impairment.  Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently 
reversed.  On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Impairment 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested at least annually for impairment  
or when there is an indication of impairment.  Assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for indications of 
impairment at each balance sheet date.  If there is an indication of impairment, the recoverable amount of either the asset or the cash-
generating unit to which it belongs is estimated.  Cash-generating units are used where an individual asset does not generate cash flows 
which are independent of other assets.  The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and 
its value in use.  Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount.  Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffer impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at 
each reporting date. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 65 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
66 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued  
Other intangible assets 
Purchased brand names and other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.  Acquired software licences and software development  
costs are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is calculated to write off the cost of the asset, on a straight line basis, over its expected useful life.   
The expected useful lives generally applicable are: 
Brands    20 years 
Computer software  5 to 10 years 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment in value. 
Depreciation is provided to write down the cost of property, plant and equipment, on a straight line basis, to their estimated residual  
values over their estimated useful lives.  Freehold land is not depreciated.  The estimated useful lives and residual values of assets  
are reviewed annually. 
The estimated useful lives by asset category that are generally applicable are: 
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years 
Short leasehold buildings The shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful life 
Fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years, except for fixed racking which is depreciated over 25 years 
Computers 5 to 7 years 
Other plant and machinery 7 to 10 years 
Borrowing costs 
Gross interest costs incurred on the financing of major projects are capitalised until the time that they are available for use.  Unless a specific 
borrowing is taken out to finance the asset, interest is capitalised using the weighted average interest rate of all non-specific borrowings.  
Where a specific borrowing is taken out to finance the asset, interest is capitalised at the rate applicable to that borrowing. 
Investment property 
Property that is held to earn rental income and for capital appreciation is separately disclosed as investment property.  Investment property 
is carried at depreciated historical cost.  Depreciation rates and useful lives of investment property are the same as those for property, plant 
and equipment. 
Leasing commitments 
Leases are classified as finance leases where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
Group.  All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment and  
the resulting lease obligations are included in payables.  The assets are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives and the period  
of the lease.  The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents  
a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.  Premiums payable,  
rent free periods and contributions receivable on entering an operating lease are charged or credited to income on a straight line basis  
over the lease term. 
Investment in subsidiaries 
The Company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings is recognised at cost and is accounted for net of impairment losses.  Income from 
investments is recognised in the income statement to the extent that post acquisition profits are received.  Distributions of pre-acquisition 
profits reduce the cost of the investment. 
  
66 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 67 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued  
Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.  Net realisable value is based on estimated selling 
prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.  Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark down and shrinkage based on actual 
losses, ageing of inventories and sales trends. 
Rebates receivable from suppliers 
Rebates earned by the Group take the form of volume based rebates, for attaining specific purchase targets, with individual suppliers.  
These agreements normally cover the financial period.  Agreements that cover more than one financial period are recognised in the  
period in which the rebate is earned and are credited to the carrying value of inventory to which they relate. 
The Group also receives discounts/rebates from certain suppliers for one off, targeted marketing and promotional events.  These rebates 
are recognised in the period in which the promotional activity is held. 
Trade receivables and payables 
Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently adjusted to the amount receivable or payable.   
Receivables are stated net of a provision for impairment. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, cash at bank, deposits repayable on demand and highly liquid investments.  For 
the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts, which are shown within borrowings  
and overdrafts in current liabilities on the balance sheet. 
Bank loans and overdrafts 
Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate model. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an  
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.  Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis when appropriate.  
A provision for vacant properties and onerous leases is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract 
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.  The provision is measured at the present value of the 
lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract.  Before a provision is 
established, the Group recognises any impairment losses on the assets associated with that contract.  
Retirement benefit obligation 
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes and also participates in a multi-employer pension scheme in 
respect of its employees in the Netherlands.  The assets and liabilities of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group.  
The Group is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme and, therefore, accounts for this 
scheme as a defined contribution scheme. 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.  The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full, directly in equity in the period in which they occur and are presented in other 
comprehensive income.  Other income and expenses associated with the defined benefit scheme are recognised in the income 
statement.  The pension cost of defined contribution schemes is charged in the income statement as incurred. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 67 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
68 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued  
Financial instruments 
Hedge accounting 
The Group hedges net investments in foreign entities through currency borrowings.  The gains or losses on the retranslation of the 
borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Critical estimates and judgments 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of policies and reported amounts.  Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may 
differ from these estimates.  The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below: 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.  The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have  
been determined based on value in use calculations.  The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to  
arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present 
value.  Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates. 
Impairment of assets 
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may  
not be recoverable.  When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is determined 
based on the higher of fair value, less costs to sell, and value in use calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and 
estimates.  The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-
generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.  Actual outcomes could vary significantly 
from these estimates. 
Onerous leases 
The Group carries an onerous lease provision which recognises the liabilities associated with lease contracts of closed stores and  
those that are projected to close.  The provision is based on a review of the lease contracts and management’s estimate of the timings  
to exit the lease.  The Group has further reviewed any trading loss-making stores and provided for those leases considered to be onerous.  
These estimates are based upon available information and knowledge of the property market.  The ultimate costs to be incurred in this 
regard may vary from the estimates. 
Retirement benefits 
The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is dependent on the interest rates of high quality  
corporate bonds.  The net financing charge is dependent on both the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds and the assumed 
investment returns on scheme assets.  Other key assumptions for pension obligations, including mortality rates, are based in part on 
current market conditions. 
Income tax 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which  
the temporary differences can be utilised. 
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for  
income taxes.   
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.  Where the  
final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current  
and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made. 
  
68 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 69 
2.  Segmental analysis 
The Group’s operating segments are determined on the basis of information provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker – the Board  
of Directors – to review performance and make decisions.  The reporting segments are: 
 UK; and 
 Rest of Europe (comprising Belgium, the Netherlands and Republic of Ireland). 
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from the retailing of floorcoverings and beds.  Central costs of the 
Group are incurred principally in the UK.  As such, these costs are included within the UK segment.  Sales between segments are  
carried out at arm’s length. 
The segment information provided to the Board of Directors for the reportable segments for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2016 is  
as follows: 
52 weeks to 30 April 2016 53 weeks to 2 May 2015
 
UK
£m 
Europe
£m 
Group
£m 
UK 
£m 
Europe
£m 
Group
£m 
Gross revenue  396.0 65.8 461.8 409.1 66.6 475.7
Inter-segment revenue (5.0) – (5.0) (5.9) – (5.9)
Revenues from external customers 391.0 65.8 456.8 403.2 66.6 469.8
Gross profit 237.3 36.9 274.2 247.6 39.6 287.2
Underlying operating profit 16.8 2.5 19.3 15.5 0.3 15.8
Exceptional items (4.1) (0.4) (4.5) (4.9) (2.7) (7.6)
Operating profit/(loss) 12.7 2.1 14.8 10.6 (2.4) 8.2
Intercompany interest 0.1 (0.1) – (0.1) 0.1 –
Finance costs (2.1) 0.1 (2.0) (1.5) (0.1) (1.6)
Profit/(loss) before tax 10.7 2.1 12.8 9.0 (2.4) 6.6
Tax (1.9) (0.8) (2.7) (2.4) 0.3 (2.1)
Profit/(loss) for the financial period 8.8 1.3 10.1 6.6 (2.1) 4.5
  
Segment assets:  
Segment assets 196.4 87.0 283.4 200.2 80.6 280.8
Inter-segment balances (26.6) (17.9) (44.5) (25.8) (17.0) (42.8)
Balance sheet total assets  169.8 69.1 238.9 174.4 63.6 238.0
Segment liabilities:  
Segment liabilities (163.1) (46.3) (209.4) (175.6) (45.7) (221.3)
Inter-segment balances 17.9 26.6 44.5 17.0 25.8 42.8
Balance sheet total liabilities (145.2) (19.7) (164.9) (158.6) (19.9) (178.5)
  
Other segmental items:  
Depreciation and amortisation 10.6 1.9 12.5 11.5 2.1 13.6
Additions to non-current assets 10.2 1.9 12.1 7.1 1.4 8.5
Carpetright plc is domiciled in the UK.  The Group’s revenue from external customers in the UK is £391.0m (2015: £403.2m) and the  
total revenue from external customers from other countries is £65.8m (2015: £66.6m).  The total of non-current assets (other than financial 
instruments and deferred tax assets) located in the UK is £141.7m (2015: £147.4m) and the total of those located in other countries is 
£69.9m (2015: £64.6m). 
Carpetright’s trade has historically shown no distinct pattern of seasonality, with trade cycles more closely following economic indicators 
such as consumer confidence. 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 69 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
70 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
3.  Operating profit/(loss), analysis of costs by nature 
Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging/(crediting):  
 Notes 
Group 
2016
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Rental income earned on investment property   (2.0) (2.0)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales  145.2 157.2
Operating lease rentals:  
Lease payments in respect of land and buildings  80.7 89.0
Lease payments in respect of plant and machinery  1.4 1.5
Other lease items (lease incentives and rent free credits)  (3.3) (3.5)
Sublease rental income  (1.0) (1.1)
Auditors’ remuneration:   
Audit of the Parent Company’s consolidated financial statements  0.2 0.2
Audit of the subsidiary companies’ financial statements  0.1 0.1
Non audit fees  0.1 –
Staff costs 4 101.1 102.0
Impairment of assets 5 0.3 0.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 1.9 1.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:  
Owned assets 11 10.2 11.3
Under finance leases 11 0.1 0.1
Depreciation of investment property 12 0.3 0.3
Non audit fees in the period were £54k (2015: £30k); these fees are explained on page 36 of the Audit Committee report. 
4.  Staff costs 
The average number of persons (full-time equivalents) employed by the Group (including Directors) was as follows: 
 
Group 
2016 
Number 
Group  
2015  
Number 
Company 
2016 
Number 
Company 
2015 
Number 
Stores 2,609 2,603 2,184 2,172
Store support office and distribution centre 401 389 350 343
 3,010 2,992 2,534 2,515
The aggregate employment costs of employees and Directors were as follows: 
 Notes 
Group 
2016
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Wages and salaries (including short-term employee benefits) 88.6 89.3 74.9 75.2
Social security costs 9.4 10.0 7.1 7.2
Post-employment benefits – defined contribution 2.1 2.3 1.2 1.3
Share based payments 25 1.0 0.4 1.0 0.4
 101.1 102.0 84.2 84.1
Wages and salaries include short-term employee benefits as defined in IAS 19, with the exception of costs associated with the Group’s 
pension schemes.  Post-employment benefits include costs associated with the Group’s pension schemes (with the exception of net 
interest costs and the actuarial gain on the defined benefit pension schemes) and are included in administration expenses.  Share based 
payments comprise the cost of awards in respect of employee share schemes in accordance with IFRS 2.  These costs are explained  
in note 25.  
  
70 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 71 
4.  Staff costs continued 
The employment costs of key management
1
 were as follows: 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Short-term employee benefits (including salary and social security) 3.6 3.5
Post employment benefits 0.3 0.3
Share based payments 0.6 0.3
 4.5 4.1
1. Key management comprises Group Directors and those senior managers of the Group responsible for planning, directing or controlling Group activities. 
During the period, the Executive Directors did not realise any gains (2015: no gains) on the vesting of long-term incentive plans.  Details  
of these plans, share options and other Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 37 to 54. 
5.  Exceptional items 
 Notes 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Property losses  (3.6) (0.4)
Onerous lease provision 20 (0.6) (7.0)
Impairment release/(charge):   
Store assets 11 0.1 (0.2)
Freehold properties 11,12 (0.4) –
Pre tax exceptional items  (4.5) (7.6)
A net loss of £3.6m was made on property disposals in the year (2015: £0.4m).  This was principally the result of surrender premiums  
being paid to exit loss-making stores and asset write offs. 
The Group has undertaken a review of the onerous lease provisions recognised for stores that have ceased to trade and the unavoidable 
onerous lease costs for loss-making stores, resulting in a net charge of £0.6m in the period (2015: £7.0m charge). 
In accordance with IAS 36, assets are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
not be recoverable.  The Group commissioned an external valuation of freehold properties in November 2014.  These valuations, along  
with value in use calculations, have resulted in an impairment in the current period of £0.4m (2015: Nil).  In determining whether impairment 
triggers existed at the period end, the Directors treated each store as a separate cash-generating unit (CGU) and valued it at the higher  
of the value in use calculations or the market value of the properties and their assets. 
The tax impact of exceptional items is a credit of £0.2m and the Group has also recognised an exceptional tax credit of £1.3m for the  
fall in the UK main rate of tax from 20% to 18% (see note 7). 
6.  Finance costs 
 Notes 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Interest on borrowings and overdrafts  (1.1) (0.9)
Fees amortisation  (0.6) (0.4)
Interest on obligations under finance leases  (0.2) (0.1)
Net interest on pension scheme obligations 22 (0.1) (0.2)
Finance costs  (2.0) (1.6)
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 71 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
72 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
7.  Tax 
(i) Analysis of the charge in the period 
 Notes 
Group 
2016
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
UK current tax  3.6 2.1
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (0.6) 0.1
Overseas current tax  – –
Total current tax  3.0 2.2
UK deferred tax  (1.1) (0.7)
Overseas deferred tax  0.8 0.6
Total deferred tax 21 (0.3) (0.1)
Total tax charge in the income statement  2.7 2.1
A change to the UK corporation tax rate was announced in the Chancellor’s April 2015 Budget which reduced the main rate of corporation 
tax from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. This was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.  The financial 
statements include the impact of the reduction of the main rate of tax to 18% on the Group’s deferred tax liability.  This has resulted in an 
exceptional tax credit of £1.3m. 
A change to the UK corporation tax rate was further announced in the Chancellor’s Budget on 16 March 2016, and this reduces the main 
rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.  The reduction had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and its effects are not included 
in these financial statements.  The overall effect of this change, if it had applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would 
be to reduce the deferred tax liability by an additional £0.7m and credit the tax expense for the period by £0.7m. 
(ii) Reconciliation of profit before tax to total tax  
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group 
2015
£m 
Profit before tax 12.8 6.6
Tax charge at UK corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 21%) 2.6 1.4
Adjusted for the effects of: 
Overseas tax rates 0.3 0.2
Deferred tax impact of fall in UK tax rates  (1.3) –
Non-qualifying depreciation 0.4 0.5
Other permanent differences 0.9 (0.1)
Impact of gains crystallising (0.2) 0.1
Total tax charge in the income statement 2.7 2.1
The weighted average annual effective tax rate for the period is a charge of 21.3% (2015: 31.3%).  The decrease in the effective tax rate  
is a result of the improved profitability while permanent differences remained fairly stable, along with a deferred tax credit in the year from  
the fall in the main rate to 18%. 
(iii) Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Deferred tax on actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income (0.4) 0.1
Deferred tax on share based payments – (0.1)
Total tax recognised in equity (0.4) –
  
72 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 73 
8.  Dividends 
The Directors decided that no final dividend will be paid (2015: No final dividend paid).  This results in no dividend in the period to  
30 April 2016 (2015: No dividend paid). 
9.  Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding those held by Equity Trust (Jersey) Limited (see note 25) which are treated  
as cancelled. 
In order to compute diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.  Those share options granted to employees and Executive Directors where the exercise price is  
less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the period represent potentially dilutive ordinary shares. 
52 weeks to 30 April 2016 53 weeks to 2 May 2015
 
Earnings 
£m 
Weighted
average 
number of 
shares 
Millions 
Earnings 
per share
Pence 
Earnings  
£m 
Weighted
average 
number of 
shares 
Millions 
Earnings 
per share 
Pence 
Basic earnings per share 10.1 67.7 14.9 4.5 67.7 6.7
Effect of dilutive share options  – 0.2 – – 0.4 –
Diluted earnings per share 10.1 67.9 14.9 4.5 68.1 6.7
Reconciliation of earnings per share excluding post tax profit on exceptional items 
52 weeks to 30 April 2016 53 weeks to 2 May 2015
 
Earnings 
£m 
Weighted
average 
number of 
shares 
Millions 
Earnings 
per share
Pence 
Earnings  
£m 
Weighted
average 
number of 
shares 
Millions 
Earnings 
per share 
Pence 
Basic earnings per share 10.1 67.7 14.9 4.5 67.7 6.7
Adjusted for the effect of exceptional items:  
Exceptional items 4.5 – 6.7 7.6 – 11.1
Tax thereon (0.2) – (0.3) (1.6) – (2.3)
Exceptional tax benefit from tax rate change (1.3) – (2.0) – – –
Underlying earnings per share 13.1 67.7 19.3 10.5 67.7 15.5
The Directors have presented an additional measure of earnings per share based on underlying earnings.  This is in accordance with  
the practice adopted by most major retailers.  Underlying earnings is defined as profit excluding exceptional items and related tax.   
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 73 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
74 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
10.  Intangible assets 
Group 
Goodwill 
£m 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Brands 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:  
At 26 April 2014 53.6 24.4 0.1 78.1
Exchange differences (2.3) 0.1 – (2.2)
Additions – 1.6 – 1.6
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 51.3 20.8 0.1 72.2
Exchange differences 1.1 0.1 – 1.2
Additions – 1.8 – 1.8
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 30 April 2016 52.4 22.5 0.1 75.0
  
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:  
At 26 April 2014 0.5 18.9 0.1 19.5
Amortisation – 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 0.5 15.5 0.1 16.1
Exchange differences – 0.1 – 0.1
Amortisation – 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 30 April 2016 0.5 17.3 0.1 17.9
  
Net book value:  
At 30 April 2016 51.9 5.2 – 57.1
At 2 May 2015 50.8 5.3 – 56.1
Goodwill is not amortised.  Instead it is subject to an impairment review at each reporting date or more frequently if there is an indication 
that it may be impaired.  Other intangibles are amortised and also tested for impairment when there is an indication that the asset may  
be impaired.  Impairments and amortisation charges are recognised in full in administration expenses in the income statement during  
the period in which they are identified. 
Goodwill is impaired if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount.  The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less  
costs to sell and the value in use.  In the absence of a recent market transaction, the recoverable amount of the goodwill held by  
the Group is determined from value in use calculations.   
Management has identified two cash-generating units (CGUs) supporting goodwill which are the UK and Europe, defined as the  
Netherlands and Belgium.  The goodwill allocated to each CGU is £29.8m (2015: £29.8m) to UK and £22.1m (2015: £21.0m) to Europe. 
Value in use calculations are based on five year profit projection models and plans approved by the Board, adjusted for non-cash items  
and capital expenditure. 
The key assumptions used in the cash flow model when assessing the UK and European goodwill balances are: 
 Modest like-for-like sales growth in the UK and Europe, stable gross margin percentage and anticipated cost inflation; 
 the pre-tax discount rate of 7.8% (2015: 7.8%) as applied to the cash flows is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted to reflect the risks of the businesses acquired; and 
 the long-term growth rate used in the calculation of the perpetuity model which is based on the long-term forecast growth rates of the 
countries within which the Group operates. 
In the UK, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded carrying value by £425.8m.   
In Europe, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded carrying value by £82.3m.  A fall in long-term growth rate  
to -10.3% from 2.0% or a rise in the discount rate to 16.2% from 7.8% would remove the remaining headroom. 
  
74 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 75 
10.  Intangible assets continued 
Company 
Goodwill 
£m 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Brands 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:  
At 26 April 2014 24.1 24.5 0.1 48.7
Additions – 1.6 – 1.6
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 24.1 20.8 0.1 45.0
Additions – 1.8 – 1.8
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 30 April 2016 24.1 22.4 0.1 46.6
  
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:  
At 26 April 2014 – 18.9 0.1 19.0
Amortisation – 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 – 15.5 0.1 15.6
Amortisation – 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 30 April 2016 – 17.3 0.1 17.4
  
Net book value:  
At 30 April 2016 24.1 5.1 – 29.2
At 2 May 2015 24.1 5.3 – 29.4
Company goodwill comprises purchased goodwill arising on the transfer of businesses from subsidiaries to the parent company in respect 
of Mays Carpets Ltd, £4.7m; Storey Carpets Ltd, £15.7m; Carpetworld (Manchester) Ltd, £0.8m; and Sleepright UK Ltd, £2.9m. 
 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 75 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
76 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
11.  Property, plant and equipment  
Group 
Freehold 
land and 
buildings 
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
land and 
buildings 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
buildings 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:  
At 26 April 2014 51.0 17.3 18.5 96.2 43.0 226.0
Exchange differences (2.3) (0.1) (0.2) (1.4) (3.3) (7.3)
Additions – 0.3 0.4 4.8 1.4 6.9
Transfer to investment property (3.0) – – – – (3.0)
Transfer between asset classes (0.9) 0.1 – 1.7 (1.1) (0.2)
Disposals (0.8) – (0.5) (7.9) (2.3) (11.5)
At 2 May 2015 44.0 17.6 18.2 93.4 37.7 210.9
Exchange differences 1.2 – 0.1 0.6 1.6 3.5
Additions 0.1 – 0.2 5.5 4.5 10.3
Transfer between asset classes – – – 2.2 (2.2) –
Disposals (1.5) – (1.9) (8.2) (7.7) (19.3)
At 30 April 2016 43.8 17.6 16.6 93.5 33.9 205.4
  
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:  
At 26 April 2014 11.8 5.1 11.6 56.9 37.0 122.4
Exchange differences (0.9) 0.1 (0.2) (1.3) (2.6) (4.9)
Impairment – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Depreciation  0.8 0.4 0.9 7.6 1.7 11.4
Transfer to investment property (2.4) – – – – (2.4)
Transfer between asset classes (0.3) 0.1 – 1.3 (1.3) (0.2)
Disposals (0.1) – (0.5) (7.4) (2.2) (10.2)
At 2 May 2015 8.9 5.7 11.8 57.3 32.6 116.3
Exchange differences 0.4 – 0.1 0.4 1.3 2.2
Impairment 0.3 – – (0.1) – 0.2
Depreciation  0.7 0.4 0.8 6.9 1.5 10.3
Transfer between asset classes – – – 2.1 (2.1) –
Transfer to investment property (1.8) – – – – (1.8)
Disposals (0.2) – (1.6) (7.4) (7.6) (16.8)
At 30 April 2016 8.3 6.1 11.1 59.2 25.7 110.4
Transfer between asset classes  
Net book value:  
At 30 April 2016 35.5 11.5 5.5 34.3 8.2 95.0
At 2 May 2015 35.1 11.9 6.4 36.1 5.1 94.6
In accordance with IAS 36, assets are reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value  
may not be recoverable (see note 5).   
At the balance sheet date the Group was in advanced negotiations for the disposal of a freehold property.  This property has been impaired 
down to its likely net realisable value of £0.6m during the period.  
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book value: 
 
Group 
2016
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Cost 9.1 9.1 2.3 2.3
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (3.2) (3.1) (1.7) (1.6)
Net book value 5.9 6.0 0.6 0.7
The assets held under finance leases comprise buildings. 
  
76 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 77 
11.  Property, plant and equipment continued 
Company 
Freehold 
land and 
buildings 
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
land and 
buildings 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
buildings 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:  
At 26 April 2014 20.0 9.9 18.5 86.0 13.8 148.2
Exchange differences – – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.5)
Additions – – 0.4 4.7 0.4 5.5
Transfer to investment property (1.3) – – – – (1.3)
Transfer to subsidiary (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
Disposals (0.5) – (0.5) (7.0) (1.2) (9.2)
At 2 May 2015 17.8 9.9 18.2 83.4 13.0 142.3
Exchange differences – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Additions – – 0.2 5.3 2.8 8.3
Disposals – – (1.9) (7.5) (7.1) (16.5)
At 30 April 2016 17.8 9.9 16.6 81.2 8.7 134.2
  
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:  
At 26 April 2014 3.7 3.4 11.5 46.9 12.6 78.1
Exchange differences – – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.5)
Impairment – – 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Depreciation  0.3 0.2 0.9 7.3 0.6 9.3
Disposals (0.1) – (0.5) (6.5) (1.2) (8.3)
At 2 May 2015 3.9 3.6 11.8 47.6 12.0 78.9
Exchange differences – – 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Impairment 0.6 – – (0.1) – 0.5
Depreciation  0.2 0.2 0.8 6.7 0.4 8.3
Transfer to investment property (1.8) – – – – (1.8)
Disposals – – (1.6) (6.7) (7.1) (15.4)
At 30 April 2016 2.9 3.8 11.1 47.7 5.3 70.8
  
Net book value:  
At 30 April 2016 14.9 6.1 5.5 33.5 3.4 63.4
At 2 May 2015 13.9 6.3 6.4 35.8 1.0 63.4
 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 77 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
78 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
12.  Investment property 
Investment property is carried at depreciated historical cost and is reviewed for impairment when there is an indication of impairment.   
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use calculations.  The value in use calculations are 
based on five year profit projection models and plans approved by the Board.   
In the period following the balance sheet date the Group disposed of a freehold investment property.  This property was impaired down  
to net realisable value of £2.9m during the period. 
Operating expenses attributable to investment properties are incurred directly by tenants under tenant-repairing leases. 
 
Group 
£m 
Company
£m 
Cost: 
At 26 April 2014 22.4 7.8
Exchange differences (1.5) –
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3.0 1.3
Disposals (1.1) –
At 2 May 2015 22.8 9.1
Exchange differences 0.7 –
Disposals (2.3) (2.3)
At 30 April 2016 21.2 6.8
 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 
At 26 April 2014 2.8 0.5
Exchange differences (0.1) –
Depreciation 0.3 0.1
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 2.4 –
Disposals (0.5) –
At 2 May 2015 4.9 0.6
Exchange differences 0.2 –
Impairment 0.1 –
Depreciation 0.3 0.1
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 1.8 1.8
Disposals (0.6) (0.6)
At 30 April 2016 6.7 1.9
 
Net book value: 
At 30 April 2016 14.5 4.9
At 2 May 2015 17.9 8.5
  
78 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 79 
13.  Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
All of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated accounts.  The Group has the following subsidiaries as at  
30 April 2016. 
 
Country of 
incorporation 
and operation 
Principal  
activity 
Percentage  
of ordinary 
shares held 
directly by 
Company 
Percentage 
of ordinary 
shares held 
indirectly by 
Company 
Carpetright of London Limited England and Wales Holding 100% –
Melford Commercial Properties Limited England and Wales Property 100% –
Carpetright (Torquay) Limited England and Wales Property 100% –
Pluto Sp. Z.o.o. Poland Property 100% –
Carpetland NV Belgium Retail – 100%
Carpetland BV Netherlands Retail – 100%
Fontainebleau Vastgoed BV Netherlands Property – 100%
Carpetworld Manchester Limited England and Wales Property – 100%
Carpet Express Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Carpet Depot Ltd England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Carpetright Purfleet Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Carpetright Purfleet Holdings Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Carpetworld Ltd England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Carpetright at Home Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Carpetright Card Services Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Harris Beds Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Harris Carpet Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Harris Carpets at Home Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Harris Carpets Direct Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Harris Carpets Direct.com Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Harris Furnishing Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
In-House Carpets Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Mays Holdings Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Mays Carpets Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
New Carpet Express Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Premier Carpets Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Rugright (EU) Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Storey Carpets Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Sleepright (UK) Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Sleepright (EU) Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
Woodright Limited England and Wales Dormant 100% –
The Group operates in the Republic of Ireland where it trades as a branch of Carpetright plc. 
Company 
2016
£m 
2015
£m 
Cost:  
At the beginning of the period 15.7 16.1
Exchange differences – (0.1)
Impairment of investment in Pluto Sp. Z.o.o. – (0.3)
At the end of the period 15.7 15.7
The cost of investments before impairments is £16.7m.  As at 30 April 2016 accumulated impairments of £1.0m have been recognised 
against the investment in Pluto Sp Z.o.o. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 79 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
80 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
14.  Inventories 
Group and Company inventories are held in the form of finished goods for resale.  In the period, write down of stock to net realisable  
value was £0.4m (2015: £0.6m), resulting in a stock provision of £0.2m (2015: £0.6m). 
15.  Trade and other receivables 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Non-current:  
Receivables from subsidiaries – – 42.9 45.1
Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.6
 0.5 0.6 43.4 45.7
Current:  
Trade receivables 8.6 11.1 4.2 8.1
Less: provision for impairment (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
 8.2 10.7 3.8 7.7
Other receivables 1.2 1.6 0.7 1.1
Prepayments and accrued income 10.6 12.9 9.7 11.9
 20.0 25.2 14.2 20.7
Total trade and other receivables 20.5 25.8 57.6 66.4
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values. 
Provision for impairment 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
At the beginning of the period (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Receivables written off against the provision in the period – – – –
At the end of the period (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
The table below shows the financial assets included in trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date: 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Major insurance companies 0.9 1.3 0.4 0.8
Property rent receivables 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
Receivables from retail credit finance 1.2 5.9 1.1 5.9
Retail customers 7.0 4.8 2.7 1.8
Trade and other receivables 9.4 12.3 4.5 8.8
Balances from retail customers principally relate to products awaiting collection, but are considered to have little credit risk as they are 
primarily settled by cash or major credit card and must be settled prior to the goods being collected from/delivered by the store.  The Group 
bears no credit risk in respect of amounts due from retail customers under retail finance arrangements. 
The age profile of balances other than those with retail customers is set out below: 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Neither past due nor impaired 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.6
30 to 60 days 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3
60 to 90 days – – – –
Over 90 days – 0.2 – 0.2
Non-retail trade and other receivables 1.2 1.6 0.7 1.1
  
80 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 81 
16.  Cash and cash equivalents 
 Notes 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand  8.3 7.3 5.5 5.2
    
Bank overdrafts 19 (7.1) (4.4) (7.1) (4.4)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statements 1.2 2.9 (1.6) 0.8
Included in the £8.3m cash at bank are £1.4m of cash balances generated from the sale of freehold properties previously provided as 
security against borrowings.  These funds are restricted in use for either the acquisition of new freehold properties which will in turn be 
offered as security against borrowings or for the reduction of banking facilities. 
 
17.  Trade and other payables 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Current:  
Trade payables 52.8 55.7 46.0 49.4
Other taxes and social security 11.5 13.5 9.5 11.6
Accruals and deferred income 24.5 26.4 22.1 23.2
 88.8 95.6 77.6 84.2
Non-current:  
Accruals and deferred income 34.3 37.7 34.3 37.7
Payable to subsidiaries – – 9.1 8.7
 34.3 37.7 43.4 46.4
Total trade and other payables 123.1 133.3 121.0 130.6
Trade payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.  The Directors consider that the carrying amounts 
of trade and other payables approximate to their fair values. 
 
18.  Obligations under finance leases 
 Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum lease payments
 
Group  
2016  
£m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Amounts payable within one year 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Amounts payable between one and  
five years 1.1 1.1 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5
Amounts payable after five years 4.0 4.2 0.7 0.9 1.6 1.8 0.6 0.7
 5.4 5.6 1.7 1.9 – – – –
Less: future finance charges (3.1) (3.2) (0.5) (0.6) – – – –
Present value of obligations  
under finance leases 2.3 2.4 1.2 1.3 2.3 2.4 1.2 1.3
Current 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
Non-current  2.2 2.3 1.1 1.2 
The Group leases certain properties under finance leases.  The average lease term remaining is 13 years (2015: 15 years).  The minimum 
lease payments are discounted at the rate inherent in the leases.  Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.  All leases are on a fixed 
repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.  
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 81 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
82 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
19.  Borrowings 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Current:  
Bank overdraft 7.1 4.4 7.1 4.4
Bank loans  – – – –
 7.1 4.4 7.1 4.4
Non-current:  
Bank loans  – – – –
 7.1 4.4 7.1 4.4
Borrowings and overdrafts are denominated in Sterling and Euro of which £7.1m (2015: £4.4m) are secured on certain Group  
freehold properties.  
The effective interest rates at the period end are as follows: 
 
Group 
2016 
% 
Group  
2015  
% 
Company 
2016 
% 
Company 
2015 
% 
Overdrafts 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0
Revolving credit facility 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5
The maturity profiles of borrowings are as follows: 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Amounts payable within one year 7.1 4.4 7.1 4.4
Amounts payable between one and two years – – – –
Amounts payable between two and five years – – – –
 7.1 4.4 7.1 4.4
The maturity analysis is grouped by when the debt is contracted to mature rather than by re-pricing dates. 
20.  Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Group 
2016  
£m 
Company  
2016  
£m 
Group and Company 
Onerous lease 
provisions 
£m 
Reorganisation 
provisions 
£m 
Total 
provisions 
£m 
Onerous lease 
provisions  
£m 
Reorganisation 
provisions  
£m 
Total 
provisions 
£m 
At the beginning of the period 16.6 0.3 16.9 16.4 – 16.4
Exchange differences 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Added during the period 2.5 – 2.5 2.5 – 2.5
Released during the period (1.9) – (1.9) (1.9) – (1.9)
Utilised during the period (4.9) (0.2) (5.1) (4.9) – (4.9)
At the end of the period 12.5 0.1 12.6 12.3 – 12.3
The onerous lease provisions relate to estimated future unavoidable lease costs in respect of closed non-trading and loss-making stores.  
The provision is expected to be utilised over periods of up to 12.6 years.  Further detail can be found in note 5. 
The residual cost of £0.1m for the reorganisation provision recognised in the prior period is expected to be utilised over the next  
twelve months. 
  
82 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 83 
21.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
 
Group
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2016
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Deferred tax assets (1.9) (2.2) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 15.3 15.2 10.6 11.2
Net deferred tax liabilities 13.4 13.0 10.6 11.2
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other where there is a legally enforceable right to offset. 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group during the current and prior period is: 
Group 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
Fair value 
adjustments 
Deferred 
capital gains 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
Tax  
losses 
Share 
based 
payments 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations Total 
At 26 April 2014 5.8 1.5 12.8 (1.0) (4.8) (0.1) (0.5) 13.7
Exchange difference (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 0.4 – – (0.2)
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) 0.1 0.4 (0.1) – (0.1)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – 0.1 (0.1) –
Transferred to current tax – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
At 2 May 2015 5.2 1.3 12.2 (1.0) (4.0) (0.1) (0.6) 13.0
Exchange difference 0.1 (0.1) – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (0.4) – (1.3) 0.2 1.3 – – (0.2)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 30 April 2016 4.9 1.2 10.9 (0.6) (2.7) (0.1) (0.2) 13.4
 
Company 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
Fair value 
adjustments 
Deferred
capital gains 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
Tax  
losses 
Share 
based 
payments 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations Total 
At 26 April 2014 2.8 – 11.7 (1.0) (0.6) (0.1) (0.5) 12.3
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (0.5) – (0.1) – – (0.1) – (0.7)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – 0.1 (0.1) –
Transferred to current tax – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
At 2 May 2015 2.3 – 11.2 (1.0) (0.6) (0.1) (0.6) 11.2
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (0.4) – (1.2) – 0.6 – – (1.0)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 30 April 2016 1.9 – 10.0 (1.0) – (0.1) (0.2) 10.6
At the reporting date, the Group had unused tax losses of £9.5m (2015: £14.1m) which can be carried forward indefinitely and are 
available for offset against future profits.  A deferred tax asset of £2.9m (2015: £4.0m) has been recognised in respect of these losses. 
Deferred tax assets of £2.1m (2015: £2.6m) were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities of £17.4m (2015: £17.8m), hence  
the Group’s deferred tax liabilities as at 30 April 2016 are £15.3m (2015: £15.2m). 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 83 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
84 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
22.  Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group operates a variety of pension schemes, principally in the UK, the Netherlands and Belgium.  They comprise defined benefit 
schemes where benefits are based on employees’ length of service and average final salary, and defined contribution schemes where  
the employer company pays a set contribution to the scheme.  The UK defined benefit schemes referred to in note 22 (i) (a) and the first  
two defined contribution schemes referred to in note 22 (ii) are accounted for by the Company. 
(i) Defined benefit schemes 
(a) UK defined benefit schemes 
The Company operated a funded defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for its employees  
and has assumed the liability for the scheme previously operated by Storey Carpets Ltd (Storeys).  The Company scheme was closed  
to defined benefit service accrual on 30 April 2010 and has been closed to new members since 31 March 2006.  The scheme previously 
operated by Storeys is also closed to new members and has no active members.  The assets of the schemes are held separately from  
those of the Company.   
The assets of the Company scheme are invested in a Managed Fund operated by a fund management company.  Contributions are 
determined by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.  The most recent actuarial review was at 6 April 2014 when the 
actuarial value of the assets represented 89% of the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.   
A deficit reduction plan has been agreed with the Trustees under which £0.6m was paid in the period (2015: £0.6m). 
The assets of the Storeys scheme are held in independently managed funds.  The most recent actuarial review of the Storeys scheme  
was at 1 March 2014 when the actuarial value of the assets represented 88% of the benefits accrued to members.  A deficit reduction  
plan has been agreed with the Trustees under which £0.3m was paid in the period (2015: £0.3m). 
Risks 
The Group schemes are exposed to actuarial risks and investment risks.  Some of the risks can be reduced by adjusting the funding 
strategy with the help of the Trustees, for example investment matching risk.  Other risks cannot so easily be removed, for example 
longevity risk.  The Trustees of the plan regularly review such risks and mitigating controls and a risk register is approved annually to  
mitigate such risks. 
Employer contributions of £0.9m are expected to be paid into these pension schemes during the financial period 2017. 
The assets and liabilities of the schemes were valued on an IAS 19 basis at 30 April 2016 by a qualified actuary.  The numbers set  
out below are the aggregate of the two schemes. 
1) The table below outlines amounts included in the financial statements arising from the Group’s and Company’s obligations in respect  
of the defined benefit scheme: 
  
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
Present value of pension schemes’ obligations (28.3) (30.8)
Fair value of pension schemes’ assets 26.1 26.8
Total recognised in the balance sheet (2.2) (4.0)
 
 Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
Net interest cost on pension schemes 6 0.1 0.2
Total recognised in the income statement  0.1 0.2
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets (0.6) 2.7
Change in assumptions underlying present value of liabilities 1.7 (4.1)
Total recognised in the other comprehensive income statement 1.1 (1.4)
 
 
  
84 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 85 
22.  Retirement benefit obligations continued 
2) Reconciliation of movement in net pension deficit: 
 Defined benefit obligations Fair value of assets 
Net defined
benefit obligations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015  
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
As at 2 May 2015 (30.8) (26.3) 26.8 23.0 (4.0) (3.3)
Interest income/(expense) (1.0) (1.1) 0.9 0.9 (0.1) (0.2)
   
Re-measurements:  
Actuarial gains and losses from:  
Demographic 0.4 (0.7) – – 0.4 (0.7)
Financial assumptions 1.3 (3.2) – – 1.3 (3.2)
Experience adjustments – (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Return on plan assets excluding interest – – (0.7) 2.7 (0.7) 2.7
  
Contributions:  
Employers – – 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
  
Payments from plan:  
Benefits paid 1.8 0.7 (1.8) (0.7) – –
  
As at 30 April 2016 (28.3) (30.8) 26.1 26.8 (2.2) (4.0)
3) The fair value of scheme assets split between those which have a quoted market price in an active market and those which are unquoted 
are as follows: 
 
2016 
Quoted 
£m 
2016
Unquoted 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015  
Quoted 
£m 
2015
Unquoted 
£m 
2015 
£m 
Equities 11.5 – 11.5 12.4 – 12.4
Bonds 7.6 – 7.6 7.4 – 7.4
Property 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Insurance policy – unquoted – 6.7 6.7 – 6.7 6.7
Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total 19.3 6.8 26.1 20.0 6.8 26.8
 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 85 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
86 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
22.  Retirement benefit obligations continued 
4) Key assumptions used: 
  
2016 
% 
2015
% 
RPI inflation 3.1 3.2
Discount rate 3.5 3.4
CPI inflation 2.3 2.4
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.  The assumptions used for future life expectancy of members of the 
scheme are derived from industry dates and standard tables.  Specifically, the S2NXA table on a year of birth usage with CMI_2013  
future improvements factors and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% (2015: S2NXA table on a year of birth usage with future 
improvements factors and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa).  This results in the following life expectancies: 
 male aged 65 now has life expectancy of 23 years 
 female aged 65 now has life expectancy of 25 years 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 20 years and 18 years for the 
Carpetright and Storey’s schemes respectively (2015: 20 years and 18 years respectively). 
The most significant assumptions are the discount rate, retail and consumer price index and mortality rates, of which the most sensitive 
assumption is the discount rate.  The impact of an increase or decrease in the assumptions by 0.1% on the Group’s pension scheme 
obligations is shown below: 
   
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
Increase/(decrease) by 0.1% Discount rate 0.5 0.6
Increase/(decrease) by 0.1% RPI inflation or CPI inflation 0.3 0.4
Increase/(decrease) by 1 year Life expectancy 1.1 1.1
(b) Multi-employer scheme 
The Group’s Dutch subsidiary participates in a multi-employer run industry pension scheme which has arrangements similar to those  
of a defined benefit scheme.  It is not possible to identify the Group’s share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme, and 
therefore, in accordance with IAS 19, the Group has taken the exemption for multi-employer pension schemes not to disclose pension 
scheme assets and liabilities.  Accordingly, although this scheme is a defined benefit scheme it is treated as a defined contribution  
scheme, recognising the contributions payable in each period in the income statement.  Under the terms of the scheme the scheme  
deficit is recovered through increased contributions from participating members.  At the period end, the Group was unable to obtain  
a valuation of the industry scheme’s full surplus or deficit.  The Group was also unable to obtain details concerning the future funding 
requirements, and its participation level relative to the other participants.  Contributions charged to the income statement amounted  
to £0.9m (2015: £1.0m) and expected contribution to this scheme for the financial period 2017 is £0.9m. 
(ii) Defined contribution schemes 
The Company launched a Group Personal Pension Plan in April 2006.  Contributions made by employees are matched by the Company to 
an upper limit.  The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company and are invested by Royal London.  Contributions 
for the period amounted to £1.2m (2015: £1.3m). 
In addition, the Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for subsidiary companies in Belgium and the Netherlands.  The 
Group makes contributions into the schemes, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Group and are invested by local 
insurance companies.  The contributions by the Group into individual company schemes for the period were a net charge of £0.1m  
(2015: £0.1m) and there were no contributions to industry collective schemes (2015: nil). 
  
86 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 87 
23.  Financial instruments 
(i) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Risk management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise borrowings and overdrafts, cash and cash equivalents.  These financial instruments 
are used to manage funding and liquidity requirements.  Other financial instruments which arise directly from the Group’s operations include 
trade receivables and payables. 
Exposure to credit, liquidity, foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks arise in the normal course of the Group’s business operations 
and each of these risks is managed in accordance with the Group’s treasury risk management strategy, which is also discussed in the 
Business Review in the section Current liquidity. 
(a) Credit risk 
The Group does not have significant concentrations of credit risk as exposure is spread over a number of counterparties and customers. 
The Group is exposed to a small amount of credit risk that is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables, the majority of which 
relates to retail customer products held ready for collection (see note 15).  Retail customers are required to settle outstanding balances  
in cash or using a major credit card prior to goods being collected from/delivered by the store. 
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are reputable banks.  The maximum amount of credit risk is represented 
by the carrying amounts of financial assets. 
(b) Liquidity risk 
The Group finances its operations from a mix of retained profits and bank borrowings achieved through revolving credit agreements  
and overdraft facilities.  Daily cash balances are forecast and surplus cash is placed on treasury deposit with the Group’s bankers. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments,  
including interest: 
Group 
Less than
1 year
£m 
Between
1 and 2 
years
£m 
Between 
2 and 5 
years 
£m 
Over
5 years
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 30 April 2016      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 7.3 – – – 7.3
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.8 4.0 5.4
Trade and other payables 73.5 – – – 73.5
 81.1 0.3 0.8 4.0 86.2
At 2 May 2015  
Interest bearing loans and borrowings ––– ––
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.8 4.2 5.6
Trade and other payables 84.5 – – – 84.5
 84.8 0.3 0.8 4.2 90.1
Company  
At 30 April 2016  
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 12.0 – – – 12.0
Finance leases 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.7 1.7
Trade and other payables 68.6 – – – 68.6
 80.8 0.2 0.6 0.7 82.3
At 2 May 2015  
Interest bearing loans and borrowings ––– ––
Finance leases 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.9 1.9
Trade and other payables 85.7 – – – 85.7
 85.9 0.2 0.6 0.9 87.6
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 87 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
88 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
23.  Financial instruments continued 
The Group has committed facilities to July 2019 comprising a £45.0m revolving credit facility.  The Group also has uncommitted overdraft 
facilities of £7.5m in the UK which are renewable annually in June and €2.4m in the Rest of Europe.  The undrawn amounts on the 
committed facilities were £45.0m (2015: £45.0m).  The undrawn amounts on the uncommitted facilities were £0.4m and €2.4m (2015: 
£3.1m and €7.4m). 
There are a number of covenants which commit the Group to maintaining certain rates of leverage and fixed charge cover.  The Group  
has and is expected to remain in compliance with these covenants; further details on this can be found on pages 20 and 25 of the  
Strategic Report.   
(c) Foreign exchange risk 
Outside the UK, the Group operates in the Netherlands, Belgium and the Republic of Ireland and had cash balances in Poland.  Revenues  
and expenses of these operations are denominated in Euros or Zlotys.  The Group mitigates currency risk in respect of the net investment 
in European operations by designating Euro denominated borrowings as hedging instruments of Euro denominated investments in  
foreign operations. 
If the closing Sterling Euro rate had been 0.01 points lower in the period, the exchange difference reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income would have been £0.3m lower (2015: £0.2m lower).  At 30 April 2016, if Sterling had weakened/strengthened  
by 10% against the Euro, profit after tax for the period would have been £0.2m higher/lower as a result of the translation of the Euro 
denominated businesses. 
Financial assets and liabilities and foreign operations are translated at the following rates of exchange: 
 
Euro
2016 
Euro 
2015 
Zloty
2016 
Zloty
2015 
Average rate 1.36 1.28 5.77 5.38
Closing rate 1.28 1.36 5.62 5.51
(d) Interest rate risk 
The Group has various borrowings bearing interest at a margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR rates.   
In accordance with IFRS 7, the Group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its financial instruments which are affected by changes  
in interest rates.  This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt and a constant ratio of fixed to floating 
interest rates as at 30 April 2016 and 2 May 2015 respectively.  Consequently, analysis relates to the situation at those dates and is  
not representative of the periods then ended.   
Based on the Group’s net debt position at the period end, a 1% change in interest rates would affect the Group’s profit before tax  
by approximately £0.1m (2015: £0.1m). 
The interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group is as follows: 
 2016 2015 
 
Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest 
rate
% 
Floating  
rate 
£m 
Fixed
rate
£m 
Interest 
free
£m 
Total
£m 
Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate
% 
Floating
rate
£m 
Fixed 
rate 
 £m 
Interest 
free
£m 
Total
£m 
Sterling 0.1 5.4 – 4.4 9.8 – 1.9 – 2.6 4.5
Euro – 2.2 – 5.0 7.2 – 4.7 – 3.6 8.3
Zloty – 0.7 – – 0.7 – 0.7 – – 0.7
Total financial assets – 8.3 – 9.4 17.7 – 7.3 – 6.2 13.5
Sterling 0.5 (7.3) (2.1) (62.9) (72.3) 0.9 (4.4) (2.2) (76.1) (82.7)
Euro – – (0.2) (10.6) (10.8) 0.1 – (0.1) (8.4) (8.5)
Zloty – – – – – – –– ––
Total financial 
liabilities – (7.3) (2.3) (73.5) (83.1) – (4.4) (2.3) (84.5) (91.2)
Capital management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and retain financial flexibility in 
order to continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.  The Group considers capital to be equity and  
net debt.  Net debt is disclosed in note 29. 
The Group manages its capital by: continued focus on free cash flow generation; setting the level of capital expenditure and dividend in  
the context of the current period and forecast free cash flow; and monitoring the level of the Group’s financial and leasehold debt in the 
context of Group performance. 
  
88 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 89 
23.  Financial instruments continued 
(ii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets and liabilities are classified in accordance with IAS 39.  Financial instruments have not been reclassified or derecognised  
in the period.  There are no financial assets which have been pledged or held as collateral.  The Group does not have any financial assets  
or liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement.  There are no available-for-sale financial assets. 
The carrying values of all other financial assets and liabilities are deemed to reflect fair value. 
Group  Company
 
2016
Fair value
 £m 
2015 
Fair value  
£m 
2016
Fair value 
 £m 
2015
Fair value
£m 
At cost:  
Cash and cash equivalents 8.3 7.3 5.5 5.2
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:  
Trade and other receivables 9.4 6.2 47.7 48.1
Total financial assets 17.7 13.5 53.2 53.3
  
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:  
Borrowings and overdrafts (7.1) (4.4) (7.1) (4.4)
Finance lease obligations (2.3) (2.3) (1.2) (1.3)
Financial liabilities at cost:  
Trade and other payables (73.7) (84.5) (73.5) (85.7)
Total financial liabilities (83.1) (91.2) (81.8) (91.4)
  
Net financial liabilities (65.4) (77.7) (28.6) (38.1)
(iii) Hedge accounting 
Net investment hedges 
Euro-denominated facilities are designated as hedging instruments of Euro-denominated net assets of the Group’s foreign operations  
in order to protect the Group from currency risk in respect of the Group’s Euro-denominated foreign operations.  Borrowing balances  
are carried at amortised cost which approximates fair value since borrowings bear interest at the prevailing floating rate. 
24.  Share capital  
Group and Company 
Number 
of allotted, 
called up and 
fully paid 
ordinary 
shares 
Millions 
Share capital
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Treasury 
shares
£m 
Total
£m 
At 26 April 2014 67.7 0.7 17.2 (0.3) 17.6
Issue of new shares 0.1 – 0.2 – 0.2
Purchase of own shares – employee benefit trust – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 2 May 2015 67.8 0.7 17.4 (0.4) 17.7
Issue of new shares 0.1 0 0.4 – 0.4
Purchase of own shares – employee benefit trust – – – (0.9) (0.9)
At 30 April 2016 67.9 0.7 17.8 (1.3) 17.2
The Group’s LTIP was established to grant contingent rights to shares.  Such grants are made on recommendation by the Group’s 
Remuneration Committee.  Shares are purchased by a Trust and held until they are used to satisfy the LTIP awards.  As required by IAS 
32, grants of such shares are classified as Treasury shares and accordingly are deducted from total equity attributable to equity holders  
of the parent.  During the period, the Trust purchased 157,450 ordinary shares (2015: 23,571 shares purchased).  At the period end,  
the Trust held 208,890 (2015: 51,440) ordinary shares of 1p each with a market value of £0.7m (2015: £0.2m). 
The Group also operates a share option scheme under which shares are issued to satisfy share options upon exercise. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 89 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
90 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
25.  Share based payments 
Included within administration expenses is a charge of £1.0m (2015: charge of £0.4m) in respect of equity-settled share based payments. 
The Group’s employee share schemes are described below and additional detail is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 49 to 50 scheme participants are either Directors of the Company or employees of the Group.  The costs associated with the 
schemes are accounted for in the Company’s accounts. 
(i) LTIP 
Under this scheme, participants may receive annual awards in the form of contingent entitlements to Company shares.  These entitlements 
are equity-settled through the purchase of existing shares by the administering Trust.  The shares vest three years after award if participants 
remain with the Group during the vesting period and the Group meets targeted levels of performance.  The performance conditions are fully 
described in the Directors’ remuneration report in the section titled Long-term incentives. 
During the period, contingent entitlements to 488,816 shares were granted (2015: 432,953).  The amount recognised in the income 
statement in respect of all LTIP awards is a charge of £0.8m (2015: charge of £0.3m).  The fair values of the awards, where there is no 
market condition, are valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The Group’s LTIP Trust is administered by Equity Trust (Jersey) 
Limited and it waives its right to dividends on the shares held. 
Reconciliation of movements in the period ended 30 April 2016 
 LTIP July 2015 LTIP July 2014 LTIP Jan 2014 LTIP 2012
 
Share  
awards 
’000s 
Fair
value
 £m 
Share 
awards
’000s 
Fair
value
 £m 
Share
 awards
’000s 
Fair 
value 
£m 
Share 
awards
’000s 
Fair
value
£m 
Outstanding at 26 April 2014 – – – – 387.3 2.0 172.7 1.1
Granted – – 432.9 2.3 – – – –
Forfeited – – (34.3) (0.2) (84.8) (0.9) (141.6) (0.4)
Outstanding at 2 May 2015 – – 398.6 2.1 302.5 1.1 31.1 0.7
Granted 488.8 2. 7 – – – – – –
Forfeited (32.6) (0.2) (33.0) (0.1) (34.0) (0.2) – –
Expired/lapsed – – – – – – (31.1) (0.7)
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 456.2 2.5 365.6 2.0 268.5 0.9 – –
   
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 – – – – – – – –
Exercisable at 2 May 2015 – ––––– ––
The valuation assumptions used in the application of the Black-Scholes model applied to the relevant schemes above are as follows: 
Valuation assumptions 
LTIP July 
2015 award 
LTIP July  
2014 award 
LTIP Jan 
2014 award 
LTIP 2012
award 
Fair value per share (pence) 560 524 504 641
Share price at grant (pence) 577 526 506 664
Exercise price (pence) 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0
Expected volatility (%)
1
 32.4 33.4 35.1 35.9
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Dividend yield (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1
Risk free interest rate (%) 1.0 1.5 1.0 0.4
1. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the three year period preceding the date of grant.  The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK 
government bonds at the date of grant of the respective awards over a term consistent with the vesting period. 
(ii) Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”) 
The Group operates three and five year SAYE schemes.  Employees and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options over 
shares in the Company at a 20% discount to market price.  The options are ordinarily exercisable within six months from the third or fifth 
anniversary of the grant date.  The entitlement to share options is equity-settled.  Funds for the purchase of Company shares are built up 
through the contribution of a maximum of £500 (2015: £500) per month from salary.  Share options were valued using a Black-Scholes 
option-pricing model.  The cost charged to the income statement in respect of this scheme is £0.2m (2015: £0.1m). 
 
  
90 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 91 
25.  Share based payments continued 
Reconciliation of movements in the period ended 30 April 2016 
 
SAYE  
2016 
SAYE  
2015 
SAYE 
2014 
SAYE 
2013 
SAYE  
2012 
SAYE 
2011 
SAYE 
2010 
 3 yr  5 yr  3 yr  5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr  5 yr 5 yr 5yr
 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Number 
of options 
’000s 
Outstanding at  
26 April 2014 – – – –267.7 80.3 60.1 10.6177.9 36.1 7.4 4.1
Granted – – 757.8 158.8 – – – – – – – –
Forfeited – – – –(139.5)(55.5)(26.1) (2.0)(43.0) (27.8) (1.3) (0.4)
Vested – – – – – (0.1) – –(26.7) – – –
Outstanding at  
2 May 2015 – – 757.8 158.8 128.2 24.7 34.0 8.6 108.2 8.3 6.1 3.7
Granted 197.3 39.5 – – – – – – – – – –
Forfeited – – (208.4) (24.2) (24.0) (3.0) (8.7) (2.5) (30.1) (2.1) (1.8) (3.7)
Vested – – (0.9) – – – – – (78.1) – – –
Outstanding at  
30 April 2016 197.3 39.5 548.5 134.6 104.2 21.7 25.3 6.1 – 6.2 4.3 –
      
Exercisable at  
30 April 2016 – – – – – – 25.3 – – – 4.3 –
Exercisable at  
2 May 2015 – – – – – – – –108.2 – – 3.7
The valuation assumptions used in the application of the Black-Scholes model applied to the relevant schemes above are as follows: 
Valuation assumptions 
SAYE  
2016 
SAYE  
2016 
SAYE 
2015 
SAYE 
2014 
SAYE 
2013 
SAYE  
2012 
SAYE 
2011 
3yr 5yr 3yr 5yr 3yr 5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr  5 yr 3 yr 5 yr
Fair value per share (pence) 148 178 148 184 165 201 248 339 179 231 264 298
Share price at grant (pence) 446 446 446 446 505 505 679 679 529 529 792 792
Exercise price (pence) 356 356 347 347 404 404 544 554 423 423 634 634
Expected volatility (%)
1
 34.3 34.7 31.5 34.8 33.7 34.8 34.7 39.1 40.0 44.1 41.6 39.9
Vesting period (years) 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1
Dividend yield (%) – – – – –––– 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.5 0.8 0.7 1.0 0.3 0.8 2.9 4.9 1.6 2.9 1.6 2.4
Possibility of ceasing 
employment before  
vesting (%) 40 50 40 50 40 50 40 40 40 50 40 50
1. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the three or five year period respectively preceding the date of grant.  The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-
coupon UK government bonds at the date of grant of the respective awards over a term consistent with the vesting period. 
(iii) All Employee Share Ownership Plan (“AESOP”) 
Carpetright operated an Employee Share Ownership Plan under which employees could contribute up to £125 per month from pre-tax 
salary to purchase Carpetright shares.  The scheme was closed on 12 January 2015 as there were fewer than 50 active participants.   
The Group does not incur a share based payment charge in respect of this scheme since the Company shares have been acquired  
at market value and are not subject to an accumulation period. 
  
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 91 Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
92 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
26.  Capital and other financial commitments 
Capital commitments at 30 April 2016 contracted for but not yet incurred are: 
 
Group
2016
 £m 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Company
2016
£m 
Company
2015
£m 
Store equipment – 0.4 – 0.4
27.  Operating lease commitments 
At 30 April 2016, the future minimum lease payments in respect of land and buildings and other assets under operating leases are: 
2016 2015
Group 
Land and
buildings
£m 
Other 
£m 
Land and
buildings
 £m 
Other 
£m 
Operating leases payable:   
Amounts payable within one year 81.1 1.4 85.7 1.2
Amounts payable between one and five years 281.4 2.5 302.6 3.1
Amounts payable after five years 236.8 – 290.8 0.1
 599.3 3.9 679.1 4.4
 
2016 2015
Company 
Land and
buildings
£m 
Other 
£m 
Land and
buildings
 £m 
Other 
£m 
Operating leases payable:   
Amounts payable within one year 74.3 1.1 79.2 1.1
Amounts payable between one and five years 266.1 2.1 290.5 2.8
Amounts payable after five years 225.5 – 290.1 0.1
 565.9 3.2 659.8 4.0
The Group’s operating leases have an average remaining length of 5.1 years (2015: 5.1 years).  The Group enters into sublease agreements 
in respect of some of its operating leases for stores.  At the reporting date, the Group had contracted with tenants for future minimum 
operating sublease receipts amounting to £8.4m (2015: £10.2m). 
28.  Contingent liabilities 
The Group has no material contingent liabilities at 30 April 2016. 
The Company’s contingent liabilities derive from guarantees for subsidiaries, which are disclosed in note 30. 
  
92 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
carpetrightplc.com | 93 
29.  Net (debt)/cash  
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Current assets:    
Cash and cash equivalents 8.3 7.3 5.5 5.2
 8.3 7.3 5.5 5.2
Current liabilities:  
Bank overdrafts (7.1) (4.4) (7.1) (4.4)
Obligations under finance leases (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
 (7.2) (4.5) (7.2) (4.5)
Non-current liabilities:  
Obligations under finance leases (2.2) (2.3) (1.1) (1.2)
 (2.2) (2.3) (1.1) (1.2)
Total net (debt)/cash (1.1) 0.5 (2.8) (0.5)
 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 8.3 7.3 5.5 5.2
Bank overdrafts (7.1) (4.4) (7.1) (4.4)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 1.2 2.9 (1.6) 0.8
Reconciliation of movements in the period ended 30 April 2016 
 
Group 
2016 
£m 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2016
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in cash flow statement (2.1) 7.3 (2.8) 4.7
Exchange differences 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (1.7) 7.4  (2.4) 4.8
Borrowings – 4.0 – 4.0
Other non-cash movements 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1
Movement in net (debt)/cash (1.6) 11.6 (2.3) 8.9
30.  Related parties 
Group 
Share based payment transactions which include transactions with key management are disclosed in notes 4 and 25. 
Contributions to pension schemes are disclosed in note 22.  Costs incurred by the Group to administer pension schemes amounted  
to £0.2m in 2016 (2015: £0.2m). 
Company 
The following table provides the total amount of transactions and year end balances with related parties for the relevant financial year. 
 
Sales of 
goods 
£m 
Provision 
of services 
£m 
Total goods 
£m 
Amounts due 
from related 
parties 
£m 
Amounts due 
to related 
parties 
£m 
Subsidiary undertakings  
2016 1.5 0.6 2.1 42.9 9.1
2015 2.6 0.5 3.1 45.1 8.7
The Company guarantees bank and other borrowings of subsidiary undertakings.  At the period-end there were nil drawn borrowings  
(2015: nil). 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 93 Financial statements continued 
Group five-year financial summary 
94 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 
2016
£m 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Summarised income statements:    
Revenue 456.8 469.8 447.7 457.6 471.5
Gross profit 274.2 287.2 275.9 278.3 276.0
Operating profit/(loss) 14.8 8.2 (4.9) (3.4) 18.0
Underlying operating profit 19.3 15.8 6.9 11.4 8.0
Net finance costs (2.0) (1.6) (2.3) (1.7) (4.0)
Underlying profit before tax 17.3 14.2 4.6 9.7 4.0
Exceptional items (4.5) (7.6) (11.8) (14.8) 9.5
Profit/(loss) before tax 12.8 6.6 (7.2) (5.1) 13.5
Tax (2.7) (2.1) 3.6 (1.5) (2.5)
Profit/(loss) for the financial period 10.1 4.5 (3.6) (6.6) 11.0
Extracts from balance sheets:  
Non-current assets 169.0 171.4 185.4 193.0 205.2
Net assets 74.0 59.5 61.1 65.3 70.7
Operating cash flows 13. 3 25.1 11.3 17.4 29.1
Net cash/(debt) (1.1) 0.5 (11.1) (10.2) (19.1)
Ratios and statistics:  
Number of stores at period end 572 597 614 620 632
Total space (sq ft – gross) ’000 5 , 15 0 5,444 5,630 5,719 5,840
Gross margin (%) 60.0% 61.1% 61.6% 60.8% 58.5%
Underlying operating margin (%) 4.2% 3.4% 1.5% 2.5% 1.7%
Operating margin (%) 2.2% 1.0% (1.0%) (0.7%) 3.8%
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 19. 3p 15.5p 4.7p 9.6p 4.5p
Basic earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 14. 9p 6.7p (5.3p) (9.8p) 16.4p
94 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Carpetright plc 
  
carpetrightplc.com | 95 
Report on the financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion: 
Carpetright plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”); 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of the Group’s profit 
and the Group’s and the Company’s cash flows for the 52 week 
period (the “period”) then ended; 
 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; 
 the Company financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards  
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
The financial statements, included within the Annual  
Report, comprise: 
 the Group and Company Balance sheets as at 30 April 2016; 
 the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income for the period then ended; 
 the Group and Company Statements of cash flow for the period 
then ended; 
 the Group and Company Statements of changes in equity for  
the period then ended; and 
 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary  
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather than in 
the notes to the financial statements.  These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
 
– Overall Group materiality: £2.3m, which represents 0.5% of Group revenues. 
– We performed an audit of the complete financial information of Carpetright plc, which comprises 
two reporting units (the UK and the Republic of Ireland) and accounted for 87% of the Group 
revenues and 77% of the Group’s profit, and the consolidation. 
– Valuation of goodwill in Europe (the Netherlands and Belgium); 
– Impairment of freehold and long-leasehold properties (Europe and UK); 
– Impairment of store assets and onerous leases; 
– Valuation of inventory. 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.  In particular, 
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.  As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented  
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as “areas of focus” in the table below.  We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide 
an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this 
context.  This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.   
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 95 Financial statements continued 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Carpetright plc continued 
 
96 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Valuation of goodwill in Europe (the Netherlands and Belgium) 
Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies and Critical accounting 
estimates and judgments), note 10 (Intangible assets) and  
to the Audit Committee Report on page 33. 
Goodwill is valued at £51.9m at the period end.  No goodwill 
impairment charge has been recorded against this balance in  
the current year. 
We focused on the risk that the goodwill balance may be overstated 
and that an impairment charge may be required. 
The lowest level at which the Directors monitor goodwill is the “UK”, 
defined as UK and Republic of Ireland, and “Europe”, defined as the 
Netherlands and Belgium.  Therefore these have been identified as 
the cash-generating units (“CGUs”).  The Group’s goodwill in the  
UK is £29.8m and in Europe it is £22.1m at the period-end. 
We focused on valuation of goodwill in the Rest of Europe in 
particular because of the historical trading performance in this  
CGU and because of the judgment required in the impairment 
assessment.  The Directors’ review process for the UK goodwill  
has not identified any potential impairment. 
The assumptions made by the Directors in the annual impairment 
review included: 
 the growth and operating margin within the five year plan  
as applied to each CGU; 
 the Group discount rate (pre-tax 7.8%); and 
 the long-term sales and operating profit growth in line with  
the floorings markets in the UK and in Europe. 
 
We tested the value-in-use models, including comparing the 
forecasts used in them to the latest five year plan approved by  
the Board, and testing the underlying calculations.  No material 
exceptions were noted. 
We challenged the Directors’ key assumptions, in particular: 
 the sales growth and margin improvement plans by comparing 
these assumptions to recent results for the Group and to third 
party analysts’ reports, market data, the general state of the 
economy and anticipated growth, to assess their reasonableness.
 the long-term growth rate by comparing the assumptions to the 
retail sector as a whole and forecasts for the wider economy; and
 the discount rate used by assessing the cost of capital for the 
business.  The discount rate used in the Directors’ impairment 
models of 7.8% (pre-tax discount rate) is below the range that 
we independently estimated based on market data and analysis 
of comparable companies.  However, the use of a discount  
rate within our independent range would not result in a  
material impairment. 
We performed sensitivity analyses, for the assumptions specified 
above to identify the extent to which these needed to change to 
result in a material impairment charge. 
Based on our knowledge of the business and of the retail industry 
amongst other factors, we considered the likelihood for changes 
of the required magnitude in the key assumptions to result in a 
material impairment to be relatively low.  We also considered  
that the disclosure made in the financial statements regarding  
the assumptions and the sensitivities drew appropriate attention  
to the more significant areas of judgment. 
Impairment of freehold and long-leasehold properties 
(Europe and UK) 
Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies and Critical accounting 
estimates and judgments), note 11 (Property, plant and equipment) 
and to the Audit Committee report on page 33. 
The Group owns freehold and long-leasehold stores in the UK and 
in Europe.  We focused on the risk that the carrying value of the 
properties, including the fixed assets attributable to these stores, 
may be overstated and that an impairment charge may be required.
In determining whether impairment triggers existed at the period 
end, the Directors treated each store as a separate CGU and valued 
it at the higher of the value in use calculations or the market value  
of the properties and their assets. 
The value-in-use calculations are based on a five year perpetuity 
model using the growth assumptions within the five year plan as 
applied to each store, with the resulting cash flows discounted at  
the Group discount rate (pre-tax 7.8%). 
The fair values are taken from third party valuations carried out by an 
independent valuer in November 2014; these valuations are based 
on market value assuming a ten year sale and leaseback arrangement.
This review resulted in an impairment charge of £0.4m in the  
current year. 
We focused on this area because of the size of the underlying  
assets and because of the significant judgment required in 
determining the value in use of each store, particularly regarding  
the sales and operating margins growth rates, and discount rates. 
 
We tested the Directors’ assessment of impairment triggers 
and were satisfied that it appropriately took into account  
both internal and external impairment indicators, including the  
trading performance of each CGU and market conditions. 
We assessed the third party valuations based on our 
understanding of the UK and European commercial property 
market and an independent analysis performed by our property 
valuation experts to confirm that the main assumptions used in  
the estimation of the market value were still valid and updated.   
We found the methodology to be appropriate for fair value and  
the valuation to be reasonable at the year end. 
We tested the value-in-use models, including comparing the 
forecasts used in them to the latest five year plan approved by  
the Board, and tested the underlying calculations.  No material 
exceptions were noted. 
We challenged the Directors’ key assumptions, in particular: 
 the sales growth and margin improvement plans by comparing 
these assumptions to recent results for the Group and to third 
party analysts’ reports, market data, the general state of the 
economy and anticipated growth, to assess their reasonableness;
 the long-term growth rate by comparing the assumptions to the 
retail sector as a whole and forecasts of the wider economy; and
 the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.  
The discount rate used in the Directors’ impairment models of 
7.8% (pre-tax discount rate) is below the range that we 
independently estimated based on market data and analysis  
of comparable companies.  However, the use of a discount  
rate within our independent range would not result in a  
material impairment. 
96 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
carpetrightplc.com | 97 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
 
We performed sensitivity analysis and noted that in order for  
a material impairment charge to arise, the key assumptions 
specified above would need to change significantly.  Based on  
our knowledge of the business and of the retail industry amongst 
other factors, we considered the likelihood for such changes  
in the key assumptions to be relatively low. 
Impairment of store assets and onerous leases 
Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies and Critical accounting 
estimates and judgments), note 11 (Property, plant and equipment), 
note 20 (Provisions for liabilities and charges)  
and to the Audit Committee report on page 33. 
The Group operates a number of short leasehold stores.  The assets 
relating to these stores mainly comprise leasehold improvements 
and fixtures and fittings.  These are considered for impairment 
annually by reviewing loss making stores.  For all stores where  
the loss in the year exceeded a specified threshold, the store  
assets were fully impaired. 
Furthermore, consideration was given to leases where the stores 
have been closed or are loss-making to the extent that they cannot 
cover their unavoidable property costs and are therefore classified  
as onerous contracts.  An analysis is performed on a store-by-store 
basis of the excess of the Net Present Value (“NPV”) of forecast 
unavoidable property costs (rents, rates and service charges)  
over the forecast earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, 
amortisation, rents, rates and service charges (“EBITDAR”) over the 
shortest of the life of the lease or a four year period.  The four year 
period is based on historical experience in exiting poor performing 
locations.  The provision held at the balance sheet date for loss-
making leases is expected to be utilised over the remaining  
period of three years out of the estimated four year timeframe  
for negotiating to exit or restructure the onerous contract.  The  
NPV is calculated using the growth assumptions within the five  
year plan as applied to each store, with the resulting cash flows 
discounted at the risk free rate. 
This analysis is then assessed using a threshold applied in the store 
impairment review on the logic that the stores are marginally loss 
making and the performance improvement plans are in the place.  
Stores with negative NPV lower than the threshold are not  
provided for. 
This analysis is then assessed for other factors such as potential 
property deals or closure of nearby stores which should positively 
impact the poorer performing store. 
A provision of £12.5m was carried at the year-end for the onerous 
leases, of which £5.5m was in relation to poorly performing stores. 
 
We tested the Directors’ assessment of impairment triggers for the 
store assets.  We challenged the key assumptions – namely that 
stores making a loss below a certain threshold are excluded from 
the model as Directors’ view is that, as an improvement plan is in 
place and given the level of loss at these stores, they are not 
permanently impaired. 
The potential impairment if all stores were included is not material 
and, therefore, there is minimal judgment in the impairment 
calculation resulting from this assumption. 
With respect to the provision for onerous contracts, we checked 
that stores assessed for onerous contracts are those that were 
identified, and whose assets were impaired, following the store 
impairment review. 
We tested the NPV models, including comparing the forecasts 
included to the latest five year plan approved by the Board, and 
testing the underlying calculations.  No material exceptions  
were noted. 
The provision also takes into account management’s best  
estimate as to the timeframe required to exit each loss-making 
store which is clearly judgmental.  The provision takes into  
account other factors, such as potential property transactions.   
We assessed these judgments, including agreeing to the 
underlying third party draft contracts where appropriate.   
We considered the judgments taken by the Directors to  
be reasonable based on the evidence provided. 
Valuation of inventory 
Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies), note 14 (Inventories) and  
to the Audit Committee Report on page 33. 
Based on the Group’s accounting policy, inventories are valued  
at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.   
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less  
further costs to be incurred to dispose of the inventory. 
We focused on inventory due to: 
– the magnitude of manual adjustments recorded at the period end 
mainly for allocated goods, recognised at the point the Group 
fulfils its commercial obligations to the customer; and 
 
We tested the Directors’ calculations of inventory provisions and 
adjustments, challenged the appropriateness of management’s 
judgments and assumptions. 
In particular, we focused on the following key areas: 
– We agreed volume rebate rates to the relevant supplier 
agreements and recalculated the inventory cost adjustment.   
No material misstatements were noted as a result. 
– We compared the book value of inventory at the period  
end to the actual selling prices post-period end to identify if 
inventory items had been sold at less than cost.  No material 
overstatement of inventory was noted as a result of our work. 
 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 97 Financial statements continued 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Carpetright plc continued 
 
98 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
 The level of judgment involved in the calculation of inventory 
loss and obsolescence provisions.  The inventory loss calculation 
is mainly based on an average shrinkage identified as a result  
of the physical inventory counts performed on each store. 
 
 We assessed any other significant manual adjustment to 
check that inventory is valued appropriately.  This testing  
did not identify any material exceptions. 
We tested the ageing of inventory and the shrinkage percentage 
used by the Directors and recalculated the provision based on  
the Group policy.  No material exceptions were noted. 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as  
a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the 
Group operates.  
The Group is structured across two segments, being the UK and Rest of Europe, with the majority of trading occurring in the UK segment.  
The Rest of Europe segment comprises three reporting units, being Republic of Ireland, Netherlands and Belgium. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we identified that the UK segment and the Republic of Ireland reporting units 
required an audit of their complete financial information as they form part of Carpetright plc Company.  This was performed by the Group 
audit team.  
The Group team assessed the appropriateness, completeness and accuracy of group journals and other adjustments performed on  
the consolidation and obtained an understanding of the internal control environment related to the financial reporting process.  For the 
Netherlands and Belgium reporting units, which were not individually significant to the Group, the Group audit team have performed audit 
procedures on a number of judgmental areas.  These include testing the onerous lease provision and impairment testing of goodwill, 
freehold and long leasehold properties and store assets. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.  We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.  These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually 
and on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall Group materiality £2.3m (2015: £2.0m). 
How we determined it 0.5% of Group revenues. 
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we have used revenues as a benchmark given the high level of fixed costs  
in the business and because a small fluctuation in revenue can result in a significant fluctuation of  
profit before tax.  Revenue is also the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the 
performance of the Group and reporting to the stakeholders. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.1m (2015: £0.1m) 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern.   
We have nothing to report having performed our review.  
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the 
Directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.  
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the financial statements.  The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.  As part  
of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.  However, because not all future events  
or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
  
98 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
 
carpetrightplc.com | 99 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
– Information in the Annual Report is: 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group  
and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
– otherwise misleading. 
 We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 
– The statement given by the Directors on page 30, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and 
Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit. 
 We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 
– The section of the Annual Report on pages 33 to 36, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the  
Audit Committee. 
 We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency  
or liquidity of the Group 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: 
– The Directors’ confirmation on pages 24 and 31 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of 
the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
 We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed  
or mitigated. 
 We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
– The Directors’ explanation on page 25 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, 
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why  
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over  
the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions. 
 We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.  Our review was substantially less in 
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking 
that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with 
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.  We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk | 99 Financial statements continued 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Carpetright plc continued 
 
100 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
  
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received  
from branches not visited by us; or 
 the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with  
the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006. 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made.  We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions  
of the Code.  We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of the Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3  
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.  We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed  
by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  This includes an assessment of:  
 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed;  
 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
 the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide  
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.  We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.  If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
 
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
27 June 2016 
100 | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 www.carpetright.plc.uk | 101
Shareholder information 
Calendar  
 
carpetrightplc.com | 101 
2016  
Annual General Meeting 7 September
First-half trading update 25 October
First-half ends 29 October
Interim results announcement 13 December
 
2017  
Q3 trading update  31 January
Pre-close trading update 25 April
Year ends 29 April
 
 
Advisers 
Financial advisers 
Deutsche Bank AG 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London 
EC2N 2DB 
Solicitors 
Travers Smith LLP 
10 Snow Hill 
London 
EC1A 2AL 
 
Stockbrokers 
Deutsche Bank AG 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London 
EC2N 2DB 
Peel Hunt 
111 Old Broad Street 
London 
EC2N 1PH 
Independent auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and  
Statutory Auditors 
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH 
Bankers 
National Westminster Bank plc 
Tooting Branch 
30 Tooting High Street 
London 
SW17 0RG 
 
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZY 
Company secretary and 
registered office 
Jeremy Sampson 
Carpetright plc 
Purfleet Bypass 
Purfleet 
Essex 
RM19 1TT 
Telephone: 01708 802000 
Registered in England & Wales with number 
2294875 
 
 
This Report is printed on Image Indigo 
uncoated paper.
It is produced at a mill that is certified with 
ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel environmental 
standards. The paper is also Elemental 
Chlorine Free and FSC® Certified.
Printed at Principal Colour Ltd, ISO 14001 
and FSC® certified.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc 
www.blacksunplc.com
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report www.carpetright.plc.uk | www.carpetright.plc.uk | 1
Carpetright plc
Purfleet Bypass
Purfleet, Essex RM19 1TT
Telephone +44 (0)1708 802000
www.carpetright.co.uk
www.carpetright.plc.uk
