 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 27 February 2010
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
focused
on the outdoors  on the future 
Blacks Leisure Group plc
440/450 Cob Drive, Swan Valley
Northampton  NN4 9BB 
T: +44 (0)1604 597000  F: +44 (0)1604 597171
Shareholder helpline: 0871 664 0300
Email: info@blacksleisure.co.uk
www.blacksleisure.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 February 2010 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
02 Group at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Our Markets and Strengths
14 Financial Review
18 Corporate Social Responsibility
20 Directors and Advisors
22 Corporate Governance Statement
26 Directors’ Remuneration Report
30 Directors’ Report and Business Review
36 Independent Auditors’ Report
38 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
 Income
39 Consolidated Balance Sheet
40 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
41 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
42 Notes to the Financial Statements
86 Company Balance Sheet
87 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
92 Five Year Summary
 | 01
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Founded in 1861, Blacks Leisure Group plc  
operates in the retail of outdoor and  
boardwear clothing and equipment in the  
United Kingdom, Channel Isles and Ireland.
A message from the Chairman
Financial Highlights
 2010 2009
Revenue £267.6m £294.4m
Gross margin 54.3% 53.7%
Operating (loss)/profit excluding exceptional items* (£4.4)m £2.2m
(Loss)/profit before tax and exceptional items* (£6.8)m £0.3m
Operating loss (£12.0)m (£7.4)m
Loss before tax (£14.4)m (£9.3)m
Basic (loss)/earnings per share excluding exceptional items*  (19.57)p 4.32p
Basic loss per share (34.63)p (14.20)p
Final dividend per share 0.00p 1.00p
Total dividend per share 0.00p 3.00p
Exited 
boardwear
Improved 
core retail 
skills
Rationalised 
cost base
Reduced 
working 
capital
Improved 
infastructure
Optimised
properties
Contents Dear Shareholders
The Group has made progress in what has been a difficult but 
ultimately productive year.  As a result of the CVAs, the Group is 
ready to accelerate the final phase of the turnaround plan, with the 
net proceeds from the fundraising announced today being used 
principally to invest in the current estate and to open new stores in 
towns and cities where we are not currently represented.
David Bernstein
Chairman
Completed 
CVAs
Improved core 
retail skills
Agreed bank 
facility
Rationalised 
cost base
Increased 
Outdoor focus
Reduced 
working 
capital Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
| 01
Current financial year to date
h h Strong shareholder support for the fundraising process, 
which is being announced today
h h Store opening programme is ahead of plan with four new 
stores already open and trading well, and a healthy pipeline 
of future sites established
h h Like-for-like sales from the ongoing estate in the first six 
weeks of the new financial year are in line with the strong 
comparatives of 2009
Year ended 27 February 2010
h h Successfully completed Company Voluntary Arrangements 
(‘CVAs’) thereby removing 88 loss making stores (101 leases) 
from the portfolio, and exceptional provisions put in place to 
support the process 
h h Exited the O’Neill retail business and placed Sandcity Limited 
into administration  
h h Two year enlarged bank facility agreed covering the period to 
December 2011
h h The business finished the year ended 27 February 2010 
strongly with like-for-like sales up 5.4%. Strong second-half 
like-for-like sales growth from the ongoing estate of 9.5%
h h Total Group loss before tax of £46.9 million, in line with 
expectations and reflecting total exceptional costs of £30.1 
million, including impairment charges of £7.1 million, net CVA 
related charges of £19.0 million and exceptional finance costs 
of £3.0 million
h h Within the total result, the ongoing estate recorded a loss 
before tax of £7.9 million, in line with market expectations
Highlights Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Group at a Glance
At the end of the financial year, the Group operated from 313 retail stores, 
increasingly focused on the outdoor market.
Founded in 1893, Millets’ core values still hold true 
today; to offer a comprehensive range of outdoor 
clothing and equipment at great value for money 
from friendly, knowledgeable staff. Millets remains the 
country’s largest outdoor retailer and, in addition to a 
range of external products, stocks leading specialist 
own brands including Peter Storm and Eurohike, two 
of the UK’s most popular outdoor clothing and outdoor 
equipment brands.
208 stores
67% 
Millets
Key Own Brands
The heritage of Blacks can be traced back to 1861. 
Today, and as one of the leading outdoor retailers in 
the UK, Blacks offers some of the most prominent and 
high-quality outdoor brands including The North Face, 
Berghaus, Merrell, Coleman, Hi-Tec and Craghoppers, 
as well as developing and selling its own specialist 
brands such as Technicals and ALS. 
92 stores
29% 
Blacks
Key Own Brands
  Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
02 | 03
Focused upon customers with a passion for adrenaline 
sports, Freespirit offers a range of iconic casual lifestyle 
brands. This Boardwear market has declined over 
recent years and the Group has taken steps during 
the year to reduce its presence in this sector, now 
operating from only 13 stores.
13 stores
4% 
Freespirit
Key Brands Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Overview
The Group has made progress in what has been a difficult but 
ultimately productive year.
Our Chief Executive, Neil Gillis, has been leading a turnaround 
programme aimed at restoring the Group to profitability. At the 
start of the turnaround plan, the primary focus was on retail 
standards, reducing the cost base, making better use of working 
capital and strengthening the management team. Good progress 
has been made on all these fronts.
In September 2009, advised by KPMG, Travers Smith and 
Singer Capital Markets, the Board embarked upon the Company 
Voluntary Arrangements (‘CVAs’) for the Company and its 
subsidiary The Outdoor Group Limited which, once approved 
and effective in December 2009, enabled the business to exit 
101 leases, which included 88 trading stores which had not 
been trading profitably for some time. Around the same time, 
the Group placed Sandcity Limited, the loss-making Boardwear 
subsidiary that traded the O’Neill retail brand, into administration.
The effective delivery of the CVAs also enabled the Group to 
successfully agree a two year working capital facility with Bank 
of Scotland plc of up to £42.5m to allow the business to fund 
the CVAs and thereafter commence a store refurbishment 
programme. As a result of the CVAs, at the end of the financial 
year the business was left with a reduced but improved store 
base of 313 sites, comprising 92 Blacks, 208 Millets and 13 
Freespirit stores.
Results
Total Group sales decreased by 7.0% in the year to £249.0m 
(2009: £267.6m). This reflects the reduction in the number 
of trading sites as part of the CVAs and the administration of 
Sandcity which together reduced store numbers by 25.5% from 
420 to 313. Sales during the year also benefited from the closing 
down sales during October and November which helped to 
reduce levels of older stock.
Like-for-like sales for the Group increased by 5.4% in the full 
year but, more reassuringly, from the ongoing estate grew in the 
second half by 9.5% against the same period last year.
A gross margin of 50.7% was achieved in the year (2009: 
54.3%). The reduction in the year was partly due to the business 
promoting more aggressively in a challenging market, but was 
also adversely impacted by the closing down sales in the stores 
affected by the CVAs.
The Group made an operating loss before exceptional items 
of £14.3m (2009: £4.5m) reflecting the worsening economic 
conditions prevalent in the first half of the year, and the under-
performance of Boardwear. 
Within these headline results, the ongoing part of the estate 
made an operating loss of £7.9m after deducting central costs 
appropriate to the whole business (including all distribution and 
marketing costs). Initiatives have already been put in place to 
reduce this level of overhead following the downsizing, and 
reductions at the rate of £5m per annum have been achieved on 
the overhead template for the business.
Chairman’s Statement
“As a result of the CVAs, at the end of the 
financial year the business was left with a 
reduced but improved store base.” Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
04 | 05
“The Group has secured a stable and 
positive base from which to deliver 
the significant growth available.” Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Chairman’s Statement continued
The performance of the business is outlined in the table below:
    CVA and  Ongoing  
    closed sites  estate and Total Discontinued
    (excluding  central continuing operations Total
    Sandcity) costs operations (Sandcity) Group
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sales   29,759  210,758  240,517  8,531  249,048 
Gross profit   12,878  111,199  124,077  2,260  126,337 
Gross margin %   43.3% 52.8% 51.6% 26.5% 50.7%
Operating loss, before exceptional items  (7,070) (4,967) (12,037) (2,289) (14,326)
Exceptional operating items   (25,612) (547) (26,159) (957) (27,116)
Finance charges (net), excluding exceptional items  –  (2,345) (2,345) (122) (2,467)
Exceptional finance charges   (3,032) –  (3,032) –  (3,032)
Loss before tax   (35,714) (7,859) (43,573) (3,368) (46,941)
Exceptional items during the year arose mainly from the need 
to make compensation payments to landlords in respect of 
the CVAs, professional fees associated with the restructuring, 
redundancy costs and provisions for rates relating to closure 
stores for which the Group remains liable. The net exceptional 
operating charges recorded of £27.1m also reflected the release 
of previously held provisions for onerous lease obligations for 
sites which the Group was able to exit as part of the CVAs. 
A breakdown of exceptional items is set out in note 8 to the 
financial statements.
The store closure programme during the year was achieved with 
minimal disruption to the rest of the business, and the clearance 
process was successful in ensuring that inventories were reduced 
by 22% on the previous year level of £50.1m to £39.0m.
Dividend
The Board has decided not to declare a final dividend for the 
year, believing that the performance of the business does not 
warrant the resultant cash outlay. We will resume dividend 
payments as soon as the performance of the Group permits.
Board changes
As announced on 15 July 2009, both Claude Littner and Andrew 
Mallet stepped down as Non-Executive Directors. I would like to 
thank them for their service to the Group.
Current trading and future outlook
Like-for-like sales from the ongoing estate in the first six weeks of 
the new financial year are in line with the strong comparatives of 
2009. 
The Group is now in a strong position to grow the business 
through sensible investment in our stores and expanding into 
geographic areas where we are not currently represented. The 
Company launched an equity raising process on 5 February 
2010 and received strong support from existing shareholders 
and potential new investors. The process was halted when 
Sports Direct International PLC indicated that it may make a 
bid for the business which subsequently failed to materialise. 
As a consequence we are today announcing a revised equity 
fundraising. The additional funding will enable the business to 
accelerate its investment plans, in terms of both opening new 
sites and refurbishing existing sites, whilst at the same time 
reducing average net borrowings. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
06 | 07
The store opening programme has already got off to a healthy 
start. Funded from cash flow generated by its strong trading 
performance over the winter period, the Group has been able 
to open new stores in Chester, York, Stratford-upon-Avon and 
Cheltenham. The Group has identified an attractive and sizeable 
pipeline of future sites to open in major towns and cities in 
anticipation of the successful completion of the equity raising 
announced today. These sites are appropriate for the new, 
proven store formats and are available at competitive rates.
The Group has also commenced its store refurbishment 
programme with the conversion of the Cambridge Millets store 
to the Blacks fascia. 
Following the CVAs, which enabled the Group to rationalise the 
business and focus its efforts on its Outdoor division, the Group 
has secured a stable and positive base from which to deliver the 
significant growth available from the programme of new store 
openings and the modernisation of the current estate.
Finally, I would also like to thank our staff for the huge 
contribution they have made, and continue to make, during what 
has been a very challenging and demanding period. 
David Bernstein
Chairman 
30 April 2010
  Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Chief Executive’s Review 
“The business has come a long way in the 
last two years and has made enormous 
progress under very difficult conditions.”
In January 2008 we set about a turnaround plan for the business 
with the aim of restoring the Group to profitability on a sustainable 
basis. That plan had three phases. The first phase was focused 
on cutting the operating costs of the business and we exceeded 
our targets in this respect with a reduction in our cost base of 
£6.6m. We also managed our working capital more efficiently 
which allowed us to reduce our bank facility from £45m to £35m 
at that time.
By September 2009 the first phase of the turnaround was 
completed and we embarked upon phase two. This required 
the fundamental restructuring of the business to remove two of 
the three main legacy issues in the business: the loss-making 
Boardwear division and a tail of over-rented sites. The Company 
Voluntary Arrangements (‘CVAs’) were finalised in December 
2009 which, together with the Sandcity Limited Boardwear 
subsidiary being placed into administration in September 2009, 
completed phase two of the turnaround plan. These actions, 
together with the agreement in November 2009 from Bank of 
Scotland plc to extend our debt facility to two years and at an 
increased level of up to £42.5m, have placed the Group in a 
strong position to accelerate the third and final phase of our 
turnaround plan.
The third phase is concerned with investing in a business which is 
now properly focused on the Outdoor market. This will enable us 
to address the final legacy issue within the Group — the historic 
under-investment in our store estate. More than a quarter of our 
stores have had no investment for over ten years and many are 
in a poor condition. Over the last two years we have tested and 
refined new store formats and we are now confident that we 
have a proven template for cost-effectively upgrading our stores. 
In addition, the CVAs have given us an opportunity to re-enter 
towns or cities where we have traded successfully for many years 
but where we were unable to make a profitable return due to the 
over-renting of the sites. We have identified over 80 opportunities 
for new locations for Blacks and Millets stores and we are aiming 
to open in 15 of these over the coming 12 months, subject to a 
successful fundraising in the next few weeks. We have already 
opened four new stores since the end of the financial year (in 
Chester, York, Stratford-upon-Avon and Cheltenham) and trading 
results from these stores to date have been encouraging. The Group historically has had a relatively small range of products aimed specifically towards 
children. To address this, the successful Peter Storm range within our Millets stores has been 
expanded to include a range of “Adventurers by Peter Storm” products which provide clothing 
and footwear which are designed to be appealing to both children and, through the competitive 
pricing and high product quality, to parents. This brand will be developed with a further 
expansion of the product ranges in future seasons. 
 
The Adventurers range is sold exclusively through our Millets stores and www.millets.co.uk and 
exemplifies the high value, family offering that is at the core of Millets’ value proposition.
‘Adventurers’ by Peter Storm
 
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
08 | 09 Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Chief Executive’s Review continued
“We have tested and refined new store formats and we are 
now confident that we have a proven template for cost-
effectively upgrading our stores.”
The final aspect of our third phase is to invest in the people who 
will make our business profitable. We have embarked on the 
largest skills training programme in the Group’s history with a 
dedicated team of our own experts regularly visiting our stores to 
train and assess our colleagues at all levels. As a business which 
sells a wide range of expert and often highly technical products, 
it is essential that we remain at the forefront in terms of our 
colleague knowledge, expertise and customer service skills.
This business has come a long way in the last two years and  
has made enormous progress under very difficult conditions.  
We are confident that we can now achieve the final phase of  
our plan and return Blacks Leisure Group to the position it 
deserves as a high quality and successful specialist retailer. 
Neil Gillis
Chief Executive
30 April 2010
hh Reduced operating costs within the business, both 
centrally and at store level;
hh Improved management of working capital;
hh Enhanced use of core retail skills within 
stores, particularly through improved window 
merchandising; and
hh Completed review and development of store 
formats for future new store roll-outs.
Phase 2 Phase 1
hh Placed Sandcity Limited, a retail and wholesale 
operation within the Boardwear segment, into 
administration;
hh Completed a fundamental restructuring of the 
business through CVAs, which removed a tail 
of loss-making sites, many of which were in the 
Boardwear segment;
hh Agreed a new two year banking facility; and
hh Achieved a further reduction in central operating 
costs.
Turnaround Plan Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
10 | 11
Phase 3
hh Cost-effectively refurbishing the store estate, which 
has suffered from past under-investment, based on 
proven store formats;
hh Selective investment in new stores, particularly in 
re-entering key towns or cities that were exited 
under the CVAs;
hh Comprehensive skills training programme within 
stores;
hh Optimising the use of the Blacks and Millets fascias 
through differentiating market offerings; and
hh Further development of e-commerce operations.
The Company has today announced a plan to pursue 
a new equity raising which, if successful, will provide 
funds with which to accelerate the investment plans as 
part of Phase 3 of the Turnaround Plan, in particular:
 
hh The refurbishment of up to 130 of our existing stores 
by February 2012; and
hh The opening of up to 35 new Blacks or Millets stores 
by February 2012, including 15 before the end of 
February 2011.
Fundraising Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
The Group operates from the Blacks and Millets fascias within the 
Outdoor market, and the Freespirit fascia within the Boardwear 
market. Within both markets, the Group sells its own branded 
goods as well as proprietary branded products.
 
The Group offers merchandise from a large number of well known 
brands. The Group also owns the trademark rights for a number 
of brands including Peter Storm and Eurohike, amongst others. 
Using both in-house and freelance designers, the Group has made 
considerable investment in the design, quality, fit and value of its 
own label products over the past few years, supported by a clear 
view of what the customer requires and where the inherent value 
in the product resides. The Group sources most of its own brand 
product directly from factories in Asia.
Our Markets and Strengths
Our Products Our Key Strengths
The principal products sold by the Group can be categorised 
as follows:
 
hh Outdoor clothing            
 This consists of technical jackets, fleece, shirts, trousers 
and accessories. These are designed to perform in a 
range of climatic conditions and are of a superior technical 
specification to a lifestyle item.
hh Outdoor equipment         
 This includes tents, sleeping bags, rucksacks and a 
full set of accessory items for walking, camping and 
other outdoor activities, including gas burners, torches, 
compasses and global positioning systems.
hh Footwear                       
 This includes technical walking boots, approach shoes, 
running shoes, wellingtons and lifestyle merchandise.
hh Lifestyle clothing            
 This is predominantly bought from proprietary brands and 
includes both mainstream and more fashionable brands.
hh Diverse geographical spread       
 The Group has a strong presence across all parts of 
 the British Isles.
hh Strong brand recognition             
 Millets is a widely-known brand, having traded for over 
100 years. Key own brands, Peter Storm and Eurohike, 
are amongst the largest Outdoor clothing 
 and equipment brands in the UK.
hh Broad ranging portfolio                
 The Group is unique amongst its key competitors in 
offering such a mix of own label and proprietary branded 
merchandise. This provides customers with a range that 
combines value, choice and expertise.
hh Relationships with key global brands       
 As the UK’s leading retailer in the Outdoor market, the 
Group is in a strong position to enable it to maintain 
good relationships with leading suppliers.
hh Experienced management team              
 A new senior management team has been recruited 
into the business since the Chief Executive, Neil Gillis, 
joined in late 2007.  The new team carry significant 
experience in retail businesses and this has enabled the 
improvement in retail practices and standards across 
the Group.  Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
12 | 13
Trading from the e-commerce websites has shown strong and consistent growth since the platforms were upgraded in December 
2008. The websites have further been subject to a continuous improvement programme, designed to bring the Group’s market share 
of online retailing in its market sectors into line with its market-leading position through its retail stores. The Directors anticipate that this 
sector will continue to show growth in the coming year and that returns from this sector could particularly be further enhanced through 
the planned integration of the online business with the physical store estate, for example through a “reserve and collect” service.
‘Online’ stores
www.blacks.co.uk
www.millets.co.uk Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Financial Review
“The Group was successful in November 
2009 in agreeing new revolving credit 
facilities with its bankers.”
Trading results 
The Group’s loss before tax and exceptional items, from 
continuing operations, was £14.4m (2009: £1.1m). It is  
important to note that, under the requirements of IFRS5, 
operations classified as discontinued relate only to the Sandcity 
Limited subsidiary, which was placed into administration on  
23 September 2009. Accordingly, continuing operations therefore 
includes the costs and results in respect of the 88 sites which 
were closed and exited under the CVAs. The Directors have 
presented an analysis in note 35 to the financial statements to 
more clearly present the impact of these closed stores on the 
results from continuing operations.
Exceptional operating items amounting to £26.2m (2009: £5.4m) 
were recorded in connection with continuing operations. The 
exceptional charge relates to the following main components:
h impairment of property, plant and equipment at poorly 
performing stores, which were subsequently closed as part of 
the CVAs, of £6.3m;
h the £10.2m release of previously held provisions for onerous 
lease obligations, for which the associated leases were 
compromised as part of the CVAs;
h the provision of £7.3m for compensation payments to be 
made during the coming year to landlords affected by the 
CVAs;
h the provision of £10.8m for expected business rates costs on 
these closed sites, for which obligations are retained until the 
property is re-let by the landlord;
h other costs related to the CVAs of £11.2m, including 
professional fees of £5.9m; and
h fees of £0.8m incurred in relation to the placing and open 
offer and firm placing which were aborted in February 2010. 
A new equity raising has been announced today.
The Group has adopted IFRS8 and an analysis of the 
performance of each of the Outdoor and Boardwear segments 
is included in note 5 to the financial statements. This shows the 
continued drag of the Boardwear segment upon the Group. 
The administration of Sandcity Limited, which operated 11 
stores, and the further 17 Boardwear stores closed as part of 
the CVAs, mean that the Group now operates just 13 stores in 
the Boardwear segment, via the Freespirit fascia, and instead is 
focused on the core Outdoor business. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
14 | 15
Early in 2010, the Millets Value range was launched in-store and 
online, with a value proposition of “The outdoors doesn’t get any 
more affordable than Millets Value.”
 
This brand offers a comprehensive range of camping equipment, footwear and clothing at 
high-value, affordable prices.  It not only responds to a growing demand from consumers in the 
marketplace, but also is aligned with the Group’s strategy of further differentiating the Blacks 
and Millets fascias, in particular in focussing Millets back to its core offering of good value. 
 
New ‘Millets value’ range Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Financial Review continued
Finance costs
The Group’s net finance costs, relating to continuing operations, 
increased by £3.4m to £5.4m (2009: £2.0m) due to the 
expensing of costs associated with the arrangement of new 
banking facilities, agreed in November 2009. Accrued terminal 
fees of £2.0m and a £1.0m fair value charge for the granting 
of warrants to the bank were both charged to the statement of 
comprehensive income in full during the year due to them being 
deemed as relating to the extinguishment of the old facility. The 
terminal fees and bank warrants charges, together totalling 
£3.0m, have been presented as exceptional finance charges 
given their significance and unusual nature. 
Goodwill
Goodwill has been subject to an annual impairment review and 
the Board is satisfied that the carrying value is not impaired as at 
the balance sheet date.
Cash flow
The net cash outflow in the year was £8.7m (2009: £3.2m).
Net cash outflow from operating activities was £5.6m (2009: 
£1.6m inflow). Whilst this decrease reflects the difficult trading 
experienced in the year and certain costs associated with the 
significant restructuring of the Group through the CVAs, the 
business has been successful in reducing working capital by 
£24.1m (2009: £2.5m). This includes the effects of trade and 
other payables increasing by £2.9m, trade and other receivables 
decreasing by £2.3m, inventories decreasing by £10.1m and 
provisions increasing by £8.8m. Total inventories were £39.0m 
(2009: £50.1m) with stock cover being 130 days (2009: 158 
days). Our normal stock turn target is three times per annum, but 
the stock holding around the year end is always relatively higher 
due to the receipt of stocks relating to the new Spring/Summer 
season ranges.
The net cash outflow from property, plant and equipment 
expenditure was £2.9m (2009: £5.1m). This included £0.5m for 
the opening of one new store and the relocation of another, as 
well as £1.1m of expenditure on refurbishing and refitting existing 
stores. More widespread refurbishments in the coming period 
forms a key part of the turnaround plan for the Group, designed 
to address the historic under-investment in the estate. The 
majority of the balance of £1.3m was incurred in connection with 
systems improvements, including replacing legacy financial and 
management information systems.
Financial risks and treasury policy
The key financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability 
of funds to meet the business needs and the fluctuations in 
interest rates. The Group manages borrowing, liquidity, interest 
rates, foreign exchange and banking relationships in accordance 
with Board approved policies designed to minimise exposures.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of internally 
generated cash flow and bank borrowings. Refinancing risk is 
controlled by ensuring the Group has sufficient undrawn bank 
facilities to meet increases in projected borrowings over the 
forthcoming 12-month period. The planned new equity raising is 
of course beneficial, though not critical, in managing this.
The Group policy is to fix or cap a proportion of projected net 
debt in order to reduce exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. 
The policy recognises that, in common with other retailers, the 
Group has significant liabilities through conditional obligations to 
pay rent under operating leases. The implicit interest rate of these 
liabilities is fixed in the short term.
Foreign currencies
Transaction exposure resulting from stock purchases 
denominated in foreign currencies may be hedged by forward 
foreign currency contracts and currency options. The Group 
policy aims to minimise exposure with the intention of protecting 
the buying margin from fluctuations in the value of foreign 
currency.
At 27 February 2010 the Group was committed to forward 
exchange contracts to buy US$20.5m (2009: US$8.5m) of 
currency. These contracts are at an average exchange rate of 
1.61, which is a favourable position compared to current spot 
rates available in the market. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
16 | 17
Financial position
At the year end the net borrowings of the Group amounted to 
£12.6m (2009: £3.9m), which included a drawdown loan of 
£17.0m. In addition, ancillary facilities of £4.1m were utilised, 
mainly in relation to guarantees on foreign currency forward 
contracts. It is the usual practice of the Group to place surplus 
cash on short-term deposits and, as at the year end, £0.5m was 
held on the overnight money market.
The Group was successful in November 2009 in agreeing new 
revolving credit facilities with its bankers. This agreement provides 
facilities of up to £42.5m until December 2011 and accordingly 
gives the Group the stability of a longer-term financing platform 
than it has had recently. The Group also uses finance leases 
and asset financing facilities, of which £2.4m (2009: £3.5m) was 
outstanding at the year end in relation to equipment at the Swan 
Valley distribution centre and certain store systems. 
We intend to pursue a new equity raising, as announced today, 
which will enable us to significantly reduce our reliance on 
debt financing as well as provide funding for us to accelerate 
our investment plans as part of the turnaround strategy for the 
Group.
Marc Lombardo
Finance Director
30 April 2010 Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Millets has a sponsorship arrangement with the Glastonbury Festival of 
Contemporary Performing Arts, with the current agreement running to 2011.  
As the most prominent music festival in the UK, and one of the first in the 
summer calendar, in becoming a strategic partner with Glastonbury, Millets has 
unique access to a large, younger customer base. A camping product range 
has been developed specifically tailored to the needs, style and budget of the 
festival-goer. Millets has retail outlets at the event itself to provide camping 
essentials and, for the first time this year, is offering a “Buy now, collect at 
Glastonbury” service for the sale of tents.
Glastonbury 2009–2011
Corporate Social Responsibility Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
18 | 19
The Board recognises the importance of balancing the interests 
of all its key stakeholders, including employees, Shareholders, 
customers, suppliers and the communities in which it operates, 
and believes that the long-term success of the Group is greatly 
enhanced by valuing and developing relationships with key 
stakeholders.
Employees
People are key to achieving the Group’s business objectives. 
The Group has established policies for recruiting, training and 
development and is committed to achieving excellent health, 
safety, welfare and protection of employees and their working 
environment.
The Group ensures, as far as is reasonably practicable, that a 
safe and healthy workplace and working environment is provided 
for all its employees to a standard which is at least as high as that 
required by law. The Group’s employment policies are designed 
to produce a framework within which all staff are treated in a fair 
and consistent manner. They have been developed to ensure 
that staff are aware of what is expected of them and what the 
Group, for its part, offers in return. All employees are expected 
to observe and abide by the Group’s policies and procedures 
which are clearly set out in a manual available to staff in stores 
and also on the Group intranet. The Group policy is one of equal 
opportunity in the selection, career progression and promotion 
of all employees. There are clear grievance and disciplinary 
procedures in place.
The Group maintains close consultation with its employees 
regarding matters likely to affect their interests and is committed to 
involving them in the performance and development of the Group.
It is the policy of the Group to support the employment of 
disabled persons wherever practicable and to ensure as far as 
possible that they participate in all career opportunities available 
to staff.
Suppliers
The Group purchases goods for resale from suppliers based in 
the UK and direct from manufacturers around the world. The 
Group endeavours to ensure that the suppliers of our goods 
provide reasonable working standards for their employees and do 
not contravene the employment laws of their country.
Customers
The Group aims to provide a high quality of service to all its 
customers and ensure that all products are safe and fit for 
purpose. The Group endeavours to provide accessibility to 
its different shopping channels for all customers. The Group 
employs a customer service department which is actively 
engaged in dealing promptly and efficiently with customer issues 
and enquiries.
Health and safety
The Group recognises the importance of health and safety in the 
workplace and its management is designed to improve business 
performance. Practical measures, such as risk assessments, are 
undertaken to ensure that the Group’s activities and products 
do not pose a risk to customers, employees, contractors, 
sites or equipment. Procedures are in place to enable effective 
communication and consultation about health, safety and welfare 
issues in order to achieve a high level of safety awareness.
Environment
The Group believes that business has a responsibility to 
achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive 
for improvement in its environmental impact. The efficient and 
effective use of resources makes sound commercial sense. In 
view of this the Group has appropriate environmental policies 
and sets objectives taking due account of the business risks and 
opportunities.
Community
As a multi-site retail operator, the Group’s community involvement 
is generated by its stores, which contribute to their local areas 
in a variety of ways. The Group supports and encourages these 
activities and welcomes the opportunities they present for team-
building within the business and relationship-building with the 
communities in which we operate. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Directors and Advisors
David A. Bernstein FCA 
Non-Executive Chairman
David (66) joined the Board 
in 1995 and was appointed 
Non-Executive Chairman 
in June 2001. He is also 
Chairman of Sports and 
Leisure Group Limited and 
Wembley National Stadium 
Limited and Non-Executive 
Director of Ted Baker plc 
and Carluccios plc. He has 
extensive experience in the 
sports and leisure industry, 
having spent six years as Joint 
Managing Director of Pentland 
Group plc and five years as 
Chairman of Manchester  
City plc.
Neil D. Gillis 
Chief Executive
Neil (45) joined the Board 
in November 2007 as Chief 
Executive. Prior to this he 
held a number of senior 
positions in consumer-facing 
businesses including Chief 
Executive of Esporta Health 
Clubs Limited from 2003 to 
2007, Chairman of Duchy 
Originals, Managing Director 
of the Greene King plc Pub 
Company and Managing 
Director of Linda McCartney 
Foods.
Marcello A. Lombardo 
BA, ACMA 
Finance Director
Marc (51) was appointed to 
the Board as Finance Director 
in August 2008. Prior to this 
he was Financial Planning 
Director of Greene King plc 
where he spent ten years. 
Marc has also held senior 
finance positions with Scottish 
& Newcastle and the Daily 
Mail.
Nicolas M. Samuel BA, 
ACA, FRSA 
Non-Executive Director
Nick (57) is the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director and joined the 
Board in August 2008. He 
had previously held senior 
positions in the fashion retail 
sector having been Chief 
Executive of Hobbs Limited 
from 2001 to 2008 and prior 
to this had spent nine years as 
an Executive Director of Karen 
Millen. Nick is also Chairman 
of Adili plc, the online ethical 
fashion retailer, and a Director 
of CVUK Limited, a retail 
recruitment agency, and a 
Non-Executive Director of 
The Fielding Group, a clothing 
manufacturing company.
Registered office
440/450 Cob Drive
Swan Valley
Northampton  NN4 9BB
Company Secretary
Mark D. Beacham, BSc, FCA
Auditors
BDO LLP
Emerald House
East Street, Epsom
Surrey  KT17 1HS
Solicitors
DLA Piper UK LLP
Victoria Square House
Victoria Square
Birmingham  B2 4DL
Travers Smith LLP
10 Snow Hill
London  EC1A 2AL
Registrars
Capita
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent  BR3 4TU
Stockbrokers
Singer Capital Markets  
One Hanover Street
London  W1S 1YZ
Financial public relations
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
3 London Wall Buildings
London Wall
London  EC2M 5SY
Principal bankers
Bank of Scotland plc
123 St Vincent Street
Glasgow  G2 5EA
Directors
Advisors and Corporate Information Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
20 | 21
Senior Managers
Sebastian Hobbs 
Group Commercial Director
Seb joined the Group in 
November 2006. He sits on 
the Board of The Outdoor 
Group Limited, the main 
trading subsidiary, and is 
Group Commercial Director. 
Prior to this he was trading 
controller at WHSmith for four 
years during the first part of 
WHSmith’s turnaround and 
spent three years in the retail 
performance improvement 
team at KPMG LLP . Seb has 
also held senior buying and 
merchandising positions at 
BHS and Mothercare.
Joseph Ulloa  
Group Retail Director
Joe joined the Group in July 
2007. He sits on the Board of 
The Outdoor Group Limited, 
the main trading subsidiary, 
and was appointed Group 
Retail Director in October 
2007. Prior to this he was 
Regional Director at Gap 
Inc. where he spent eight 
years. Joe has also held 
management positions 
at Marks & Spencer and 
Safeway. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Corporate Governance Statement
There is a commitment to high standards of corporate 
governance throughout the Group. The Board endorses the 
general principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council (‘the 
Code’) and is accountable to the Group’s Shareholders for good 
governance. In view of the size of the Group and its current 
management structure, not all of the guidance set out in the 
Code has been applied during the year. Those elements that 
have not been adopted are disclosed in the statement. Our 
compliance with the Code is kept under review.
The Listing Rules require the Board to explain how corporate 
governance is conducted within the Company and to report on 
compliance with the provisions of the Code, the guiding principle 
of which is ‘comply or explain’. This Corporate Governance 
Statement, together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
explains key features of the Company’s corporate governance 
structure, how the Company applies the principles of the 
Code and the extent to which the Company complies with the 
provisions of the Code.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the 
provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 27 February 
2010 except as set out below.
Code provision A3.2 recommends that a Company outside the 
FTSE 350 index should have at least two independent Non-
Executive Directors. As explained below, the Company has only 
had one independent Non-Executive Director since 15 July 2009.
Code provision A3.3 recommends that one of the independent 
Non-Executive Directors should be appointed as Senior 
Independent Director. As explained below, there was no such 
appointment until 15 July 2009.
Code provisions A4.1, B2.1 and C3.1 recommend that 
the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees be 
comprised solely of or have a majority of independent Non-
Executive Directors as members and that they be chaired by an 
independent Non-Executive Director. Due to its composition, the 
Board has been unable to comply with this recommendation.
The Board is currently engaged in the recruitment process for 
an additional independent Non-Executive Director. Following an 
appointment, the Board intends to review the above areas of 
non-compliance with the Code.
The Board of Directors
The present Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman 
(David Bernstein), two Executive Directors (Neil Gillis and Marc 
Lombardo) and one Non-Executive Director (Nick Samuel). On  
14 July 2009, two other Non-Executive Directors (Claude Littner 
and Andrew Mallett) resigned from the Board and since that date 
the Company has had only one independent Non-Executive 
Director, in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman. The 
names and biographical details of the current Board members, 
and certain senior managers, appear within the Directors and 
Advisors section of this Annual Report. These indicate the high 
calibre and experience which these individuals bring to enable the 
Group to be managed effectively.
Mr Bernstein has served on the Board for over nine years and 
therefore does not satisfy the definition of independence set out 
in the Code. Notwithstanding this, Mr Bernstein is considered by 
the Board to exercise independent judgement in performing his 
role. Mr Samuel is considered by the Board to be independent 
of management and free of any relationship or circumstances 
which could materially interfere with the exercise of his 
independent judgement and to fully satisfy the Code’s definition 
of independence.
The Non-Executive Directors’ interests in the shares of the 
Company are set out in the Directors’ Report and Business 
Review. They receive a fixed fee for their services.
The Board meets at least eight times each year and more 
frequently where business needs require. The Board has a 
schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes 
material capital commitments, commencing or settling major 
litigation, business acquisitions and disposals and appointments 
to the Board and of the Company Secretary. All matters of an 
operational nature are delegated to the Executive Directors. All 
Directors are given appropriate and timely information for each 
Board meeting, including reports on the current financial and 
trading position of each business.
Mr Samuel was appointed Senior Independent Director with 
effect from 15 July 2009. Prior to this, the Company did not 
recognise such an appointment. During the year, the Non-
Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors present 
and also the Non-Executive Directors met separately without the 
Chairman present.
Any Director appointed is required to retire and seek election by 
Shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. Additionally, 
one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The Directors required 
to retire are those in office longest since their previous re-election.  Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
22 | 23
Each Director is also required to retire at least every three years. 
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for more 
than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice if 
required and at the Company’s expense. This is in addition to 
the access which every Director has to the Company Secretary. 
The Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed.
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles 
of the Chairman and the Chief Executive and these have been 
approved by the Board.
The role of the Chairman is to conduct Board meetings and 
meetings of Shareholders and to ensure that all Directors are 
properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part 
in Board discussions. He is responsible for evaluating the 
performance of the Board, its Committees and each of the 
other Directors. This includes addressing the development 
needs of the Board as a whole with the view to enhancing its 
overall effectiveness, and covers capability, time commitment 
and individual contribution. The Non-Executive Directors are 
responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
The role of the Chief Executive is to develop and lead business 
strategies and processes to enable the Group to meet 
Shareholder requirements. He is responsible for dealing with 
investors, Group public relations, external communications 
and corporate governance. The role involves leading the 
Executive team and evaluating the performance of the Executive 
Management.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated authority to three standing committees, 
as set out in written terms of reference for each committee 
which are available from the Company Secretary. The current 
composition of the Board does not permit the membership of 
the three committees to comply with the provisions of the Code. 
Until their resignations from the Board on 14 July 2009, Mr Littner 
and Mr Mallett were members of each of the three committees. 
Following these resignations, Mr Bernstein was appointed to the 
Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The current 
members of each of the committees comprises Mr Samuel and  
Mr Bernstein.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Samuel, a Chartered 
Accountant with relevant financial experience. He was appointed 
as Chairman of the Audit Committee in succession to Mr Mallett. 
The Committee meets at least three times a year and its main 
duties are as follows:
hh monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial 
statements;
hh recommending the appointment of and reviewing the 
effectiveness and independence of the external Auditors;
hh reviewing the Group’s internal controls and risk management 
systems;
hh reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal audit 
function; and
hh overseeing the establishment and maintenance of good 
business practices throughout the Group.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit 
and the Group’s external Auditors were invited to and attended 
meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost-effectiveness of 
the external audit under review. The independence and objectivity 
of the external Auditors are also considered on a regular basis, 
with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees. The provision 
of non-audit services is reviewed on a case by case basis. The 
split between audit and non-audit fees appears in note 6 to the 
financial statements. The non-audit fees were paid in respect 
of tax advice and reports required for Shareholder information 
and are not considered by the Committee to affect the Auditors’ 
independence or objectivity.
The Group’s external Auditors, BDO LLP , have reported to the 
Audit Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are 
independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional 
requirements and the objectivity of the audit partner and audit 
staff is not impaired. The Audit Committee has reviewed this 
statement and concurs with its conclusion. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Samuel who 
was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 
succession to Mr Littner. The Committee meets at least twice 
a year to review the remuneration of the Executive Directors. 
Full details of the Directors’ remuneration and a statement of 
the Company’s remuneration policy are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. The Chief Executive attends meetings of 
the Committee to discuss the performance of other Executive 
Directors and make proposals as necessary, but takes no part in 
deliberations when his own position is discussed.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or 
voting at full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee 
recommendations where the recommendations have a direct 
bearing on their own remuneration package. The details of 
each Executive Director’s individual package are fixed by the 
Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Internal control and risk management
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group’s system of 
internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient 
operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external 
reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In 
devising internal controls, the Directors have regard to the nature 
and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it crystallising and the cost 
of controls. A system of internal controls is designed to manage 
but not eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or loss.
The Board reviews the Group’s procedures in respect of internal 
control with a view to complying with the ‘Internal Control: 
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’ issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and 
established procedures to ensure compliance with the guidance. 
The Board considers that there has been an ongoing process for 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Bernstein who 
was appointed as Chairman of the Nominations Committee in 
succession to Mr Littner. Appointments to the Board of both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors are considered by this 
Committee. When considering appointments for Non-Executive 
Directors, external search consultants are used as appropriate, 
together with a review of other candidates known to be available, 
to ensure that a wide range of candidates are considered. The 
Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities 
required for an appointment based on an evaluation of the 
balance of existing skills, knowledge and experience on the 
Board. This is followed by an interview process. An induction 
to the Group’s business and training is provided for all Directors 
upon appointment.
Board and Committee attendance chart
Attendance at meetings during the financial year is shown below:
the identification, evaluation and management of the significant 
risks faced by the Group. This process is regularly reviewed by 
the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to 
provide effective internal controls are as follows:
Internal Audit function
The Internal Audit function carries out a programme of audits 
covering the management of significant corporate and 
operational risks and reports directly to the Audit Committee and 
works with the Board on the effectiveness of key internal controls.
   Audit Remuneration Nominations
  Board Committee Committee Committee
D.A. Bernstein 13 (13)  2 (2)  6 (6)  1 (1) 
N.D. Gillis 13 (13)  3 (3)* 5 (5)* 0 (0) 
M.A. Lombardo 13 (13)  3 (3)* 3 (3)* 0 (0) 
N.M. Samuel 13 (13)  3 (3)  8 (8)  1 (1) 
C.M. Littner 4 (4)  0 (1)  2 (2)  0 (0) 
A.H. Mallett 4 (4)  1 (1)  2 (2)  0 (0) 
* Attended by invitation.
Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
24 | 25
Whistle-blowing
The Group has a ‘Whistle-blowing’ procedure whereby 
employees can make (on an anonymous basis if preferred) 
confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrong-
doing. Any matters so reported are investigated and escalated 
to the Audit Committee as appropriate. Statistics on the volume 
and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the 
Committee on an annual basis.
Control environment
Operational management groups meet regularly to monitor 
all operational matters. Clearly defined lines of responsibility 
and delegation of authority have been established in the 
organisational structure. The Executive Directors participate at 
least monthly in management meetings and regularly review 
activities.
Risk management
Management has responsibility for identifying risks to the 
business and for establishing procedures to mitigate and monitor 
such risks. The risk register documents the Group’s appetite for 
risk and the significant risks and control strategies in each area. 
This is reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
Financial reporting
A detailed formal budgeting process for all businesses culminates 
in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board. 
Results are reported monthly against this budget and revised 
forecasts for the year are prepared when appropriate.
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the financial position 
and prospects, both to investors and regulatory authorities. 
The Annual Report, Interim Report and Interim Management 
Statements are the principal means of achieving this objective. An 
explanation of the responsibilities of the Directors in connection 
with the financial statements is set out in the Directors’ Report 
and Business Review.
Capital investment
The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure. 
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review 
procedures, defined levels of authority and due diligence 
requirements where businesses are being acquired. Post-
investment appraisals are performed for major investments.
Internal controls assurance
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed 
during the year the effectiveness of the system of internal control 
from information provided by management, Internal Audit and the 
Group’s external Auditors. Any system of internal control can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting the 
internal control objectives.
This review included an assessment by the Board of the key risks 
affecting the Group in the delivery of its long-term strategies.
Going concern
The Directors, having taken account of the Group’s net cash 
resources and bank facilities and having made appropriate 
enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable 
future and for this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Communication
The Company places a great deal of importance on 
communication with its Shareholders. Shareholders have direct 
access to the Company via its website and the Company 
responds to numerous letters and emails from Shareholders, 
suppliers and customers on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional Shareholders 
as well as general presentations after the interim and results 
announcements. All Shareholders have the opportunity to raise 
questions at the Annual General Meeting when the Company also 
highlights the latest key business developments. At the meeting, 
the Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, 
the separation of resolutions and the attendance of committee 
chairmen. In line with the Code, details of proxy voting by 
Shareholders are made available following the meeting. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Directors’ Remuneration Report
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is composed of N.M. Samuel (Chairman) and D.A. Bernstein. The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of 
the Board, makes recommendations regarding Executive Directors’ remuneration packages including bonuses, share options and other 
incentive schemes.
Directors’ service contracts
Executive Directors
     Compensation
  Start Unexpired Notice for early
  date term period termination
N.D. Gillis* 20 Nov 07 Rolling 12 months None
M.A. Lombardo* 3 Aug 08 Rolling 12 months None
*  These are permanent rolling contracts.
Non-Executive Directors
     Compensation
  Start Unexpired Notice for early
  date term period termination
D.A. Bernstein 1 June 09 12 months 6 months None
N.M. Samuel 1 Sept 08 3 months 6 months None
Group policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is to provide 
a level of remuneration which will attract, retain and motivate 
Executive Directors and senior management of high quality.
Share options and longer term incentives are used as part of 
the Group’s remuneration policy. The amounts involved and the 
frequency of issue endeavour to keep pace with current market 
practice and conditions.
Share price performance
The mid-market price of each Ordinary Share on 27 February 
2010 was 51.50 pence. The lowest and highest prices during the 
year were 26.75 pence and 61.75 pence respectively.
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, 
measured by total Shareholder return, compared with the 
performance of the ‘FTSE Small Cap — General Retailers’ index 
over the last five years:
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Feb 05 Aug 05 Feb 06 Aug 06 Feb 07 Aug 07 Feb 08 Aug 08 Feb 09 Aug 09 Feb 10
—— Blacks Leisure  —— FTSE UK Small Cap General Retailers
The Remuneration Committee has selected the above index as they consider it to be the most relevant for a Company of Blacks’ size 
and nature. This is consistent with prior years. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
26 | 27
Variable rewards
Executive Directors’ bonus scheme
Executive Directors are entitled to performance related bonuses 
that are payable based, in the main, upon the profit before 
interest and tax improvement of the Group, consistent with 
corporate financial targets as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. The Remuneration Committee reviews performance 
against targets at the end of the year and may use its discretion 
to adjust measures and payments in view of operating 
circumstances during the year. Bonus payments are non-
pensionable and are subject to approval by the Committee.
The achievement of the highest performance targets would entitle 
the Director to the maximum bonus payable of 100% of basic 
salary. The Executive Directors received no bonuses from these 
arrangements in respect of this financial year.
Pension
The Group made pension contributions of up to 15% of basic 
salary for the Executive Directors. These contributions are paid 
into the equivalent of money purchase pension schemes.
Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is set by the 
Executive Directors and consists of fees for their services in 
connection with Board and Committee meetings and other 
relevant matters.
Other matters
The fees shown in respect of D.A. Bernstein are paid to a third 
party.
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ remuneration
An analysis of the Directors’ remuneration, excluding gains on the exercise of share options, is set out below:
  Basic Variable Benefits
  salary/fees rewards in kind Total Total Pension Pension
  2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
N.D. Gillis 315  30  4  349 370  45  45 
M.A. Lombardo 177  20  1  198  100  17  9 
D.A. Bernstein 85  –  –  85  85  –  – 
C.M. Littner 15  –  –  15  39  –  – 
N.M. Samuel 35  –  –  35  18  –  – 
A.H. Mallett 13  –  –  13  18  –  – 
K. Fleming –  –  –  –  78  –  11 
D.J. Spurling –  –  –  –  35  –  3 
C.R. Sherling –  –  –  –  20  –  – 
  640  50  5  695    62 
2009 693  50  20    763    68 
An equity-settled share-based payment charge of £242,000 (2009: £295,000) has been recorded in the statement of comprehensive 
income for the year in connection with the above Directors’ share options. No Directors exercised share options during either year.
Variable rewards comprise bonuses paid upon the successful implementation of the Company Voluntary Arrangements.
Benefits in kind relate solely to fuel and healthcare provisions. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
D.J. Spurling was removed from the Board on 28 May 2008.
K. Fleming resigned from the Board on 29 May 2008.
M.A. Lombardo was appointed to the Board on 20 August 2008.
C.R. Sherling resigned from the Board on 27 August 2008.
N.M. Samuel and A.H. Mallett were appointed to the Board on  
27 August 2008.
C.M. Littner and A.H. Mallett resigned from the Board on  
14 July 2009.
Pension contributions were made in respect of two Directors 
(2009: four).
Turnaround Incentive Plan
On 24 November 2009, a new performance related incentive 
plan, the ‘Turnaround Incentive Plan’ was approved at a General 
Meeting of Shareholders. This Scheme comprised a new share 
option scheme that was subject to performance conditions 
regarding profitability and share price, and accordingly aligned the 
interests of certain Directors and senior management with those 
of Shareholders. 
Options were granted on 18 January 2010 under the Turnaround 
Incentive Plan to certain Directors and other senior individuals 
within the Group. Any options already held by those individuals 
as part of other share incentive plans were surrendered and 
replaced with these new options. 
Share options granted under the Turnaround Incentive Plan 
are subject to market-related performance conditions based 
upon the profitability of the Group (defined as earnings before 
interest and tax, ‘EBIT’) and the share price of Ordinary Shares. 
Profitability is measured cumulatively across the two complete 
financial years to 29 February 2012 and the share price is to 
be taken as the average closing price across July, August and 
September 2012. Both parameters contribute to determining the 
percentage of options that will vest, as set out below:
  
 
On the further condition that the individual continues to be 
employed (unless a ‘good leaver’) by the Group on the vesting 
date of 18 January 2013, options will vest to the extent that 
performance criteria as above are satisfied. Vested options may 
then be exercised, at nil cost, from that date up to 18 January 
2020 and these options will be satisfied by the transfer of shares 
held by an Employee Benefit Trust. 
The options vest in full and are exercisable in full if there is a 
change of control of the Company which occurs at a price of 100 
pence or more per Ordinary Share. If such a change of control 
occurs at a price of less than 100 pence per share then the 
Remuneration Committee will determine whether and to what 
extent these awards will vest and become exercisable.
In the event of any variation in the share capital of the Company 
(arising from any reduction of capital or sub-division or 
consolidation of capital or issue of shares by way of capitalisation 
of profits or reserves or by way of rights), the number of shares 
subject to the options may be adjusted in such manner as the 
Remuneration Committee considers fair and reasonable so as 
not to disadvantage the participants under the plan as a result of 
such action.
No benefits under the scheme are pensionable.
    Ordinary Share  % of award
Cumulative EBIT   Price (each)  vesting
£10,000,000   60 pence 60%
£10,000,000   80 pence 80%
£10,000,000   100 pence 100%
£9,000,000   60 pence 40%
£9,000,000   80 pence 60%
£9,000,000   100 pence 80%
£8,000,000   60 pence 20%
£8,000,000   80 pence 40%
£8,000,000   100 pence 60% Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
28 | 29
The Directors who served during the year had the following interests in the Turnaround Incentive Plan at 27 February 2010:
    Date of Maximum Price Exercisable Exercisable
    grant number exercisable from to
N.D. Gillis   18 Jan 10 971,659 0.00p 18 Jan 13 18 Jan 20
M.A. Lombardo   18 Jan 10 550,607 0.00p 18 Jan 13 18 Jan 20
All the above options were granted during the current financial year.
All options previously held under other share incentive schemes 
were surrendered on 18 January 2010 as part of the grant of 
the above options under the Turnaround Incentive Plan and, 
accordingly, no Directors who served during the year retain any 
interests in any other share option schemes as at 27 February 
2010. No share options, from any scheme, were exercised by 
Directors during the financial year.
Shares granted under option schemes are granted by the 
Remuneration Committee to attract, retain and motivate 
participants to achieve corporate financial targets. The value of 
share options granted during the year is up to 100% of basic 
salary and the value of shares that will vest is subject to the 
achievement of certain performance criteria as set out above.
No share options lapsed during the year, under any share 
incentive schemes, in respect of Directors who held office in the 
period.
Nick Samuel
Remuneration Committee Chairman
30 April 2010 Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Directors’ Report and Business Review
The Directors present their Annual Report for the year ended  
27 February 2010.
Principal activities
The Company is the Parent Company of a wholly owned 
subsidiary primarily engaged in the retail of outdoor clothing and 
equipment.
The Group comprises two market segments: Outdoor and 
Boardwear.
The Outdoor segment trades under Blacks and Millets fascias, 
and Boardwear trades under the Freespirit fascia. The trade is 
principally from retail stores in the British Isles, and associated 
direct sale internet sites. Within the Boardwear segment, during 
the year the Group ceased the O’Neill wholesale and retail 
operations carried out by its subsidiary, Sandcity Limited, and 
placed that company into administration.
Products and services
The products sold by the Group are categorised as leisure goods.
Blacks and Millets are well-known for their outdoor clothing, 
footwear and camping equipment. The stores retail exclusive 
‘own’ brands including Peter Storm and Eurohike, the UK’s most 
popular outdoor clothing and equipment brands. Other brands 
sold include The North Face, Berghaus, Craghoppers, Regatta, 
Merrell, Hi-Tec and Helly Hansen. 
The Freespirit stores are aimed at customers with a passion for 
high adrenalin sports including water and winter sports. These 
stores offer a comprehensive range of iconic brands such as 
Mambo, Roxy, RipCurl, Billabong and Oakley.
Results and dividends
The Group results for the year are shown in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend on 
the Ordinary Shares this year (2009: £nil). 
Review of the business
The review of the Group’s activities, trading results, financial 
position at the year end and likely future developments, is 
contained in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review 
and Financial Review. Other information required to be included 
in the business review, including key performance indicators, 
principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business, is set out 
below. The Group demonstrates Corporate Social Responsibility 
as detailed earlier in this Annual Report.
Financial key performance indicators
The Directors and management monitor the Group’s progress 
against its strategic objectives and the financial performance 
of the Group’s operations on a regular basis. Performance is 
assessed against budgets and forecasts using financial and non-
financial measures. The key performance indicators which are 
monitored are set out below:
hh Like-for-like sales
The traditional retail measurement of the ability to grow sales 
year on year. The Group measures like-for-like sales by the 
comparison of sales from individual stores that were trading in 
both the year under review and the previous comparative period 
and that had no material change that would affect the trade.
hh Gross profit %
The Group defines gross profit % as the profit earned from the 
sale of an item. The profit earned is after charging the cost of the 
goods and any related costs such as freight charges and duty 
fees. It does not include the operational costs of the business.
hh Operating profit or loss
Operating profits enable the Group to invest in future growth and 
increase Shareholder returns.
Discussion of the above key performance indicators and the 
review of the business is detailed in the Chairman’s Statement, 
the Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Review within this 
Annual Report.
Other key performance indicators used by management internally 
include:
hh Ordinary share price
The value of each Ordinary 1p Share is taken as an indication 
of the ability of the Group to deliver Shareholder returns through 
equity growth.
hh Stock availability
This provides a quantified value for levels of stock availability in 
the business, over a specific period.
hh Return on investment
The Group monitors return on investment for new developments 
and store refurbishments. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
30 | 31
hh Interest cover
The Group measures how many times it has the ability to cover 
the net interest costs by the operating result generated in the 
period.
hh Customer satisfaction
Results of mystery shopper and other direct customer surveys.
hh Staff turnover
Number of employees leaving as a % of the total workforce.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk is inherent in all businesses. The Board is continually 
reviewing and identifying the key business risks. Executive 
Directors and operational management are responsible for 
the implementation of robust processes to minimise the risk 
to the business. The Board takes an active role in reviewing 
the operational developments to ensure the risk is managed 
effectively.
The key risks identified by the Board include:
The economy
The economic environment impacts on retail spending. 
Unemployment levels, interest rates, consumer debt levels, 
availability of credit and many other factors can influence 
customers’ spending decisions. This is particularly so during the 
current economic environment.
The Board recognises the need to monitor economic changes 
in order to react in the best interests of the Group by managing 
stock orders and reassessing forecasts.
Financing
The Group was successful in agreeing new banking 
arrangements in November 2009, which provide the stability 
of facilities over a two-year term. The Directors, nonetheless, 
monitor the cash position of the Group on an ongoing basis to 
ensure that the Group is operating within facilities available.
Products and services
The customer expects quality products at competitive prices. The 
Group is continually developing its product ranges to strive to 
meet customer expectations. The success of the Group depends 
upon the ability to react to the environment where normal 
weather patterns are changing. Product development is key in 
this area to ensure that, whatever the weather, the expectations 
of the customer for suitable quality products at competitive prices 
are met.
Competition
The Group operates in a highly competitive market. New 
entrants are joining the clothing market on a regular basis 
and current competitors continue to improve their standards. 
The Outdoor market has become more attractive to the large 
retailers, including supermarkets, which gives the Group a greater 
challenge in terms of pricing, while not compromising on quality.
The Group monitors the activities of its competitors, both current 
and potential, and takes the appropriate action to ensure it 
remains competitive on price, quality and value for money.
Suppliers and supply chain management
The Group is dependent on its supplier base to deliver quality 
products, on time. The Group continually reviews the supplier 
base to ensure suppliers have the ability to meet demand and 
remain price competitive.
Warehousing and distribution
The Group regularly reviews its warehousing and related logistics 
operations. The risks identified are those in relation to business 
interruption caused by physical property damage, warehouse 
system breakdowns, inefficient processes and delivery failures.
IT systems and business continuity
The Group is dependent upon the availability and integrity of key 
computer systems. Each business must record and process 
substantial volumes of data in a timely and accurate manner. The 
Group expects that key systems will require continual upgrades 
and ongoing investment, to ensure they meet the future needs of 
the business.
Key personnel
The success of the Group is enhanced by the retention of key 
management and technical personnel and on its ability to attract, 
motivate and retain employees of a high calibre. Share options 
and longer term incentives are used as part of their remuneration 
packages.
Treasury and risk management
The main financial risks to the Group relate to the availability of 
funds to meet the business needs. Foreign exchange rates are 
monitored and forward contracts are used to minimise the risk of 
currency fluctuations.
The Group’s treasury policy allows the use of derivative financial 
instruments provided they are not entered into for speculative 
purposes. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Directors’ Report and Business Review continued
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the 
Group will be able to continue as a going concern while 
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of 
the debt and equity balance.
In managing its capital, the Group’s primary objective is to ensure 
its continued ability to provide a consistent return for its equity 
Shareholders through a combination of capital growth and, where 
appropriate, distributions. In order to achieve this objective, the 
Group seeks to maintain a gearing ratio that balances risks and 
returns at an acceptable level and also to maintain a sufficient 
funding base to enable the Group to meet its working capital 
and strategic investment needs. In making decisions to adjust its 
capital structure to achieve these aims, either through altering its 
dividend policy, new share issues, or the reduction of debt, the 
Group considers not only its short-term position but also its long-
term operational and strategic objectives.
Financial instruments
The Group’s policy on financial assets and liabilities and its 
interest in financial instruments is reported in the notes to these 
financial statements.
Future developments
The Company has today announced a proposed share issue 
designed to raise funding which will be used primarily to 
accelerate the Directors’ plans to refurbish existing stores and 
open new stores.
Contractual arrangements
There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual 
arrangements which are essential to the Group’s business.
Payment policy
The Group seeks to ensure that terms of payment specified and 
agreed with suppliers are not exceeded. Creditor days based on 
year end trade creditors were 62 days (2009: 47 days).
The Company does not have any trade creditors and accordingly 
no creditor days figure has been disclosed.
Donations
During the year the Group made no charitable donations (2009: 
£100). No political donations were made in either year.
Directors
The names of the current Directors of the Company and their 
biographical details, including roles, responsibilities and significant 
external commitments, are given in the Directors and Advisors 
section of this document. These Directors served on the Board 
throughout the year. C.M. Littner and A.H. Mallett resigned from 
the Board on 14 July 2009.
Details of the terms of appointment and notice period of each 
of the current Directors appear in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. The provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association 
and of the Combined Code in respect of the retirement and 
re-election of Directors are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Statement. The Directors standing for re-election to the Board 
are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which will 
be mailed separately to Shareholders in due course. Following 
performance evaluation, the Board considers that each of the 
Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election continues to 
perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to his role. 
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman has sufficient time 
to commit to the Company’s affairs notwithstanding his other 
business commitments.
Directors’ interests in transactions
There were no material transactions in the year in which any 
Director had an interest.
Indemnification of Directors
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 
234 of the Companies Act 2006) are in force for Directors who 
held office during the year.
Share capital
The following information is given pursuant to section 992 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
On 24 November 2009, the Company’s Ordinary Shares of 50p 
each were sub-divided into Ordinary Shares of 1p each and 
Deferred Shares of 49p each.
The Company’s share capital comprises Ordinary Shares of 
1p each, Deferred Shares of 49p each and 10% cumulative 
Preference Shares of £1 each. The rights and obligations 
attaching to the Company’s shares are summarised below and 
are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association which can be 
obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Company 
Secretary. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
32 | 33
Holders of the Ordinary Shares have all the rights normally 
attaching to Ordinary Shares, including rights to receive the 
Company’s Annual Report, to attend and speak at General 
Meetings and to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights. The 
Company’s Ordinary Shares do not carry any special rights with 
regard to control of the Company. There are no restrictions on 
share transfers or voting. Ordinary Shares acquired through the 
Company’s share schemes rank pari passu with the Company’s 
Ordinary Shares in issue and have no special rights. Unless the 
Board decides otherwise, an Ordinary Shareholder may not vote 
at any General Meeting or class meeting or exercise any rights 
in relation to shares while any amount of money relating to his 
shares is outstanding.
The Deferred Shares confer no voting rights nor any rights to 
participate in the profits of the Company except in very limited 
circumstances on a winding-up. The Deferred Shares are not 
redeemable and are only transferable in limited circumstances. 
The Company may at any time arrange for Deferred Shares to be 
transferred to the Company for an aggregate consideration of 1p 
and may cancel the Deferred Shares so purchased.
The Preference Shares carry the right to receive a fixed dividend 
of 10% per annum paid in priority to a dividend on any other 
class of share, payable half-yearly on 30 April and 31 October. 
The Preference Shares are non-redeemable. In the event of a 
return of capital or on a winding-up of the Company, Preference 
Shareholders are entitled to repayment of the nominal capital paid 
up on their shares, a premium of 5p per share and any arrears 
of dividend to the date of repayment in priority to any other class 
of share. Preference Shares do not carry any voting rights unless 
either the preference dividends are in arrears for at least six months 
or there is a resolution altering the rights of the holders of the 
Preference Shares, for the winding-up of the Company or for a 
return of capital. In such instances, a Preference Shareholder shall 
have one vote on a show of hands or, in the event of a poll, ten 
votes for every Preference Share held.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares 
other than certain restrictions which may be imposed pursuant to 
the Company’s Articles of Association, certain restrictions which 
may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example in relation to insider dealing), restrictions pursuant to 
share dealing codes whereby Directors and certain employees 
of the Company require prior approval to deal in the Company’s 
shares, and where a person has been served with a disclosure 
notice and has failed to provide the Company with information 
concerning the interests in those shares.
Events after the balance sheet date in relation  
to Ordinary Shares
Following the end of the financial year, 2,131,905 Ordinary Shares 
of 1p each were allotted, at nominal value, to VF Corporation 
Luxembourg S.A.R.L. in connection with their exercise of 
warrants as described in note 34 to these financial statements.
The Company has also today announced that it is to pursue an 
equity fundraising.
Purchase of own shares
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 15 July 2009 
the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 
4,263,810 Ordinary Shares (representing approximately 10% of 
its issued Ordinary Share capital at that date). No such purchases 
were made during the year and no shares are held in treasury as 
at 27 February 2010.
Blacks Leisure Group Employee Benefit Trust
The Executive Directors of the Company, together with other 
employees of the Group, are potential beneficiaries of the Blacks 
Leisure Group plc Employee Benefit Trust (‘the Trust’) and, as 
such, are deemed to be interested in any Ordinary Shares held by 
the Trust. At 27 February 2010 the Trust held 344,578 Ordinary 
Shares of 1p each (2009: 344,578 Ordinary Shares of 50p each).
Power of Directors
The rules for appointment and replacement of Directors are 
detailed in the Company’s Articles of Association.
Any changes to the Company’s Articles of Association must be 
approved by Shareholders in accordance with legislation in force 
from time to time.
The Directors have authority to issue and allot Ordinary Shares, 
such authority being renewed annually at the Annual General 
Meeting.
Change of control
None of the Ordinary Shares, including those held by the Trust, 
carries any special voting rights with regard to control of the 
Company.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that 
would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of 
the Company following a takeover bid. Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Directors’ Report and Business Review continued
Except as shown below, the Company does not have 
any agreements with any Director or employee providing 
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid, except for provisions in the rules 
of the Company’s share schemes which may result in options 
granted to Directors or employees to vest in the event of a 
takeover.
N.D. Gillis is entitled to receive an enhanced payment in the event 
that a takeover bid for the Company results in a change of control 
prior to 19 November 2011.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and have elected 
to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the 
profit or loss for the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are  
required to:
hh select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
hh make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
hh state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements;
hh prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business;
hh prepare a Directors’ Report and Directors’ Remuneration 
Report which comply with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
hh provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
Website publication
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report 
and the financial statements are made available on a website. 
Financial statements are published on the Company’s website 
in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which 
may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance 
and integrity of the Company’s website is the responsibility of 
the Directors. The Directors’ responsibility also extends to the 
ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Directors’ responsibilities pursuant to DTR4
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge:
hh the Group financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (IFRSs) and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit and loss of the Group; and
hh the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the financial position of the 
Group and the Parent Company, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
34 | 35
Corporate Governance Statement
The Corporate Governance Statement is presented earlier and is 
incorporated in this Directors’ Report by reference.
Disclosure of information to Auditors
All the current Directors have taken all the steps that they ought 
to have taken to make themselves aware of any information 
needed by the Company’s Auditors for the purpose of their audit 
and to establish that the Auditors are aware of that information. 
The Directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of 
which the Auditors are unaware.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 
12.00 noon on 21 July 2010. The notice convening the meeting 
and the resolutions to be put to the meeting, together with 
explanatory notes, will be sent out in a separate circular to 
Shareholders in due course.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as Auditors will be proposed 
at the next Annual General Meeting.
Substantial interests in share capital
As at 30 April 2010, the Directors had been notified of the 
following persons who are interested, directly or indirectly, in 3% 
or more of the voting rights associated with the Ordinary Share 
capital of the Company:
Other than disclosed above, the Directors are not aware of any 
person holding, or beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the 
voting rights associated with the Ordinary Share capital of the 
Company.
Directors’ interests
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial year had 
the following interests in the share capital of the Company:
Name   Holding  %
Sportsdirect.com Retail Limited   12,153,071 27.15
Schroders plc   4,009,133 8.95
Gartmore Investment Limited   3,152,813 7.04
Standard Life Investments Limited   3,000,000 6.70
Aviva plc   2,172,100 4.85
VF Luxembourg S.A.R.L.   2,131,905 4.76
Polar Capital Forager Fund Limited   1,425,000 3.18
 Ordinary Shares of 1p each Ordinary Shares of 50p each
 27 February 2010 28 February 2009
   Under  Under
  Issued option Issued option
D.A. Bernstein 200,000 — 200,000 —
N.D. Gillis 70,000 971,659 70,000 1,000,000
M.A. Lombardo — 550,607 — 300,000
N.M. Samuel 108,926 — — —
No Directors hold any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the subsidiary undertakings.
Further details of Directors’ share options are set out within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
By order of the Board
Mark Beacham
Company Secretary
30 April 2010 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Blacks Leisure Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of Blacks Leisure 
Group plc for the year ended 27 February 2010 which comprise 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, 
the parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in preparation of the parent 
Company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an Auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
h the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and parent Company’s affairs as at  
27 February 2010 and of the Group’s loss for the year then 
ended;
h the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
h the parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
h the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
h the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
h the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
h adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
h the parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
h certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
h we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
h the Directors’ statement, set out in the Directors’ Report and 
Business Review, in relation to going concern; and
h the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
David Eagle
For and on behalf of BDO LLP , statutory auditor
Epsom
United Kingdom
30 April 2010
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England 
and Wales (with registered number OC305127).
36 | 37 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 27 February 2010
        Year ended Year ended
        27 February 28 February
        2010  2009
         (restated)
       Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue      4 240,517  252,569 
Ongoing stores       210,758 200,630
Closed stores      35 29,759 51,939
Cost of sales       (116,440) (111,942)
Gross profit       124,077  140,627 
Ongoing stores       111,199 115,954
Closed stores      35 12,878 24,673
Other income      4 1,109  1,196 
Distribution costs       (154,359) (131,966)
Administrative expenses      (9,023) (14,449)
Operating loss      6 (38,196) (4,592)
Operating (loss)/profit excluding exceptional items     (12,037) 841
Exceptional items      8 (26,159) (5,433)
 
Finance costs      9 (5,946) (3,608)
Finance costs excluding exceptional items     (2,914) (3,608)
Exceptional items       (3,032) –
Finance income      9 569  1,607 
Loss before tax        (43,573) (6,593)
Tax (expense)/credit     10 (2,486)  859 
Tax expense excluding exceptional items      (190) (305)
Tax (expense)/credit on exceptional items      (2,296) 1,164
 
Loss for the year from continuing operations      (46,059) (5,734)
Discontinued operations
Loss from discontinued operations (administration of Sandcity Limited)   36 (3,373) (9,027)
Loss for the financial year       (49,432) (14,761)
Other comprehensive income
Transferred to the carrying amount of hedged items     (1,256) (694)
Tax on items transferred from equity      352 194
Gains relating to designated cash flow hedges     720 1,256
Tax on items taken directly to equity      (202) (352)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax     (386) 404
Total comprehensive expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent   (49,818) (14,357)
Loss per share (pence)
From continuing operations     11
— Basic       (108.90) (13.56)
— Diluted       (108.90) (13.56)
From continuing and discontinued operations    11
— Basic       (116.88) (34.91)
— Diluted       (116.88) (34.91) Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 27 February 2010
        2010 2009
       Notes £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment     13 20,098 32,556 
Goodwill      14 34,598 34,598 
Other intangible assets     15 7 988 
Deferred income tax asset     10 414 2,693 
Total non-current assets      55,117 70,835 
Current assets
Inventories      17 38,954 50,140 
Trade and other receivables     18 6,725 10,563 
Derivative financial instruments     32 720 1,256 
Cash and cash equivalents     19 1,010 1,385 
Total current assets      47,409 63,344 
TOTAL ASSETS       102,526 134,179 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital      20 21,319 21,319 
Share premium      21 24,333 24,333 
Reserve for own shares     22 (773) (773)
Hedging reserve       518 904
Retained earnings       (24,962) 23,188 
TOTAL EQUITY       20,435 68,971 
Non-current liabilities
Preference shares      20 891 891
Other payables       3,802 6,028 
Obligations under finance leases     25 1,186 2,335 
Long-term provisions     27 5,060 8,195 
Total non-current liabilities      10,939 17,449 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables     26 41,662 36,426 
Bank overdrafts      24 13,643 5,325 
Obligations under finance leases     25 1,178 1,147 
Short-term provisions     27 14,669 4,861 
Total current liabilities      71,152 47,759 
TOTAL LIABILITIES      82,091 65,208 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES      102,526 134,179 
The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 30 April 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Neil Gillis  
Chief Executive
Marc Lombardo
Finance Director
38 | 39 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 27 February 2010
        Year ended Year ended
        27 February 28 February
        2010  2009
         (restated)
       Note £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
 Net loss from continuing operations      (46,059) (5,734)
 Net loss from discontinued operations      (3,373) (9,027)
Net loss from operations      (49,432) (14,761)
Adjustments for:
 Net finance cost       5,499 2,374
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment     1,050 600
 Depreciation and amortisation      6,155 8,805
 Impairment of property, plant and equipment     7,127 423
 Impairment of goodwill      – 1,754
 Loss on disposal of other intangible assets     54 –
 Loss on deconsolidation of Sandcity Limited     159 –
 Tax expense       2,491 345
 Equity-settled share-based payments expense     250 322
 Release of capital receipts      (130) (152)
Operating loss before working capital changes     (26,777) (290)
Decrease in inventories      10,062 5,899
Decrease in trade and other receivables      2,309 1,956
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables     2,917 (4,985)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions      8,787 (408)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations     (2,702) 2,172 
Interest paid       (3,087) (2,601)
Tax received       144 2,056
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities    (5,645) 1,627
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (2,945) (5,135)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment     – 263 
Proceeds from disposal of other intangible assets     497 –
Deconsolidation of subsidiary undertaking, net overdrafts     38 –
Interest received       569 1,607
Net cash used in investing activities      (1,841) (3,265)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid      12 – (426)
Dividends on shares classified as liabilities      (89) (89)
Payment of finance lease liabilities      (1,118) (1,034)
Net cash used in financing activities      (1,207) (1,549)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents     (8,693) (3,187)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year     (3,940) (753)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year    19 (12,633) (3,940) Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
40 | 41
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 27 February 2010
     Reserve
   Share  Share for own Warrants Hedging Retained Total
   capital premium shares reserve reserve earnings equity
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008  21,319 24,333 (773) – 500 38,053 83,482
Gains on cash flow hedges – – – – 1,256 – 1,256
Tax on items taken directly to 
 equity relating to cash flow hedges – – – – (352) – (352)
Transferred to carrying amount of 
 hedged items on cash flow hedges – – – – (694) – (694)
Tax on items transferred from equity – – – – 194 – 194
Other comprehensive income 
 for the year  – – – – 404 – 404
Loss for the year  – – – – – (14,761) (14,761)
Total comprehensive income/
 (expense) for the year – – – – 404 (14,761) (14,357)
Dividends paid  – – – – – (426) (426)
Accrued equity-settled 
 share-based payments – – – – – 322 322
At 28 February 2009 21,319 24,333 (773) – 904 23,188 68,971
At 1 March 2009  21,319 24,333 (773) – 904 23,188 68,971
Gains on cash flow hedges – – – – 720 – 720
Tax on items taken directly to 
 equity relating to cash flow hedges – – – – (202) – (202)
Transferred to carrying amount of 
 hedged items on cash flow hedges – – – – (1,256) – (1,256)
Tax on items transferred from equity – – – – 352 – 352
Other comprehensive expense 
 for the year  – – – – (386) – (386)
Loss for the year  – – – – – (49,432) (49,432)
Total comprehensive expense 
 for the year  – – – – (386) (49,432) (49,818)
Accrued equity-settled 
 share-based payments – – – 1,032 – 250 1,282
Transfer to retained earnings in 
 relation to share-based payments – – – (1,032) – 1,032 –
At 27 February 2010 21,319 24,333 (773) – 518 (24,962) 20,435 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
1 General information
Blacks Leisure Group plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of 
the registered office is 440–450 Cob Drive, Swan Valley, Northampton, NN4 9BB. The nature of the Group’s operations and its 
principal activities are set out in the Chief Executive’s Review, Financial Review and the Directors’ Report and Business Review.
As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), have 
not yet been adopted by the Group. Those indicated with an asterisk have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
h IFRIC9 IAS39 Amendment — Embedded derivatives (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
  1 July 2009);
h IFRS3 Revised — Business combinations (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009);
h IAS27 Amendment — Consolidated and separate financial statements (effective for annual periods beginning 
  on or after 1 July 2009);
h IAS39 Amendment — Financial instruments: Eligible hedged items (effective for annual periods beginning on 
  or after 1 July 2009);
h IFRIC17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
  1 July 2009);
h IFRS1 Amendment — First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (effective for annual 
  periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009);
h IFRIC18 Transfer of assets from customers (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009);
h Improvements to  Amendments to various standards (generally effective for annual periods beginning on or after
 IFRS (2010)* 1 January 2010);
h IFRS2 Amendment — IFRS2 Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions (effective for annual 
  periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010);
h IFRS1* Amendment — IFRS1 Additional exemptions for first-time adopters (effective for annual periods 
  beginning on or after 1 January 2010);
h IAS32 Amendment — Classification of rights issues (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
  1 February 2010);
h IFRIC19* Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments (effective for annual periods beginning on or 
  after 1 April 2010);
h IFRS1* Amendment — IFRS1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (effective 
  for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010);
h IAS24* Amendment — Revised related party disclosures (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
  1 January 2011);
h IFRIC14* Amendment — IFRIC14 and IAS19 — Limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding 
  requirements and their interaction (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011);  
  and
h IFRS9* Amendment — Financial instruments (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
  1 January 2013).
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the 
consolidated results or financial position of the Group. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
42 | 43
1 General information — continued
New accounting standards adopted
The following new accounting standards were adopted in the year. Other than the disclosure requirements of IFRS8 and the 
Amendment to IAS1, which have been incorporated within these financial statements, the adoption of these standards has not 
had a material impact upon the Group.
h IFRIC13 Customer loyalty programmes (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008);
h IFRS8 Operating segments (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009);
h IFRS2 Amendment — Share-based payments: Vesting conditions and cancellations (effective for annual 
  periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009);
h IAS1 Amendment — Presentation of financial statements: a revised presentation (effective for annual 
  periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009);
h IAS32 Amendment relating to puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation (effective for annual 
  periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009);
h IFRS1 Amendment — IFRS1 and IAS27 Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or 
  associate (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009);
h IFRS7 Amendment — Financial instruments: Improving disclosures (effective for annual periods beginning on 
  or after 1 January 2009); and
h IFRIC15 Agreements for the construction of real estate (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
  1 January 2009).
2 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 February 2010 have been prepared in accordance with 
the accounting policies and presentation required by International Financial Reporting Standards, incorporating International 
Accounting Standards (IAS) and Interpretations (collectively IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union and therefore comply with 
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and 
equity-settled share-based payments that have been measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented 
in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except when otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting year. These key estimates and assumptions are set out in note 3. Although these estimates are 
based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single 
entity (‘the Group’). Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses between consolidated Group companies are 
therefore eliminated in full on consolidation. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidation up to the date at which they cease 
to be controlled by the Group, either by way of sale or other means. Accordingly, Sandcity Limited has been included in the 
consolidation up to 23 September 2009, the date on which control was lost owing to it being placed into administration (see note 
36). No accounting entries have been recorded in the Group financial statements in relation to Sandcity Limited after that date.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the 
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is reviewed 
for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
2 Accounting policies — continued
Goodwill arising before the transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being tested for 
impairment at that date.
Internally generated intangible assets
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s development (from the development phase of an internal project) 
shall be recognised if, and only if, all the conditions below, from IAS38, can be demonstrated:
h the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale; 
h the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;  
h the ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 
h how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, the Group must demonstrate 
the existence of a market for the output of the intangible asset itself or, if it is to be used internally, the usefulness of the 
intangible asset; 
 
h the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the 
intangible asset; and
h the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.  
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of three years. Where no asset 
can be recognised, expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it occurred.
Trademarks
Trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 
between five and ten years.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value. 
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
h freehold land is not depreciated;
h freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to 50 years;
h leasehold improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the period of the associated lease or over 
the asset life if shorter;
h fixtures and equipment are depreciated over four to fifteen years; and
h motor vehicles are depreciated over four to six years.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Any impairment in the value of property, plant and equipment is charged to the 
statement of comprehensive income.
Profits and losses arising on disposal of property, plant and equipment, which reflects the difference between net selling price and 
the carrying amount at the date of disposal, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying values of assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If 
any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. Where the asset does not generate cash flows which are 
independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is estimated. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
44 | 45
2 Accounting policies — continued
The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell, and its value-in-use. Value-in-use is 
the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Any impairment 
recognised on goodwill is not reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost includes all costs in bringing the goods into the 
business. Inventories are valued on a weighted average basis and this is not deemed to be materially different to that which would 
be calculated on a ‘first in, first out’ basis. Net realisable value is defined as the estimated selling price less any direct costs of 
disposal. Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or damaged items where appropriate.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Provisions for onerous leases are recognised for the expected lease or lease related payments that the Group will incur prior to 
assignment, sub-lease or lease expiry plus any additional costs in relation to the disposal of the lease.
Dilapidations provisions are recognised upon the serving of a dilapidations schedule upon the Group by the landlord and that 
schedule of works is used to calculate the level of the provision.
Provisions for CVA related rates obligations are recognised for all stores vacated under the terms of the CVAs. The provision is 
calculated as set out in note 27.
Monetary foreign currency translation
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange quoted at the balance 
sheet date. Day-to-day transactions are recorded in sterling at the rates ruling on the date of those transactions. All realised gains 
and losses are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Revenue recognition
Revenue represents goods sold to external customers, less returns and Value Added Tax. The revenue arises from the sale of 
Outdoor and Boardwear clothing, footwear and equipment. Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
All other leases are classified as finance leases. Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating 
profit on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Lease incentives are credited over the lease term on a straight-line basis 
unless another systematic basis is considered more representative of the time pattern of the lessee’s benefit from the use of the 
leased asset.
Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment and 
the resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities. The associated assets are depreciated over their useful lives and the 
interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the lease and 
represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
2 Accounting policies — continued
Capital receipts
Capital receipts are a form of lease inducement received in cash which are credited to operating profit on a straight-line basis over 
the full term of the lease.
Exceptional items
These are material items which derive from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but are not 
directly related to the delivery of the Group’s products to its customers and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, 
merit separate presentation by virtue of their size or incidence to allow Shareholders to better understand the elements of financial 
performance in the year, to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess underlying trends in financial performance. These 
items are usually derived from one-off events or a change in assumptions made in critical accounting estimates and judgements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the 
relevant companies.
Contributions to the defined contribution schemes are charged to the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which 
they become payable.
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions
Certain employees and Directors of the Group receive equity-settled remuneration in the form of equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares. The cost of equity-settled transactions 
with employees is measured by reference to the fair value, determined using the Black–Scholes option pricing model, the Monte 
Carlo model or the Binomial model as appropriate, at the date at which they are granted. The cost of equity-settled transactions 
is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the non-market vesting conditions are 
expected to be fulfilled, ending on the relevant vesting date. The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and is adjusted to reflect the 
Directors’ best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest based upon non-market conditions.
Where the terms and conditions of options are modified before they vest, the movement in the fair value of the options, measured 
immediately before and after the modification, is also charged to the statement of comprehensive income over the remaining 
vesting period. New share options issued are treated as a replacement where, amongst other things, the new share options are 
with the same participants as the cancelled options, the new share options are issued at a fair value that is broadly consistent 
with the fair value of the cancelled options determined at the cancellation date, the issue and cancellation of the options are part 
of the same arrangement (and each will only take place on the occurrence of the other) and the commercial substance of the 
cancellation of the options is that they are replaced by the issue of the new options.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS2 
only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
The Company has also granted to its banker warrants to acquire shares. The fair value of this grant, which relates to and is 
accounted for as part of the fees payable upon the arrangement of new banking facilities, has been determined using the Black–
Scholes model as set out in note 9.
Shares held by Blacks Leisure Group Employee Benefit Trust
The Blacks Leisure Group Employee Benefit Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive 
Plan and, where deemed appropriate, under other share option schemes. Shares in the Company held by the trust are included in 
the balance sheet, under ‘Reserve for own shares’, at cost as a deduction from equity. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
46 | 47
2 Accounting policies — continued
Tax
The tax charge represents both the income tax payable, based on profits for the year, and deferred tax. Deferred tax is recognised 
in full in respect of all temporary differences between the tax base of the Group’s assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts 
that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date. No deferred tax is recognised if the temporary difference 
arises from goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of 
taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
tax asset to be utilised in the near future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or 
the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is itself recognised in equity and not in the statement of comprehensive income.
Financial instruments
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An 
estimate for doubtful debts is made when objective evidence of an impairment exists. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits recorded on the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with 
an original maturity of three months or less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents 
consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Other financial liabilities
Trade payables are recognised and carried at original invoice cost and are a short-term liability of the Group. 
Preference Shares are recognised at the amount advanced where this represents fair value. Preference Shares are subsequently 
accounted for at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments used by the Group are stated at fair value. Hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when 
they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash flow hedges where they hedge 
exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a 
forecast transaction.
Gains or losses from valuing fair value hedges, which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, are recorded in the statement of 
comprehensive income, together with the corresponding changes in the fair value of the hedged instruments attributable to the 
hedged risk.
The portion of any gains or losses of cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting and are determined to be 
effective hedges are recognised directly in equity. The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately 
in the statement of comprehensive income. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
2 Accounting policies — continued
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of an asset or a liability then, at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 
of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains 
or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the statement of comprehensive income in the same year in which the 
hedged firm commitment affects the net results.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised 
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in 
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or 
loss recognised in equity is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
De-recognition of financial liabilities
Where the terms of an existing financial liability that is carried at amortised cost are renegotiated, the accounting will be determined by 
the extent to which the terms of the original liability have been modified. The modified terms are deemed to be substantially different if 
there has been either a substantial qualitative change in the loan terms or if the net present value of the cash flows under the modified 
terms of the liability (including any fees paid and received) is at least 10% different from the net present value of the remaining cash 
flows of the liability prior to the modification, both discounted at the original effective interest rate of the original liability.
If the cash flows and other terms are not substantially different, the original liability continues to be recognised and the difference 
between the amortised cost of the debt instrument at the date of the modification and the present value of the new debt 
instrument, discounted by the original effective interest rate, is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in future 
periods through the revised effective interest rate.
Where either the cash flow or other terms are substantially different, the exchange with the lender is accounted for as an 
extinguishment of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. Any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the 
gain or loss on that extinguishment and do not adjust the carrying amount of the new liability.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of 
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are outlined below.
Impairment of goodwill
The Group is required to test, at least annually, whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amount is 
determined based on value-in-use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice 
of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows. Actual outcomes could vary.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on value-in-use 
calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out in note 
2. The selection of these estimated lives requires the exercise of management judgement. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
48 | 49
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements — continued
Inventory valuation
Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value includes, where 
necessary, provisions for slow-moving and damaged stocks. The provision represents the difference between the cost of stock 
and its estimated market value, based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be made, which include 
forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic environment, and inventory loss trends.
Equity-settled share-based payments
The charge for equity-settled share-based payments is calculated in accordance with estimates and assumptions which are 
described in note 29. The option valuation models used require highly subjective assumptions to be made including the future 
volatility of the Company’s share price, expected dividend yields, risk-free interest rates and expected staff turnover. The Directors 
draw upon a variety of external sources to aid them in the determination of the appropriate data to use in such calculations. 
The option pricing models used are the Black–Scholes option pricing model, the Monte Carlo model and the Binomial model. 
These are chosen to reflect the nature of the share schemes.
During the vesting period of the share options, an assessment is required of the likelihood of whether non-market performance 
conditions will be met, which affects the estimate of the number of share options that will vest and hence the amount charged to 
the statement of comprehensive income.
Provisions for onerous leases
If the Group vacates or plans to vacate a store or other property prior to the expiry of the related lease, it records a provision for 
the expected lease or lease related payments that the Group will incur prior to assignment or sub-lease of the property plus any 
inducement that may be required, and for any expected shortfall in amounts that are anticipated to be receivable from a sub-lease. 
Such a calculation requires a judgement as to the timing and duration of the expected vacancy periods and the amount and timing 
of future potential sub-lease income. When making these judgements, the Directors consider a number of factors, including the 
landlord, the location and condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific marketplace demand and the economic 
environment.
Provisions for rates obligations
In line with the terms of the CVAs, as described in the Directors’ Report, the Group has a commitment to pay business rates on 
properties that it vacated under this arrangement up until such a time as the landlord is able to re-let the site. Provision is made 
for the expected discounted value of this obligation. Such a calculation requires a judgement as to the duration of the expected 
vacancy period. When making these judgements the Directors consider a number of factors, including the rental value, the location 
and condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific marketplace demands and the economic environment.
Dilapidations
Dilapidations are provided for remedial works required to bring a leased property back into the same condition as when the lease 
commenced. Provisions are calculated by reference to the serving of a dilapidations schedule upon the Group by the landlord.
Exceptional items
These are material items which derive from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but are not 
directly related to the delivery of the Group’s products to its customers and which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, 
merit separate presentation by virtue of their size or incidence to allow Shareholders to better understand the elements of financial 
performance in the year, to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess underlying trends in financial performance. These 
items are usually derived from one-off events or a change in assumptions made in critical accounting estimates and judgements. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
4  Revenue and other operating income
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sale of goods  240,517 8,531 249,048 252,569 14,982 267,551
Other operating income  1,109 – 1,109 1,196 – 1,196
Other operating income consists mainly of sub-let property income.
5 Segment information
IFRS8 has been adopted in the year. It requires a ‘management approach’ under which segment information is presented on the 
same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. Following a review of the Group’s internal management information, the 
previously reported operating segments of Outdoor, Boardwear and Unallocated remain appropriate.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Group’s two core areas of operation are described as below:
Operation Nature of operation
Outdoor Retail of Outdoor clothing, footwear and equipment
Boardwear Retail of Boardwear clothing, footwear and equipment
Inter-segment sales between business segments are entered into on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with 
third parties.
The segmental analysis is presented including both continuing and discontinued operations. Results from discontinued operations, 
which are summarised in note 36, are included within the Boardwear segment.
       Continuing  Continuing
       operations operations
       2010 2009
OUTDOOR      £’000 £’000
Revenue
Total revenue      223,412 220,176
Sales to external customers      223,412 220,176
Profit
Segment (loss)/profit      (6,218) 6,308
Exceptional items:
— Impairment of property, plant and equipment     (5,879) (156)
— Other exceptional charges      (9,860) (1,955)
Operating (loss)/profit       (21,957) 4,197
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets      96,959 107,538
Segment liabilities      (59,024) (46,181)
Total net assets      37,935 61,357 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
50 | 51
5 Segment information — continued
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
BOARDWEAR  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
Total revenue  17,105 10,616 27,721 32,393 17,943 50,336
Inter-segment sales  – (2,085) (2,085) – (2,961) (2,961)
Sales to external customers  17,105 8,531 25,636 32,393 14,982 47,375
Profit
Segment loss  (3,697) (2,601) (6,298) (2,569) (5,519) (8,088)
Inter-segment profit on stock  – 312 312 – 213 213
Exceptional items:
— Impairment of property, 
 plant and equipment  (450) (798) (1,248) (134) (133) (267)
— Impairment of goodwill  – – – (1,754) – (1,754)
— Other exceptional charges  (3,119) (159) (3,278) (1,434) (2,011) (3,445)
Operating loss   (7,266) (3,246) (10,512) (5,891) (7,450) (13,341)
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets  4,124 – 4,124 12,584 9,820 22,404
Segment liabilities  (7,334) – (7,334) (8,356) (4,065) (12,421)
Total net (liabilities)/assets  (3,210) – (3,210) 4,228 5,755 9,983
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
UNALLOCATED  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit
Segment loss  (2,122) – (2,122) (2,898) – (2,898)
Exceptional items:
— Other exceptional charges  (6,851) – (6,851) – – –
Operating loss  (8,973) – (8,973) (2,898) – (2,898)
Net finance costs, including 
 exceptional finance charges  (5,377) (122) (5,499) (2,001) (373) (2,374)
Loss before tax  (14,350) (122) (14,472) (4,899) (373) (5,272)
Tax   (2,486) (5) (2,491) 859 (1,204) (345)
Loss for the year   (16,836) (127) (16,963) (4,040) (1,577) (5,617)
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets  1,443 – 1,443 4,237 – 4,237
Segment liabilities  (15,733) – (15,733) (6,606) – (6,606)
Total net liabilities  (14,290) – (14,290) (2,369) – (2,369) 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
5 Segment information — continued
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
GROUP  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
Total revenue  240,517 10,616 251,133 252,569 17,943 270,512
Inter-segment sales  – (2,085) (2,085) – (2,961) (2,961)
Sales to external customers  240,517 8,531 249,048 252,569 14,982 267,551
Profit
Segment (loss)/profit  (12,037) (2,601) (14,638) 841 (5,519) (4,678)
Inter-segment profit on stock  – 312 312 – 213 213
Exceptional items:
— Impairment of property, 
 plant and equipment  (6,329) (798) (7,127) (290) (133) (423)
— Impairment of goodwill  – – – (1,754) – (1,754)
— Other exceptional charges  (19,830) (159) (19,989) (3,389) (2,011) (5,400)
Operating loss   (38,196) (3,246) (41,442) (4,592) (7,450) (12,042)
Net finance costs, including 
 exceptional finance charges  (5,377) (122) (5,499) (2,001) (373) (2,374)
Loss before tax  (43,573) (3,368) (46,941) (6,593) (7,823) (14,416)
Tax   (2,486) (5) (2,491) 859 (1,204) (345)
Loss for the year   (46,059) (3,373) (49,432) (5,734) (9,027) (14,761)
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets  102,526 – 102,526 124,359 9,820 134,179
Segment liabilities  (82,091) – (82,091) (61,143) (4,065) (65,208)
Total net assets  20,435 – 20,435 63,216 5,755 68,971 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
52 | 53
6 Operating loss
Operating loss from operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Employee benefits expense (note 7)  47,187 989 48,176  48,307 2,101 50,408 
Net foreign exchange gains  (1,233) – (1,233) (1,734) – (1,734)
Cost of inventories recognised 
 as an expense  107,270 6,271 113,541 95,114 13,618 108,732 
Write-downs of inventories recognised 
 as an expense  4,132 – 4,132 4,944 – 4,944 
Depreciation of property, 
 plant and equipment:
— Owned  5,108 157 5,265  7,151 391 7,542 
— Leased  680 – 680  680 – 680 
Impairment of property, 
 plant and equipment  6,329 798 7,127  290 133 423 
Loss on disposal of property, 
 plant and equipment  1,050 – 1,050  (25) 625 600 
Amortisation of intangible assets  
 (note 15)  210 – 210  583 – 583 
Impairment of goodwill (note 14)  – – –  1,754 – 1,754 
Loss on disposal of other  
 intangible assets  54 – 54  – – – 
Operating lease expense:
— Plant and equipment  443 11 454  648 53 701 
— Property (2010: excluding  
 post-closure costs charged
 as exceptional items)  36,115 1,580 37,695  43,283 2,605 45,888 
Fees paid to the Auditor were as follows:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts  54  54 
Fees payable in relation to the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries    81  90 
Other services relating to tax      57  49 
Other advisory and regulatory services     392  36 
Total      584 229 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
7 Employee benefits expense
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries  43,503  922  44,425  44,366  1,929  46,295 
Social security costs  3,038  67  3,105  3,157  152  3,309 
Pension costs (note 29)  396  –  396  462  20  482 
   46,937  989  47,926  47,985  2,101  50,086 
Equity-settled share-based 
 payments expense  250  –  250  322  –  322 
Total  47,187  989  48,176  48,307  2,101  50,408 
The average number of persons, including Directors, directly employed in the various sectors of the business was as follows:
      2010  2009
     Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time
Outdoor    1,224  3,019  1,265  3,221 
Boardwear    98  190  205  331 
Central services    3  2  2  4 
Total    1,325  3,211  1,472  3,556 
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Full-time
— Management and administration      152  179 
— Selling and distribution      1,173  1,293 
Part-time      3,211  3,556 
Total      4,536  5,028 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
54 | 55
8  Exceptional operating items
The Group has recorded a net exceptional operating charge in relation to continuing operations in the year of £26,159,000 (2009: 
£5,433,000) as set out below:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Onerous leases and inducements      (10,153) 3,388 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment     6,329  291 
CVA compromise fund      7,250  –
CVA related rates obligations      10,755  –
CVA professional fees      5,930  –
CVA store closure costs and redundancy     3,458  –
Other CVA related costs      1,782  –
Professional fees in respect of aborted placing and open offer    808 –
Impairment of goodwill      –  1,754
Total      26,159  5,433 
Year ended 28 February 2009
The Group announced on 1 March 2007 its intention to close approximately 45 loss-making stores, predominantly in the Millets 
fascia. These closures related mainly to small, overlapping or acquired stores. The Group also announced the exit of other 
onerous leases. Due to the unfavourable trading conditions in the year to 28 February 2009, the assumptions made at the prior 
year end for the creation of an onerous lease provision in respect of these stores were revised. This resulted in an additional 
amount of £4,156,000 being charged in increasing the onerous lease provision, of which £3,388,000 as presented above relates 
to continuing operations.
An impairment of property, plant and equipment arose from a comparison of the value-in-use of individual stores with their net 
book value where circumstances indicated a possible impairment. In total, six stores were identified for full impairment and the 
resulting charge amounted to £291,000.
The impairment of goodwill arises from the annual impairment test and reflects the difference between the value-in-use of the 
cash-generating unit and its carrying value. The impairment of £1,754,000 related entirely to goodwill in respect of the Boardwear 
division which arose upon the acquisition of Just Add Water Limited (note 14).
Year ended 27 February 2010
As a result of the CVAs, the properties against which onerous lease provisions had previously been made were passed back to 
the landlords and, accordingly, the onerous lease provision held as at that time of £10,153,000 was released and credited to the 
statement of comprehensive income. Owing to the unusual nature and significant value, this and CVA related costs, as described 
below, have been presented on the face of the statement of comprehensive income as exceptional items within the operating result.  17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
8 Exceptional operating items — continued
In anticipation of the CVAs, the carrying value of tangible fixed assets at the closing stores were impaired in full to the extent that 
they would not be utilised elsewhere within the Group. This resulted in a charge in the period of £7,127,000, of which £6,329,000 
as presented above relates to continuing operations. Under the terms of the CVAs, whilst certain property leases have passed 
back to landlords, the Company remains liable for certain rent and rates obligations. Landlords of such properties will be able to 
claim during May and July 2010 against a compromise fund, capped at £7,250,000, which approximates to around six months of 
rent. This has been provided for within these financial statements. Further, the Company remains liable for business rates on these 
properties until such a time as the landlord is able to re-let them. This has resulted in a provision of £10,755,000 being created, 
reflecting the Directors’ best estimate of the likely value of this obligation. 
The complex nature of the CVA and related refinancing of the business has resulted in significant levels of professional fees 
being incurred or, in the case of the administering of the CVA compromise fund, being provided for. The total professional fees of 
£5,930,000 have been presented as exceptional operating items.
The CVAs resulted in the closure of 88 retail stores. Costs directly associated with this included the costs of redundancies, clearing 
of the premises, and a write-off of certain stocks. These store closure costs totalled £3,458,000 and have been presented as 
exceptional operating items.
Further costs in connection with the CVAs have also been presented as exceptional operating items, and total £1,782,000. These 
include the write-off of rent, rates and other prepayments (relating to the period post closure), and other store costs relating to the 
period since the store ceased trading.
A general meeting to approve a placing and open offer of Ordinary Shares was adjourned indefinitely on 24 February 2010 and 
accordingly, professional fees in connection with this transaction were expensed in full at the year end, resulting in an exceptional 
charge of £808,000. The Company has today announced that it is to pursue an alternative equity fundraising. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
56 | 57
9  Finance income and costs
   Continuing  Discontinued  Continuing Discontinued 
   operations operations Total operations operations Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdrafts  5,051 122 5,173 2,540 166 2,706 
Interest on obligations under  
 finance leases  164 – 164 218 – 218 
Unwinding of discount on onerous  
 lease provision  642 – 642 761 207 968
Dividend on Preference Shares  89 – 89 89 – 89
Total finance cost  5,946 122 6,068 3,608 373 3,981
Bank interest receivable  (569) – (569) (1,607) –  (1,607)
Net finance cost  5,377  122  5,499  2,001  373  2,374 
During the year, the Group agreed new working capital facilities with its banker, Bank of Scotland plc. Fees of £425,000 in respect 
of this renegotiation have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income during the year, and are included within 
finance charges on bank loans and overdrafts as above.
A terminal fee of £2,000,000 is also payable under the new facility agreement upon the expiry of that facility, either through 
reaching of the term or by way of a defined ‘exit’ event that results in the early termination of the facility. This fee has been 
deemed to relate to the extinguishment of the original facility and accordingly has been charged in full within the statement of 
comprehensive income during the year. Owing to its significance to the financial statements, this charge has been presented 
separately as an exceptional component of finance charges.
In addition, the Company granted Bank of Scotland plc warrants to acquire 2,131,905 Ordinary 1p Shares of the Company for  
a subscription price of 1p each. These warrants vest and are exercisable immediately, and expire in five years. The related 
accounting charge has, as above, been deemed to relate to the extinguishment of the old facility. The fair value of this grant has 
been determined using the Black–Scholes method and the resulting value of £1,032,000 has been charged in full during the year, 
within finance charges on bank loans and overdrafts as above. This has also been presented as an exceptional item, within  
finance charges, on the face of the statement of comprehensive income owing to its significance and unusual nature. After the  
end of the financial year, these warrants were sold by Bank of Scotland plc and were subsequently exercised (see note 34).
At the date of grant, the market price of the Ordinary Shares was 49.24 pence. The risk-free interest rate has been taken as  
2.96% and volatility as 85%. Other inputs used in this valuation are as above. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
10  Tax expense
A reconciliation of tax expense/(credit) applicable to loss before tax at the statutory tax rate to the tax expense at the Group’s 
effective tax rate for the year is as follows:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Loss before tax from continuing operations     (43,573) (6,593)
Loss before tax from discontinued operations     (3,368) (7,823)
Loss before tax      (46,941) (14,416)
Tax at current UK tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%)     (13,143) (4,036)
Permanent differences      4,792  241 
Provision not allowable for tax purposes     (2,321) 560 
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances     3,096  2,283 
Other temporary differences      8  26 
Losses to carry forward      7,568  926 
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years    –  (404)
Total current tax      –  (404)
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences    2,491  749 
Total tax expense      2,491  345 
Tax expense relating to Sandcity Limited (discontinued operation, see note 35)   5 1,204
Tax expense/(credit) in respect of continuing operations    2,486  (859)
Deferred tax asset
The deferred tax asset relates to the following:
 Consolidated Statement of  
 balance sheet comprehensive income
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes   –  –  –  93 
Short-term temporary differences    616  3,045  2,491  656 
Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges)  
 to fair value    (202) (352)  
Net deferred tax asset    414  2,693 
Deferred tax expense      2,491  749 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
58 | 59
10 Tax expense — continued
The movement in the deferred tax asset is analysed as follows:
        £’000
Deferred tax asset at 1 March 2009       2,693 
Charged to the statement of comprehensive income in relation to continuing operations   (2,486)
Charged to the statement of comprehensive income in relation to discontinued operations (Sandcity Limited)  (5)
Movement charged directly to equity in respect of foreign currency forward contracts   150 
Movement in respect of deconsolidation of Sandcity (note 36)     62 
Deferred tax asset at 27 February 2010      414
The Group has capital losses arising in the UK of £7,140,000 (2009: £7,140,000) that are available indefinitely for offset against 
future chargeable gains. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to 
offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
Deferred tax on revaluations of foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) to fair value is taken directly to equity.
The Directors expect to recover the recognised deferred tax asset over the foreseeable future. There are no other recognised 
deferred tax assets or liabilities in the year (2009: £nil). Potential deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses, which at 27 February 
2010 amount to approximately £27 million, have not been recognised.
11  Loss per share
Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the net loss for the year attributable to Ordinary Shareholders by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Since the Group was loss-making in the current year there is no dilution effect of share options and warrants. The Group has 
3,982,140 (2009: 2,140,914) share options and 2,131,905 warrants (2009: nil) over Ordinary Shares of 1p each (2009: 50p each) 
outstanding at the end of the year, that may become dilutive.
       2010 2009
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares of 1p each (2009: 50p each) for basic loss per share 42,293,525  42,281,856 
Effect of dilution — share options and warrants     –  – 
Adjusted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted loss per share  42,293,525  42,281,856 
Continuing operations
      Loss  Loss per share
     2010 2009 2010 2009
      £’000 £’000 pence pence
Loss and basic loss per share    (46,059) (5,734) (108.90) (13.56)
Exceptional items    29,191  5,433  69.02  12.86 
Tax expense/(credit) on exceptional items   2,296  (1,164) 5.43  (2.75)
Loss and basic loss per share excluding exceptional items  (14,572) (1,465) (34.45) (3.45) 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
11 Loss per share — continued
Discontinued operations
      Loss  Loss per share
     2010 2009 2010 2009
      £’000 £’000 pence pence
Loss and basic loss per share    (3,373) (9,027) (7.98) (21.35)
Exceptional items (2010: including £159,000 loss  
 attributable to disposal)    957  2,144  2.26  5.07 
Loss and basic loss per share excluding exceptional items  (2,416) (6,883) (5.72) (16.28)
Continuing and discontinued operations
      Loss  Loss per share
     2010 2009 2010 2009
      £’000 £’000 pence pence
Loss and basic loss per share    (49,432) (14,761) (116.88) (34.91)
Exceptional items    30,148  7,577  71.28  17.93 
Tax expense/(credit) on exceptional items   2,296  (1,164) 5.43  (2.75)
Loss and basic loss per share excluding exceptional items  (16,988) (8,348) (40.17) (19.73)
The additional loss per share information is disclosed as the Board believes that loss per share excluding exceptional items better 
reflects the underlying performance of the business and assists in providing a clearer view of the fundamental performance of  
the Group.
Ordinary Shares of 1p each have been allotted after the end of the financial year as set out in note 34.
12  Dividends paid and proposed
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Dividends declared and paid on Ordinary Shares:     
— Final dividend for prior year: 0.0 pence (2009: 1.0 pence)    –  426 
— Interim dividend for 2010: 0.0 pence (2009: 0.0 pence)    –  – 
Total dividends declared and paid on Ordinary Shares    – 426
Preference dividends are charged to the statement of comprehensive income as finance costs, as set out in note 9. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
60 | 61
13  Property, plant and equipment
    Freehold  Leasehold  
    land and improve- Fixtures and Motor
    buildings ments equipment vehicles Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008, net of accumulated depreciation  1,332  3,264  31,971  362  36,929 
Additions   –  93  5,015  27  5,135 
Disposals   –  (98) (3,094) (1,156) (4,348)
Impairment losses   –  (142) (281) –  (423)
Depreciation charge for the year   (32) (595) (7,465) (130) (8,222)
Depreciation eliminated on disposal   –  98  2,470  917  3,485 
At 28 February 2009, net of accumulated depreciation 1,300  2,620  28,616  20  32,556 
At 1 March 2009, net of accumulated depreciation  1,300  2,620  28,616  20  32,556 
Additions   –  (82) 3,027  –  2,945 
Disposals   (2,355) (3,852) (30,617) (66) (36,890)
Impairment losses   –  (1,172) (5,955) –  (7,127)
Depreciation charge for the year   (19) (1,090) (4,831) (5) (5,945)
Depreciation eliminated on disposal   2,355  3,794  29,625  66  35,840 
Eliminated upon deconsolidation of subsidiary undertaking (1,281) –  –  –  (1,281)
At 27 February 2010, net of accumulated depreciation –  218  19,865  15  20,098 
At 2 March 2008
Cost   3,636  13,075  78,630  1,288  96,629 
Accumulated depreciation   2,304  9,811  46,659  926  59,700 
Net carrying amount   1,332  3,264  31,971  362  36,929 
At 1 March 2009   
Cost   3,636  13,070  80,551  159  97,416 
Accumulated depreciation   2,336  10,450  51,935  139  64,860 
Net carrying amount   1,300  2,620  28,616  20  32,556 
At 27 February 2010
Cost   –  9,136  52,961  93  62,190 
Accumulated depreciation   –  8,918  33,096  78  42,092 
Net carrying amount   –  218  19,865  15  20,098  17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
13  Property, plant and equipment — continued
Capital expenditure commitments for property, plant and equipment for which no provision has been made are £981,000  
(2009: £241,000).
Impairment losses are calculated by the initial identification of stores that have not generated a cash inflow over the last two years. 
The value-in-use model is then used to evaluate the expected discounted cash flows from the assets of the stores identified and 
the subsequent impairment of those assets. Further, specific stores which are planned for closure are considered by the Directors 
for impairment. The impairment charge recorded in the year amounted to £7,127,000 (2009: £423,000), of which £6,329,000 
(2009: £291,000) is in respect of continuing operations and is presented within the statement of comprehensive income within 
exceptional items (see note 8). 
The net carrying amount includes the following assets held under hire purchase and finance leases (note 25):
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Plant and equipment      3,392 4,072
Net carrying amount of assets held under hire purchase and finance leases  3,392 4,072
14  Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGU’) identified according to business 
segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated by CGU is presented below:
      Outdoor Boardwear Total
Cost     £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008     34,598  1,754  36,352 
At 1 March 2009     34,598  1,754  36,352 
At 27 February 2010     34,598  1,754  36,352 
      Outdoor Boardwear Total
Accumulated impairment losses     £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008     –  –  – 
Impairment charged in the year (note 8)    –  (1,754) (1,754)
At 1 March 2009     –  (1,754) (1,754)
At 27 February 2010     –  (1,754) (1,754)
      Outdoor Boardwear Total
Carrying amount     £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008     34,598  1,754  36,352 
At 1 March 2009     34,598  –  34,598 
At 27 February 2010     34,598  –  34,598 
The Group performs an annual review of its goodwill to ensure that its carrying amount is not less than its recoverable amount.  
The recoverable amount is determined with reference to the value-in-use. To estimate this, cash flow projections are based on 
financial budgets prepared by management for a period of three years and extrapolated cash flow projections up to a total of ten 
years, with an estimated terminal value being applied thereafter. The Directors believe this to be justifiable given the nature of the 
business and the actions and plans both in place and in progress to turn around the performance of the business.
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
62 | 63
14 Goodwill — continued
The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 12% (2009: 10%), based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. 
The projected growth rate used in extrapolation of cash flow forecasts is 3% (2009: 3%) reflecting the strategic plan of the Group 
to recover negative growth rates of recent years. If additional equity funding can be achieved then the Directors expect the growth 
of the business to significantly exceed 3% per annum over the forecast period, however with no certainty of this as at the year 
end, the Directors consider it appropriate and prudent to not assume any such growth over 3% within the impairment review.
Expected future cash flows are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and represent the Directors’ best estimate 
of economic conditions existing over the projected period and reflect assumptions that are consistent with the way the discount 
rate has been determined. The strategic plans of the business, in addition to strategic actions already undertaken, have been 
considered when making these assumptions.
A sensitivity analysis was performed on the key assumptions used for assessing the goodwill arising in relation to the Outdoor 
division as shown in the table below:
Sensitivity of forecast net cash flows:
Reduction in annual forecast net cash flows    Current -10.0% -20.0%
Recoverable value (£’000)     78,549  70,694  62,839 
Carrying value (£’000)     34,598  34,598  34,598 
Excess of recoverable value over carrying value (£’000)   43,951  36,096  28,241 
Sensitivity to discount factor, at current levels of forecast net cash flows:
Discount factor     10% 12% 14%
Recoverable value (£’000)     88,864  78,549  69,805 
Carrying value (£’000)     34,598  34,598  34,598 
Excess of recoverable value over carrying value (£’000)   54,266  43,951  35,207 
15  Other intangible assets
The carrying amount of intangible assets by category is presented below:
       Internet 
      Trademarks development Total
      £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008     968  603  1,571 
Amortisation     (97) (486) (583)
At 1 March 2009     871  117  988 
Amortisation     (100) (110) (210)
Disposals     (771) –  (771)
At 27 February 2010     –  7  7 
The Group sold the trademark in the Mambo brand during the year, for an initial cash consideration of £497,000 and a further 
£300,000 to be received in three instalments over the following three years. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
16  Principal subsidiary undertakings
   Proportion of
  Country of ownership
 Nature of business incorporation interest
Blacks Outdoor Division Limited Holding company for The Outdoor Group Limited England 100%
 
The Outdoor Group Limited Outdoor and Boardwear clothing, footwear  
 and equipment retailer England 100%
 
The Company holds its interest in The Outdoor Group Limited indirectly.
On 23 September 2009, Sandcity Limited, which previously was reported as a principal subsidiary undertaking, was placed into 
administration (see note 36) and accordingly this interest is no longer listed as a principal subsidiary undertaking.
17  Inventories
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Finished goods      38,954  50,140
18  Trade and other receivables
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Trade receivables      529  4,188 
Less: allowance for doubtful debts      (125) (1,256)
       404  2,932 
Other debtors      1,871  1,735 
Corporation tax recoverable      6  150 
Prepayments and accrued income      4,444  5,746 
Trade and other receivables      6,725  10,563 
Trade receivables above are all due within one year. No interest is charged on trade receivables. Expected irrecoverable amounts 
are provided for based on past default experience.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include impaired assets. 
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values. As credit risk has 
been addressed as part of impairment provisioning and, due to the short-term nature of the receivables, they are not subject to 
ongoing fluctuations in market rates.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is represented by the carrying value of the financial assets in the 
balance sheet.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balances are receivables with a carrying amount of £125,000 (2009: £2,188,000) which 
are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as the amounts are still considered recoverable. The 
Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 27 February 2010 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
64 | 65
18  Trade and other receivables — continued
Ageing of trade receivables:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Current      279  1,412 
0–60 days past due      97  161 
60–120 days past due      28  631 
Over 120 days past due      125  1,984 
       529  4,188 
Movement in allowance for doubtful debts:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
At beginning of year      1,256  1,024 
Amounts charged to the statement of comprehensive income    (26) 491 
Amounts written off as uncollectable     –  (259)
Movement upon deconsolidation of Sandcity Limited    (1,105) – 
At end of year      125  1,256 
19  Cash and cash equivalents
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand      1,010  1,385
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for 
varying periods of between one day and one month depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn 
interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents does not materially differ from their 
book values.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand      1,010  1,385 
Bank overdrafts (note 24)      (13,643) (5,325)
Cash and cash equivalents      (12,633) (3,940)
At 27 February 2010, the Group had available £21,415,000 (2009: £10,444,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities with a 
floating security charge over the Group’s assets; all conditions precedent had been met.  17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
20  Share capital
Ordinary Shares
       Number £’000
Allotted and fully paid:
Ordinary Shares of 50p each at 28 February 2009     42,638,103  21,319 
Ordinary Shares of 1p each at 27 February 2010    42,638,103  426 
Deferred Shares
       Number £’000
Allotted and fully paid:
Deferred Shares of 49p each at 28 February 2009     –  – 
Deferred Shares of 49p each at 27 February 2010    42,638,103  20,893 
Preference Shares (presented within non-current liabilities)
       Number £’000
10% cumulative, irredeemable, Preference Shares of £1 each, allotted and fully paid 
At 28 February 2009      891,429  891 
At 27 February 2010      891,429  891 
Ordinary Shares and Deferred Shares
On 24 November 2009, the Company’s Ordinary Shares of 50p each were sub-divided into Ordinary Shares of 1p each and 
Deferred Shares of 49p each.
There were no further Ordinary Shares issued during the year (2009: nil). At 27 February 2010 there were outstanding options to 
receive allotments of 3,982,140 (2009: 2,140,914) Ordinary Shares of 1p each under the share option schemes as set out in note 
29 in addition to 2,131,905 Ordinary Shares under warrants as set out in note 9. At 27 February 2010 the middle market quotation 
of the Ordinary Shares of 1p each, as derived from the Stock Exchange Official List, was 51.50p. The highest price attained by the 
Ordinary Shares during the period was 61.75p and the lowest level was 26.75p.
Holders of the Ordinary Shares have all the rights normally attaching to Ordinary Shares, including rights to receive the Company’s 
Annual Report, to attend and speak at General Meetings and to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights. The Company’s 
Ordinary Shares do not carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company. There are no restrictions on share transfers 
or voting. Ordinary Shares acquired through the Company’s share schemes rank pari passu with the Company’s Ordinary 
Shares in issue and have no special rights. Unless the Board decides otherwise, an Ordinary Shareholder may not vote at any 
General Meeting or class meeting or exercise any rights in relation to shares while any amount of money relating to his shares is 
outstanding.
The Deferred Shares confer no voting rights nor any rights to participate in the profits of the Company except in very limited 
circumstances on a winding-up. The Deferred Shares are not redeemable and are only transferable in limited circumstances. The 
Company may at any time arrange for Deferred Shares to be transferred to the Company for an aggregate consideration of 1p and 
may cancel the Deferred Shares so purchased.
Ordinary Shares of 1p each have been allotted after the end of the financial year as set out in note 34.
Preference Shares
The 10% cumulative non-redeemable Preference Shares of £1 each confer the right to receive a fixed dividend of 10% per annum 
paid in priority to any payment to any class of share. The dividend is payable in two equal amounts on 30 April and 31 October of 
each year.
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
66 | 67
20  Share capital — continued
In the event of a return of capital, or on a winding-up of the Company, Preference Shareholders are entitled to repayment of the 
nominal capital paid up on their shares, a premium of 5p per share and any arrears of dividends to the date of repayment in priority 
to any other class of share. Preference Shares do not carry any voting rights, unless the preference dividends are in arrears for at 
least six months, or there is a resolution altering the rights of the holders of Preference Shares, for the winding-up of the Company 
or for a return of capital. In such instances, a Preference Shareholder shall have one vote on a show of hands, or in the event of a 
poll, ten votes for every Preference Share held.
21  Share premium
        £’000
At 1 March 2008, 28 February 2009 and 27 February 2010     24,333
22  Reserve for own shares
        £’000
At 1 March 2008, 28 February 2009 and 27 February 2010     (773)
This reserve represents Ordinary Shares held by the Blacks Leisure Group plc Employee Benefit Trust that provides for the issue 
of shares to Group employees under share incentive schemes. The number of Ordinary Shares in the Trust amounts to 344,578 
(2009: 344,578) with a market value at the year end of £177,000 (2009: £145,000).
23  Reserves
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within owners’ equity:
Reserve Description and purpose
Share premium Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Reserve for own shares The cost of own shares held.
Warrants reserve Fair value of Ordinary shares to be issued under warrants.
Hedging reserve Gains and losses arising on recognising hedging instruments at fair value in a qualifying cash flow  
 hedge.
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
24  Bank overdrafts
     Effective  2010 2009
     interest % Maturity £’000 £’000
Bank overdrafts    Variable On demand  13,643  5,325 
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of all Group companies. The 
average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximates to 3.954% (2009: 6.475%) per annum. The carrying value of the bank 
overdraft is a reasonable approximation of fair value given its short-term maturity and the variable interest rates that apply.
25  Obligations under finance leases
     Minimum lease  Present value of minimum
     payments lease payments
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
— within one year    1,282  1,313  1,178  1,147 
— in the second to fifth years inclusive   1,254  2,505  1,186  2,335 
— after five years    –  –  –  – 
     2,536  3,818  2,364  3,482 
Less: future finance charges    (172) (336) N/A N/A
Present value of lease obligations   2,364  3,482  2,364  3,482 
The present value of future payments is analysed as:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Current liabilities      1,178  1,147 
Non-current liabilities      1,186  2,335 
       2,364  3,482 
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain plant and equipment under finance leases. The Group entered into several finance lease 
commitments for plant and equipment relating to its premises at Swan Valley, Northampton. The average term is 3.7 years with 
an effective borrowing rate of 5.4%. Interest rates are fixed at the contract date, on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements 
have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their present value.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
68 | 69
26  Trade and other payables
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Trade payables      23,428  18,458 
Other taxes and social security      1,507  6,515 
Accruals      16,618  10,987 
Other payables      109  466 
Trade and other payables      41,662  36,426 
Trade creditors and accruals are non-interest bearing and principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and 
ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 62 days (2009: 47 days).
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value as they are short-term 
in nature and are therefore not subject to ongoing fluctuations in market rates.
27  Provisions
    Onerous   Closed store Other CVA 
    lease  Dilapidation rates related 
    provision provision provision provision Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 2 March 2008   11,736  912  –  –  12,648 
Additional provision in the year   4,157  458  –  –  4,615 
Unwinding of discount   968  –  –  –  968 
Utilised   (4,748) (231) –  –  (4,979)
Released   –  (196) –  –  (196)
At 28 February 2009   12,113  943  –  –  13,056 
At 1 March 2009   12,113  943  –  –  13,056 
Additional provision in the year   –  1,045  10,755  8,000  19,800 
Unwinding of discount   642  –  –  –  642 
Utilised   (386) (68) (617) –  (1,071)
Released   (10,153) (329) –  –  (10,482)
Deconsolidation of Sandcity (note 36)  (2,216) –  –  –  (2,216)
At 27 February 2010   –  1,591  10,138  8,000  19,729 
Current 2009   3,918  943  –  –  4,861 
Non-current 2009   8,195  –  –  –  8,195 
    12,113  943  –  –  13,056 
Current 2010   –  1,591  5,078  8,000  14,669 
Non-current 2010   –  –  5,060  –  5,060 
    –  1,591  10,138  8,000  19,729  17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
27 Provisions — continued
Ageing of non-current provisions (years in which the provision is expected to unwind):
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
In the second to fifth years inclusive      5,060  5,266 
In the sixth to tenth years inclusive      –  2,317 
After ten years      –  612 
       5,060  8,195 
The carrying value of provisions approximates to fair value since the cash flows have, where appropriate, been discounted at an 
appropriate cost of capital.
Onerous lease provision
The provision for onerous leases and other store closures at 28 February 2009 related to properties, some of which were vacant, 
for which obligations were removed as part of the CVAs as described in the Directors’ Report. Consequently, the balance that was 
provided at that time was released to the statement of comprehensive income. Owing to its significant size and nature, this has 
been presented within exceptional operating items (see note 8) on the face of the statement of comprehensive income.
Dilapidation provision
Dilapidation provisions relate to work that will need to be carried out in order to put a leased property back into the same condition 
as when the lease commenced. These provisions are recognised upon the serving of a dilapidations schedule upon the Group by 
the landlord.
Closed store rates provision
Under the terms of the CVAs, the Group has a commitment to pay business rates on properties that are compromised under 
these arrangements up until such a time as the landlord is able to re-let the site. Provision is made for the expected value of this 
obligation, discounted at a rate of 10% per annum, estimated based on the earlier of lease expiry and anticipated period to re-let.
Other CVA related provision
As described in note 8, under the terms of the CVAs, the Group must provide a fund of £7,250,000 against which landlords of 
stores included in the CVAs may make claims, which are intended to approximate to the equivalent of six months’ rent. Other CVA 
related provisions are made in respect of this obligation as well as further professional fees, including the expected professional 
fees of administering this fund.
28  Commitments and contingencies
       2010 2009
Operating lease commitments — Group as lessee    £’000 £’000
Amounts charged for the year include:
— Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense   37,674  45,789 
— Contingent rents      21  99 
Contingent rents are in respect of turnover-based rent clauses, the majority ranging between 8% and 12% of turnover above a 
base amount.
The Group leases various buildings which operate within the Outdoor and Boardwear segments. The leases are non-cancellable 
operating agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also has motor vehicles under non-
cancellable operating lease agreements.
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
70 | 71
28  Commitments and contingencies — continued
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 27 February 2010 are as follows:
   Land and  Motor  Land and Motor 
   buildings vehicles Total buildings vehicles Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year  25,614  169  25,783  40,721  469  41,190 
In the second to fifth years inclusive  87,957  43  88,000  137,375  255  137,630 
After five years  84,644  –  84,644  116,615  –  116,615 
   198,215  212  198,427  294,711  724  295,435 
The total future minimum sub-lease income under non-cancellable sub-leases as at 27 February 2010 is as follows:
   Land and  Motor  Land and Motor 
   buildings vehicles Total buildings vehicles Total
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year  563  –  563  821  –  821 
In the second to fifth years inclusive  1,476  –  1,476  1,745  –  1,745 
After five years  650  –  650  559  –  559 
   2,689  –  2,689  3,125  –  3,125
29  Employee benefits
Share options
The Group operates an Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS), Company Share Option Plan (CSOP), a Save As You Earn 
Scheme (SAYE), a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and a Turnaround Incentive Plan (TIP). There is also a Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
which has no current members.
The ESOS is an unapproved discretionary employee share option scheme, with options having been granted to certain senior 
employees (including Directors). No Directors hold options under this scheme as at the end of the financial year.
The CSOP is a HM Revenue & Customs approved discretionary employee share option.
The SAYE was open to employees with the required minimum period of service and provided for a purchase price equal to the 
market price on the date of grant, less a 20% discount. The shares can be purchased over the six-month period following the third 
or fifth anniversary of the commencement date, depending on the scheme to which the employee belongs.
The SIP is a scheme introduced on 28 November 2007 as a one-off performance related incentive award. During the year 
to 28 February 2009 an award was granted to M.A. Lombardo as a part of the remuneration package made available on his 
appointment as Finance Director. Further details of the Directors’ option schemes and performance criteria are given in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The TIP scheme was approved at a meeting of Shareholders on 24 November 2009 and under this scheme a total of 3,864,465 
options were granted on 18 January 2010. This grant, being in part a modification of existing schemes, resulted in 1,943,748 
existing options from other schemes being surrendered, such that any recipient of awards under the TIP scheme ceased to have 
any interests in any other share option schemes other than the SAYE. This scheme includes options granted to certain Directors 
and performance criteria (which are identical for all grants under the TIP scheme) in respect of these options are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
29  Employee benefits
A reconciliation of option movements for each of the above schemes over the year to 27 February 2010 is as follows:
Executive Share Option Scheme
      2010  2009
       Weighted  Weighted
      average  average
     Number of exercise Number of exercise
     options price (£)  options price (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    699,302  1.66  214,713  3.55 
Granted during the year     300,000  0.58  731,481  1.62 
Forfeited or surrendered during the year   (638,299) 1.46  (246,892) 3.18 
Lapsed during the year    (319,056) 0.99  –  – 
Outstanding at the end of the year     41,947  1.81  699,302  1.66 
Exercisable at the end of the year    3,799  3.67  14,117  3.67 
     2010    2009
  Weighted Weighted average Weighted Weighted average
Range of average remaining life average remaining life
 exercise exercise    exercise   
 prices price Number of Expected Contractual price Number of Expected Contractual
 (£) (£) shares (years) (years) (£) shares (years) (years)
1.62–3.67 1.81  41,947 1.6 2.6 1.66  699,302  0.7 4.7
There were no options exercised in the year; therefore, there is no weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the 
options (2009: £nil). The total charge for the year relating to the scheme was £34,000 (2009: £75,000). A total of 638,299 of the 
share options granted under this scheme were surrendered as part of the grant of options under the Turnaround Incentive Plan on 
18 January 2010. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
72 | 73
29  Employee benefits — continued
Company Share Option Plan
      2010  2009
       Weighted  Weighted
      average  average
     Number of exercise Number of exercise
     options price (£)  options price (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    35,695  3.67  71,766  3.78 
Forfeited or surrendered during the year   (24,658) 3.67  (36,071) 3.89 
Outstanding at the end of the year     11,037  3.67  35,695  3.67 
Exercisable at the end of the year     11,037  3.67  35,695  3.67 
     2010    2009
  Weighted Weighted average Weighted Weighted average
Range of average remaining life average remaining life
 exercise exercise    exercise   
 prices price Number of Expected Contractual price Number of Expected Contractual
 (£) (£) shares (years) (years) (£) shares (years) (years)
 3.67 3.67  11,037 0.0 3.7 3.67  35,695  0.0 4.7
There were no options exercised in the year; therefore, there is no weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the 
options (2009: £nil). There was no charge or credit taken to the income statement (2009: £nil).
Save As You Earn Scheme
      2010  2009
       Weighted  Weighted
      average  average
     Number of exercise Number of exercise
     options price (£)  options price (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    105,917  2.44  329,570  2.65 
Forfeited or surrendered during the year   (41,226) 2.29  (223,653) 2.76 
Outstanding at the end of the year     64,691  2.53  105,917  2.44 
Exercisable at the end of the year    12,045  3.56  2,542  3.24 
     2010    2009
  Weighted Weighted average Weighted Weighted average
Range of average remaining life average remaining life
 exercise exercise    exercise   
 prices price Number of Expected Contractual price Number of Expected Contractual
 (£) (£) shares (years) (years) (£) shares (years) (years)
1.97–3.56 2.53  64,691 1.2 1.7 2.44  105,917  2.1 2.6
There were no options exercised in the year; therefore, there is no weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the 
options (2009: £nil). A credit of £44,000 was taken to the income statement (2009: £47,000 credit) as a result of truing up the 
estimated attrition rate. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 27 February 2010
29  Employee benefits — continued
Share Incentive Plan
      2010  2009
       Weighted  Weighted
      average  average
     Number of exercise Number of exercise
     options price (£)  options price (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    1,300,000  2.15  1,000,000  2.50 
Granted during the year     –  –  300,000  0.98 
Forfeited or surrendered during the year   (1,300,000) 2.15  –  – 
Outstanding at the end of the year     –  1.81  1,300,000  2.15 
Exercisable at the end of the year    –  –  –  – 
     2010    2009
  Weighted Weighted average Weighted Weighted average
Range of average remaining life average remaining life
 exercise exercise    exercise   
 prices price Number of Expected Contractual price Number of Expected Contractual
 (£) (£) shares (years) (years) (£) shares (years) (years)
 N/A –  – N/A N/A 2.15  1,300,000  0.7 4.7
There were no options exercised in the year; therefore, there is no weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options 
(2009: £nil). The total charge for the year relating to the scheme was £234,000 (2009: £294,000). All share options granted under this 
scheme were surrendered as part of the grant of options under the Turnaround Incentive Plan on 18 January 2010.
Turnaround Incentive Plan
      2010  2009
       Weighted  Weighted
      average  average
     Number of exercise Number of exercise
     options price (£)  options price (£)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    –  –  –  – 
Granted during the year    3,864,465  0.00 –  – 
Outstanding at the end of the year     3,864,465  0.00 –  – 
Exercisable at the end of the year    –  – –  – 
     2010    2009
  Weighted Weighted average Weighted Weighted average
Range of average remaining life average remaining life
 exercise exercise    exercise   
 prices price Number of Expected Contractual price Number of Expected Contractual
 (£) (£) shares (years) (years) (£) shares (years) (years)
 0.00 0.00 3,864,465  2.9 9.9 –  –  N/A N/A
All options were granted in January 2010 and no options have since been exercised. A charge of £26,000 was taken to the 
statement of comprehensive income in the year. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
74 | 75
29 Employee benefits — continued
Equity-settled share-based payments
The total charge for the year from all share option schemes during the year was £250,000 (2009: £322,000).
The fair value of the share options is estimated as at the date of grant using the Monte Carlo model for TIP options and the 
Binomial model for SIP options and ESOS options granted after 28 February 2008. For all ESOS and CSOP options granted 
before 1 March 2008 and all SAYE options the Black–Scholes model is used. The following table gives the assumptions used and 
the fair value per option granted during the year.
      2010  2009
      TIP ESOS SIP
Share price at grant date     £0.60 £1.51 £1.02
Exercise price     £0.00 £1.62 £0.98
Shares under options     3,864,465 1,850,000 300,000
Vesting period (years)     3.0 5.5 5.0
Expected volatility     61.0% 49.0% 49.0%
Option life (years)     2.9 5.5 5.0
Expected life (years)     2.9 4.0 4.0
Risk-free rate     1.7% 4.9% 4.4%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield    0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Expectations of meeting performance criteria    100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Fair value per option     £0.177 £0.494 £0.013
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. 
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not 
necessarily be the actual outcome. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term 
consistent with the assumed option life. No other features of options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
Retirement benefits
The Group operates an ongoing pension scheme, the Blacks Leisure Group Stakeholder Pension Scheme. The assets of this 
scheme are held separately from those of the Group. Contributions to the scheme are charged to the statement of comprehensive 
income in the period in which they arise. The charge for the year was £396,000 (2009: £482,000). The Group also makes 
contributions into the Directors’ money purchase schemes as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Blacks Leisure Group plc Pension Scheme, an old scheme which had defined benefit members, has effectively been wound 
up as at 27 February 2010. In 2007 the Company received confirmation from the Trustees that all amounts due to the scheme 
had been paid and that it had no further exposure to any changes in the value of the scheme’s assets and liabilities. A full IAS19 
disclosure has therefore not been presented. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
30  Related party disclosures
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
accordingly are not disclosed in this note.
The remuneration of all key personnel is set out below. The key personnel are all either main Board members, subsidiary Board 
members or regular attendees of the subsidiary Board meetings. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors 
of the Company is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits      1,743  2,026 
Post-employment benefits      37  95 
Termination benefits      82  265 
Equity-settled share-based payments     270  348 
       2,132  2,734
There were no material transactions in which any key personnel had a material interest.
31  Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, cash and short-term 
deposits, receivables and payables. The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign 
currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are 
summarised below.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs and the risk of default by 
a counterparty in a financial transaction. The Group manages borrowing, liquidity, foreign exchange and banking relationships 
in accordance with Board approved policies designed to minimise exposures. The undertaking of financial transactions of a 
speculative nature is not permitted.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of internally-generated cash flow and bank borrowings. Refinancing risk 
is controlled by ensuring the Group has sufficient undrawn bank facilities to meet increases in projected borrowings over the 
following 12-month period. When this risk is considered significant, the Group’s policy is to fix or cap a proportion of projected net 
debt in order to reduce the Group’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. The policy recognises that, in common with other UK 
retailers, the Group has significant liabilities through conditional obligations to pay rent under property leases. The implicit interest 
rate of these liabilities is fixed in the short-term.
Transaction exposures resulting from purchases in foreign currencies may be hedged by forward foreign currency transactions. 
Group policy aims to minimise any exposure with the intention of protecting the buying margin from fluctuations in the value of the 
foreign currency.
Interest rate risk
The Group has a seasonal cash flow that moves significantly over the course of each year. The Group is exposed to cash flow 
interest rate risk on floating rate deposits, bank overdrafts and loans. Fixed interest rates are used for all finance lease borrowing.
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010 Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
76 | 77
31  Financial risk management objectives and policies — continued
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s principal foreign currency exposures arise from the purchase of overseas sourced products. Group policy allows for 
but does not demand that these exposures are hedged for up to 12 months ahead in order to fix the cost in sterling. This hedging 
activity involves the use of spot and forward contracts. There were contracts of this nature at year end as detailed in note 32. The 
Group’s net exposure to foreign currencies is illustrated by the sensitivity analysis in note 33.
The market value of outstanding foreign exchange derivatives is reported regularly and reviewed in conjunction with percentage 
cover taken by season and current market conditions in order to assess and manage the Group’s ongoing exposure.
The Group does not have a material exposure to currency movements in relation to translation of overseas assets and liabilities 
and consequently does not hedge any such exposure.
Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables. The amounts included in the balance sheet are 
net of allowances for doubtful debts, which have been estimated by management based on prior experience and known factors at 
the balance sheet date which may indicate that a provision is required. All customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject 
to credit verification procedures where considered appropriate.
The Group’s credit risk on liquid funds and derivatives is limited because the Group only maintains liquid funds, and only enters 
into derivative transactions, with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings. The Group also spreads liquid assets over 
a number of counterparties to ensure there is no significant exposure to credit risk.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements centrally to maximise interest income and minimise interest expense, 
whilst ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquid resources to meet the operating needs of its businesses.
Capital risk management
The Group monitors ‘adjusted capital’ which comprises all components of equity other than amounts recognised in equity relating 
to cash flow hedges. The Group manages this to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
In managing its capital, the Group’s primary objective is to ensure its continued ability to provide a consistent return for its equity 
Shareholders through a combination of capital growth and, when appropriate, distributions. In order to achieve this objective, the 
Group seeks to maintain a gearing ratio that balances risks and returns at an acceptable level and also to maintain a sufficient 
funding base to enable the Group to meet its working capital and strategic investment needs. In making decisions to adjust its 
capital structure to achieve these aims, either through altering its dividend policy, new share issues, or the reduction of debt, the 
Group considers not only its short-term position but also its long-term operational and strategic objectives. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
32  Derivatives
The Group uses currency derivatives to forward-buy and forward-sell foreign currency in order to hedge future transactions 
and cash flows. The Group is party to a variety of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of the exchange rate 
exposures. The instruments purchased are primarily denominated in the suppliers’ principal markets.
At the balance sheet date the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has 
committed to are:
    Exchange   2010 2009
     rate Currency Maturity £’000 £’000
Bank of Scotland plc   1.799 US dollar 04 Mar 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.827 US dollar 04 Mar 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.795 US dollar 01 Apr 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.824 US dollar 01 Apr 2009 –  1,500,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.792 US dollar 06 May 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.821 US dollar 06 May 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.789 US dollar 03 June 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.819 US dollar 03 June 2009 –  1,000,000 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.598 US dollar 08 Mar 2010 3,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.597 US dollar 12 Apr 2010 1,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.625 US dollar 08 Mar 2010 1,500,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.625 US dollar 07 May 2010 1,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.624 US dollar 07 June 2010 1,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.624 US dollar 07 July 2010 2,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.623 US dollar 09 Aug 2010 2,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.600 US dollar 08 Sept 2010 3,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.600 US dollar 08 Oct 2010 3,000,000  – 
Bank of Scotland plc   1.600 US dollar 08 Nov 2010 3,000,000  – 
The fair values of level 2 currency derivatives, based on market prices at which these contracts are traded, are as follows:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Fair value of currency derivatives designated and effective as cash flow hedges   720  1,256 
Forward currency contracts are entered into predominantly in relation to purchases of stocks from overseas suppliers and, 
accordingly, the fair value will be realised within the statement of comprehensive income at the point at which the Group then sells 
these goods. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
78 | 79
33  Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments (excluding derivatives) comprise:
Financial assets
 Loans and 
 receivables
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Current financial assets
Trade receivables (note 18)      404  2,932 
Cash at bank and in hand (note 19)      1,010  1,385 
       1,414  4,317 
As the majority of the Group’s trade receivables balance relates to customers that are public sector bodies, the risk of non-
payment tends to be low although each customer’s debt is individually analysed for the likely payment.
Financial liabilities
 Financial liabilities 
 measured 
 at amortised cost
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Current financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (note 24)      13,643  5,325 
Obligations under finance leases (note 25)     1,178  1,147 
Trade and other payables (note 26)      41,662  36,426 
Short-term provisions (note 27)      14,669  4,861 
Total current financial liabilities      71,152  47,759 
Non-current financial liabilities
Preference Shares (note 20)      891  891 
Obligations under finance leases (note 25)     1,186  2,335 
Long-term provisions (note 27)      5,060  8,195 
Total non-current financial liabilities      7,137  11,421 
Total financial liabilities      78,289  59,180 
The fair value of finance lease liabilities is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest 
rates for homogenous lease agreements. The fair value of finance leases for the year have been estimated at £2,364,000 (2009: 
£3,482,000) as per note 25.
Preference Shares measured at amortised cost have a fair value of £401,000 (2009: £1,041,000) based upon the Preference 
Share market price at 27 February 2010 of 45.0p (2009: 116.8p). 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
33 Financial instruments — continued
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual 
maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contracted undiscounted cash flows:
Liquidity analysis
        27 February
        2010
      Within one  One to five Greater than
      year years five years
      £’000 £’000 £’000
Preference Shares     89  –  891 
Bank overdrafts     13,643  –  – 
Obligations under finance leases     1,282  1,254  – 
Trade and other payables     41,662  3,802  – 
Provisions     14,704  6,325  – 
      71,380  11,381  891 
        28 February 
        2009
      Within one  One to five Greater than
      year years five years
      £’000 £’000 £’000
Preference Shares     89  –  891 
Bank overdrafts     5,325  –  – 
Obligations under finance leases     1,281  2,506  – 
Trade and other payables     36,426  –  – 
Provisions     5,125  8,194  5,677 
      48,246  10,700  6,568 
Interest rate and currency
The Directors review any requirement for interest rate hedging during the year dependent upon the level of borrowings. The Group 
is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate deposits, bank overdrafts and loans which amounted to £13,643,000 
(2009: £5,325,000) where interest rates are based on the underlying UK LIBOR rate. Fixed interest rates are used for all finance 
lease borrowing which amounted to £2,364,000 (2009: £3,482,000).
The Group holds a committed revolving credit facility of £42.5m, which is to be used for general corporate and working capital 
purposes. As at 27 February 2010 the Group had available £21,415,000 (2009: £10,444,000) of undrawn committed borrowing 
facilities with a floating security charge over the Group’s assets; all conditions precedent had been met. The interest rate on the 
committed and uncommitted facilities is based on the UK LIBOR rate. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
80 | 81
33 Financial instruments — continued
The currency and interest rate exposure of the Group’s floating rate cash balances and bank overdrafts is shown below (overdrafts 
are shown as negative):
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand
Sterling      409  787 
Euro      601  598 
       1,010  1,385 
Bank overdrafts
Sterling      (15,966) (5,716)
Euro      254  1,122 
US dollar      2,087  (712)
Hong Kong dollar      (18) (19)
       (13,643) (5,325)
The right of set-off within the banking facility enables certain accounts with overdrafts to be set off against accounts with a 
balance, and be recorded as a net balance or overdraft in the consolidated balance sheet. This has led to some foreign currency 
accounts with a balance to be classified as a financial liability as the above tables show.
The floating rate assets and liabilities comprise bank accounts bearing interest rates based upon the UK LIBOR rate. There are no 
fixed rate financial assets.
Sensitivity analysis
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group’s principal foreign currency exposures are to US dollar and the euro. The table below illustrates the hypothetical sensitivity 
of the Group’s reported profit and equity to a 10% increase and decrease in the US dollar/sterling and euro/sterling exchange rates at 
the year end date, assuming all other variables remain unchanged. The sensitivity of 10% represents the Directors’ assessment of a 
reasonably possible change over the coming year. Positive figures represent an increase in profit or equity.
      Statement of 
      Comprehensive Income  Equity
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Sterling strengthens by 10%:
— US dollar    190  (65) (692) (455)
— Euro    (266) (186) (266) (194)
Sterling weakens by 10%:    
— US dollar    (232) 79  846  556 
— Euro    325  230  325  237 
Year end exchange rates applied in the above analysis are 1.5224 (2009: 1.4255) for US dollars and 1.1154 (2009: 1.1224) for 
euros. Strengthening and weakening of sterling may not produce symmetrical results depending on the proportion and nature of 
foreign exchange derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
33 Financial instruments — continued
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The table below illustrates the hypothetical sensitivity of the Group’s reported profit and equity to a 1% (percentage point) increase 
or decrease in interest rates, assuming all other variables were unchanged. The sensitivity rate of 1% represents the Directors’ 
assessment of a reasonably possible change. Positive figures represent an increase in profit or equity.
The analysis has been prepared under the following assumptions:
h  For floating rate assets and liabilities, the amount of asset or liability outstanding at the balance sheet date is assumed to 
have been outstanding for the whole year; and
h  Fixed rate financial instruments that are carried at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk for the purpose of this 
analysis.
      Statement of 
      Comprehensive Income  Equity
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Interest rate increase of 1%    (126) (183) (126) (183)
Interest rate decrease of 1%    126  183  126  183 
34  Events after the balance sheet date
As described in note 9, the Company issued 2,131,905 warrants over its Ordinary 1p Shares to Bank of Scotland plc in 
connection with the new working capital facility agreed during the year. The Company was informed on 22 April 2010 that this 
interest had been acquired by VF Luxembourg S.A.R.L. and on 23 April 2010 these warrants were exercised and 2,131,905 
Ordinary shares of 1p each were allotted at nominal value.
The Company has today announced that it is to pursue an equity fundraising.
There are no other material events after the balance sheet date identified or included within the accounts.
35  Closure of stores
During the year, the Group closed 99 retail stores, including 11 stores which ceased trading as a result of the administration of 
Sandcity Limited as announced on 23 September 2009 and a further 88 stores which were part of the store closure plan and 
Company Voluntary Arrangement announced on 30 September 2009. A large number of these stores were, and had historically 
been, trading unprofitably. Wholesale operations in the Sandcity Limited business also ceased in the prior year.
Whilst the Directors forecast that the impact of these closures will be positive for the Group overall, the closure of these stores and 
operations has had a material impact upon the overall current scale of operations of the Group. The results of these closed stores 
and operations, in addition to the one-off costs borne in connection with the Company Voluntary Arrangements (see note 8), has 
similarly had a material effect upon the loss presented within the income statement. Whilst the results of Sandcity Limited qualify 
under IFRS5 to be presented as discontinued operations on the statement of comprehensive income, the impact of the CVA 
related store closures falls within continuing operations. The Directors therefore consider it appropriate to set out, as below, how 
the statement of comprehensive income from continuing activities has been affected in respect of these events. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
82 | 83
35  Closure of stores — continued
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income includes the relative impact of these closed stores on total consolidated 
revenue and gross profit from continuing operations, in each year, as set out below:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Ongoing stores      210,758  200,630 
Closed stores and operations      29,759  51,939 
Total revenue (continuing operations)     240,517  252,569 
Ongoing stores      111,199  115,954 
Closed stores and operations      12,878  24,673 
Total gross profit (continuing operations)     124,077  140,627
The closures will also reduce store operating expenses going forward, for example store rents, rates, staff costs, utilities and other 
directly attributable store costs. Such costs in relation to closed stores, in addition to other costs incurred specifically in relation to 
the Company Voluntary Arrangements, are presented below in order to demonstrate the significant non-recurring effect that this 
has on the loss before tax from continuing operations:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
CVA related and other costs presented as exceptional items    (25,612) – 
Other losses directly attributable to closed stores and operations    (10,102) (3,865)
       (35,714) (3,865)
Ongoing stores and operations      (7,859) (2,728)
Loss before tax (continuing operations)     (43,573)  (6,593) 
36  Discontinued operations — Administration of Sandcity Limited
As announced on 23 September 2009, over the previous 18 months, the Group had been reviewing options to exit from its  
loss-making Boardwear division. As part of this review the Group has successfully exited the O’Neill wholesale business, converted 
a number of stores from Boardwear to Outdoor fascia, and reduced the cost base through a consolidation of the Sandcity 
and Freespirit management functions. A disposal of the Boardwear segment has also been pursued but serious interest in this 
business was low and structural issues made a discrete sale of this business difficult to achieve.
On 23 September 2009, Richard Fleming and David Costley-Wood of KPMG LLP were appointed as administrators in  
respect of the wholly owned subsidiary, Sandcity Limited. Sandcity Limited was part of the Boardwear segment and was a  
retailer of predominantly lifestyle and Boardwear clothing and accessories. It operated from 11 stores, and traded at a  
substantial loss. It also previously had undertaken a wholesale operation until that part of the business was closed as  
announced on 10 December 2008.
The appointment of the administrators of Sandcity Limited resulted in an exit by the Group from approximately one-quarter of 
the Boardwear stores. Further Boardwear stores, operating within The Outdoor Group Limited under the Freespirit fascia, were 
also subsequently exited as part of the Company Voluntary Arrangement as described in note 35. The Directors believe that the 
administration of Sandcity Limited will not have a material effect on the Group’s other businesses.
The statement of comprehensive income analysis of Sandcity Limited for the period until 23 September 2009, with full year 
comparatives, is presented below. Reflecting the loss of control by the Group, these results have been presented within the 
statement of comprehensive income as discontinued operations, in line with the requirements of IFRS5. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 27 February 2010
36 Discontinued operations – Administration of Sandcity Limited — continued
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Revenue      8,531  14,982 
Cost of sales      (6,271) (10,445)
Gross profit      2,260  4,537 
Distribution costs      (3,960) (10,835)
Administrative expenses      (1,387) (1,152)
Operating loss      (3,087) (7,450)
Operating loss excluding exceptional items     (2,289) (5,306)
Exceptional items      (798) (2,144)
Finance costs      (122) (373)
Loss on ordinary activities before tax     (3,209) (7,823)
Loss attributable to disposal      (159) – 
Loss before tax      (3,368) (7,823)
Tax expense      (5) (1,204)
Loss for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent   (3,373) (9,027)
Other comprehensive income      –  – 
Total comprehensive expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent  (3,373) (9,027)
Other comprehensive income      –  – 
Loss for the period on discontinued operations    (3,373) (9,027)
Exceptional items in the period of £798,000 related to the impairment of property, plant and equipment (2009: £2,144,000, 
comprising £1,244,000 of costs relating to the relocation of the business, £767,000 for provisions for onerous leases and 
£133,000 for impairment of property, plant and equipment). Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
84 | 85
36 Discontinued operations – Administration of Sandcity Limited — continued
The effect of the deconsolidation on the individual assets and liabilities of the Group is shown below:
        2010
        £’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment       1,281 
Deferred income tax liability       (62)
Current assets
Inventories       1,124 
Trade and other receivables       1,632 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables       (1,562)
Short-term provisions       (1,059)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term provisions       (1,157)
Net attributable assets disposed of      197 
Bank overdrafts disposed of       (38)
Loss attributable to disposal       159 
The net cash flows of Sandcity Limited up until the date of disposal from the Group were as follows:
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Net cash flow from operations      2,151  (9,160)
Net cash flow from investing activities     –  – 
Net cash flow from financing activities     –  – 
Net cash flow from discontinued operations     2,151  (9,160)
In accordance with IFRS5 ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’, the results that were recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements for the year ended 28 February 2009 that relate to operations that were discontinued in the year 
ended 27 February 2010 have been represented as discontinued. Accordingly, a consolidated balance sheet as at the beginning 
of the earliest comparative period presented would ordinarily be required by IAS1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’. However, 
given that the restatement of the results relating to discontinued operations for the year ended 28 February 2009 has been fully 
disclosed and has no impact on either overall loss or the Group’s balance sheet as at 2 March 2008, the Directors do not believe 
that the omission of this additional balance sheet from these financial statements has any impact on their truth and fairness.
Similarly, the Directors have not presented a third balance sheet following their decision to give additional information on the face 
of the statement of comprehensive income for the results attributable to the closed stores, in relation to continuing operations, as 
set out in note 35. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Company Balance Sheet (Prepared using UK GAAP)
as at 27 February 2010
        2010 2009
       Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings     5 54,190 53,158 
        54,190 53,158 
Current assets
Debtors      6 20,124 575
Cash at bank and in hand      152 8,435
        20,276 9,010 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    7 (19,684) (22,673)
Net current assets/(liabilities)      592 (13,663)
Total assets less current liabilities      54,782 39,495
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    8 (891) (891)
Net assets       53,891 38,604 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital     9 21,319 21,319 
Share premium      10 24,333 24,333 
Reserve for own shares     12 (773) (773)
Profit and loss account     13 9,012 (6,275) 
Shareholders’ funds     14 53,891 38,604 
The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 30 April 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Neil Gillis
Chief Executive
Marc Lombardo
Finance Director Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
86 | 87
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
as at 27 February 2010
1  Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the valuation of certain financial instruments, and in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The Company has not disclosed the requirements under FRS29 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’ as it has taken advantage of 
the exemption to only disclose them with those of the Group in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the 
preceding year.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, provision being made where appropriate to recognise a permanent 
diminution in value.
Equity-settled share-based payments
Certain employees and Directors of the Group receive equity-settled remuneration in the form of share-based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares. The cost of equity-settled 
transactions with employees are measured by reference to the fair value, determined using the Black–Scholes option pricing model 
or Binomial model as appropriate, at the date at which they are granted. The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, 
together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the 
relevant vesting date. The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired, and is adjusted to reflect the Directors’ best available estimate of 
the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
Where the terms and conditions of options are modified before they vest, the movement in the fair value of the options, measured 
immediately before and after the modification, is also charged to the profit and loss account over the remaining vesting period.
In addition to share options, the Company has also granted to its bankers warrants to acquire Ordinary Shares as part of the fee 
agreement to refinance the Group in November 2009. These warrants give the bank the right to acquire shares in the Company 
and accordingly these obligations will be settled by shares. The fair value charge in relation to these warrants has been borne by 
the main trading subsidiary, The Outdoor Group Limited, and accordingly the Company has recorded a capital contribution to 
its subsidiary in respect of this which has been treated as an increase in the cost of the investment held by the Company in its 
subsidiary.
Guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts and guarantees the indebtedness of other companies within 
the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the 
Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time that it becomes probable that the Company will be 
required to make a payment under the guarantee.
2  Profit and loss account
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account 
for the year. The profit after tax for the year recognised in the profit and loss account for the Company was £14,010,000 (2009: 
£20,478,000 loss).
The Company audit fee for 2010 amounted to £54,000 (2009: £54,000). 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
as at 27 February 2010
3  Employee benefits expense
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries      771 846
Social security costs      85 92
Pension costs      78 71
       934 1,009
Equity-settled share-based payments expense     243 289
Total      1,177 1,298
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Full-time
— Management and administration      3 2
Part-time      3 4
Total      6 6
4  Dividends paid and proposed
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Dividends declared and paid on Ordinary Shares:
—  Final dividend for prior year: 0.0 pence (2009: 1.0 pence)    –  426 
—  Interim dividend for 2010: 0.0 pence (2009: 0.0 pence)    –  – 
Total dividends declared and paid on Ordinary Shares    –  426 
Proposed for approval at AGM:
Final dividend on Ordinary Shares for 2010: 0.0 pence (2009: 0.0 pence)   –  – 
Preference dividends are charged to the profit and loss account as finance costs.
5  Investments in subsidiary undertakings
        £’000
Cost
At 1 March 2009       71,642 
Share-based payments recharged to subsidiary in relation to warrants    1,032 
At 27 February 2010       72,674 
Provisions for impairment
At 1 March 2009 and 27 February 2010      (18,484)
 
Net book value at 27 February 2010      54,190 
Net book value at 28 February 2009      53,158  Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
88 | 89
6  Debtors
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings     20,111  565 
Other taxes and social security      –  1 
Other debtors      13  9 
       20,124  575 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are repayable upon demand and are non-interest bearing.
7  Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings     18,485  22,300 
Accruals and deferred income      1,135  326 
Other creditors      64  47 
       19,684  22,673 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are repayable upon demand and are non-interest bearing.
8  Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Preference shares (see note 9)      891  891 
9  Called up share capital
      2010  2009
     Number £’000 Number £’000
(a) Ordinary Shares
Allotted and fully paid shares of 1p (2009: 50p) each  42,638,103 426 42,638,103 21,319
(b) Deferred Shares   
Allotted and fully paid shares of 49p each   42,638,103 20,893 –  – 
(c) Preference Shares
Allotted and fully paid 10% cumulative shares of £1 each  891,429 891 891,429 891
On 24 November 2009, the Company’s Ordinary Shares of 50p each were sub-divided into Ordinary Shares of 1p each and 
Deferred Shares of 49p each.
Preference Shares are presented within creditors falling due after more than one year, in accordance with the requirements  
of FRS25.
Rights attaching to each class of share are disclosed within the Directors’ Report and Business Review. 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
as at 27 February 2010
10  Share premium
        £’000
At 1 March 2009 and 27 February 2010      24,333 
11  Equity-settled share-based payments
Share options
The grants and related accounting treatment adopted by the Company under FRS20 ‘Share-based Payment’ are identical to 
that adopted by the Group under IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payment’. For details please refer to note 29 in the consolidated financial 
statements.
Bank warrants
As part of the fee agreement for the refinancing of the Group in November 2009, the Company granted its banker a warrant to 
acquire 2,131,905 Ordinary Shares, at any time at the discretion of the bank, for a subscription price of 1p each. These warrants 
vest and are exercisable immediately and expire in five years. The fair value of these warrants has been calculated at £1,032,000, 
based upon a Black–Scholes model, and this has been recharged to the main trading subsidiary by way of a capital contribution. 
The Company was informed on 22 April 2010 that these warrants had been acquired by VF Luxembourg S.A.R.L. and on  
23 April 2010 the warrants were exercised and accordingly 2,131,905 Ordinary shares of 1p each were allotted at nominal value.
12  Reserve for own shares
        £’000
At 1 March 2009 and 27 February 2010      (773) 
This reserve represents shares held by the Blacks Leisure Group Employee Benefit Trust that provides for the issue of shares to 
Group employees under share incentive schemes. The number of shares in the Trust amounts to 344,578 (2009: 344,578) with a 
market value at the year end of £177,000 (2009: £145,000).
13  Profit and loss account
        £’000
At 1 March 2009       (6,275) 
Profit for the financial year       14,010 
Equity-settled share-based payments credit      1,277 
At 27 February 2010       9,012 
The deficit at 1 March 2009 on the profit and loss account was made good during the financial year by the receipt of dividends of 
£19,000,000 from subsidiary undertakings, which is reflected in the profit for the year as stated above. Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Our Financials
Our Governance
Our Business
90 | 91
14  Shareholders’ funds
       2010 2009
       £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) after taxation      14,010 (20,478)
Dividends paid      – (426)
Retained profit/(loss)      14,010 (20,904)
Equity-settled share-based payments expense     1,277 289
Net movement in Shareholders’ funds     15,287 (20,615)
Opening Shareholders’ funds      38,604 59,219 
Closing Shareholders’ funds      53,891 36,604 
15  Commitments and contingencies
Contingent liabilities
The Company guarantees the bank borrowings of subsidiary undertakings which at 27 February 2010 amounted to £15,310,000 
(2009: £13,985,000). There were no guarantees for stock purchases in place at year end (2009: nil). 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Five Year Summary
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Results (from continuing and  
discontinued operations)
Revenue    249,048  267,551  294,414  298,276  297,238 
Operating (loss)/profit excluding exceptional items  (14,326) (4,465) 2,181  1,583  22,364 
Exceptional items    (27,116) (7,577) (9,596) (13,936) – 
Operating (loss)/profit   (41,442) (12,042) (7,415) (12,353) 22,364 
Finance costs    (5,499) (2,374) (1,845) (1,491) (929)
(Loss)/profit before tax   (46,941) (14,416) (9,260) (13,844) 21,435 
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders   (49,432) (14,761) (6,051) (12,624) 14,538 
Assets employed
Non-current assets   55,117  70,835  78,452  79,950  77,470 
Current assets   47,409  63,344  71,466  80,637  85,868 
Non-current liabilities   (10,939) (17,449) (18,514) (15,092) (6,814)
Current liabilities    (71,152) (47,759) (47,972) (53,607) (46,944)
Net assets    20,435  68,971  83,432  91,888  109,580 
Financed by
Equity    20,435  68,971  83,432  91,888  109,580 
Key statistics
     Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
(Loss)/earnings per share — Basic   (116.88) (34.91) (14.20) (29.69) 34.57 
(Loss)/earnings per share — Diluted   (116.88) (34.91) (14.20) (29.69) 33.88 
Ordinary dividend per share   0.0  0.0  3.0  5.3  11.3  17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
02 Group at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Our Markets and Strengths
14 Financial Review
18 Corporate Social Responsibility
20 Directors and Advisors
22 Corporate Governance Statement
26 Directors’ Remuneration Report
30 Directors’ Report and Business Review
36 Independent Auditors’ Report
38 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
 Income
39 Consolidated Balance Sheet
40 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
41 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
42 Notes to the Financial Statements
86 Company Balance Sheet
87 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
92 Five Year Summary
 | 01
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
Founded in 1861, Blacks Leisure Group plc  
operates in the retail of outdoor and  
boardwear clothing and equipment in the  
United Kingdom, Channel Isles and Ireland.
A message from the Chairman
Financial Highlights
 2010 2009
Revenue £267.6m £294.4m
Gross margin 54.3% 53.7%
Operating (loss)/profit excluding exceptional items* (£4.4)m £2.2m
(Loss)/profit before tax and exceptional items* (£6.8)m £0.3m
Operating loss (£12.0)m (£7.4)m
Loss before tax (£14.4)m (£9.3)m
Basic (loss)/earnings per share excluding exceptional items*  (19.57)p 4.32p
Basic loss per share (34.63)p (14.20)p
Final dividend per share 0.00p 1.00p
Total dividend per share 0.00p 3.00p
Exited 
boardwear
Improved 
core retail 
skills
Rationalised 
cost base
Reduced 
working 
capital
Improved 
infastructure
Optimised
properties
Contents Dear Shareholders
The Group has made progress in what has been a difficult but 
ultimately productive year.  As a result of the CVAs, the Group is 
ready to accelerate the final phase of the turnaround plan, with the 
net proceeds from the fundraising announced today being used 
principally to invest in the current estate and to open new stores in 
towns and cities where we are not currently represented.
David Bernstein
Chairman
Completed 
CVAs
Improved core 
retail skills
Agreed bank 
facility
Rationalised 
cost base
Increased 
Outdoor focus
Reduced 
working 
capital 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5 17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 27 February 2010
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
focused
on the outdoors  on the future 
Blacks Leisure Group plc
440/450 Cob Drive, Swan Valley
Northampton  NN4 9BB 
T: +44 (0)1604 597000  F: +44 (0)1604 597171
Shareholder helpline: 0871 664 0300
Email: info@blacksleisure.co.uk
www.blacksleisure.co.uk
Blacks Leisure Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 27 February 2010
