 Bringing a
world online
35-39 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6AR
www.centralnic.com
Annual Report 2016
CentralNic Group Plc   Annual Report 2016    radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   
.   rg.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar
.   gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   
.   college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .web
s   com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   
.   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   
.   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   
.   rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr
e   e.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   
.   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   
.   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .pr
.   wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   
.   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   
.   ov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   
.   rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   
.   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   
.   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   
e   net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   
.   com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   
.   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   
.   nline   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   
.   rg.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   
.   art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   
.   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   
.   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   
.   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   
.   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   
.   rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatr
.      .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   
.   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   
.   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   
.   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   
.   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   
.   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   
.   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .r
.   br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov
e   e.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .r
.   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   
.   kets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   
.   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   
.   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   
.   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   
CentralNic’s global business footprint
Designed and produced by fourthquarter
Contents
Highlights                                                   1
Introduction to CentralNic                           2
CentralNic’s key advantages                       5
CentralNic’s clients                                     6
Chairman’s statement                               10
Chief Executive’s report                            13
Strategic report                                         15
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s report                   18
Board of Directors                                    22
Ofﬁce locations Business footprint
Directors’ report                                        24
Corporate governance                              28
Remuneration report                                 31
Independent Auditors’ report                    34
Financial statements                                 35
Particulars of subsidiaries and associates   73
Shareholder information                            74
Glossary                                                   76 • A year of growth, particularly following the Instra acquisition.
Group revenues grew by 113% to £22.13m (2015: £10.39m)
and Adjusted EBITDA grew by 68% to £5.48m (2015: £3.25m).
• Proﬁt before taxation of £1.16m (2015: £1.45m) after deduction
of non-cash charges, acquisition costs and exceptional items.
• Recurring/subscription revenues increased to 81% of overall
revenues (2015: 67%
1
).
• Acquisition of Instra Group completed on 14 January 2016 
for consideration of £18.60m (AU$38.04m); contributing 
Retail revenue of £10.28m and Adjusted EBITDA of £2.21m. 
• Wholesale Division maintained ranking as the world’s 
number one new TLD registry services provider by volume,
increasing market share to 32% (2015: 23%). Wholesale
domains under management of 9.89m (2015: 3.39m)
reﬂected volume-based promotions of new TLDs which
present potential for future renewals.
• Enterprise revenues included £3.74m (2015: £3.22m) 
of premium domain name revenues and a full year of 
dnsXperts revenues.
1 Recurring/subscription revenues include revenue from domain registrations, domain renewals and other recurring revenues stated before deferrals.
Highlights
CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 1 2 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Headquartered in London, the business operates globally, 
with customers in over 200 countries. The Group focuses on
identifying and exploiting growth opportunities across its three
divisions. It does this through winning new clients, launching
new products and services, and acquiring other companies
that enhance and accelerate the growth strategy.
The Wholesale Division
At the end of 2016, the industry statistics website
ntldstats.com again ranked CentralNic’s Wholesale Division
number one globally by volume of domains registered among
“Registry Backends” for new Top-Level Domains. The two most
important contributing factors behind this achievement are
the Division’s technology platforms and operations, and the
domain name inventory for which CentralNic is the exclusive
global wholesaler.
Technology Platforms and Operations
CentralNic’s Wholesale Division powers speciﬁc domain names
and is also their exclusive distributor through retailers globally.
The DNS system which powers the domains is a global network
of nameservers, with 50 locations geographically distributed
around the world. Centralnic’s DNS assures the stability, security
and resilience of the domain names supported by CentralNic.
During 2016 this system maintained its unblemished record of
100% uptime for the 20th consecutive year.
Meanwhile CentralNic’s “registry engine” enables retailers around
the world to sell an increasing range of internet domain names.
It also handles billing and cash collection on behalf of registry
clients – the rights holders to the domains that CentralNic
distributes. CentralNic also supports its registry clients with value
added services such as policy advice and sales and marketing.
CentralNic’s registry engine experienced 99.96% uptime in
2016, comparing favourably with the standard 95% set by
industry regulator ICANN.
CentralNic’s distribution platform integrates with around 1,500
retailers globally and through them the channel reaches out to
over 100,000 resellers. For the past four years, China has been
one of CentralNic’s most buoyant markets. This reﬂects a
business development and operational focus on China that has
positioned the Company to beneﬁt from the unprecedented
demand for domain names in that market.
Domain Name Inventory
Every Top-Level Domain extension, such as .com, .org and
.co.uk has an exclusive Wholesaler (known in the domain name
industry as a “registry backend”). CentralNic’s platform supports
all ﬁve categories of domain name extensions: Country Code
Domain Extensions such as .la, .cx and .fm; Second-Level
Domain extensions such as .uk.com and .us.com; Generic
Top-Level Domain extensions like .xyz and .online; “sponsored”
domains for a speciﬁc purpose such as .coop, the internet
designation for cooperatives; and ﬁnally “DotBrand” Top-Level
Domains such as .stc for Saudi Telecom Corporation, which
uses CentralNic’s wholesale platform to power domains not for
sale but for the rights holder’s own use. During 2016 CentralNic
retailed domain names to customers in over 200 countries
globally through its multiple retail websites.
Instra Group was acquired during 2016. The acquisition brought
with it one of the widest range of domain extensions offered by
retailers in the industry. These domain extensions include
around 150 Country Code Domain Extensions (ccTLD’s), large
numbers of Generic Top-Level Domain extensions, as well as
related offerings such as shared hosting. The Instra brands
address demand from customer segments including mid-cap
corporate businesses, small-medium enterprises, private
individuals and domain name investors. Since acquiring the
business the overall registered domains increased by over
40,000 – a growth rate of 12%, a pleasing result in the ﬁrst
period of ownership.
CentralNic Group plc (LSE: CNIC) (“CentralNic”) is one of the world’s
leaders in the domain name industry. It continuously develops to
meet the domain market’s evolving challenges and opportunities.
CentralNic currently comprises three proﬁtable and growing
operating divisions each with its own proprietary technology platform.
The Wholesale Division powers domain names and sells them
through an integrated network of third party retailers; the Retail
Division sells domain names and related services to end users; and
the Enterprise Division sells domain names and related services,
consultancy services and licenses software to corporations.
Introduction to CentralNic CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 3
Domain extensions exclusively using the CentralNic platform in 2016
.FM                                        .PW
COUNTRY CODE TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS
.LA                                    .CX                          .AM
COUNTRY CODE TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS 
(DISTRIBUTED VIA CENTRALNIC SOFTWARE)
.COOP
SPONSORED TOP-LEVEL DOMAIN
.ETISALAT                                .KFH
.STC                                         .STCGROUP
.VIVA                                         .WME
“DOTBRAND” TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS
GENERIC TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS LAUNCHED IN 2017
During 2016 CentralNic retailed domain names to customers
in over 200 countries globally through its multiple retail
websites, which included:
www.internetbs.net
www.buy.menu
www.buydomains.london
www.centralnicfintech.com
www.cymrudomains.com
www.registrar.vuelos
www.domain.build
www.domain.luxury
www.domains.asia
www.domains.bar
www.domains.rest
www.la , www.whatdomain.la , www.laodomains.la
www.register.reit
www.registrar.hoteles
www.tickets.domains
www.centralnicdomains.com
www.instra.com 
www.onlydomains.com
www.asiaregistry.com
www.europeregistry.com
www.africaregistry.com
www.americaregistry.com
RETAIL DIVISION
.BASKETBALL                         .CONTACT
.FAN                                         .FORUM
.PID                                          .RUGBY
.STORAGE                                                                            
NEW GENERIC TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS
CONTRACTED BUT NOT LAUNCHED
.ART                                         .FUN
.OBSERVER                             .REALTY
.BAR                                         .COLLEGE
.DESIGN                                   .FANS
.FEEDBACK                             .HOST
.STORE                                    .INK
.LOVE                                       .ONLINE
.PRESS                                    .PROTECTION
.REIT                                        .RENT
.REST                                       .SECURITY
.SITE                                         .SPACE
.STORE                                    .TECH
.THEATRE                                .TICKETS
.WEBSITE                                 .WIKI
.XYZ                                         
GENERIC TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS
.AE.ORG                                  .AR.COM
.BR.COM                                  .CN.COM
.CO.COM                                 .COM.DE
.COM.FM                                 .COM.SE
.DE.COM                                  .EDU.FM
.EU.COM                                  .GB.COM
.GB.NET                                   .GOV.FM
.GR.COM                                 .HU.COM
.HU.NET                                   .IN.NET
.JP .NET                                    .JPN.COM
.KR.COM                                  .MEX.COM
.NET.FM                                   .NO.COM
.ORG.FM                                  .QC.COM
.RU.COM                                  .RADIO.AM
.RADIO.FM                               .SA.COM
.SE.COM                                  .SE.NET
.UK.COM                                  .UK.NET
.US.COM                                  .US.ORG
.UY.COM                                  .ZA.BZ
.ZA.COM
SECOND-LEVEL DOMAIN EXTENSIONS 4 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Internetbs.net (IBS) is another group retail brand focused on
a speciﬁc customer group – domain investors and internet
professionals such as hosting and web design companies.
These companies typically offer “trade” pricing and
sophisticated tools for managing domain name portfolios.
During 2016, it increased its overall registered domains by
over 172,000 – a growth rate of 24%.
CentralNic’s other retail websites each specialise in domains
under a single Top-Level Domain (.asia, .luxury, etc.) and
they also sell additional services such as hosting, email and
website builders.
Enterprise Division
The enterprise market is gaining in importance in the domain
name industry, and CentralNic is addressing this market in
several ways.
DotBrands
CentralNic provides technical services to companies seeking
their own “DotBrand” TLDs. These are a newly introduced type
of Intellectual Property (“IP”) which allows brands and company
names to occupy the Top-Level of domain names previously
restricted to country codes and generic terms like .com. As this
new form of IP can be operated by a company, exclusively,
globally and ongoing it has attracted signiﬁcant interest in the
corporate sector. DotBrand clients which use CentralNic’s
technical and consulting services include Global 1000
companies such as Saudi Telecom Company, Etisalat and
Kuwait Finance House.
Software
CentralNic acquired a high quality domain management
software product, DomiNIC in 2013, and the company that
supports the software, dnsXperts, in 2015. DomiNIC is a
workﬂow management software for the registration and
management of domain names, which can be used as an
in-house tool by enterprise clients, or as technology enabling
corporations with large SME customer bases to monetise those
customers by selling them domain names. Some of the largest
corporations in the German-speaking markets use DomiNIC,
and CentralNic has started introducing it to other markets.
CentralNic also offers licenses to its registry software as a
component of its offering to corporations launching DotBrand
Top-Level Domains.
Domain Names
Like many of its peers, CentralNic has a revenue stream from
the sale of premium domain names. These are particularly
favoured by large companies for a number of uses. They may
correspond to a company brand name, they may be easily
memorable and marketable (like a two-letter .com domain or a
common word), and they may already beneﬁt from internet trafﬁc
comprising potential customers. CentralNic trades in its own
portfolio, with approximately 37,500 premium domain names
(with values ranging from a small premium over normal retail
pricing to seven ﬁgure sums). It also brokers premium domain
sales for third parties in exchange for a commission.
CentralNic is also a shareholder in and distributor of the .tickets
TLD. This innovative new use of a top-level domain is intended
to allow venues, artists, sports teams and other rights holders
to retail tickets direct to consumers, while giving consumers
the comfort of knowing that any website using a .tickets
domain is legitimate. 
Introduction to CentralNic continued CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 5
CentralNic’s key advantages
1. Attractive profit margins
The business continues to be proﬁtable, with the Group
delivering an Adjusted EBITDA margin of 25% in 2016. The
business provides domains and related services across its
3 divisions, which themselves exhibit a range of Adjusted
EBITDA margins: Wholesale 39% in 2016; Retail 17% and
Enterprise 60% in Adjusted EBITDA contributions (before
deduction of group overheads).
2. Cash precedes revenues
Across the Wholesale and Retail Divisions, CentralNic often
receives payments prior to recognising revenues and this can
be for domain registration terms of up to 10 years. A number
of customers for both the Retail and Wholesale Divisions
pre-fund their accounts.
3. Recurring and subscription revenues
Selling domain names is an annuity revenue business. Domain
owners are required to make renewal payments typically on an
annual basis. This means that a portion of CentralNic’s revenues
do not result from the current year’s activities or market
conditions, but from customers paying an annual fee (or multiples
of an annual fee for multi-year registrations) to retain their existing
website or domain name – a reliable and predictable earnings
stream. New domain registrations demonstrate similar
characteristics in terms of payment in advance by both existing
and new customers.
4. Diversity of revenue sources
CentralNic’s revenue in its Wholesale and Retail Divisions
comprises millions of small value transactions, so individual
customer retention risk is relatively low in this context. Exceptions
are the high value transactions that would typically be included in
the Enterprise Division such as sales of premium domain names
and the non-recurring elements of licensing contracts.
5. Scalable business with largely fixed costs
CentralNic’s business is scalable through automation as the
core technical development work on the Group’s platforms was
completed years ago, and the ongoing development and
operational costs are largely ﬁxed. During 2016 CentralNic’s
wholesale business grew from 3.39 million domains under
management to 9.89 million with relatively low cost increases in
that division while maintaining normal technical service levels.
6. Exposure to growing markets
CentralNic’s focus on emerging markets, especially China, gives
it exposure to the faster growing markets in the domain industry.
A recent press report highlights the relatively low penetration of
domain names in China relative to the population size.
(Source: http://www.domainpulse.com/2017/02/24/china-big-growth-
market-domain-names-domain-pulse/)
Access to the internet remains an underlying driver of demand for
domain names, including in emerging markets. In September
2015, the United Nations adopted new Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) for the planet and its people. Target 9c of the SDGs
is “Signiﬁcantly increase access to information and communications
technology and strive to provide universal and affordable access to
the Internet in least developed countries by 2020.” This goal was
supported by a global call to action led by Mark Zuckerberg in
conjunction with the ONE campaign, in a ‘Connectivity Declaration’
supporting the UN and stating that internet access is “essential for
achieving humanity’s goals” and seeking to deliver it to everyone on
Earth by 2020. CentralNic is delighted that its own commercial
vision and activities match so closely with policy makers and
leading organisations’ goals and is well positioned to play its part in
supporting the ongoing expansion of the internet.
7. Distribution network
CentralNic’s global distribution channel is a signiﬁcant asset, as
one of the world’s most extensive and well-established global
distribution networks for domain names. Over 1,500 retailers are
integrated directly with CentralNic’s databases. This includes the
world’s largest and most recognised domain name retailers,
such as Go Daddy and Alibaba’s Hi-China. These in turn enable
CentralNic to access over 100,000 resellers, worldwide.
While take up was initially slow, an increasing number of registrars
have now been accredited by the industry regulator ICANN to sell
domain names using new gTLDs. CentralNic and its clients have
secured more registrars actively selling domains using their TLDs
than any other wholesaler. At the time of writing, .XYZ, is actively
sold via 183 accredited registrars, about 38% more than the TLD
with the next highest number of active registrars with any CentralNic
competitor, according to industry statistics website ntldstats.com.
8. Premium domain name portfolio
CentralNic owns and trades from it’s own portfolio of around
37,500 premium domain names, and has also been contracted
to broker additional domain names on behalf of third parties.
Values of these premium domains range from slightly higher than
standard retail prices up to seven ﬁgure sums. 
9. Proven Mergers and Acquisitions and integration expertise
CentralNic successfully initiated and completed the acquisition 
of the trade and assets of Internet BS Corp in 2014 and was
able to grow its domains under management by over 170,000
(24%) in 2016, demonstrating its ability to grow the domain base.
A larger acquisition, Instra Group, was completed in January
2016 and by the end of December 2016 its domains under
management had grown to over 379,000 from 339,000 in
December 2015.
10. Excellent clients and partners
A list of DotBrand and Generic TLD clients is shown overleaf.
The dynamics of CentralNic’s business are quite speciﬁc and
attractive to investors, notably with high levels of recurring earnings  Selected CentralNic clients
Wholesale
Enterprise
Retail
6 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
CentralNic Group PLC comprises three divisions: Wholesale,
Retail and Enterprise. 
Wholesale provides services and platforms for registry operators. 
Retail offers domain names and associated products for
individuals, businesses and domain professionals. 
Enterprise delivers domain portfolio management products
and  services for businesses. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 7
   name – www.abc.xyz
   launched on a .xyz domain 
   company, Alphabet, 
   Google's new holding
   .theatre, .security & .protection
   Also launched .college, .rent, 
   the #1 new gTLD .XYZ
   Successfully launched 
   registry operator in the world
   CEO of XYZ & youngest 
Daniel Negari
esale
    es
    d former CEO
     CANNWiki, & 
      pursuing his bid 
    p LevelDesign, 
     d .design TLDs
   y launched 
      Level Design
Whole
 King
R
   top 35 by volume
   with 5 domains in the 
   performing nTLD registry 
   Arguably the world's best 
   media.net
   via a successful exit from 
   club with his brother Diviank 
   In 2016 joined the billionaire 
   entrepreneur Bhavin Turakhia 
   New venture from serial 
     o.la
    es like
     bloggers to 
      American 
      PDR
       code domain 
        TLD for 
     ting entity 
   of Snapnames
   Founder and former CEO
   Director of ICANNWiki, & 
   for .gay
   King is still pursuing his bid 
   Through Top LevelDesign, 
   .wiki, .ink and .design TLDs
   Successfully launched 
   CEO of Top Level Design
Raymond K
 mpany
Radix
   extension for Lao 
   .LA is the country   
   Los Angeles 
   for .LA – the city T  
   The ofﬁcial market  
Marketing Com
Dot LA 
   intel.la and bendito
   corporate website 
   registrants, from b  
   Chosen by Latin A  8 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Retail
Europe Registry
   Managing over 
   245,000 customer 
   accounts    
   Supporting customers 
   from 247 countries
Asia Registry
   Managing over 
   153,000 customer 
   accounts    
   Supporting customers 
   from 245 countries
Only Domains
   Managing over 
   205,000 customer 
   accounts    
   Supporting customers 
   from 250 countries
Internet.BS
   Managing over 
  143,000 customer 
   accounts    
   Supporting customers 
   from 210 countries
Instra
   Managing over 
   206,000 customer 
   accounts    
   Supporting customers 
   from 247 countries
  
 
   A pioneer of the banking
   phenomenon known as 
   Islamic Finance
   First Islamic bank established    
   in the State of Kuwait
   Currently one of the foremost 
   Islamic Financial Institutions 
   in the world
S  
 
      
      
       
      
          
    
      
      
      
    
  
     
      
     
        
       
     
       
      
      
      
   
      
    
        
          
     
        
      
    
      
      
   
1 million accounts in 250 countries CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 9
 
     
     
       
     
     
 
     
     
       
     
     
 
     
     
       
     
     
     
    
       
     
     
     
     
       
     
     
Enterprise
Kuwait Finance 
House (KFH)
   A pioneer of the banking
   phenomenon known as 
   Islamic Finance
   First Islamic bank established    
   in the State of Kuwait
   Currently one of the foremost 
   Islamic Financial Institutions 
   in the world
Saudi Telecom 
Company (STC)
   The largest telecoms 
   services provider in the
   Middle East & North Africa
   Leading operator within the
   Kingdom of Saudi Arabia    
   International presence
   extends to 11 countries
   Expanding presence in 
   key regional growth 
   markets 
William Morris 
Endeavor (WME)    
   The world’s largest 
   diversiﬁed talent agency
   Have ofﬁces in Beverly Hills, 
   New York City, London, 
   Miami and Nashville
   Represents artists across all 
   media platforms, speciﬁcally 
   movies, television, music, 
   theatre, digital and 
   publishing
Etisalat
   The Middle East’s leading
   telecoms operator
   One of the largest corporations 
   in the six Arab countries of the 
   Gulf Cooperation Council
   Has a market value of 
   approximately AED153 billion 
   (US$42 billion)
   Innovative pacesetters in 
   the global telecoms 
   industry 10 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
In my ﬁrst full year as Chairman of the CentralNic Group I have
been pleased with the Group’s strategic development. We now
have a more diverse business active in the majority of the world’s
geographic markets, notably with expansion of our retail services
following the acquisition of the Instra Group. This is important to
the future of our business, not least in providing a strong and
comprehensive retail capability in close geographic proximity to
emerging domain name markets, notably in the Asia Paciﬁc region.
Instra Group offers one of the broadest range of domain names of
all domain name retailers as well as offering other related services,
such as shared hosting. The result being a retail business
exposed to the vast majority of the world’s geographic markets.
And as a long-established business, Instra also exhibits the
characteristics that make the domain name industry attractive to
investors, with relatively high levels of recurring revenues and
healthy cash generation.
The completion of the Instra Group acquisition was a positive start
to 2016, with the Group taking ownership on 14th January 2016.
This prompted structural changes in our senior management team,
combining our retail operations in one integrated division under the
leadership of Desleigh Jameson (who has continued as CEO of
the enlarged Retail business). This had the effect of consolidating
our retail operations under the management team in Australia and
New Zealand, as deﬁned in the Group’s integration plan. Progress
to date has focused on the operational integration, with synergy
beneﬁts including the consolidation of the Group’s support
functions into our service centre in New Zealand, consolidation of
third party supplies and addressing any duplicated costs.
Our Retail Division sustained growth levels in domain volumes
under management across all of our retail brands during this
integration phase. Instra Group increased it’s domain names under
management by 12% while Internet.BS, the Group’s other main
retail brand, by 24% – both largely due to growing demand for the
new Top-Level Domains. I believe it will now be important to drive
organic growth across all of our retail brands, assisted by tactical
marketing initiatives focused on the products, segments and
geographies of greatest interest to us. I look forward to seeing
the Group’s success as it strives for enhanced levels of retail
customer acquisition in 2017.
Chairman’s statement
2016 was a year of transformation for 
the CentralNic Group, delivering a step
change in the scale and scope of the
Group’s operations. This was particularly
noteworthy in our Retail Division, having
completed the acquisition of the Instra
Group in January 2016. There was also
strong volume growth in our Wholesale
Division as new Top-Level domain
awareness increased. In a domain name
sector that is consolidating, the increased
scale delivered in 2016 evidences the
Group’s growth ambitions, in pursuit of
enhanced returns for our shareholders.
Mike Turner Chairman CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 11
Another signiﬁcant development during 2016 was the increased
adoption of domain names from the new Top Level Domain name
programme. The new TLD programme is regarded as the biggest
change in our industry for many years. It has brought hundreds of
additional domain name choices for consumers while enabling
greater choice for accredited retailers in terms of domain products
to supply and promote. This industry-wide development has
presented smaller players like CentralNic with the opportunity to
expand both Wholesale and Retail operations. In addition, it has
encouraged new industry participants and provided consumers
with lower-priced mass market domains. It is particularly pleasing
that, as a result of the ﬁrst application round of new TLD’s,
CentralNic is contracted as registry service provider to some of
the most successful new TLDs, including the leader by volume,
.xyz. The .xyz domain achieved 5.8 million new registrations during
2016. While many of these were sold at low promotional prices, the
domains present opportunities for higher priced future renewals.
Given the larger base of domains under management and the
enhanced increase in consumer awareness of new TLDs, we look
forward to tracking new registration and renewals performance
closely across all of our new TLD domains during 2017.
Across the CentralNic Wholesale portfolio of Top-Level Domains,
our technical systems have coped admirably with the additional
volumes registered in 2016 with nearly 10 million domains under
the management of our Wholesale Division by the end of the year.
This presents another step change in the scale of our operations
and positions our Wholesale Division as a strong competitor for
future growth opportunities. The Board is keen to achieve
additional scale to enjoy the beneﬁts of our automated wholesale
platform and relatively low marginal costs.
The Group’s strategy is focused on proﬁtable growth. The Board is
aligned behind the objectives of our acquisition programme
alongside performance improvements within each of our Divisions.
The Board is also committed to enhancing our recurring earnings
model, partly achieved through further development of our
Wholesale and Retail Divisions to increase their scale and improve
their relative market positions.
The Enterprise Division presents interesting opportunities to grow
revenues at relatively high margins by adopting a more service-led
approach. We believe this will deliver additional recurring value to
brand owners through domain name and online brand protection
services. The Group continues to reduce reliance on non-recurring
revenues, such as premium domain name sales. Our Enterprise
business will continue to engage with major brand owners directly
and via corporate channels as we seek to deploy our Enterprise
services. In seeking to unlock the potential of our corporate-facing
business, I am pleased we have recently been able to strengthen
our management team with senior commercial hires, bringing
considerable experience in this market segment.
Performance
I am pleased to report that 2016 was another very successful year,
with the Group’s ﬁnancial performance in line with expectations.
The Group’s revenue grew by 113% to £22.13m (2015: £10.39m).
This included almost a full year of revenues from Instra Group,
increased trading in valuable premium domain names on the
secondary market and organic revenue growth in Internet.BS.
Adjusted EBITDA also grew by 68% to £5.48m (2015: £3.25m)
again in line with the plan, reﬂecting the growth in total revenues
in part offset by the greater concentration of lower margin retail
revenues. Proﬁt before taxation was £1.16m (2015: £1.45m).
Recurring and subscription revenues across the Group, before
deferrals, increased to £17.23m (2015: £7.19m), which as a
proportion of total revenues increased to 81% (2015: 67%).
Net cashﬂow from operating activities was £3.32m (2015:
£5.69m). The beneﬁcial working capital movements in 2015 were
unusual and did not recur to the same extent in 2016 due to a
change in the mix of activity between prepaid and post-paid
registrar accounts related to the new TLD’s and also the timing of
payments to registry operators. Across 2015 and 2016, total net
cashﬂow from operating activities was broadly in line with
Adjusted EBITDA across the same two year period.
In terms of divisional performance, the Instra acquisition boosted
Retail business revenues signiﬁcantly to £14.32m (2015: £3.41m).
Instra Group contributed £10.28m of the growth, with organic
growth from Internet.BS generating a further £0.64m increase.
Instra’s revenue performance was consistent with 2015 while the
primary focus was on operational integration. Recent tactical
marketing initiatives commenced in the ﬁrst quarter of 2017,
and are showing early promise as we focus on driving organic
growth and optimising gross proﬁt performance.
The Wholesale Division delivered net revenue of £3.18m (2015:
£3.13m). There was a change in the mix during the year, masking
underlying growth in revenues from new Top-Level Domains of
£0.43m. The divisional result continues the trend of a lower
average sale price from the generic Top-Level Domains combined
with the expected decline in demand for the higher priced
Second-Level Domains. Scaling up activity levels in this division
remains an important priority given relatively low marginal costs,
and we are well-positioned to do so given our credentials and
the leading role we occupy in the new TLD programme.
The Group’s Enterprise Division made steady progress in 2016,
delivering revenue of £4.63m (2015: £3.86m). Revenues were
again weighted towards non-recurring premium domain name sales
and commissions of £3.74m (2015: £3.22m). Other revenues
included £0.56m from a full year of dnsXperts (2015: £0.21m) and
dot brand customer revenues of £0.17m (2015: £0.07m). 12 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Dividend
It remains the intention of the Group to generate income returns for
investors in the future as part of a progressive and commercially
prudent dividend policy. However due to the continued expansion
opportunities presented by the sector the Directors do not propose
a ﬁnal dividend in 2016. Dividend policy is reviewed annually.
Outlook
The outlook for the Group is promising, as we strive to deliver
growth opportunities that enhance our proﬁtability and increase our
recurring revenue streams. Internet adoption continues to drive
sustained demand for domain names, notably from emerging
markets. The Group is well positioned to beneﬁt from demand in
these markets via its Retail and Wholesale businesses and will
seek to leverage its platforms across additional geographies and
language scripts as we move forward.
Awareness of the new Top-Level Domains is also increasing
across a number of geographic markets, in part due to the
marketing successes of our registry operator clients, notably in the
Far East. This has created a larger base of domain names on our
platform that are due to renew or expire in 2017. We look forward
to seeing the trends in renewal performance as they emerge in
the coming months.
Larger corporates present another segment of interest to us, with
unlocked potential in selling domain names and related domain
portfolio management and brand protection services. A combined
channel and direct sales approach will be adopted by our
commercial team. This will help build and convert opportunities
from our sales pipeline, as well as identifying additional value that
we can bring to corporate customers. Success will be important to
us as we seek to reduce reliance on non-recurring revenues.
The Group is also focused on opportunities to accelerate our
growth, via earnings enhancing acquisitions that deliver strategic
beneﬁts, such as market access or diversiﬁed products and
services. The Board recognises the importance of acquisitions to
accelerate our proﬁtable growth, while adding scale and capability
in a sector which is consolidating.
The amount of change in the business is signiﬁcant, with activity
levels high across each of our three divisions and with our mergers
and acquisitions programme continuing to bring beneﬁts and
present new and interesting opportunities to the Group. I would like
to take this opportunity to thank staff across the Group for their
dedication to CentralNic and for their passion and drive to achieve
our goals. I would also particularly like to thank our existing and
new investors and lenders who have supported our team during
a transformational year for the Group.
With continued progress in all areas of our business, at this stage
of the year we remain conﬁdent in the outlook for 2017.
Mike Turner Chairman
9 May 2017
Chairman’s statement continued CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 13
In 2016 CentralNic has
continued to deliver
strong growth as well
as strategic successes
across the business.
Ben Crawford Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s report
Performance overview
CentralNic continued on its trajectory of rapid growth during
2016: achieving revenues of £22.13m (an increase of 113%
over 2015), and Adjusted EBITDA of £5.48m (an increase of
68% over 2015). Our Retail and Enterprise Divisions experienced
growth in Adjusted EBITDA and proﬁt before taxation and there
was growth in our new Top-Level Domain revenues in the
Wholesale Division, as demand notably from the Chinese market
emerged as one of the industry’s principal growth drivers and
where CentralNic has taken a leading role.
Our strategic successes were equally signiﬁcant. In 2016
CentralNic increased the proportion of its revenues in the
recurring category to 81% of its total revenues, which includes
domain name renewals, new domain name registrations and
other recurring revenues stated before deferrals. CentralNic grew
its share of the new Top-Level Domain market from 23% to over
32%, increasing its share as the world’s premier wholesaler of
new Top-Level Domains by volume, in a year when the total
number of domains using new Top-Level Domains rose from
11.2 million to over 27.6 million.
At the same time, we successfully acquired and integrated the
domain retailer Instra Group, vastly increasing the inventory that
we sell and giving us exposure to attractive new markets.
And we continued to win new clients, launch new services
and close signiﬁcant sales.
At the end of the year the Group had cash balances of £9.90m
(2015: £19.06m, of which £14.83m was used for the Instra
acquisition in January 2016) and net cash balances of £7.28m
(2015: £19.06m).
Wholesale Division
With revenues of £3.18m (2015: £3.13 million) in its Wholesale
Division, CentralNic increased its lead as the world’s leading
wholesaler (or “Registry Backend Provider”) of domain names
using new gTLDs, from 23% market share at the end of 2015
to over 32% at the end of 2016. At the end of 2016 we had
approaching 9 million new TLD names registered (the number
two provider having around 6 million). CentralNic ended the year
with six new TLDs in the ranks of the Top Twenty-ﬁve sellers by
volume, from a total universe of around 1,200 launched in total.
CentralNic’s wholesale platform was able to supply domains to
more retailers actively selling them than any competitor: in the
table of TLDs with the highest number of retailers supporting
them, CentralNic-distributed TLDs hold nine out of the top ten
positions. (Source: industry statistics website ntldstats.com)
A number of factors are contributing to the success of CentralNic’s
Wholesale Division. These include our proven ability to win new
business, which continued in 2016 with the addition of .store, .art,
.fun and .fm to our customer base. We also soft-launched a
second “Registry Gateway” wholesale platform in 2016, which
provides the country code TLDs .am, .cx and .la to retailers globally.
CentralNic has notably supported new pricing and promotional
strategies that have disrupted the traditional domain name
wholesale model and captured most of the growth in the
domain industry. As well as supporting premium-priced
restricted TLDs like .reit for Real Estate Investment Trusts,
CentralNic has supported its clients in launching marketing
initiatives which have succeeded in achieving unprecedented
registration numbers. For example, the 2nd anniversary .xyz
marketing campaign in June 2016 boosted the number of .xyz
registrations with over 3.6 million new domains registered in that
month, increasing the total domains registered under .xyz to
over 6.1 million domain names.  14 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s report continued
CentralNic’s focus on emerging markets, especially China, 
which predates our IPO in 2013, has proven prescient, as 
China has been the single largest market for domain names
using new TLDs during 2015 and 2016, accounting for an
estimated 60% of new TLD registrations. This demand has also
propelled the country code .cn to become the world’s second
most registered domain extension after .com. We believe
CentralNic is the most successful non-Chinese distributor of
new TLDs in China, and it ﬁnished 2016 with four of its TLD
clients being granted accreditation from China’s Ministry for
Industry and Information Technology, ofﬁcially allowing those
TLDs to be used for websites hosted in China.
Retail Division
CentralNic’s Retail Division revenues in 2016 were £14.32m
(2015: £3.41m), reﬂecting the signiﬁcant increase in retailing
activities following the acquisition of Instra Group in January
2016. This acquisition increased the breadth of domains offered
by our retailers to include virtually all new gTLD extensions and
most country code extensions, with CentralNic now ranked
among the leading vendors of domains ranging from .law for
lawyers to .ae for the United Arab Emirates. The Instra
acquisition also gives CentralNic direct retail exposure to
desirable customer segments, notably including small
businesses in emerging markets and corporate customers
who maintain large portfolios of domain names as part of
their Intellectual Property and brand protection activities.
Finally Instra Group gives CentralNic its ﬁrst exposure to the
shared hosting market, which exhibits attractive margins.
In 2016 the Retail Division also launched new dedicated
websites for the Spanish language TLDs .hoteles, .vuelos
and .passagens as well as for .law (under contract from
Minds and Machines Plc).
Enterprise Division
CentralNic’s Enterprise Division continued to grow in 2016,
with revenues of £4.63m (2015: £3.86m).
Our premium domain name business performed well with
revenue of £3.74m achieved during the year (2015: £3.22m).
Notably, Accent Media, the Registry Operator for the .tickets
TLD (in which CentralNic holds a c.10% minority equity stake)
achieved one of the most successful Premium domain
name sales under a new TLD, receiving USD200,000 for
broadway.tickets in cash proceeds plus a 10% equity stake in
that site, which is intended to be used to aggregate a market
for theatre ticket sales on Broadway.
The recurring revenue components of our enterprise business
continue to grow. With our assistance a number of corporate
clients completed the ICANN processes required to obtain
their own Dot Brand Top-Level Domains, with Saudi Telecom
notably launching their new TLDs in 2016. Other corporate
and government clients continue to license CentralNic
software and use our support services to sell domains or
manage them in-house.
Outlook
I am delighted to report a number of major steps forward in 2017.
Increased renewal revenues are expected to emerge in 2017,
as the base of domains due to renew or expire has increased 
to 9.89m million domains in the Wholesale business (2015: 3.39
million) and 1.27 million in the Retail business (2015: 0.72 million).
Renewal rates we have experienced in 2016 for .xyz and our
other high volume TLDs are in line with our expectations.
New TLDs already launched on the CentralNic Wholesale
platform in 2017 include .fun, .realty, .observer, and .art. In
addition, there is a further pipeline of new TLDs in the process
of contracting to migrate to the CentralNic Wholesale platform. 
Additionally, the industry regulator ICANN continues its review of
the new TLD programme as a ﬁrst step towards opening future
rounds of applications – meaning potential future opportunities
for CentralNic.
In our Enterprise Division, we have identiﬁed online security and
brand protection services for corporate customers as an
important potential recurring revenue line of business. The
Company has appointed two experienced executives from this
segment – the former Commercial Operations Director and
former Marketing Director of Group NBT (Netnames) – to lead
revenue growth initiatives in this area.
Finally, following our successful acquisitions of Internet.bs and
Instra Group, CentralNic has identiﬁed a number of acquisition
targets with high levels of recurring earnings, which potentially
would combine earnings accretion with strategic beneﬁts as
we seek to expand the Group’s product and services suite,
geographic reach and customer base. CentralNic is planning
to further strengthen its leadership team in 2017 to accelerate
its acquisition processes moving forward, and is in active
discussions with the operator of the Slovakian ccTLD.
CentralNic continues to prove its ability to identify and exploit
growth opportunities in the domain name services industry, 
by winning clients, launching new products and services and
successfully acquiring and integrating other businesses. 
This dynamic and agile approach to a rapidly evolving market
has driven CentralNic’s 113% revenue growth in 2016, and 
we fully anticipate it will continue to serve the Group equally 
well in the future.
Ben Crawford, Chief Executive
9 May 2017 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 15
Strategic report
Strategy
In 2016 CentralNic grew revenues by 113% and Adjusted
EBITDA by 68%, whilst achieving 81% recurring and
subscription revenues
1
. Proﬁt before taxation was £1.16m
(2015: £1.45m). It achieved this through a combination of
organic growth and acquisitions. CentralNic’s strategy for
continuing its accelerated growth trajectory is to consistently
increase its scale and scope of operations by: 
• Developing and operating scalable software platforms to
serve global markets with domain names and related services 
• Identifying and exploiting relatively high growth areas of the
domain industry, including taking a leading role in disruptive
initiatives such as new Top-Level Domains, servicing country
code domains, and focusing on demand from growth
markets such as China
• Winning and retaining well-resourced partners with
complementary objectives
• Sourcing and executing acquisition transactions that meet
our strategic criteria including being earnings accretive 
with a strong recurring revenue base.
Supporting the strategy is a culture derived from the Group’s
entrepreneurial roots, with a Group-wide passion for entering
and proﬁtably competing in new markets. CentralNic’s culture
is characterised by the following qualities:
a) A focus on growth and recurring high quality earnings
b) A global perspective
c) Innovation
d) The best technology
e) Expert and ﬂexible client service
f) Excellence in execution
1 Recurring/subscription revenues include revenue from domain registrations,
domain renewals and other recurring revenues stated before deferrals.
We would describe our business as a leading challenger brand
in an exciting fast-paced sector. We are able to match and often
exceed service levels provided by larger competitors. In turn we
see our organisation transitioning from a smaller successful
player into a global leader within the domain name industry.
Developing and operating scalable software platforms
CentralNic’s software development teams have developed
bespoke wholesale, retail and enterprise platforms. CentralNic’s
businesses operate these platforms, supporting the stages in
the domain industry supply chain. CentralNic’s Wholesale
Division enables new TLD and ccTLD rights holders to supply
their domains to an integrated network of around 1,500 retailers
and through them over 100,000 resellers, including billing and
cash collection services. Among these retailers only a relatively
small number are accredited by the industry regulator ICANN,
which in turn allows them to be supplied with new TLD
domains. Through it’s wholesale platform CentralNic supplies
more accredited registrars than any of its peers, and it will
continue to supply new registrars as they become accredited.
CentralNic’s retail platforms allow different categories of end
users across ten different languages to register domain names
and purchase the additional services required to deploy their
websites and email. These platforms are presented to the
buyers through a number of retail websites focused on different
market segments. Finally, CentralNic’s enterprise platforms allow
corporations and domain investors to manage their valuable
domain name portfolios.
As well as being operated by CentralNic’s own businesses and
offered to third parties on a Software as a Service (SaaS) or
managed service basis, these software platforms are also
licensed to third parties, including governments, telcos and
other enterprise clients, as well as TLD registries, 
CentralNic’s vision is to rapidly join the ranks of world leaders in the
domain name and associated services industry (which include a
number of multi-billion-dollar companies). It aims to achieve this
through a combination of winning new customers, launching new
services and acquiring businesses. CentralNic comprises three
proﬁtable divisions addressing some of the fastest growing segments
of the internet: new Top-Level Domains; providing businesses in
emerging markets with the tools to get online; and helping some of the
world’s largest companies with their next generation internet initiatives. 16 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report continued
Identifying and exploiting relatively high growth areas 
of the domain industry
Demand in growth markets may be driven by new inventory,
such as the launch of a new “Dot Industry” domain name (like
.law or .tickets), by a policy liberalisation or even by price
reductions for a country code TLD, increasing a domain’s
addressable market. CentralNic’s registrars are vigilant taking
advantage of these opportunities in the markets they serve,
often delivering strong results. For instance CentralNic’s
wholesale business is the leading non-Chinese wholesale
supplier to the Chinese market, and CentralNic’s registrars are
the second highest sellers of both .law domains for law ﬁrms
and .ae domains for the United Arab Emirates. 
Growth opportunities also come from improvements in internet
access levels in emerging markets, emanating from the
adoption of smart phones, broadband connectivity and
governmental support for local digital economic development.
Here again, CentralNic is actively satisfying demand in these
emerging markets.
Winning and retaining well-resourced partners with
complementary objectives
As a platform-based business, CentralNic excels in its ability to
acquire and retain entrepreneur and corporate clients to enable
its ongoing growth. 
For the Wholesale Division, CentralNic has sought out and won
clients with excellent domain name inventories combined with
the resources and know-how to successfully penetrate their
chosen markets. This inventory includes a range of domain
extensions with different business strategies – value-based
mass market generic domains like .xyz and .website, and
industry-speciﬁc TLDs such as .host, .tickets, and .bar. And for
the country code market extensions such as .LA (the code for
Laos repurposed for Los Angeles and Latin America), .FM (the
code for Micronesia repurposed to represent radio and music
streaming), and .PW (the code for Palau repurposed as
“Professional Web”), and country speciﬁc Second-Level Domain
extensions like .cn.com and .uk.com (which present alternative
domain extensions to the country code Top Level Domains).
CentralNic is active in developing a pipeline of new domains to
add to its Wholesale platform.
Group-wide, CentralNic deploys a number of online customer
acquisition strategies, including search engine and user
interface optimisation, search engine marketing and email
marketing. We also employ a number of ofﬂine techniques such
as events and exhibitions, partnerships with registries and
industry associations, outbound activity from our call centre and
direct sales. Customer acquisition strategies are designed to
deliver improving investment returns.
CentralNic also excels in customer retention, thanks to its
philosophy of close collaboration with and adding value to its
clients. For example, to bring more value to its clients, in
addition to traditional “backend” technical and billing services,
CentralNic offers expert advisers and account managers,
as well as sales, marketing, policy and technical development
resources on a fee for service or revenue share model. Our
clients are provided with business information to track the
services we provide, and have access to our entire team of
experts, as well as designated account managers to ensure
that our service is responsive and that the voice of the
customer is clearly heard. This in turn positively inﬂuences
the development of our products and services.
Sourcing and executing acquisition transactions that meet
clear strategic criteria including being earnings accretive
with a strong recurring revenues base. 
The acquisition of Instra Group was a signiﬁcant step forward 
in CentralNic’s growth strategy, and the characteristics of this
acquisition are representative of CentralNic’s M&A strategy.
CentralNic’s systems for sourcing and evaluating acquisition
prospects is an area of particular management and 
Board-level focus.
Centralnic identiﬁed the Instra Group as a target following careful
evaluation, having attributes that satisﬁed a number of key
criteria. Firstly, Instra Group enjoys substantial recurring revenues
and a history of growth with a very broad range of domains
supplied. Secondly, Instra addressed gaps identiﬁed in
CentralNic’s service offerings and market reach. This included
an in-house 24x7 call centre, online marketing expertise, a
corporate client base, access to key emerging markets and
exposure to the hosting market.
Lastly, although a complex transaction due to the many
territories in which Instra has a corporate presence, the Instra
business was of sufﬁcient scale to justify the required
administration. The addition to CentralNic’s revenues and
Adjusted EBITDA has been substantial, making this a
transformational acquisition for the Group. The criteria of low
execution risk, meaningful scale and earnings contribution are
also key to assessing acquisitions moving forward.
Financial performance
A review of the ﬁnancial performance of the Group is provided
in the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s report on page 18.
Key Performance Indicators
Details of the Key Performance Indicators are provided on
page 18. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 17
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group
The Directors have considered the principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group, the main ones are outlined below.
Regulatory
The businesses of both registries and registrars are subject to
the legal and contractual environment. These are subject to
change, not least in the ICANN community, and changes have
the potential to inﬂuence business outcomes.
CentralNic satisﬁes ICANN technical and operational
requirements, and maintains an active voice in the development
of policy within the ICANN community.
Market
There is a risk that the market for domains owned by the Group
or for which the Group provides registry and registrar services
may not increase as quickly as expected or that the new TLDs
may not generate the revenue levels anticipated by the Board.
In either case the Group’s revenues could reduce below
expectations with an impact on proﬁtability.
The risk is mitigated to a degree by operating multiple lines of
business exposed to many vertical markets and segments,
some of which have very little reliance on new TLDs.
IT security
If the Group does not prevent security breaches or becomes
susceptible to cyber-attacks, it may be exposed to lawsuits,
lose customers, suffer harm to its reputation, and incur
additional costs. Unauthorised access, computer viruses,
accidents, employee error or malfeasance, intentional
misconduct by computer “hackers”, and other disruptions can
occur that could compromise the security of the Group’s
infrastructure or conﬁdential information.
The Group has created a resilient network infrastructure and
Domain Name System server constellation, with failover
secondary systems to ensure critical registry functions are
maintained. The Wholesale business has been certiﬁed under
ISO 27001/2013 for data security, thereby mitigating risk by
adherence to international best practice.
Supplier risk
A number of the key technical services used by the Group are
outsourced to key suppliers, thereby creating the potential for
risk in the case of the failure or loss of a supplier.
In view of these risks, redundancies have been introduced
between the suppliers and internal resources, ensuring that 
no single point of failure could result in the inability of CentralNic
to meet its contractual or compliance obligations.
Currency risk
The Group reports its revenues and costs in British Pounds
Sterling, whilst some of these revenues and costs may arise in
currencies other than this. Fluctuations in exchange rates may
adversely affect the Group’s reported proﬁts, and make its
overseas contracts relatively less valuable.
CentralNic contracts are usually denominated in British Pounds
Sterling, US Dollars, Euros or Australian Dollars and the
Directors keep the currency exposure under regular review. The
Directors consider the use of hedging instruments in the event
that currency exposure is considered a material performance
risk. A currency instrument was deployed to protect the Group’s
interests on completion of the acquisition of Instra Group.
Dependence on key personnel
The Group has a small management team and the loss of any
key individual or the inability to attract appropriate personnel
could impact upon the Group’s future performance. Incentives
and a performance culture remain an important focus to the
achievement of the Group’s objectives.
Other risk factors
In addition to the impact of the downturn of the world’s
economies, the Group may be adversely affected by other
changes in economic, political, judicial, administrative, taxation
or other regulatory or other unforeseen matters. For example
the impact on the Group from the UK exiting the European
Union is to emerge and will be monitored over the coming
months and years.
This strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors
on 9 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Mike Turner Chairman 18 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s report
During 2016 the scale of the Group’s activities was substantially
enhanced by the acquisition of the Instra Group. The result was a
step-change in revenues and Adjusted EBITDA contribution from
the Retail Division, making this the largest revenue-generating
division in the enlarged group. This helped to drive a signiﬁcant
68% increase in the Group’s Adjusted EBITDA, whilst proﬁt before
taxation declined by 20% due to the effect of non-cash charges.
Instra’s results were included from the date of acquisition, the
14th January 2016. As such they present a near full-year
contribution, with revenue of £10.28m and Adjusted EBITDA of
£2.21m reported in 2016. The fair value of the consideration
was £18.60m, having adjusted for the working capital acquired.
The cash outﬂow for the acquisition was funded from an equity
placing in December 2015, a £3.50m 3 year secured term
facility drawn in January 2016 and existing cash balances.
The 2016 results for the Enterprise Division included premium
domain trading from CentralNic’s portfolio, contributing £3.74m
of revenue (2015: £3.22m) and £2.88m Adjusted EBITDA (2015:
£2.68m). Trading in premium domains represents an ongoing
activity within the Group and provides opportunity to enhance
earnings and available cash resources. Having said this, the
Directors recognise that this is a more unpredictable source of
earnings and hence invest the funds realised to increase the
proportion of the Group’s earnings from more predictable sources.
The Wholesale Division generated consistent results
year-on-year, with revenue of £3.18m (2015: £3.13m) and
Adjusted EBITDA of £1.24m (2015: £1.40m). There was the
expected mix effect, with reduced revenues from higher priced
Second Level Domains offset by increased revenues from the
new Top-Level domains. The wholesale division is well placed
in the industry with demand growing for the new Top-Level
domains and an increased number of domains due to renew
or expire in 2017 (Wholesale domain names under management
stand at 9.89m at the end of 2016 (2015: 3.39m)). Trends in
renewals will emerge during 2017.
Key Performance Indicators
In terms of the 2016 year ﬁnancial results:
• Revenue £22.13m (2015: £10.39m)
• Adjusted EBITDA* £5.48m (2015: £3.25m)
• Proﬁt before taxation £1.16m (2015: £1.45m)
* Excludes impact of share payment expense for the share options issued to
Directors and Employees and acquisition costs and exceptional items
Growth in revenue of 113% was achieved during 2016, with
revenue increasing to £22.13m (2015: £10.39m). Out of the total
revenue growth of £11.74m, the Retail Division grew by £10.91m
to £14.32m (2015: £3.41m). The growth mainly came from the
Instra Group, with revenue consistent with 2015. Wholesale
revenues were broadly ﬂat due to mix effects at £3.18m (2015:
£3.13m), while Enterprise revenues grew to £4.63m (2015:
£3.86m) due in large part to premium domain trading.
The quality of the Group’s earnings remains an important
strategic priority for the Group and our investors, as we strive to
increase the proportion of our revenues derived from predictable
sources. This was one important factor in assessing the Instra
acquisition, with virtually all of Instra’s revenues, earnings and
cashﬂow derived from new registrations and renewals of domain
names and hosting contracts. This enabled the group to
increase the proportion derived from recurring/subscription
based revenues to 81% in 2016 (2015: 67%). The Group
believes this is a useful measure in demonstrating progress
towards an increasing proportion of annuity-based revenues.
The acquisition of Instra improved
the ﬁnancial performance of the
Group during 2016, creating a
step-change in reported revenue
and Adjusted EBITDA. It also
enhanced the quality of the Group’s
earnings in line with our strategic
objectives, providing greater
visibility and diversity of earnings. 
Glenn Hayward Chief Financial Ofﬁcer CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 19
Revenue performance in the Retail business included virtually a
full year of Instra, which created a signiﬁcant increase in scale,
contributing £10.28m of revenue. On a proforma basis Instra
Group revenues were broadly in line with prior year, with 2015
launch revenues from new TLD’s not recurring at the same level
in 2016, partly offset by accelerated demand for lower priced
domains, such as .xyz and ﬂagship store revenues. This
combined with 2016 being a period of operational integration for
Instra, which was a principal focus for management. Internet BS
contributed £3.97m of revenues in the year (2015: £3.33m),
boosted by sales of new TLDs and favourable deferral
movements. Domains under management increased by
172,000 or 24% in Internet.BS, translating to 19% revenue
growth. Demand for the new TLDs was most notable for .xyz on
the Internet.BS site, offsetting a reduction in demand for .com
domains. Adjusted EBITDA from Instra Group was £2.21m and
from Internet BS was £0.36m (2015: £0.33m).
The Enterprise Division generated revenues of £4.63m
(2015: £3.86m), largely due to trading in premium domain
names from the Group’s portfolio. Revenues from premium
domain name trading and commissions received totalled
£3.74m (2015: £3.22m). 
Other Enterprise Division revenues also included a full year
contribution from dnsXperts UG of £0.56m (2015: £0.21m),
which became a subsidiary company in July 2015. Revenues
included support and maintenance revenues for the DomiNIC
portfolio domain management platform and service revenues for
Datagroup Vega GmbH. The dnsXperts developers and project
managers also worked on the EPP gateway project for the
Group during 2016. Contracted dot Brand clients contributed
£0.17m of revenues principally for the technical operation of the
registries for their dot Brand Top-Level domains (2015: £0.07m)
and there was also a registry software licence sale to a
country-code Top-Level domain. These sales offset shortfalls in
corporate consultancy revenues and DomiNIC revenues, which
form areas of focus for the new Commercial Director as we seek
to unlock their potential in 2017.
Revenue performance in the Wholesale Division reﬂected the
continued change in mix and demand from the market, with 
the increase in demand for new Top-Level domains offsetting
the expected decline in demand for the higher priced
Second-Level Domains. The new TLD performance was very
much about high volumes but at low initial prices, as the TLD
operators sought to establish their presence in the market.
Demand was notable from the Far East for .xyz and other
mass-market domains, such as .online and .site. The result was
revenue of £3.18m for the division (2015: £3.13m), with new
TLDs contributing revenue growth of £0.43m (pre-deferrals).
This helped to offset the reduction in SLD revenues and
non-recurring consultancy from 2015.
The Wholesale Division signiﬁcantly increased the scale of
activity during 2016, with the platform serving 9.08 million new
domain years registered (2015: 3.05 million) and 1.04 million
domain years renewed (2015: 0.37 million). This expansion
was partly driven by a low-priced promotion by .xyz in June 2016,
with over 3.6 million domain years registered in that month
alone. The result is total domains under the management of the
Wholesale Division totaling 9.89 million at the end of 2016
(2015: 3.39 million). The majority of these domains will be due
for renewal or expiry during 2017. 
Adjusted EBITDA, before the share based payment expense
and acquisition deal fees and exceptional items, totalled
£5.48m for the year (2015: £3.25m).
This result principally reﬂected the ﬂow-down effect of the
revenue growth in the Retail division, noting that this was
planned to have a dilutive effect on proﬁt margins. Retail
Adjusted EBITDA totalled £2.42m during the year, principally due
to Instra which contributed £2.21m (a 22% Adjusted EBITDA
margin on revenues). Enterprise Adjusted EBITDA contribution
increased to £2.79m (2015: £2.61m), offset by a slight
reduction in Adjusted EBITDA from the Wholesale Division,
which contributed £1.24m (2015: £1.40m).
AIM and corporate overheads, which have not been allocated
by division, were consistent with the prior year at £0.96m
(2015: £0.93m).
Acquisition costs and exceptional items totaled £1.26m (2015:
£0.83m). The acquisition-related costs supporting the group’s
acquisition programme included a variety of deal completion and
integration costs for Instra. There were also shut-down costs for
the old Internet.BS entity, a commercial settlement agreement
and related fees, and fees associated with treasury policy and
compliance for the enlarged group. 
Finance income includes the interest receivable from Jabella,
a related party (see note 9 to the ﬁnancial statements).
Finance costs include £0.13m of expenses for the term loan
arrangement fees and associated legal costs, as well as the
cost for the hedging instrument used for the Instra acquisition. 
Other non-cash expenses included a signiﬁcant increase in the
amortisation of intangible assets, totaling £2.07m (2015:
£0.58m) reﬂecting the ﬁrst period of charges for the Instra
customer list, domain names and software acquired. They also
include depreciation and the share based payments expense. 
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based Payments, we have
included a £0.62m charge for Director and employee share
options within administrative expenses (2015: £0.32m). This
reﬂects additional awards made during 2016 for Instra and
dnsXperts UG employees along with the full year effect of
options awarded to Non-Executive Directors. Further details
can be found in note 27 to the ﬁnancial statements.
The Group’s effective tax rate was 17.5% (2015: 37.7%) with the
lower rate reﬂecting the tax effect of intercompany charges from
efﬁcient structuring of the Group following the Instra acquisition
and overprovisions from 2015.
Basic earnings per share at 1.00 pence (2015: 1.40 pence)
reﬂected the improved Adjusted EBITDA in the business but then
offset by non-recurring acquisition costs, amortisation charges,
exceptional items and non-cash charges. Diluted earnings per
share, at 0.97 pence (2015: 1.36 pence), reﬂected the dilutive
effect of the share options “in the money” at the average share 20 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s report continued
price for the year. Further details of the earnings per share
calculations are provided in note 11 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Pensions
The Group created a deﬁned contribution pension scheme in
June 2016 in line with the new auto-enrolment provisions in the
UK. In Australia the Group operates a superannuation scheme in
line with statutory requirements and in New Zealand a KiwiSaver
scheme in line with the KiwiSaver Act 2006. The Group does
not operate and has never operated any deﬁned beneﬁt
schemes requiring actuarial valuations.
Dividends
It remains the intention of the Group to generate income returns
for investors in the future as part of a progressive and
commercially prudent dividend policy. However due to the
continued expansion opportunities presented by the sector the
Directors do not propose a ﬁnal dividend in 2016.
Group statement of financial position
The Group had net assets of £25.22m at 31 December 2016
(2015: £20.05m), with the growth in net assets including the
equity issued during the year (totalling £1.91m after fees; 2015:
£11.62m), movements on the foreign exchange translation
reserve mainly due to movements in AU$/£STG exchange
rates, and the retained proﬁt for the year. Consideration shares
were issued in relation to the Instra acquisition, with further
details provided in note 19 to the ﬁnancial statements.
The statement of ﬁnancial position most notably reﬂects the
inclusion of the Instra Group acquisition, which increases a
number of the balances in 2016. The balances acquired are
included in note 24 to the ﬁnancial statements, and under
notes 12 and 13 under “Acquisition of subsidiary”.
As the Statement of Financial Position has materially changed
due to the Instra acquisition in 2016, the table below which is
an extract of the Group’s Statement of Financial Position
illustrates the constituent elements of the Group’s position
at 31st December 2016.
                                                                                                Consoli-           Total            Total 
                                                       Centralnic           Instra          dation        Group         Group
                                                            Group         Group         Entries           2016           2015
                                                             £’000          £’000          £’000          £’000          £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets                      5,202         122    24,498    29,822      5,390
Investments                           22,101              –   (21,104)         997         997
Other non-current assets           724      2,044              –      2,768         168
                                               28,027      2,166      3,394    33,587      6,915
Current assets
Other current assets                9,468      4,124     (1,673)   11,919      5,425
Cash and bank balances        7,549      2,353              –      9,902    19,060
                                               17,017      6,477     (1,673)   21,821    24,791
Total assets                           45,044      8,643      1,721    55,408    31,706
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Total equity                            25,936         (486)        (231)   25,219    20,046
Non-current liabilities               2,168      3,023      3,235      8,426         910
Current liabilities                     16,940      6,106     (1,283)   21,763    10,750
Total liabilities                        19,108      9,129      1,952    30,189    11,660
Total equity and liabilities      45,044      8,643      1,721    55,408    31,706
Capital expenditure and investing activities
The most signiﬁcant investment made during the year was the
acquisition of the Instra Group, with further details of the
acquisition entries provided under Business Combinations in
note 24 to the ﬁnancial statements. Intangible assets (including
goodwill) acquired under fair value accounting are denominated in
AU$ and included the Instra customer list, goodwill, the registrar
software systems and domain names including the platforms for
the ongoing transactions of the trade. The total value of intangible
assets acquired with Instra was AU$47.82m (£23.34m).
In line with the appropriate treatment for translation of a foreign
operation into the Group’s presentational currency, both the
tangible and intangible assets are translated at the closing rate
generating foreign exchange differences as presented in notes
12 and 13 to the ﬁnancial statements.
With the exception of goodwill, the Group’s intangible assets
are amortised in line with the accounting policy. The carrying
value of customer lists and goodwill are tested annually for
impairment, while the Directors also consider other intangible
assets and investments for indications of impairment. Further
details are provided in note 13 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Capital expenditure on tangible assets was £0.15m during the
year (2015: £0.05m). Expenditure on plant and equipment was
again modest, reﬂecting the business model which has a
relatively low capital expenditure requirement. Intangible asset
additions totalled £0.35m (2015: £0.30m) including the costs of
development activities satisfying the criteria detailed in note 3
part f to the ﬁnancial statements. The slight increase related to
capitalised development activities in Instra and dnsXperts UG.
Further details are provided in notes 12, 13 and 24 to the
ﬁnancial statements.
Cashflow and net cash
The cashﬂow statement for the Group includes two major
themes, being the entries related to the ﬁnancing and
completion of the Instra acquisition and then the results of the
ongoing operations of the business, taking into account the
ﬂuctuations in working capital.
Net cashﬂow from operating activities was lower than the
previous year at £3.32m (2015: £5.69m). Across both years,
the net cashﬂow from operating activities was in line with
expectations relative to Adjusted EBITDA. 2015 had beneﬁtted
from favourable working capital movements as a result of the
timing of increased payments owing to registry operators that
were settled in early 2016 and the funds paid on account by
registrars to support new TLD activity levels. In 2016 the more
usual trend of favourable working capital movements continued
but was offset by increased activity from post-pay registrars,
notably in China. Other 2016 cash outﬂows included increased
professional fees and investment in stock of domains for resale.
Investing activities were mainly due to the Instra acquisition,
which completed in January 2016 with a subsequent settlement
for working capital balances acquired. The net cash outﬂow
related to the acquisition totaled AU$30.30m (£14.83m) and
was funded by a combination of the equity placing in December CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 21
2015 which had raised £9.40m net of fees, the £3.50m term
loan facility and £1.93m from the Group’s available cash
resources. To mitigate the risk of adverse exchange rate
ﬂuctuations, the Group put in place a contracted hedging
instrument to settle the cash element of the consideration.
Due to timings, the Group cash balance at the end of 2015
included the funds raised from the equity placing that were to be
used for the Instra acquisition. As such, the balance at the end
of 2015 was unusually high at £19.06m. The balance at the end
of 2016 remained healthy at £9.90m.
Banking facilities
The £3.50m debt facility was drawn down in January 2016 and
contributed to the funding of the Instra acquisition. 
The principal terms of the debt facility include a capital sum of
£3.50m amortising in equal quarterly instalments over a 3 year
term, with interest repayments also settled quarterly based at
a margin above LIBOR. The debt facility is secured over the
material companies within the Group. Further detail is provided
in note 23 of the ﬁnancial statements.
Scheduled quarterly repayments were made during the year
along with the release of associated ﬁnance costs.
Critical accounting policies
The Summary of the Group’s Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies is
set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
The Group’s Revenue recognition policy may be summarised as:
• Revenue from the sale of services is recognised when the
amounts of revenue and cost can be measured reliably
• Domain sales are recognised over the period to which the
underlying sales contract relates, which can be for periods
between one and ten years. Revenues attributable to future
periods are deferred to future periods and are included in
“Deferred Revenues” and in the case of the Retail business,
the direct costs, associated with domain name Retail
revenues, that are payable to wholesale suppliers of the
domains, are recognised in deferred costs
• Revenues from strategic consultancy and other similar
services are recognised in proportion to the stage of
completion of the work.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the
future, which are regularly evaluated including expectations of
the future that are considered reasonable given historic
experience and current circumstances. In the future actual
experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The Board considers the carrying value of Intangible assets in
particular given the relative materiality to the Group. While the
Board acknowledges that estimates and assumptions could
have a material impact on the carrying value of the intangible
assets, the Board has considered the potential for impairment
as well as the estimated useful lives of the assets and does not
consider the carrying values to be impaired. Further details are
provided in note 4 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Group financial risk management
The Board reviews the ﬁnancial risk management policy, noting
that the Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity
risk arising from ﬁnancial instruments. Further details of the
Financial Risk Management Framework is provided in note 28
to the ﬁnancial statements.
The Group’s ﬁnance function is responsible for managing
investment and funding requirements including cashﬂow monitoring
and projections. The cashﬂow projections are reviewed regularly by
the Board to ensure the Group has sufﬁcient liquidity at all times to
meet its cash requirements and execute its business strategy.
The Group’s strategy is to ﬁnance its operations through the
cash generated from operations and where necessary equity
and debt ﬁnance, notably to support investing activities.
The Group’s ﬁnancial instruments comprise cash and various
items such as trade and deferred receivables. The Group had
£9.90m of cash at the year-end, with interest bearing ﬁnancial
assets bearing interest at ﬁxed interest rates. Deposit risk is
mitigated by the Directors setting policy that the Group only
places deposits with banks and ﬁnancial institutions with high
credit ratings.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk from trade receivables is
relatively low, due to the fact that the business has traditionally
dealt with customers who often pay at the point or sale or in
advance. Where there are credit accounts, which is an
increasing trend in the industry particularly for the larger
domain name registrars, receivables are controlled through
credit limits and regular monitoring.
Foreign currency risk
The Board notes that the Group has predominantly traded in
US Dollars, Euros, GB Pounds Sterling and Australian Dollars,
and considers the exposure to foreign currency risk to be
acceptable. The Group has held reserves in each of these
currencies to meet trading obligations as required. The currency
risk is actively monitored through a periodic review of inﬂows
and outﬂows by currency, including an assessment of the extent
to which currencies are naturally hedged across the Group’s
business lines. Where this is not the case consideration is
given to the use of hedging instruments.
In the case of the acquisition of the Instra Group, the cash
element of the consideration was denominated in Australian
Dollars (AU$31.45m including the adjustment for acquired
working capital). A participating forward contract was used in
January 2016 to mitigate the effect of potential unfavourable
movements in the exchange rates prior to completion of 
the acquisition. 
Glenn Hayward Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
9 May 2017 22 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Board of Directors
The Board’s principal duties include the provision of entrepreneurial
leadership to the Group, setting strategy and overseeing 
business performance and compliance; deploying good corporate
governance commensurate with the size and scope of the 
Group’s activities.
Mike Turner Chairman (aged 56)
Mike Turner is a leading international mergers and acquisitions lawyer. He has
over 30 years of experience working in London, New York and Los Angeles,
advising private and publicly held clients on corporate transactions in technology,
telecoms, advertising/marketing services, traditional/digital media, internet and
e-commerce sectors. Mike is a Partner and International Head of Technology,
Media and Communications at the international law ﬁrm Taylor Wessing.
Previously, Mike was a General Partner responsible for technology investments at
Oakﬁeld Partners. Mike obtained an LLB at the University of Reading. He joined
CentralNic as Chairman in September 2015.
Benjamin Crawford (“Ben”) Chief Executive Officer (aged 51)
Ben Crawford is one of the best-known ﬁgures in the domain industry, and is
frequently quoted on developments in the internet in the global media. Ben has
been the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of CentralNic since 2009, successfully
globalising the company into new markets including the Middle East, China,
Japan and Russia, entering the gTLD market, listing on the AIM market and
achieving growth organically, through winning new contracts, and via
acquisitions. Ben is a specialist in global business and corporate development
– his former positions included Founding President of Louise Blouin Media,
integrating 11 acquisitions in three countries and launching artinfo.com;
Managing Director of SportBusiness Group, where he launched the world’s
leading online gambling trade media Group, iGamingBusiness.com; and
Executive Producer of the ofﬁcial website of the Sydney Olympic Games. Ben
has an MBA from the Australian Graduate School of Management and a First
Class Honours Degree from the University of Sydney.
Glenn Hayward Chief Financial Officer (aged 43)
Glenn joined CentralNic in February 2014, bringing 20 years’ experience across 
a variety of sectors, with particular experience working with technology companies,
most notably in the domain name industry. Most recently, Glenn worked as
Executive Director, Business Development and Finance, for Nominet, the
organisation which manages the .uk internet domain. Glenn has a bachelor’s
degree in Physics from the University of Birmingham and between 2011 and 2012
qualiﬁed in the Institute of Director’s Certiﬁcate and then Diploma in Company
Direction with distinctions. He also won Finance Director of the Future at the UK’s
Finance Director Excellence Awards 2011. Glenn qualiﬁed as a Chartered
Accountant in 1998 while working for Morris & Co Chartered Accountants and is 
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (England and Wales).
Desleigh Jameson Executive Director (aged 46)
Desleigh Jameson is the Chief Executive of CentralNic’s Retail Division, having
joined the board following CentralNic’s acquisition of the Instra Group in January
2016. She has more than 15 years of experience in retail management and
start-ups. Prior to joining Instra, Desleigh was a director at Six Corporation
Limited and the CEO of Retail Institute in New Zealand. She was also the
founder of Allied Fastening Limited, a supplier of niche fastenings products to
power utilities, construction, and engineering companies. Desleigh has an
Executive MBA from the University of Auckland in New Zealand.  CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 23
Iain McDonald Non-Executive Director (aged 46)
Iain McDonald is a global expert in technology and e-commerce, having had a
strong track record in investing in early stage companies such as ASOS, The
Hut Group, Eagle Eye Solutions, Anatwine and Metapack. He is an advisor to
the William Currie Group, a family ofﬁce founded by ﬁnancier Bill Currie to invest
mainly in technology and e-commerce companies. Iain is also a non-executive
director of various of his investee companies, as well as other technology
companies such as My Sale Group plc and Houseology Design Group Limited,
and was nominated as a NED of the year in 2015 by the Sunday Times NED
Awards. Previously, Iain was a top-ranked retail and e-commerce analyst and
held positions in a number of UK investment banks. Iain graduated from the
London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), with a Bachelor of
Science in Economics & Economics History.
Samuel Dayani Non-Executive Director (aged 40)
Samuel Dayani is a partner at the Joseph Samuel Group and responsible for
managing the Group investments and business development. These include
Real Estate, Medtech, Energy & Renewables, Fashion and Technology 
& Telecoms. From 2001-2005, Samuel was the Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and 
then Managing Director of ViaVision Ltd, an interactive TV company on Sky,
before it was sold to Yoomedia plc. Samuel graduated from Queen Mary
College, University of London with a Bachelor of Science in Business and
Biology in 2000.
Thomas Rickert Non-Executive Director (aged 47)
Thomas Rickert is an attorney-at-law in Germany. He is the owner of Rickert
Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mbH, a law ﬁrm in Bonn. Thomas has extensive
experience in the domain industry working on domain disputes as well as
advising Registrars, Registry Service Providers and new gTLD applicants both
on contractual as well as policy matters. Thomas is an expert speaker on
domain related subjects both at the national and international level. Thomas
was previously appointed by ICANN’s Nominating Committee to serve on the
Council of the Generic Names Supporting Organisation (GNSO), which is the
body responsible for developing policy for generic domain names. He was also
the co-chair of the Cross Community Working Group on enhancing ICANN
accountability in the context of IANA Stewardship Transition.
Thomas Pridmore (“Tom”) Non-Executive Director (aged 45)
Tom Pridmore began his career as a solicitor at Norton Rose, specialising in
corporate ﬁnance, where he acted on behalf of institutional clients in relation to a
variety of corporate ﬁnance and M&A activities. Tom then joined Flextech/Telewest
Plc as Head of Corporate Strategy, where he was responsible for directing
investment into strategic Internet and interactive television companies. In 2000, Tom
co-founded the international fund manager and investment adviser Development
Capital Management Limited. In this capacity he has set-up and managed real
estate investment and development operations in Turkey, India, North Africa,
Eastern Europe and the UK on behalf of both institutional and private clients.  Directors’ report
24 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Principal activities
CentralNic Group Plc is the ultimate holding company of a
Group of companies.
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of domain
name Wholesale (registry), Retail (registrar) and Enterprise
services. A more comprehensive description of the Group’s
activities, performance, and likely developments are provided in
the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s Report, the
Strategic Report, the Chief Financial Officer’s Report, the
Corporate Governance Report and the Remuneration Report,
which are incorporated by reference into this report.
A list of the subsidiary undertakings is disclosed in the
Particulars of subsidiaries and Associates on page 73 of the
Financial Statements.
Financial instruments
Details of the use of financial instruments and financial risk
management are included in note 28 to the Financial Statements.
Results and dividends
Information on the results and dividends is provided in the
Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Financial Officer’s Report.
Directors
The Company was incorporated on 19 June 2013, with a view
to becoming the parent company of the Group after admission
to AIM. The admission was completed on 2 September 2013,
and at this time the Board was expanded.
In 2016 there were changes in Board members to reflect the
development of the business. The Directors who served during
the year were as follows:
Executive Directors
Benjamin Crawford (Chief Executive Officer)
Glenn Hayward (Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary)
Robert Pooke (Executive Director) – resigned from Board on
5 February 2016
Desleigh Jameson (Executive Director) – appointed to the
Board on 5 February 2016
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Turner (Non-Executive Chairman)
Samuel Dayani
Thomas Rickert
Thomas Pridmore
Iain McDonald
The biographical details of the Directors are provided on pages
22 and 23 of this report.
Two Directors will retire at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting, and being eligible will offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors and their interests in the shares in the Group
The Directors of the Company, and their interests in the shares
and share options of the Company, are shown in the
Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 33 of this report.
Transactions with any parties related to the Directors are
disclosed in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Directors conflicts of interest
Each Director is required, in accordance with the provisions of
the Companies Act 2006, to declare any interests that may give
rise to a conflict of interest with the Company on appointment
and subsequently as they arise. Where such a conflict or
potential conflict arises, the Board is empowered under the
Company’s Articles of Association to consider and authorise
such conflicts as appropriate.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the Company’s
internal regulation and cover such matters as the rights of
shareholders, the appointment and removal of Directors and
the conduct of Board and general meetings.
A copy of the Company’s Articles of Association is available on the
Group’s website (https://www.centralnic.com/investors/reports).
Subject to the provisions of legislation, the Company’s Articles
of Association and any directions given by resolutions of the
shareholders, the Board may exercise all powers of the
Company and may delegate authorities to committees and
management as it sees fit. Details of the committees of the
Board and their activities are contained in the Corporate
Governance Report on pages 28 to 30 of this report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the corporate and financial information included on the
Company’s website.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The board’s assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties,
together with the mitigating factors are presented in the strategic
report on pages 15 to 17. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 25
Substantial shareholders
In addition to the Directors Interests disclosed in the
Remuneration Report, and in accordance with Part 22 of the
Companies Act 2006, the Company has been notified that
the following shareholder’s interests exceeded 3% of the
Company’s ordinary share capital in issue at 30 April 2017:
Ordinary shares Percentage
Erin investments 21,630,382 22.56%
Kestrel Partners LLP 16,573,093 17.28%
Living Bridge VC LLP 8,983,019 9.37%
Schroder 7,509,131 7.83%
Jabella 5,687,891 5.93%
Herald Investment
Management Ltd 5,025,000 5.24%
UBS Private Banking
(R Pooke) 3,750,000 3.91%
Natwest FIS Nominees 3,699,000 3.86%
Unicorn Asset Management 3,611,479 3.77%
Miton Asset Management Ltd 3,250,000 3.39%
Estate of Antonio Lentino 3,047,042 3.18%
No substantial shareholders have different voting rights to other
holders of the share capital of the Company.
Corporate governance
The Corporate Governance Report, on pages 28 to 30 is
incorporated into this report by reference.
Corporate responsibility
The Board recognises its employment, environmental and
health and safety responsibilities, and devotes appropriate
resources towards monitoring and improving compliance
with existing standards.
Management and staff
CentralNic’s management team has been assembled to ensure
the Group has the number of people and range of skills required
to deliver the business strategy and to support the expansion of
the Group as it becomes an increasingly international business.
The team is diverse and brings functional expertise across a
number of disciplines including technical and operational
delivery, finance, law, marketing and sales.
While the business is managed under budgetary controls, the
Directors focus on ensuring there is succession planning in
place as is appropriate for a business of our size. We also
ensure there is regular communication of information affecting
our managers and their teams, to ensure all employees are
kept up to date with issues affecting them.
Our staff and consultants represent a number of different
nationalities, and we are pleased by the gender diversity in
our business.
The executive leaders within the business recognise the
importance of engaging with employees and do so informally
on a day to day basis. We often use a cascade approach to
employee communications, with the heads of departments
disseminating appropriate information to their teams, including
those situated in various locations around the world.
While we do not believe that human rights issues are a
significant risk to our business currently, we are conscious that
as we expand into new international markets issues of human
rights may become more significant. The Directors keep all
aspects of business development under review, and act with
caution and integrity to ensure all our activities and specifically
business development activities are respectful of human rights.
The Board recognises the importance of engaged employees
working within the Group and how they are vital to the future
success of the business. However, given the size of the Group
and the specialist nature of its technical operations, there is
dependency on a few key individuals and this is discussed
further in the Risks and Uncertainties on page 17.
The Group is committed to achieving equal opportunities and to
complying with anti-discrimination legislation. The Group is
committed to offering employees and job applicants equal and
fair opportunity to benefit from employment without regard to
their sex, sexual orientation, marital status, race, religion or
belief, age or disability.
Communication with employees is primarily through formal and
informal meetings and through the use of the Group’s
information systems.
The Group has a policy of share participation for employees
across the Group at all levels.
Standards accreditations
CentralNic’s wholesale business is certified against ISO 27001
(Information security management), ISO 9001 (Quality
management system) and ISO 22301 (Business continuity
management) having achieved ISO22301 accreditation during
2016. These certifications are internationally recognised and
provide CentralNic’s stakeholders with additional levels of
assurance as to the technical integrity of the Group’s IT systems. Directors’ report continued
26 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering
and sanctions compliance
CentralNic conducts business ethically, maintains financial integrity
and strives to behave responsibly in our business dealings.
The Group Directors and its senior management are committed
to ensuring strict adherence to our anti-bribery and corruption
policy, and compliance with anti-bribery and corruption laws.
The Group also maintains and ensures adherence to its policies
in relation to Anti-Money Laundering and Trade Sanctions and
Embargoes, again to comply with relevant laws across the
relevant jurisdictions.
All Directors, employees and consultants have received training
in maintaining the highest standards of professional conduct and
are aware of the need to carry out business fairly, honestly and
openly. Clear lines of communication and responsibility are in
place to report any incidences or suspected incidences of
abuse to provide an effective, trusted reporting mechanism.
Environment
The Group is committed to operating in an environmentally
responsible manner. The Directors consider environmental
impact when making decisions.
The community, charitable and political donations
The Directors consider the impact on the community when
making decisions. During the year charitable donations
totalling £300 were made (2015: £218).
The Group made no political donations during the year,
either in the UK or overseas.
Policy on the payment of creditors
The Group’s policy is to agree terms and conditions for its
business transactions with suppliers and to endeavour to
abide by these terms and conditions, subject to the supplier
meeting their obligations.
No one supplier is considered to be essential to the business
of the Group.
R&D activity
The Group undertakes research and development activities to
enhance it’s competitive position in its chosen markets, drawing
on skilled development resource from across the Group.
Health and safety
The Directors and senior management are committed to
providing for the welfare, health and safety of the Group’s
employees and have procedures in place, including regular
monitoring by third party specialists, to ensure compliance
with our legal and contractual obligations.
Business continuity
The Group has built a resilient technology infrastructure,
designed to provide data security and continuity of service.
The Board recognises the ongoing importance of resilience to
cyber threats and invests in primary and secondary data centres
along with a distributed domain name server constellation
operated by the Group and third party providers. The Board
keeps the infrastructure requirements under review and adopts a
continuous improvement approach to further investment, within
appropriate parameters, as business activities expand. The
technical provision, alongside customer support, is considered
one of the most significant aspects of Business Continuity.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the
Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report,
Directors’ Report, Annual Report and the group and parent
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare
group and parent company financial statements for each
financial year. Under that law, they are required to prepare the
group financial statements in accordance with International
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union
(EU) and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent
company financial statements in accordance with UK
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law, the Directors must not approve the
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent
company and of their profit or loss for that year. In preparing
each of the group and parent company financial statements,
the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the group and
the parent company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and the
parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and the CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 27
Cautionary statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Company’s Directors’ Report is required,
among other matters, to contain a fair review by the Directors of the Group’s
business, through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development
and performance of the business of the Group and the position of the Group
at the year end, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The Directors’ Report set out above, including the Chairman’s Statement, the
Chief Executive’s Report, and the Chief Financial Officer’s Report incorporated
into it by reference (together with the Directors’ Report), has been prepared only
for the shareholders of the Company as a whole, and its sole purpose and use
is to assist shareholders to exercise their governance rights. In particular, the
Directors’ Report has not been audited or otherwise independently verified. The
Company and its Directors and employees are not responsible for any other
purpose or use or to any other person in relation to the Directors’ Report.
The Directors’ Report contains indications of likely future developments and
other forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with,
among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from
time to time in the countries, sectors and business segments in which the Group
operates. These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under
Principal Risks and Uncertainties. These and other factors could adversely affect
the Group’s results, strategy and prospects. Forward-looking statements involve
risks, uncertainties and assumptions. They relate to events and/or depend on
circumstances in the future which could cause actual results and outcomes to
differ materially from those currently anticipated. No obligation is assumed to
update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.
parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report and Strategic
Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the website. Legislation in the United Kingdom concerning the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions. The work carried out by the
auditors does not involve the consideration of these matters
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred in the accounts since they
were initially presented on the website.
Disclosure of audit information
The Directors confirm that, as at the date of approval of this
annual report and these financial statements, so far as each
Director is aware there is no relevant audit information of which
the Company’s auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken
all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in
order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is
aware of that information.
Going concern
The Directors have in place procedures to review the forecasts
and budgets for the coming year, which have been drawn up
with appropriate regard for both the macroeconomic
environment in which the Group operates and the particular
circumstances influencing the Domain Name industry and the
Group itself. These were prepared with reference to historic and
current industry knowledge, contracted trading activities, and
prospects that relate to the future strategy of the Group. As a
result, at the time of approving the financial statements, the
Directors consider that the Company and the Group have
sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
As with all forecasts, the Directors cannot guarantee that the
going concern basis will remain appropriate given the inherent
uncertainty relating to future events. Principal areas of
Uncertainty and Risks are highlighted on page 17.
Auditors
The Company’s independent external auditors, Crowe Clark
Whitehill LLP , were initially appointed on 17 July 2013 and were
most recently reappointed at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting of 28 June 2016. It is proposed by the Board they be
put forward for reappointment as auditors and a resolution
concerning their reappointment will be proposed at the
forthcoming AGM.
Registered office
35-39 Moorgate, London EC2R 6AR
Registered number: 08576358
Approved by the Board and signed on it’s behalf by:
Mike Turner Chairman
9 May 2017 Corporate governance
28 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Board governance and policy
The Directors appreciate the value of good corporate
governance and have regard to the provisions of the Corporate
Governance Guidelines for Smaller Quoted Companies,
published from time to time by the Quoted Companies
Alliance, to the extent that they believe it is appropriate in
light of the size, stage of development and resources of an
AIM-quoted company. 
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three
executive directors and four non-executive directors. The Board
meets regularly to consider the business strategy, performance
and the framework of internal controls. To enable the Board to
discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely
information. Briefing papers are distributed to all Directors in
advance of Board meetings. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is
responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, procedures are in place to enable the Directors to
obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of
their duties, if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
In line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance
Code and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Group
has voluntarily chosen that two Directors will retire at the
Annual General Meeting and being eligible, will offer
themselves for re-election.
Board Committees
The Company has established Audit, Nomination and
Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference for the three committees were reviewed
during the year and are available for inspection on request from
the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has Iain McDonald as Chairman and other
members of the Committee include Mike Turner, Thomas Rickert
and Thomas Pridmore. The Chief Financial Officer is invited to
and regularly does attend the Committee meetings, as does the
Chief Executive Officer.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee, having due regard
for the interests of Shareholders include:
• Monitoring the integrity of the half yearly and annual financial
statements and formal announcements regarding the Group’s
financial performance
• Reviewing significant accounting policies, areas of significant
estimates and judgments and disclosures in financial reports
• Monitoring the quality and effectiveness of internal control
procedures and risk management systems
• Considering the requirement for Internal Audit, taking into
account the size, distribution and nature of the Company
and the Group and its operations
• Reviewing the external auditor reports relating to the
Company’s accounting and internal control procedures
• Overseeing the Board’s relationship with the external
auditors, including their continued independence and
making recommendations to the Board on the selection
of external auditors.
The Audit Committee is required to meet at least twice a year.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
The appointment of the independent external auditor is
approved by the shareholders annually. The independent
auditor’s audit of the financial statements is conducted in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing, ISA
(UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
It is noted that the external auditor also operates procedures
designed to safeguard their objectivity and independence.
The Audit Committee reviews all fees related to non-audit work,
and the committee reviews any material non-audit work prior to
commencement. Details of auditor fees can be found in note 7
to the financial statements.
Remuneration Committee
The Group’s Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf
of the Board, for developing remuneration policy. Details of
objectives and policy are provided in the Remuneration Report
on pages 31 to 33.
The Remuneration Committee has Tom Pridmore as its
Chairman and other members of the Committee include Mike
Turner, Samuel Dayani and Thomas Rickert.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee, having due regard
for the interests of Shareholders include:
• Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration
policy for the Chairman of the Board, the non-Executive
Directors and the Executive Directors and other senior
managers
• Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval by
the Board and determining the award policy to Executive
Directors and personnel under existing plans
• Determining the remainder of the remuneration packages
(principally salaries, bonus and pension) for the Executive
Directors and senior management including any
performance-related targets
• Reviewing and noting remuneration trends across the Group CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 29
• Co-ordinating with the Nominations Committee in relation
to the remuneration to be offered to any new Executive
Director; and
• Taking responsibility for the selection criteria and if appropriate
selecting, appointing and setting terms of reference for any
remuneration consultants engaged to advise the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee was created in September 2013
and is required to meet at least twice a year. During 2016 the
Committee met on three occasions.
It is the Group’s policy that Executive Directors’ service contracts
contain at least a 3 month notice period.
Nominations Committee
The Group’s Nominations Committee has the power and
authority to carry out a selection process of candidates before
proposing new appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee has Mike Turner as its Chairman
and other members of the Committee include Iain McDonald,
Thomas Rickert and Tom Pridmore.
The Nominations Committee was created in September 2013
and is required to meet at least once a year. During 2016 the
Committee met on one occasion.
The Group has adopted a policy for Directors and key employee
share dealings which is appropriate for an AIM-quoted Group.
The Directors comply with Rule 21 of the AIM rules relating to
Director’s dealings and take reasonable steps to ensure
compliance by the Group’s applicable employees. During 2016
the Group implemented a revised Dealing code to comply not
just with Rule 21 but also the new requirements contained in the
Market Abuse Regulation which came into force on 3 July 2016.
The Directors approved the Group’s amended Dealing Code,
having taken legal advice.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors service contracts
are available for inspection by shareholders on request to
the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate
in agenda items at any meeting when discussions in respect of
matters relating to their own position take place.
Risk management and internal controls
The Board has primary responsibility for establishing and
maintaining the Group’s financial and non-financial controls,
as well as identifying the major risks facing the Group.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the particular
needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
By their nature, internal controls can provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Executive Directors and Senior Management have specific
responsibilities for aspects of the Group’s affairs and have
regular discussions to address operational matters, as well as
considering the skill sets required in their teams to maintain the
internal controls required.
Accounting procedures
The financial processes and control systems are kept under
regular review by the Executives with oversight from the Board,
with a view to further evolution and improvement as the Group’s
activities expand. This includes the maintenance of and
adherence to a Financial Procedures Board Memorandum
which is reviewed and updated periodically.
Accounting procedures are managed on a day to day basis by
the Finance team. Responsibility levels are set and agreed with
the Board, with authority delegated to appropriate responsible
managers as well as the Executive. Segregation of duties is
deployed to the degree this is practical and efficient, noting the
size and geographic distribution of the Group.
Monthly management accounts are reported to the Board,
under IFRS (EU) with the content aligned to the Group’s
management information requirements. The Board reviews
the accounts in detail during each Board meeting and
requests further information as the need arises. Comparisons
to approved budgets and forecasts are prepared with
associated commentary provided.
The Company prepares annual Budgets which are reviewed by
the Board. The Budgets are then updated during the year to
provide latest forecasts.
Capital expenditure is regulated by the Budget process, and is
kept under regular review during the year. Investment appraisal
techniques, using discounted cashflow projections, are
deployed in relation to material investments and are reviewed
by the Board as part of good governance such that material
transactions that are significant in terms of their size or type are
only undertaken after Board review.
The Board acknowledges that there are processes in place for
identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group,
and places emphasis on continuous process improvement. Corporate governance continued
30 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Corporate responsibility, the environment
and health and safety
The Group is committed to maintaining and promoting high
standards of business integrity. Company values, which
incorporate the principles of corporate social responsibility
and sustainability, guide the Group’s relationships with its
stakeholders including clients, employees and the communities
and environment in which the Group operates.
The Group’s approach to sustainability addresses both our
environmental and social impacts, supporting the Group’s vision
to remain an employer of choice, while meeting client demands
for socially responsible partners. By way of example the Group
companies have arranged and promoted a number of ACE
(Athletics, Community and Environmental) activities in the past.
The Company is also certified by the Carbon Neutral Company.
The Group respects local laws and customs while supporting
international laws and regulations. These policies have been
integral in the way Group companies have done business in the
past and will continue to play a central role in influencing the
Group’s practice in the future.
Communications with shareholders
The Board regards the importance of effective communication
with shareholders as essential.
Relations with shareholders are managed principally by the Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman, and
meetings are regularly held with institutional investors and
analysts during the year.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer and if required other Executive and Non-Executive
Directors make themselves available for meetings with major
shareholders either individually or collectively. The Group’s
shareholders are invited to attend the AGM at which the
majority of Directors are present. The Group’s Nominated
Advisors and Joint Brokers also convey shareholder opinions
to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and these are
discussed with the Board.
The Group’s website contains information on current business
activities, including the annual and interim results.
Annual General Meeting date
The Annual General meeting will be convened in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Annual
General Meeting will take place on 7 June 2017 at 10.00am at
the offices of the Company’s solicitors:
DWF LLP
20 Fenchurch Street
London
EC3M 3AG
The proposed resolutions together with proxy forms and
this annual report will be distributed to shareholders by the
10 May 2017, if not before. Remuneration report
CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 31
As the Company is an AIM listed company, it is not required to
present a Directors’ Remuneration report. However, the Board
has chosen to do so in line with evolving best practice.
Remuneration Committee
The membership of the Committee and the principal activities
are detailed in the Corporate Governance section of the annual
report on pages 28 to 30.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s remuneration policy is focused on being able to
attract, retain and incentivise management with the appropriate
skills and expertise to realise the Group’s strategic objectives and
align managements’ interests with those of shareholders.
In particular the Remuneration Committee seeks to link payment
to performance and as a result create a performance culture
within the business.
The Directors believe that it is important to properly motivate and
reward key senior employees and executives and to do so in a
manner that aligns their interests with the interests of the
Shareholders. The Directors also recognise the importance of
ensuring that all employees are engaged, incentivised and
identify closely with the profitability of the Company.
Directors remuneration
The average number of staff employed by the Group is included
in note 8 to the financial statements.
Disclosure of the remuneration for key management personnel,
as required under IAS 24, is also detailed in note 8 to the
financial statements.
In terms of the remuneration of the Company’s Directors, entries
to profit and loss included in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income include:
Included in the Directors’ salaries and fees above is a charge
of £67,000 including payment for Robert Pooke’s contractual
notice period which expires in February 2017 (2015: £67,000).
Included in the Directors’ salaries and fees above is a charge of
£nil in the year to the Company and Group by Laura Trading
LLC (2015: £25,000) of which Samuel Dayani has a controlling
interest. A charge of £45,000 is also included in the year to the
Company and Group by Samuel Dayani (2015: £nil).
Included in the Directors’ salaries and fees above is a charge
of £11,250 in the year to the Company and Group by Thomas
Rickert (2015: £25,000).
Included in the Directors’ emoluments above is a charge of £66,272
in the year to the Company and Group by Ben Crawford FZE (2015:
£254,000) of which Ben Crawford has a controlling interest.
Included in the Directors’ salaries and fees above is a charge of
£40,000 to the Company and Group by Taylor Wessing LLP
(2015: £11,667), a partnership where Mike Turner is a partner.
Share options
Prior to admission to AIM CentralNic established an unapproved
share option scheme under which certain key executives and
employees were invited to participate.
In addition, again prior to AIM admission, CentralNic also
granted options under an Enterprise Management Incentive
Scheme (EMI) under separate EMI option agreements to certain
qualifying key executives and employees. These options were
rolled over into the Company during 2013.
To reflect existing commitments, the options granted in
June 2013 for the unapproved option scheme and the EMI
scheme vest in 12 equal instalments at 3 month intervals
following the Admission (so that the options have fully vested).
The unapproved options granted on 14 October 2013 vest
3 years after the date of grant (so again these options
have fully vested).
                                                                                                                                                                                     Share-based
                                                                                       Salaries & fees                    Bonus                  Pension               payments                      2016                      2015
                                                                                                     £’000                     £’000                     £’000                     £’000                     £’000                     £’000
Non-Executive Directors
Samuel Dayani                                                        45                    –                    –                    –                  45                  25
Thomas Rickert                                                       45                    –                    –                  56                101                  38
Tom Pridmore                                                         50                    –                    –                  56                106                  40
Mike Turner                                                             40                    –                    –                112                152                  12
Iain McDonald                                                         53                    –                    –                  50                103                    –
Executive Directors
Robert Pooke                                                          67                    –                    –                    –                  67                  67
Ben Crawford                                                        168                  60                    –                118                346                423
Glenn Hayward                                                     174                  25                  11                  80                290                248
Desleigh Jameson                                                 141                  41                    5                  26                213                    –
                                                                            783                126                  16                498             1,423                853 Remuneration report continued
32 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Ben Crawford participates in both the June 2013 and October
2013 unapproved scheme, and Donald Baladasan (a former
Director) participates in the June 2013 unapproved scheme.
Glenn Hayward is the only Director who participates in the EMI
scheme, with options granted on 28 April 2015. The EMI
options granted to Glenn Hayward vested on 10 February 2017.
During the year Desleigh Jameson joined the Board as an
Executive Director, following the completion of the Instra
acquisition. As such Desleigh Jameson was granted options
in the unapproved scheme in February 2016 with a vesting date
of 14 January 2019. Unapproved options were also issued to
Non-Executive Directors during the year. In the case of Mike Turner
and Iain McDonald these options were issued with a vesting date
to coincide with the third anniversary of their appointments, namely
15 September 2018 and 26 October 2018. There were also
further unapproved options issued to Tom Pridmore and Thomas
Rickert, both with a vesting date of 3 February 2019.
Options issued to the Directors during the year were as follows:
Issued on 4 February 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total number                         Options held 
                                                               Number of                                                                            Expected                      of options held                     as % of existing
                                                        options granted                        Exercise price                          vesting date                 following the grant                          share capital
Mike Turner                             750,000                           40p            15 Sept 2018                    750,000                        0.78%
Iain McDonald                         350,000                           40p              26 Oct 2018                    350,000                        0.37%
Tom Pridmore                          350,000                           40p                3 Feb 2019                    438,000                        0.46%
Thomas Rickert                       350,000                           40p                3 Feb 2019                    438,000                        0.46%
Desleigh Jameson                   200,000                           40p              14 Jan 2019                    200,000                        0.21%
These share incentive arrangements are designed to support the strategy of generating significant sustainable value for shareholders
by linking the rewards for executives and the board with the value created for Shareholders and thereby aligning the interests of key
executives with those of Shareholders.
Shares acquired or options granted under any share incentive arrangements operated by the Company will be limited in total to 10
per cent of the Company’s issued share capital from time to time.
The table below shows the outstanding share options issued to Directors and former Directors at 31 December 2016:
                                                                                                                                            Number of options                        Exercise price                    Options granted
Outstanding at 1 January 2016
Ben Crawford                                                                                           1,316,000                           10p              1 June 2013
Donald Baladasan (former Director)                                                                52,083                           10p              1 June 2013
Ben Crawford                                                                                              850,000                           55p       14 October 2013
Thomas Rickert                                                                                             88,000                           55p       14 October 2013
Tom Pridmore                                                                                                88,000                           55p       14 October 2013
Glenn Hayward                                                                                            500,000                           35p             28 April 2015
Total                                                                                                         2,894,083
Outstanding at 31 December 2016
Ben Crawford                                                                                           1,316,000                            10p              1 June 2013
Donald Baladasan (former Director)                                                                 52,083                            10p              1 June 2013
Ben Crawford                                                                                              850,000                            55p       14 October 2013
Thomas Rickert                                                                                             88,000                            55p       14 October 2013
Tom Pridmore                                                                                                88,000                            55p       14 October 2013
Glenn Hayward                                                                                            500,000                            35p             28 April 2015
Mike Turner                                                                                                  750,000                            40p        4 February 2016
Iain McDonald                                                                                             350,000                            40p        4 February 2016
Thomas Rickert                                                                                           350,000                            40p        4 February 2016
Tom Pridmore                                                                                              350,000                            40p        4 February 2016
Desleigh Jameson                                                                                       200,000                            40p        4 February 2016
Total                                                                                                         4,894,083
No options were exercised during the year by the Directors or former Directors and no options have expired. All options expire
within 10 years of grant.
Further details are provided in relation to share based payments in note 27 to the financial statements. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 33
In addition, a further 2,150,083 options over ordinary shares
were in issue at 31 December 2016, being held by the
Group’s employees. This number has not changed since
the end of the year as no further options have been issued.
The IFRS2 charge in the year for all share option plans relating
to the Directors was £497,806 (2015: £242,810).
On 31 December 2016, the closing market price of CentralNic
Group plc ordinary shares was 47 pence. The highest and lowest
price of these shares in the year were 56.5 pence on 29 February
2016 and 39.5 pence on 7 to 9 September 2016 respectively.
Directors’ interests
(a) As at 31 December 2016, the interests of the Directors
(including Directors who were appointed during the year and
those who retired), including persons connected with the
Directors within the meaning of section 252 of the Companies Act
2006, in the issued share capital of the Company are as follows:
Ordinary Shares Percentage
Erin Invest & Finance Ltd* 21,630,382 22.56%
UBS Private Banking
Nominees Ltd (R Pooke)** 3,750,000 3.91%
Jabella Group Ltd*** 5,687,891 5.93%
Natwest FIS Nominees**** 3,699,000 3.86%
Iain McDonald***** 11,500 0.01%
* The beneficial holder of Erin and Natwest FIS Nominee Limited is the
father of Samuel Dayani, a Director of the Company
** 5,687,891 Ordinary Shares are held by Jabella Group Limited in which
Robert Pooke has a 32.0 per cent. interest
*** Jabellla Group Limited is a BVI company owned inter alia, by Erin and
Robert Pooke.
**** 5,687,891 Ordinary Shares are held by Jabella Group Limited in which
Natwest FIS Nominee Limited has a 8.40 per cent interest
***** Iain McDonald has an interest, held through a contract for difference,
in 11,500 ordinary shares in the Company.
There are no changes to this information as at the date of
this report.
(b) Save as disclosed in this annual report, none of the
Directors nor any members of their families, nor any person
connected with them within the meaning of section 252 of the
Act, has any interest in the issued share capital of the Company
or its subsidiaries.
(c) Save as disclosed in this annual report, as at the date of
this Document, no Director has any option over any warrant to
subscribe for any shares in the Company.
(d) None of the Directors nor any members of their families, nor
any person connected with them within the meaning of section
252 of the Act, has a related financial product (as defined in the
AIM Rules) referenced to the Ordinary Shares.
(e) None of the Directors is or has been interested in any
transaction which is or was unusual in its nature or conditions
or significant to the business of the Company and which was
effected by the Company and remains in any respect
outstanding or unperformed.
(f) There are no outstanding loans made or guarantees
granted or provided by the Company to or for the benefit of
any Director other than disclosed in notes 16 and 25 to the
financial statements.
(g) Save as disclosed in this Annual report, there are no
potential conflicts of interest between any duties to the
Company of the Directors and their private interests or their
other duties. Independent Auditors’ report
to the Members of CentralNic Group plc
34 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
We have audited the financial statements of CentralNic Group
plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the
Group Statement of Financial Position and Parent Company
Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Comprehensive
Income, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group and Parent
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as
adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent
Company financial statements is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting
Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic or Ireland (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
that we might state to the company’s members those matters
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state
of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at
31 December 2016 and of the group’s and the parent
company’s profit for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
the audit:
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’
report for the financial year for which the financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the strategic report and the directors’ report have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have
not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or
the directors’ report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement
with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by
law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit
Stephen Bullock
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of
Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP
Statutory Auditor
St Bride’s House
10 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8EH
9 May 2017 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 35
Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                  Note                            £’000                            £’000
Revenue                                                                                                                          5,6                 22,129                 10,393
Cost of sales                                                                                                                                        (14,462)                 (5,533)
Gross profit                                                                                                                                             7,667                   4,860
Administrative expenses                                                                                                                         (5,637)                 (3,085)
Share based payments expense                                                                                                                (621)                    (316)
Operating profit                                                                                                                                     1,409                   1,459
Adjusted EBITDA*                                                                                                                                 5,483                   3,254
Depreciation                                                                                                                   12                     (125)                      (72)
Amortisation of intangible assets                                                                                     13                  (2,066)                    (578)
Acquisition costs and exceptional items                                                                                                (1,262)                    (829)
Share based payments expense                                                                                     27                     (621)                    (316)
Operating profit                                                                                                                                   1,409                   1,459
Finance income                                                                                                                  9                        18                        33
Finance costs                                                                                                                    9                     (270)                        (2)
Finance income – net                                                                                                         9                     (252)                       31
Share of loss of investments accounted for using the equity method                                                                –                       (36)
Profit before taxation                                                                                                       7                   1,157                   1,454
Income tax expense                                                                                                          10                     (202)                    (548)
Profit after taxation attributable to equity shareholders                                                                          955                      906
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operation                                                                             1,910                         (1)
Cash flow hedges – effective portion of changes in fair value                                              17                     (245)                     245
Total comprehensive income for the financial year
attributable to equity shareholders                                                                                                       2,620                   1,150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                  Note                           Pence                            pence
Earnings per share
Basic (pence)                                                                                                                   11                     1.00                     1.40
Diluted (pence)                                                                                                                 11                     0.97                     1.36
*   Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, acquisition costs, exceptional items and non-cash charges.
All amounts relate to continuing activities.
The notes on pages 39 to 65 form an integral part of these financial statements. 36 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement
of ﬁnancial position
as at 31 December 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                  Note                            £’000                            £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                           12                      161                        65
Intangible assets                                                                                                               13                 29,822                   5,390
Deferred receivables                                                                                                         14                   1,486                      295
Investments                                                                                                                      15                      997                      997
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                           21                   1,121                      168
                                                                                                                                                            33,587                   6,915
Current assets
Trade and other receivables                                                                                              16                 11,529                   5,425
Inventory                                                                                                                                                    390                        61
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                          17                          –                      245
Cash and bank balances                                                                                                  18                   9,902                 19,060
                                                                                                                                                            21,821                 24,791
Total assets                                                                                                                                         55,408                 31,706
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital                                                                                                                    19                        96                        92
Share premium                                                                                                                 19                 16,545                 16,522
Merger relief reserve                                                                                                         19                   1,879                          –
Share based payments reserve                                                                                                               2,004                   1,390
Foreign exchange translation reserve                                                                                                        1,910                          –
Foreign currency hedging reserve                                                                                                                   –                      245
Retained earnings                                                                                                                                   2,785                   1,797
Total equity                                                                                                                                          25,219                 20,046
Non-current liabilities
Other payables                                                                                                                 20                   3,820                      845
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                         21                   3,282                        65
Borrowings                                                                                                                       23                   1,324                          –
                                                                                                                                                              8,426                      910
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables and accruals                                                                              22                 19,947                 10,349
Taxation payable                                                                                                                                         783                      401
Borrowings                                                                                                                       23                   1,033                          –
                                                                                                                                                            21,763                 10,750
Total liabilities                                                                                                                                      30,189                 11,660
Total equity and liabilities                                                                                                                    55,408                 31,706
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 9 May 2017 and were
signed on its behalf by:
Mike Turner Chairman
Company Number: 08576358
The notes on pages 39 to 65 form an integral part of these financial statements. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 37
Consolidated statement
of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
                                                                                                                                                                 Share           Foreign           Foreign
                                                                                                                                         Merger             based       exchange         currency
                                                                                             Share             Share               relief       payments       translation          hedging         Retained 
                                                                                             capital         premium           reserve           reserve           reserve           reserve         earnings               Total
                                                                                             £’000             £’000             £’000             £’000             £’000             £’000             £’000             £’000
Balance as at 31 December 2014                     61       4,935               –       1,018              1               –          885       6,900
Profit for the year                                                  –               –               –               –               –               –          906          906
Other comprehensive income
Translation of foreign operation                             –               –               –               –              (1)              –               –              (1)
Cash flow hedge                                                 –               –               –               –               –          245               –          245
Total comprehensive income for the year              –               –               –               –              (1)          245          906       1,150
Transactions with owners
Issue of new shares                                           31     12,277               –               –               –               –               –     12,308
Share issue costs                                                –          (690)              –               –               –               –               –          (690)
Share based payments                                        –               –               –          316               –               –               –          316
Share based payments
– reclassify lapsed options                                   –               –               –              (6)              –               –              6               –
Share based payments
– deferred tax asset                                             –               –               –            62               –               –               –            62
Balance as at 31 December 2015                   92     16,522               –       1,390               –          245       1,797     20,046
Profit for the year                                                  –               –               –               –               –               –          955          955
Other comprehensive income
Translation of foreign operation                             –               –               –               –       1,910               –               –       1,910
Cash flow hedge                                                 –               –               –               –               –          (245)              –          (245)
Total comprehensive income for the year              –               –               –               –       1,910          (245)          955       2,620
Transactions with owners
Issue of new shares                                             4            23       1,879               –               –               –               –       1,906
Share based payments                                        –               –               –          621               –               –               –          621
Share based payments
– reclassify lapsed options                                   –               –               –            (33)              –               –            33               –
Share based payments
– deferred tax asset                                             –               –               –            26               –               –               –            26
Balance as at 31 December 2016                   96      16,545        1,879        2,004        1,910               –        2,785      25,219
• Share capital represents the nominal value of the company’s cumulative issued share capital.
• Share premium represents the cumulative excess of the fair value of consideration received for the issue of shares in excess of
their nominal value less attributable share issue costs and other permitted reductions.
• Merger relief reserve represents the cumulative excess of the fair value of consideration received for the issue of shares in excess
of their nominal value less attributable share issue costs and other permitted reductions. Where the consideration for shares in
another company includes issued shares, and 90% of the equity is held in the other company.
• Retained earnings represent the cumulative value of the profits not distributed to shareholders, but retained to finance the future
capital requirements of the CentralNic Group.
• Share based payments reserve represents the cumulative value of share based payments recognised through equity.
• Foreign exchange translation reserve represents the cumulative exchange differences arising on Group consolidation.
• Foreign currency hedging reserve represents the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives.
The notes on pages 39 to 65 form an integral part of these financial statements. 38 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement
of cash ﬂows
for the year ended 31 December 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                  Note                            £’000                            £’000
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                                1,157                   1,454
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                                                                             124                        71
Amortisation of intangible assets                                                                                                              2,066                      578
Reclassification of intangible assets                                                                                                             752                      448
Finance income/(cost) – net                                                                                                                        130                         (1)
Share based payments                                                                                                                              621                      316
Share of result of associate                                                                                                                             –                        36
Increase in trade and other receivables                                                                                                    (4,066)                 (2,649)
Increase in trade and other payables and accruals                                                                                    3,350                   5,839
Increase in inventories                                                                                                                               (278)                        (1)
Cash flow from operations                                                                                                                    3,856                   6,091
Income tax paid                                                                                                                                         (538)                    (405)
Net cash flow generated from operating activities                                                                               3,318                   5,686
Cash flow used in investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                 (145)                      (43)
Purchase of intangible assets                                                                                                                     (350)                    (104)
Acquisition of a subsidiary, net of cash acquired                                                                 24                (14,831)                       12
Net cash flow used in investing activities                                                                                          (15,326)                    (135)
Cash flow used in financing activities
Proceeds from borrowings (net)                                                                                                               2,625                          –
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares                                                                                                   23                 11,618
Payment of deferred consideration                                                                                                               (36)                 (1,159)
Net cash flow generated from/(used in) financing activities                                                                 2,612                 10,459
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents                                                                             (9,396)                16,010
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year                                                                                19,060                   3,056
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents                                                                               238                         (6)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year                                                                                      9,902                 19,060
The notes on pages 39 to 65 form an integral part of these financial statements. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 39
Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. General information
(a) Nature of operations
CentralNic Group Plc is the UK holding company of a group of companies which are engaged in the provision of global domain
name services. The company is registered in England and Wales. Its registered office and principal place of business is
35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR.
The CentralNic Group provides Wholesale (“registry”), Retail (“registrar”) and Enterprise services and strategic consultancy for new
Top Level Domains (“TLDs”), Country Code TLD’s (“ccTLDs”) and Second-Level Domains (“SLDs”) and it is the owner and registrant
of a portfolio of domain names, which it uses as SLD domain extensions and for resale on the domain name aftermarket.
(b) Component undertakings
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and other entities included in the financial statements are presented within the Particulars
of Subsidiaries and Associates on page 73 of these financial statements.
2. Application of IFRS
(a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements are measured and presented in sterling (£), unless otherwise stated, which is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which many of the entities operate. They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except
for financial instruments that have been measured at fair value through profit and loss.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue to be able
to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board
(“IASB”), including related interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”).
The Directors have reviewed forecasts and budgets for the coming year having regard to both the macroeconomic environment in
which the group operates, historic and current industry knowledge and contracted trading activities and the future strategy of the
Group. As a result of that review the Directors consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of preparation.
(b) Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and in
some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the financial statements of the
company in future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments, IFRS 15
may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures and IFRS 16 will have an impact on the recognition of operating
leases. The directors are completing their detailed review of these standards and will give a clearer indication of the potential impact
in the next set of financial statements.
The Directors continue to monitor the impact of future changes to the reporting requirements but do not believe the proposed
changes will significantly impact the financial statements.
3. Summary of significant accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, as explained in the accounting policies set out below,
which has been prepared in accordance with IFRS. The principal accounting policies are set out below.
(a) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of all subsidiaries. The financial year ends of all entities in the
group are coterminous. 40 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control over the
operating and financial decisions is obtained and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the
Group. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including recognised gains arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same manner as recognised gains except to the extent that they provide evidence of impairment.
(b) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of
the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at
the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included
in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and
designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value
and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Contingent
consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. If the contingent
consideration is not within the scope of IAS 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS. Contingent consideration
that is classified as equity is not remeasured and subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised
for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the
fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has
correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the
amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets
acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing,
goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are
expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill
associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on
disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the
portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
(c) Functional and foreign currencies
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds
sterling (£) the Group’s and the Company’s presentational currency.
(ii) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such
transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies
are recognised in the income statement, except where deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and
qualifying net-investment hedges. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are
presented in the income statement within finance income or finance costs. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are
recognised in profit and loss within administrative expenses.
Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 41
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
(iii) Group companies
The results and financial position of all of the Group entities, none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy that
have a functional currency different from the presentation currency of the Group are translated as follows:
a) assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement
of financial position;
b) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing at the transaction dates, in which case income and
expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions).
c) All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
(d) Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when CentralNic or one of the CentralNic Group
entities has become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
The CentralNic Group’s financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
The carrying value of the CentralNic Group’s financial assets, primarily cash and bank balances, and liabilities, primarily CentralNic’s
payables and other accrued expenses, approximate their fair values.
Financial instruments are offset when the CentralNic Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends to settle either on a
net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial instruments recognised in the pro forma aggregated statements of financial position are disclosed in the individual policy
statement associated with each item.
(i) Financial assets
On initial recognition, financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity
investments, loans and receivables financial assets, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables (including deposits and prepayments) that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in
an active market are classified as other receivables, deposits, and prepayments. Other receivables, deposits, and prepayments are
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment loss. Interest income is recognised by applying
the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Derivative financial instruments
Cash flow hedge
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair-value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at
their fair-value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated a hedging
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group has only undertaken hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable
forecast transaction (cash flow hedges).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as
risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment,
both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives which are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are set out in note 17.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the income statement. 42 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit and loss in the period or periods that the hedged item affects profit and loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or where a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting any cumulative
gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in
the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss which was reported
in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Cash and bank balances
Cash and bank balances comprise cash balances that are subject to insignificant risk of changes in their fair value, and are used
by the CentralNic Group in the management of its short-term commitments.
(ii) Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities are classified as liabilities or equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. Interest,
dividends, gains and losses relating to financial liabilities are reported in profit or loss. Distributions to holders of financial liabilities
are classified as equity and charged directly to equity.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities comprise long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings, trade and other payables and accruals, measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest income over
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees on
points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the CentralNic Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from proceeds.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as liabilities when approved for appropriation.
(e) Property, plant, and equipment
Property, plant and equipment, including leasehold improvements and office furniture and equipment, are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
Depreciation is calculated using the methods below to write off the depreciable amount of the assets over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation of an asset does not cease when the asset becomes idle or is retired from active use unless the asset is fully depreciated.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
                                                                                                                        UK                                Australia                         New Zealand                               Germany
Depreciation method                                   Reducing Balance      Reducing Balance      Reducing Balance               Straight Line
Computer equipment                                            60% – 65%                           25%                           25%                           33%
Furniture and fittings                                              15% – 20%                       5-10%                       5-20%                           10%
The depreciation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting
period to ensure that the amounts, method and periods of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and the expected
pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
Subsequent component replacement costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as
appropriate, only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow
to the CentralNic Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of parts that are replaced is
derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Cost also comprises the initial estimate of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located for which
the CentralNic Group are obliged to incur when the asset is acquired, if applicable. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 43
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
An item of property and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising from de-recognition of the asset is recognised in profit or loss. The revaluation reserve included in equity is
transferred directly to retained profits on retirement or disposal of the asset.
(f) Intangible assets
Intangible assets represent amounts paid to acquire the rights to own and act as registrant for a portfolio of domain names or
amounts in respect of such intangible assets originally included at directors valuation but treated as deemed cost on transition to
IFRS which, for the purposes of these financial statements, was 1 January 2010.
The useful economic life for the software acquired as part of the Internet BS and Instra acquisitions is five years with the customer
list acquired being amortised over ten years.
Capitalised domain names have a finite useful life and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses,
if any. Domain names are amortised on an annual basis at the rate of 10% to 20% reducing balance.
Domain names not held for resale are included in the balance sheet at amortised cost and classified as “Domain names” and
amortised over their useful lives. Domain names held for resale are included in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net
realisable value and classified as stock held for sale, no amortisation being charged. If a decision is taken to sell a domain name
previously included in intangible assets it is reclassified as stock at net book value prior to sale.
Development costs that the CentralNic Group incurs for identifiable and unique software will be capitalised, where the following
criteria are met:
• it is technically feasible to complete the software so that it will be available for use;
• management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it;
• there is an ability to use or sell the software product;
• it can be demonstrated that the asset will probably generate future economic benefits; and
• the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Costs capitalised in relation to computer software development may relate to either:
• completely separable software, or;
• enhancements of existing software which are clearly identifiable as new modules within the system or new features which
enable the asset to generate additional future economic benefit. For the avoidance of doubt this excludes the ongoing
maintenance to the existing software.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software product include the employee costs and an appropriate portion
of the relevant overheads.
Computer software development recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which are determined by
the Directors.
Costs for development initiatives that the CentralNic Group undertakes that are not otherwise allocable to specific domain names
or projects are charged to expense through profit and loss when incurred.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business
combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development
costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in profit or loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment annually if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. In the event that
the expected future economic benefits of the intangible assets are no longer probable or expected to be recovered, the capitalised
amounts are written down to their recoverable amount through profit and loss. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
44 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
(g) Impairment
(i) Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets not categorised at fair value through profit or loss are assessed at the end of each reporting period to determine
whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a
result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that loss event(s) had an impact on the estimated
future cash flows of the asset. Objective evidence that financial assets are impaired includes default or delinquency by a debtor and the
restructuring of an amount due to the CentralNic Group on terms that the CentralNic Group would not consider otherwise.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, including other receivables and deposits, is recognised
in profit or loss and is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash
flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. Losses are recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an
allowance account against the amounts receivable.
When the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the
carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have
been had the impairment not been recognised.
(ii) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying values of non-financial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of the asset is the higher of the asset’s fair value less cost to sell and their value-in-use, which is measured
by reference to discounted future cash flows.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
(g) Impairment
(ii) Impairment of non-financial assets
An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount of an asset is treated as a reversal of the
previous impairment loss and is recognised to the extent of the carrying amount of the asset that would have been determined (net
of amortisation and depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised. The reversal is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
(h) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and bank balances comprise of cash in hand, bank balances, deposits with financial institutions and short-term, highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(i) Employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits, including wages, salaries, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses and non-monetary benefits are
accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the CentralNic Group.
(j) Leases
Assets held under leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the CentralNic Group’s statement of financial
position. Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised as part of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease.
(k) Taxation
Taxation for the year comprises of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected amount of income taxes payable in respect of the taxable profit for the year and is measured using the
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 45
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences other than those that arise from goodwill or excess of the
acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the business
combination costs or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at
the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses
and unused tax credits can be utilised. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period
and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the
deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised or
the liability is settled, based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation authority.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised
in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from a
business combination is included in the resulting goodwill or excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the business combination costs.
(l) Share based payments
Employees (including Directors and Senior Executives) of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment
transactions, whereby these individuals render services as consideration for equity instruments (“equity-settled transactions”). These
individuals are granted share option rights approved by the Board which can only be settled in shares of the respective companies
that award the equity-settled transactions. Share option rights are also granted to these individuals by majority shareholders over
their shares held. No cash settled awards have been made or are planned.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the
performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant individuals become fully entitled to the
award (“vesting point”). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments
and value that will ultimately vest. The statement of comprehensive income charge for the year represents the movement in the
cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
The fair value of share-based remuneration is determined at the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the statement of
comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking account of the estimated number of shares that will
vest. The fair value is determined by use of Black Scholes model method.
(m) Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Provisions are recognised if, as a result of a past event, the CentralNic Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, when it
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable
estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions are reviewed at the end of each financial reporting period and adjusted to reflect the
current best estimate. Where effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is the present value of the estimated
expenditure required to settle the obligation.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by the
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the CentralNic Group. It can also be a present
obligation arising from past events that is not recognised because it is not probable that outflow of economic resources will be
required or the amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably.
A contingent liability is not recognised in the financial statements but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. When a
change in the probability of a contingent outflow occurs so that the outflow is probable, a liability will be recognised as a provision.
A contingent asset is a probable asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within the control of the CentralNic Group. The CentralNic Group does
not recognise contingent assets but discloses their existence where inflows of economic benefits are probable, but not virtually certain. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
46 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
(n) Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services
provided in the course of ordinary activities, net of discounts and sales related taxes.
Revenue from the sale of services is recognised when the amounts of revenue and cost can be measured reliably. In particular:
(i) Sale of Wholesale (“registry”) services for domain names (“Wholesale Domain sales”)
Revenue from the provision of wholesale and similar services under contracts for the sale of domain names by registrars and re-sellers
reflect the period over which the underlying sales contract has been entered into by the registrar or re-seller, which can be for periods of
between one and ten years. Revenues attributable to future periods are deferred to future periods and included in ‘Deferred revenues’.
Revenue from strategic consultancy and similar services is recognised in profit and loss in proportion to the stage of completion of
the assignment at the reporting date. The stage of completion is determined based on completion of work performed to date as a
percentage of total services to be performed.
(ii) Sale of Retail (“registrar”) services for domain names (“Retail Domain sales”)
Revenue from the provision of retail and similar services under contracts for the sale of domain names by registrants and re-sellers
reflect the period over which the underlying sales contract has been entered into by the registrant or re-seller, which can be for
periods of between one and ten years. Revenues attributable to future periods are deferred to future periods and included in
‘Deferred revenues’. These revenues are matched to deferred wholesale costs which cover the same period of the underlying sale.
(iii) Sale of Enterprise services including premium domain names (“Enterprise including Premium Domain Name Sales”)
Revenue from enterprise services and premium domain name sales are recognised in profit and loss at the point of sale. Revenue
from the provision of computer software to a customer is recognised when the Group has delivered the related software and
completed all of the adaptions required by the customer for either the whole contract or for a specific milestone deliverable within
the contract. Where no adaptions are required revenue is recognised on delivery.
Revenue from strategic consultancy and similar services is recognised in profit and loss in proportion to the stage of completion of
the assignment at the reporting date. The stage of completion is determined based on completion of work performed.
(o) Investment in associates
An associate is an entity over which the CentralNic Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over
subsidiaries. The CentralNic Group’s investments in its associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the
investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the CentralNic Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the
acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not
tested for impairment individually.
The statement of profit or loss reflects the CentralNic Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture.
Any change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the CentralNic Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a
change recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the CentralNic Group recognises its share of any changes,
when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the
CentralNic Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The aggregate of the CentralNic Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of the
statement of profit or loss outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the associate
or joint venture.
The financial information of the associate or joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the CentralNic Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the CentralNic Group.
At each reporting date, the CentralNic Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in its associate or
joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the CentralNic Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference
between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of
profit of an associate or joint venture’ in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 47
3. Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any
retained investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant
influence or joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
4. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of
estimating uncertainty
In the application of the CentralNic Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make
judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not apparent from other sources.
The estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if
the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the statement of
financial position date that have a significant risk of causing a significant adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
in the Financial statements:
Impairment testing
The recoverable amounts of individual non-financial assets are determined based on the higher of the value-in-use or the fair value
less costs to sell. These calculations will require the use of estimates and assumptions. It is reasonably possible that assumptions
may change, which may impact the Directors’ estimates and may then require a material adjustment to the carrying value of tangible
and intangible assets.
The Directors review and test the carrying value of tangible and intangible assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the purposes of performing impairment tests, assets are grouped at the lowest
level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of cash flows of other assets or liabilities. If there are indications that
impairment may have occurred, estimates will be prepared of expected future cash flows for each group of assets.
Expected future cash flows used to determine the value in use of tangible and intangible assets will be inherently uncertain and could
materially change over time. The carrying value of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets are disclosed in notes 12 and 13 respectively.
Estimation of useful life
The charge in respect of periodic amortisation and depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an asset’s expected
useful life. The useful lives of the assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and are reviewed
continually for appropriateness.
Share based payments
The fair value of share-based remuneration is determined at the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the statement of
comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking account of the estimated number of shares that are
expected to vest. The fair value is determined by use of Black Scholes model method.
Acquisition accounting and goodwill
Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent
liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is
recorded as goodwill. The valuation of identifiable net assets involves an element of judgement related to projected results. Fair
values that are stated as provisional are not finalised at the reporting date and final fair values may be determined that are materially
different from the provisional values stated.
Judgement was exercised on use of the acquisition method of accounting in respect of the acquisition of the Instra Group.
Further details are set out in note 24. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
48 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
5. Segment analysis
CentralNic is an independent global domain name service provider. It provides Wholesale, Retail and Enterprise services and it is the
owner and registrant of a portfolio of domain names, which it uses as SLD domain extensions. Operating segments are prepared in
a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the management as its chief operating decision maker in order to allocate
resources to segments and to assess their performance. These reportable operating segments includes the aggregation of certain
operating units. Management reviews the activities of the CentralNic Group in the segments disclosed below:
2016
                                                                                                                      Adjusted              Non-current                     Current              Non-current                     Current 
                                                                                   Revenue                     EBITDA                       assets                       assets                   liabilities                   liabilities
                                                                                         £’000                         £’000                         £’000                         £’000                         £’000                         £’000
Wholesale Domain Sales                         3,176                1,237                2,901              12,614                1,775              13,578
Retail Domain Sales                              14,320                2,417              30,564                8,848                6,651                8,159
Enterprise including Premium
Domain Name Sales                              4,633                2,785                   122                   359                        –                     26
Group overheads including
costs associated with public
company status                                           –                  (956)                       –                        –                        –                        –
                                                            22,129                5,483              33,587              21,821                8,426              21,763
2015
                                                                                                                   Adjusted               Non-current                      Current               Non-current                      Current 
                                                                                 Revenue                     EBITDA                       assets                       assets                     liabilities                     liabilities
                                                                                      £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000                        £’000
Wholesale Domain Sales                         3,129               1,403               2,711             20,544                  585               8,522
Retail Domain Sales                                3,405                  174               4,198               4,116                  325               2,154
Enterprise including Premium
Domain Name Sales                             3,859               2,608                      6                  131                       –                    74
Group overheads including
costs associated with public
company status                                           –                  (931)                      –                       –                       –                       –
                                                            10,393               3,254               6,915             24,791                  910             10,750
The geographical locations of the non-current and current assets and non-current and current liabilities are located in the following
geographic territories.
2016
                                                                                                                                     Non-current                                                          Non-current 
                                                                                                                                              assets              Current assets                        liabilities          Current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                £’000                              £’000                              £’000                              £’000
UK                                                                                                 3,266                  13,781                    5,010                  13,786
North America                                                                                       –                         33                           –                      (123)
Europe                                                                                                  9                       135                           –                         26
ROW                                                                                            30,312                    7,872                    3,416                    8,074
                                                                                                    33,587                  21,821                    8,426                  21,763
2015
                                                                                                                                 Non-current                                                         Non-current
                                                                                                                                          assets               Current assets                         liabilities             Current liabilities
                                                                                                                                           £’000                            £’000                            £’000                            £’000
UK                                                                                                 3,066                 19,902                      585                   2,412
North America                                                                                       2                      948                          –                      705
Europe                                                                                                  6                        54                          –                      162
ROW                                                                                             3,841                   3,887                      325                   7,471
                                                                                                      6,915                 24,791                      910                 10,750 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 49
6. Revenue
The CentralNic Group’s revenue is generated from the following geographical areas:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
Wholesale Domain Sales                                                                                                                                                                 £’000                            £’000
UK                                                                                                                                                             805                      902
North America                                                                                                                                            904                      997
Europe                                                                                                                                                       451                      458
ROW                                                                                                                                                      1,016                      772
                                                                                                                                                              3,176                   3,129
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
Retail Domain Sales                                                                                                                                                                           £’000                            £’000
UK                                                                                                                                                          1,215                      350
North America                                                                                                                                         3,416                      744
Europe                                                                                                                                                    3,723                   1,260
ROW                                                                                                                                                      5,966                   1,051
                                                                                                                                                            14,320                   3,405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
Enterprise including Premium Domain Name Sales                                                                                                          £’000                            £’000
UK                                                                                                                                                                 4                          –
North America                                                                                                                                         3,745                   3,286
Europe                                                                                                                                                       575                      246
ROW                                                                                                                                                         309                      327
                                                                                                                                                              4,633                   3,859
Enterprise including premium domain name sales by nature are subject to annual variation depending on customer demand.
The following table shows customers that represented 10% or more of the wholesale domain sales:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Customer A                                                                                                                                               287                      393
Customer B                                                                                                                                               189                      333
Other customers                                                                                                                                     2,700                   2,403
                                                                                                                                                              3,176                   3,129
No single customer contributes greater than 10% or more of the retail domain sales.
The enterprise including premium domain name sales were principally driven by premium domain name sales of £3,744,000
(2015: £3,221,000) of which £3,555,000 was made to one customer (2015: £3,079,000 to one customer). Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
50 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
7. Profit before taxation
The profit before taxation is stated after charging the following amounts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Employee benefit expense – wages and salaries                                                                                      3,057                   1,192
Employee benefit expense – social security                                                                                                 275                      171
Employee benefit expense – pension                                                                                                          132                          –
Employee benefit expense – share payments                                                                                              123                        73
Staff Consultancy fees                                                                                                                                567                      516
Directors’ remuneration – fees and salaries                                                                                                  925                      649
Directors’ remuneration – share payments                                                                                                   498                      243
Operating Leases – land & buildings                                                                                                           148                        42
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of Parent Company
and consolidated financial statements                                                                                                         95                        35
Net (gain) on foreign currency translation                                                                                                    (567)                    (211)
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                                                                                    2,190                      649
8. Employee information
The average number of persons employed by the group (excluding directors) during the year were 87 (2015: 30), analysed by
category, as follows;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £’000                            £’000
Management and finance                                                                                                                               7                          3
Technical                                                                                                                                                     29                        13
Sales and Marketing                                                                                                                                     21                          8
Administrative                                                                                                                                                 6                          3
Operations                                                                                                                                                   24                          3
Key management personnel
Total remuneration of key management personnel being the directors and key senior personnel is £1,810,000 (2015: £1,018,000),
and is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS24, related party disclosures.
2016 2015
                                                                                                                           Senior key                                                                          Senior key 
                                                                                               Directors              personnel                       Total                Directors               personnel                       Total
                                                                                                     £’000                      £’000                      £’000                     £’000                     £’000                     £’000
Short-term benefits                                                925                 363              1,288                649                105                754
Share based payments expense                            498                   24                 522                243                  21                264
                                                                         1,423                 387              1,810                892                126             1,018 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 51
9. Finance income and costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Interest income on loans to related parties                                                                                                     18                        18
Re-measurement of fair value of pre-existing interest in acquire                                                                        –                        15
Finance income                                                                                                                                          18                        33
Interest expense on short-term bank borrowings                                                                                              –                         (2)
Interest expense on long-term bank borrowings                                                                                          (104)                         –
Finance costs in relation to long-term bank borrowings                                                                               (128)                         –
Cash flow hedges                                                                                                                                       (38)                         –
Finance costs                                                                                                                                          (270)                        (2)
Net finance (costs)/income                                                                                                                     (252)                       31
10. Income tax expense
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                                                                282                      593
Adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                                            (48)                         –
Current income tax                                                                                                                                     234                      593
Deferred income tax (note 21)                                                                                                                      (32)                      (45)
Income tax expense                                                                                                                                   202                      548
A reconciliation of the current income tax expense applicable to the profit before taxation at the statutory tax rate to the current
income tax expense at the effective tax rate of CentralNic is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                                1,157                   1,454
Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries                                      158                      404
Tax effects of:
– Expenses not deductible for tax purposes                                                                                                  82                      123
– Unutilised tax losses                                                                                                                                  10                        21
– Adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                                         (48)                         –
Income tax expense                                                                                                                                   202                      548
The Company provides for income taxes on the basis of its income for financial reporting purposes, adjusted for items that are not
assessable or deductible for income tax purposes, in accordance with the regulations of domestic tax authorities.
The effective rate of tax for the year is 17.5% (2015: 37.7%).
In the UK, the applicable statutory tax rate for 2016 is 20% (2015: 20%).
In the USA, federal taxes are due at 15% on taxable income. Under California tax legislation a statutory minimum of $800 of state tax is due.
In Germany, federal taxes are due at 15% on taxable income. With an additional 5.5% solidarity surcharge due on the income tax.
A community business tax of c.17% is also levied with rates determined by the municipality.
In addition, for the current year, included within the domestic tax rates applicable to profits are Australia where income tax is due at
30% of taxable income and New Zealand, where income tax is due at 28% on taxable income. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
52 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
11. Earnings per share
Earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after taxation attributable to ordinary shareholders by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated on the same basis as above, except that the weighted average number of ordinary
shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares (arising from the Group’s share option
scheme and warrants) into ordinary shares has been added to the denominator. There are no changes to the profit (numerator) as
a result of the dilutive calculation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
Profit after tax attributable to owners (£’000)                                                                                                955                      906
Weighted average number of shares:
Basic                                                                                                                                             95,632,390          64,537,714
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares                                                                                           2,745,348            1,953,680
Diluted                                                                                                                                           98,377,738          66,491,394
Earnings per share:
Basic (pence)                                                                                                                                            1.00                     1.40
Diluted (pence)                                                                                                                                          0.97                     1.36
12. Property, plant and equipment
                                                                                                                                                         Computer equipment       Furniture and fittings                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                £’000                            £’000                            £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2015                                                                                                         311                        36                      347
Additions                                                                                                                         45                          2                        47
At 31 December 2015                                                                                                  356                        38                      394
Additions                                                                                                                       139                          6                      145
Acquisition of Subsidiary                                                                                                  31                        32                        63
Exchange differences                                                                                                       51                        25                        76
Disposals                                                                                                                       (12)                         –                       (12)
At 31 December 2016                                                                                                  565                       101                       666
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015                                                                                                         226                        31                      257
Charge for the year                                                                                                          71                          1                        72
At 31 December 2015                                                                                                  297                        32                      329
Charge for the year                                                                                                        112                        13                      125
Exchange differences                                                                                                       45                        18                        63
Disposals                                                                                                                       (12)                         –                       (12)
At 31 December 2016                                                                                                  442                         63                       505
Property, plant, and equipment, net
At 31 December 2016                                                                                                  123                         38                       161
At 31 December 2015                                                                                                     59                          6                        65
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is included in administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 53
13. Intangible assets
                                                                                                  Domain                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                   names                        Software                 Customer list                        Goodwill                              Total
                                                                                                     £’000                            £’000                            £’000                            £’000                            £’000
Cost or deemed cost
At 1 January 2015                                             3,164                      960                   2,548                   1,379                   8,051
Additions                                                                   –                      104                          –                      194                      298
Reclassification                                                    (835)                         –                          –                          –                     (835)
Exchange differences                                              11                          –                          –                          –                        11
At 31 December 2015                                       2,340                   1,064                   2,548                   1,573                   7,525
Additions                                                                   –                      350                          –                          –                      350
Acquisition of Subsidiary                                     1,121                   1,615                   8,738                 11,774                 23,248
Reclassification                                                 (2,295)                         –                          –                          –                  (2,295)
Exchange differences                                                –                      265                   1,430                   1,956                   3,651
At 31 December 2016                                       1,166                    3,294                  12,716                  15,303                  32,479
Amortisation
At 1 January 2015                                             1,707                        99                      127                          –                   1,933
Charge for the year                                               142                      181                      255                          –                      578
Reclassification                                                    (387)                         –                          –                          –                     (387)
Exchange differences                                              11                          –                          –                          –                        11
At 31 December 2015                                       1,473                      280                      382                          –                   2,135
Charge for the year                                               196                      640                   1,230                          –                   2,066
Reclassification                                                 (1,544)                         –                          –                          –                  (1,544)
At 31 December 2016                                         125                       920                    1,612                           –                    2,657
Intangible assets, net
At 31 December 2016                                       1,041                    2,374                  11,104                  15,303                  29,822
At 31 December 2015                                          867                      784                   2,166                   1,573                   5,390
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Certain domain names previously held as intangible assets were reclassified to stock held for resale in the 2016 and the 2015 periods.
Goodwill and customer list
The Group tests goodwill recognised through business combinations annually for impairment. Additions to goodwill arose through
the business combinations outlined in note 24. The carrying value of goodwill and the customer list is allocated to the respective
segments as follows:
Customer list Goodwill
                                                                                                                                            2016                             2015                             2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                           £’000                            £’000                            £’000                            £’000
Retail Division                                                                               11,104                   2,166                 15,189                   1,379
Enterprise Division                                                                                  –                          –                      114                      194
Total carrying value                                                                       11,104                   2,166                 15,303                   1,573
The recoverable amount of goodwill of £15,303,000 (2015: £1,573,000) and customer list of £11,104,000 (2015: £2,166,000) at
31 December 2016, is determined based on a value in use using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior
management covering a five year period. Cash flow projections beyond the five year timeframe are extrapolated by applying a flat
growth rate in perpetuity. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 10.0%. As a result of the analysis,
management did not identify any impairment of goodwill.
Goodwill in the enterprise division has decreased in the year due to an amount due to the parent company on acquisition of dnsXperts
in 2015 of £80,000 previously treated as a cost of acquisition being reclassified as being due from the Company. An amount of
£80,000 is now included within other receivables. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
54 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
13. Intangible assets continued
The assumptions used in the cash flow projections were as follows:
Retail Division                                                                                                                                                                                Internet BS                             Instra
Revenue – compounded annual growth rate                                                                                               12%                     12%
Gross margin – before staff and IT costs                                                                                                    13%                     59%
Administration expenses – compounded annual growth rate                                                                         5%                     10%
Discount rates
Discount rates represent the current market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU, taking into consideration the time value of
money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate
calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and its operating segments and is derived from its WACC, with
appropriate adjustments made to reflect the risks specific to the CGU and to determine the pre-tax rate. The cost of equity is
derived from the expected return on investment by the Group’s investors.
Management consider that no reasonable change in these key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of this asset to
exceed its value in use.
14. Deferred receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Deferred costs                                                                                                                                        1,486                      295
                                                                                                                                                              1,486                      295
15. Investments
Available for sale investments carried at fair value
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £’000
At 31 December 2015                                                                                                                                                            997
Additions                                                                                                                                                                                    –
At 31 December 2016                                                                                                                                                           997
The Company owns less than 20% of the following undertakings which are incorporated in the United Kingdom (UK):
Place of incorporation/                                                                                           Issued and paid-up/ 
Name establishment                           Principal activities                                                  registered capital                Effective interests 
Accent Media Ltd UK                               Domain registry operator                     Ordinary shares                 10.4%
This investment is categorised in the fair value hierarchy under Level 3 as no observable market data was available
The fair value of the investment at 31 December 2016, has been assessed using recent investment price, supported by information
available to the Directors regarding cashflow forecasts. The key significant unobservable inputs include cumulative average growth
rate, weighted average cost of capital and expected operating margins. A reasonable change to the input assumptions, such as 2%
change in weighted average cost of capital would lead to an increase or decrease in the value of this investment of approximately
£250,000. The valuation method applied to this investment (price of recent investment) is considered the most appropriate with
regard to the stage of the development of the business and the IPEVCV guidelines. In applying the price of recent investment
valuation methodology, the basis used is the initial cost of the investment. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 55
16. Trade and other receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Trade receivables                                                                                                                                    5,361                   1,855
Accrued revenue                                                                                                                                     1,123                      225
Deferred costs                                                                                                                                        3,315                   1,486
Prepayments                                                                                                                                              163                      110
Prepaid finance costs                                                                                                                                     –                      350
Supplier payments on account                                                                                                                   376                      333
Amounts due from shareholders                                                                                                                 747                      729
Other receivables                                                                                                                                       444                      337
                                                                                                                                                            11,529                   5,425
As of 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £451,000 (2015: £209,000) were past due but not impaired. These primarily relate
to four customers for whom there is considered a low risk of default. Deferred costs reflect the wholesale cost of domain names in
the Internet BS and Instra retail businesses. Supplier payments on account reflect payments to domain name registries for use
against future wholesale domain purchases within the Internet BS and Instra retail businesses.
The prepaid finance costs relate to the debt facility agreement signed on 8 December 2015, see note 24.
Amounts due from shareholders represent amounts due from Jabella Group Limited, a shareholder during the period. Amounts due
from Jabella Group Limited were interest free until 31 August 2013, from which time the balance accrued interest at 2% above
LIBOR (2016: £17,749; 2015: £18,032). The loan was granted in August 2011 for an initial term of five years, the balance is
currently £747,000. The loan is now repayable on demand.
The directors are reviewing the terms of the loan and consider the loan to be fully recoverable. The directors consider that the fair
value of this receivable is not materially different from the carrying value.
17. Derivative financial instruments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges                                                                                 –                      245
                                                                                                                                                                     –                      245
On 18 December 2015, CentralNic entered into two forward foreign exchange option contracts in relation to the funding of the
acquisition of the Instra Group.
The principal amount of the first contract was to purchase AUD$30m at an effective exchange rate of AUD2.068 per pound sterling
with an expiry date of 7 January 2016. In the event that the prevailing spot rate at the date of expiration was favourable to this rate
then the contract would effectively purchase AUD$15m with a strike price of AUD2.068 per pound sterling and the remaining
AUD$15m would be purchased at the prevailing spot rate.
As at 31 December 2015, the hedged transactions denominated in a foreign currency were considered highly probable to occur
and subsequently did so in January 2016. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
56 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
18. Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
Amounts held on deposit                                                                                                                                                                £’000                            £’000
GBP *                                                                                                                                                        939                 11,403
USD                                                                                                                                                       7,428                   6,307
EUR                                                                                                                                                        1,171                   1,347
AUD                                                                                                                                                          203                          –
NZD                                                                                                                                                          159                          –
Other                                                                                                                                                             2                          3
                                                                                                                                                              9,902                 19,060
*   The 2015 cash balances include the net proceeds of the equity placing completed on the 29 December 2015. These funds were subsequently used to complete
the acquisition of the Instra Group in January 2016, see note 24.
19. Share capital
The Company’s issued and fully paid share capital is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                      Share capital              Share premium                   Merger relief
                                                                                                                                       Number                            £’000                            £’000                            £’000
At 1 January 2016                                                                 92,007,481                        92                 16,522                          –
Consideration shares in respect of the Instra acquisition
14 January 2016 (see note 24)                                              3,656,450                          4                          –                   1,879
Share options exercised 8 February 2016                                     20,417                          –                          2                          –
Share options exercised 27 July 2016                                         210,000                          –                        21                          –
At 31 December 2016                                                          95,894,348                         96                  16,545                    1,879
On 14 January 2016 the company issued 3,656,450 new ordinary shares to the estate of Antonio Frank Lentino of 0.1 pence each
at 40 pence per share. A merger relief reserve of £1,879,415 was created on the issue of these shares reflecting the fair value of
those shares at 51.5 pence per share.
The Company has no authorised share capital.
20. Non-current other payables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Deferred revenue                                                                                                                                     3,820                      845
                                                                                                                                                              3,820                      845 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 57
21. Deferred tax
                                                                                                                                Share-based                                                  Other temporary 
                                                                                                                                     Payments                          Losses                     differences                              Total
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                 £’000                            £’000                            £’000                            £’000
At 1 January 2015                                                                               74                          –                          –                        74
(Charge)/credit to income                                                                    32                          –                          –                        32
(Charge)/credit to equity                                                                       62                          –                          –                        62
At 31 December 2015                                                                       168                          –                          –                      168
Acquisition of subsidiary                                                                         –                          –                      835                      835
(Charge)/credit to income                                                                    79                      194                     (357)                      (84)
(Charge)/credit to equity                                                                       26                          –                          –                        26
Exchange differences                                                                             –                          –                      176                      176
At 31 December 2016                                                                      273                       194                       654                    1,121
                                                                                                                                                                                 Instra
                                                                                                                                                                           intangible             Other temporary 
                                                                                                                                                                               assets                     differences                              Total
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                  £’000                            £’000                            £’000
At 1 January 2015                                                                                                             –                        72                        72
Credit/(charge) to income                                                                                                   –                         (7)                        (7)
Credit/(charge) to equity                                                                                                     –                          –                          –
At 31 December 2015                                                                                                       –                        65                        65
Acquisition of subsidiary                                                                                              3,002                          –                   3,002
Credit/(charge) to income                                                                                              (399)                      (18)                    (417)
Credit/(charge) to equity                                                                                                     –                          –                          –
Exchange differences                                                                                                     632                          –                      632
At 31 December 2016                                                                                               3,235                        47                    3,282
22. Trade and other payables and accruals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Accounts payable                                                                                                                                   3,120                   2,425
Accrued expenses                                                                                                                                  4,596                   1,859
Other taxes and social security                                                                                                                   220                        81
Deferred consideration                                                                                                                                    –                        36
Deferred revenue                                                                                                                                     7,375                   3,126
Customer payments on account                                                                                                              4,602                   2,779
Accrued interest                                                                                                                                           22                          3
Other liabilities                                                                                                                                              12                        40
                                                                                                                                                            19,947                 10,349 Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
58 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
23. Borrowings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Non-current
Bank borrowings                                                                                                                                     1,458                          –
Prepaid finance costs                                                                                                                                (134)                         –
                                                                                                                                                              1,324                          –
Current
Bank borrowings                                                                                                                                     1,167                          –
Prepaid finance costs                                                                                                                                (134)                         –
                                                                                                                                                              1,033                          –
Total borrowings                                                                                                                                      2,357                          –
Bank borrowings relate to the £3.5m secured debt facility entered into with Silicon Valley Bank on 8 December 2015 and drawn
down on 12 January 2016 to part fund the initial cash consideration of the Instra acquisition. Interest for the period has been accrued
at the applicable margin plus LIBOR. The term of the loan is 3 years with quarterly loan and interest repayments.
24. Business combinations
On 14 January 2016 Centralnic Group completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of the companies forming the Instra
Group for a total consideration of AU$38m, consisting of AU$30m in cash plus a cash adjustment for working capital at completion
of AU$1.4m, AU$3.9m in shares in Centralnic Group plc, plus an adjustment for the reclassification of loans due to the company on
completion of AU$2.7m.
The primary reason for the business combination was to expand the retail division’s footprint so that it benefits from exposure to the
majority of the world’s geographic and emerging domain name markets.
The following table summarises the consideration to acquire the share capital of the Instra Group and the provisional fair value of
the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date in line with Group accounting policies.
Consideration                                                                                                                                                                                    AU$’000                            £’000
Cash                                                                                                                                                    30,000                 14,560
Adjustment for working capital                                                                                                                 1,449                      829
Total cash consideration                                                                                                                     31,449                 15,389
Equity Instruments (3,656,450 ordinary shares)                                                                                        3,863                   1,883
Assumption of loans due from the estate of Antonio Frank Lentino                                                            2,725                   1,323
Total consideration                                                                                                                             38,037                 18,595 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 59
24. Business combinations continued
Fair value recognised on acquisition                                                                                                                                     AU$’000                            £’000
Assets
Intangible assets – customer list                                                                                                             18,005                   8,738
Intangible assets – software                                                                                                                     3,275                   1,589
Intangible assets – domain names                                                                                                           2,310                   1,121
Other intangible assets                                                                                                                                 52                        25
Property, plant & equipment                                                                                                                        129                        63
Trade receivables                                                                                                                                       815                      395
Other receivables                                                                                                                                    8,199                   3,979
Deferred income tax asset                                                                                                                       1,919                      931
Cash                                                                                                                                                      1,150                      558
                                                                                                                                                            35,854                 17,399
Liabilities
Trade payables                                                                                                                                           391                      190
Other payables and accruals                                                                                                                   1,835                      891
Deferred Revenue                                                                                                                                 13,513                   6,558
Deferred income tax liability                                                                                                                      6,384                   3,098
Other income tax liabilities                                                                                                                          (127)                      (62)
                                                                                                                                                            21,996                 10,675
Total identifiable net assets at fair value                                                                                            13,858                   6,724
Goodwill arising on acquisition                                                                                                               24,179                 11,871
Purchase consideration                                                                                                                      38,037                 18,595
The fair value of the 3,656,450 ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration paid was based on 51.5 pence per share
based on the share price on the date of issue 14 January 2016. The mid-market foreign exchange rate was used at 12 noon on
13 January 2016 being the business day pre-completion.
AU$5m of the cash consideration has been placed in to an escrow account and, subject to any claims, will be released to the
vendor over 5 years in equal instalments on the anniversary of the completion date.
The cash consideration was funded by the equity placing of the 29 December 2015, together with a new secured debt facility
comprising a £3.5m term loan with the remainder from existing cash balances held by the Group.
Acquisition related costs of £77,000 (2015: £604,000) have been recognised in the income statement, with a further £577,000
being charged to the share premium account in 2015 in relation to the placing which took place on 29 December 2015.
For the post-completion period to 31st December 2016 revenues of £10.28m (AU$18.58m) and Adjusted EBITDA of £2.21m
(AU$4.00m) have been generated by the Instra group.
Goodwill arising on acquisition primarily relates to the inherent value of the acquired brands, goodwill in relation to employees and
the multiple registry accreditations which enables the Instra Group to position itself as a global domain name retailer. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
60 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
25. Related party disclosures
(a) Ultimate controlling party
The company is not controlled by any one party
(b) Related party transactions
Key management are considered to be the directors and key management personnel. Compensation has been disclosed in note 8,
while further information can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 31.
(i) Shareholders
Balances outstanding with shareholders:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Jabella Group Limited                                                                                                                                 747                      729
Amounts due from Jabella Group Limited were interest free until 31 August 2013, from which time the balance accrued interest at
2% above LIBOR (2016: £17,749; 2015: £18,032).
Transactions with two members of Erin Investments & Finance Limited:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Operating lease payments                                                                                                                            73                        42
(ii) Non-Executive Directors
During the year CentralNic engaged with Rickert Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft mBH, of which Thomas Rickert has a controlling
interest, to provide legal services in relation to the purchase of intangible assets and advise on potential acquisitions. The fees for
2016 were £20,000 (2015 £52,000).
26. Commitments
Operating lease commitments
At the end of each of the reporting periods, the minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases are payable as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Less than one year                                                                                                                                     136                        42
Between one and five years                                                                                                                          28                          –
                                                                                                                                                                 164                        42
The Group leases office space at the following locations, all of which are operating leases:
London, UK. The lease agreement was entered into on 1st January 2010 for an initial term of 6 years and has been subsequently
extended to 1 April 2018.
Melbourne, Australia. The original lease agreement expired on 30th November 2016, with the lease being extended on a month
by month basis with a three month notice period.
Napier, New Zealand. The lease agreement was entered into on 1st August 2012 for an initial term of 3 years, with the right to
renew every 3 years. The final expiry date is 31st July 2021.
Bonn, Germany. The lease agreement was entered into on 1st January 2015 for an initial term of 3 years. The lease will renew
each year for a further year unless either party terminates with 6 months notice.
The Group leases equipment under various operating leases. These leases typically run for periods from one month to five years. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 61
27. Share options and warrants
Share Options
The share option scheme, which was adopted by CentralNic during 2013, was established to reward and incentivise the executive
management team and staff for delivering share price growth. The option schemes are all equity settled.
The share option scheme is administered by the Remuneration Committee.
There were 2,820,000 options granted during 2016 (2015: 1,144,000). Out of the 7,044,166 outstanding options (2015: 4,604,583),
3,230,166 options (2015: 2,019,583) were exercisable. Options exercised in 2016 resulted in 230,417 shares (2015: 75,834) being
issued at a weighted average price of 10p each. The share prices at the dates options were exercised were between 45p and 50p.
In addition, 150,000 options lapsed during the year (2015: 19,583).
A charge of £621,204 (2015: £316,199) has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the year relating to
these options.
These fair values were calculated using the Black Scholes option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
Date of options grant                                                          1 June 2013           14 October 2013                 28 April 2015                 28 April 2015                   5 May 2015
Options granted                                          2,530,000            1,026,000               537,000               500,000               107,000
Stock price                                                           10p                      55p                      35p                      35p                   33.5p
Exercise price                                                       10p                      57p                      35p                      35p                   33.5p
Interest rate                                                            5%                       5%                       5%                       5%                       5%
Volatility                                                                75%                     75%                     75%                     75%                     75%
Vesting period                                        
1
⁄ 12 per quarter         3 years from         3 years from                 10 Feb         3 years from 
                                                              from the date                the date                the date                    2017                the date 
                                                                       of grant                of grant                of grant                                             of grant
Time to maturity                                              10 years               10 years               10 years               10 years               10 years
Date of options grant                     4 Feb 2016             4 Feb 2016             4 Feb 2016             4 Feb 2016             4 Feb 2016      29 August 2016      29 August 2016
Options granted                700,000          750,000          350,000            48,000          419,000          318,000          235,000
Stock price                              51p                 51p                 51p                 51p                 51p                 43p                 43p
Exercise price                          40p                 40p                 40p                 51p                 40p                 40p                 40p
Interest rate                               5%                  5%                  5%                  5%                  5%                  4%                  4%
Volatility                                  75%                75%                75%                75%                75%                52%                52%
Vesting period             3 years from           15 Sept             26 Oct     3 years from             14 Jan             14 Jan     3 years from  
                                        the date               2018               2018           the date               2019               2019           the date 
                                         of grant                                                            of grant                                                            of grant
Time to maturity                10 years          10 years          10 years          10 years          10 years          10 years          10 years
Options are exercisable in accordance with the contracted vesting schedules. The expected volatility was determined with reference
to similar entities trading on AIM. Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
27. Share options and warrants continued
Details of the share options outstanding at the year-end are as follows:
                                                                                                                                      Number                           WAEP*                         Number                          WAEP*
                                                                                                                               31 Dec 2016                  31 Dec 2016                 31 Dec 2015                 31 Dec 2015
Outstanding at 1 January                                                         4,604,583                       26p            3,551,000                      23p
Granted during year                                                                 2,820,000                       40p            1,144,000                      34p
Exercised during year                                                                 (230,417)                      10p                (75,834)                     10p
Lapsed during year                                                                    (150,000)                      10p                (14,583)                     10p
Outstanding at 31 December                                                   7,044,166                       32p            4,604,583                      26p
Exercisable at 31 December                                                    3,230,166                       25p            2,019,583                      10p
*   weighted average exercise price.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at the statement of financial position date is 7.8 years.
Warrants
On 12 August 2013, CentralNic Group executed a warrant instrument to create and issue warrants to Zeus Capital to subscribe for
an aggregate of 1,772,727 ordinary shares. The warrants will expire six years after admission and were exercisable after the first
anniversary of admission (2 September 2014) at the placing price of 55p. The ordinary shares to be allotted and issued on the exercise
of any or all of the warrants will rank for all dividends and other distributions declared after the date of the allotment of such shares but
not before such date and otherwise pari passu in all respects with the ordinary shares in issue on the date of such exercise allotment.
These fair values were calculated using the Black Scholes warrant pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Warrants issued
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12 August 2013
Warrants Granted                                                                                                                                                         1,772,727
Stock price                                                                                                                                                                             55p
Exercise price                                                                                                                                                                         55p
Interest rate                                                                                                                                                                             5%
Volatility                                                                                                                                                                                 75%
Time to maturity                                                                                                                                                                 6 years
A charge of £675,409 was recognised in the share premium account in 2013.
28. Financial instruments
The CentralNic Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising from financial instruments. The CentralNic Group’s
overall financial risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse
effects on the CentralNic Group’s financial performance. The group does not trade in financial instruments.
The principal financial instruments used by the CentralNic Group, from which financial instrument risk arises, are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Current financial assets
Loan and receivables
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                   11,365                   5,314
Inventory                                                                                                                                                    390                        61
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                      9,902                 19,060
                                                                                                                                                            21,657                 24,435
Current financial liabilities measured at amortised costs
Trade and other payables and accruals                                                                                                  19,947                 10,349
Loan and borrowing                                                                                                                                1,033                          –
                                                                                                                                                            20,980                 10,349
62 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 28. Financial instruments continued
(a) Financial risk management framework
The Directors’ risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the CentralNic Group, to set
appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
(i) Market risk
Foreign currency risk
The CentralNic Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in a currency other
than its functional currency, primarily US Dollars$. Foreign currency risk is monitored on an on-going basis to ensure that the net
exposure is at an acceptable level.
The CentralNic Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk is minimal as it trades predominantly in US Dollars, Euros, GB Pound
Sterling and Australian Dollars. Exposure to currency risk is negated by the CentralNic Group holding adequate reserves in these
four currencies to meet trading and provisioned obligations as the need arises.
As the group evolves, foreign currency risk will be monitored more closely given exposure to additional markets and currencies.
The foreign currency risk was mitigated on the acquisition of the Instra Group through the participating forward contract agreed.
The carrying amounts of the CentralNic Group’s financial instruments are denominated in the following currencies at 31 December 2016:
                                                                                                                                                                Other currencies                              GBP                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                £’000                            £’000                            £’000
Current financial assets
Loan and receivables
Trade and other receivables                                                                                         7,946                   3,419                 11,365
Inventory                                                                                                                          56                      334                      390
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                         8,963                      939                   9,902
                                                                                                                                16,965                   4,692                 21,657
Current financial liabilities measured at amortised costs
Trade and other payables                                                                                          15,711                   4,236                 19,947
Loan and borrowing                                                                                                           –                   1,033                   1,033
                                                                                                                                15,711                   5,269                 20,980
The sensitivity analyses in the table below details the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on the CentralNic Group’s
post-tax profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2016.
It is assumed that the named currency is strengthening or weakening against all other currencies, while all the other currencies
remain constant.
If the GBP strengthened or weakened by 10% against the other currencies, with all other variables in each case remaining constant,
then the impact on the CentralNIC Group’s post-tax profit or loss would be gains or losses as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Strengthen/Weaken
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £’000
2016
USD                                                                                                                                                                                +/-  743
EUR                                                                                                                                                                                +/-  117
AUD                                                                                                                                                                                  +/-  20
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market
interest rates. The CentralNic Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly from interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.
The Directors’ policy is to obtain the most favourable interest rates available.
As at each of 31 December 2015 and 2016, CentralNic Group’s short-term interest-bearing financial instruments bore interest at
fixed interest rates, with the long-term debt facility entered into with SVB bearing interest at a margin plus LIBOR.
CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 63 64 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the consolidated
ﬁnancial statements continued
28. Financial instruments continued
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Cash and bank balances                                                                                                                         9,902                 19,060
Effect of interest rate change of 100 basis points                                                                                     +/- 99                +/- 190
Equity price risk
The CentralNic Group does not have any quoted investments as at each of 31 December 2015 and 2016 and as such does not
have significant exposure to equity price risk. At 31 December 2015 and 2016 the Centralnic Group held an unquoted investment
in Accent Media of $1.6m (£1.0m) which represents a shareholding of 10.4% of the share capital.
(ii) Credit risk
The CentralNic Group’s exposure to credit risk arises mainly from counterparty’s failure to meet its obligation to settle a financial
asset, primarily other receivables. The Directors consider the CentralNic Group’s exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables
to be minimal as the CentralNic Group is often paid at the outset or in advance. Credit risk arising from other receivables is controlled
through monitoring procedures, including credit approvals and credit limits.
The CentralNic Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the trade receivables. Any receivables having significant
balances past due or more than 90 days, which are deemed to have higher credit risk, are monitored individually. Analysis of the
trade receivables past due is disclosed in note 16.
For cash and bank balances, the Directors minimise the CentralNic Group’s credit risk by dealing exclusively with banks and
financial institution counterparties with high credit ratings.
The carrying amounts of financial assets at the end of the reporting periods represent the maximum credit exposure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Deferred receivables                                                                                                                                1,486                      295
Other receivables, deposits and inventory                                                                                              11,755                   5,375
Cash and bank balances                                                                                                                         9,902                 19,060
                                                                                                                                                            23,143                 24,730
(iii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the CentralNic Group will encounter difficulty in settling its financial obligations that are settled with cash
or another financial asset. The Directors’ objective is to maintain, as much as possible, a level of its cash and bank balances
adequate enough to ensure that there will be sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.
The following set forth the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at:
£’000                                                                                                                  Carrying amount                              Total                  Within 1 year                    1 – 5 years
31 December 2015
Trade and other payables and accruals                                         11,194                 11,194                 10,349                      845
                                                                                                    11,194                 11,194                 10,349                      845
31 December 2016
Trade and other payables and accruals                                          23,767                  23,767                  19,947                    3,820
Borrowings                                                                                     2,357                    2,357                    1,033                    1,324
                                                                                                    26,124                  26,124                  20,980                    5,144
(b) Capital risk management
The Directors define capital as the total equity of CentralNic. The Directors’ objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the
CentralNic Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders
and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Directors
may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 65
28. Financial instruments continued
The Directors manage CentralNic’s capital based on debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by
total equity. Net debt is calculated as total liabilities less cash and cash equivalents.
The debt-to-equity ratio of the CentralNic Group as at the end of each of the reporting periods was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Total liabilities                                                                                                                                         30,189                 11,660
Less: cash and bank balances                                                                                                               (9,902)               (19,060)
Net debt/(cash)                                                                                                                                     20,287                  (7,400)
Total equity                                                                                                                                            25,219                 20,046
Debt-to-equity ratio                                                                                                                                    0.80                       n/a
The net cash of the CentralNic Group as at the end of each of the reporting periods was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Cash and bank balances                                                                                                                         9,902                 19,060
Less: borrowings (excluding prepaid finance costs)                                                                                  (2,625)                         –
Net cash                                                                                                                                                 7,277                 19,060
(c) Fair values of financial instruments
In addition to the fair value of financial instruments disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following carrying amounts of
the financial assets and liabilities reported in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values:
2016 2015
£’000                                                                                                                Carrying amount                      Fair value            Carrying amount                       Fair value
Trade and other receivables and inventory                                     11,755                  11,755                   5,375                   5,375
Deferred receivables                                                                       1,486                    1,486                      295                      295
Cash and bank balances                                                                9,902                    9,902                 19,060                 19,060
                                                                                                    23,143                  23,143                 24,730                 24,730
Trade and other payables and accruals                                          23,767                  23,767                 11,194                 11,194
                                                                                                    23,767                  23,767                 11,194                 11,194
(d) Fair value hierarchy
Financial instruments carried at fair value are analysed by the levels in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows:
Level 1: Fair value measurements are derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2: Fair value measurements are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable
for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
Level 3: Fair value measurements derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not
based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
2016                                                                                                                             Level 1                           Level 2                           Level 3                               Total
Available for sale investments                                                                 –                           –                       997                       997
Derivative financial instruments                                                               –                           –                           –                           –
2015                                                                                                                              Level 1                          Level 2                          Level 3                              Total
Available for sale investments                                                                 –                          –                      997                      997
Derivative financial instruments                                                               –                          –                      245                      245 66 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                  Note                            £’000                            £’000
ASSETS
Fixed assets
Investments                                                                                                                       7                   4,575                      536
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                          11                          –                      245
Other debtors, deposits and prepayments                                                                           8                 22,022                 17,095
Cash and bank balances                                                                                                                            335                          –
                                                                                                                                                            22,357                 17,340
Total assets                                                                                                                                         26,932                 17,876
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
  Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Trade and other payables and accruals                                                                              10                      969                      668
Borrowings                                                                                                                                              1,033                          –
                                                                                                                                                              2,002                      668
Non-current liabilities
Creditors – amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings                                                                                                                                              1,324                          –
                                                                                                                                                              1,324                          –
Total liabilities                                                                                                                                        3,326                      668
Net assets                                                                                                                                           23,605                 17,208
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Share capital                                                                                                                      9                        96                        92
Share premium                                                                                                                  9                 16,545                 16,522
Merger relief reserve                                                                                                           9                   1,879                          –
Share based payments reserve                                                                                                               1,720                      736
Foreign currency hedging reserve                                                                                                                   –                      245
Retained earnings                                                                                                                                   3,365                     (387)
Shareholders funds                                                                                                                             23,605                 17,208
The profit for the year including other comprehensive income was £857,000 (December 2015: loss of £1,340,000).
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Director’s on 9 May 2017 and were signed
on its behalf by:
Mike Turner Chairman
Company Number: 08576358
The notes on pages 68 to 72 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Company statement of
ﬁnancial position
as at 31 December 2016 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 67
Company statement of
changes in equity
for the period ended 31 December 2016
                                                                                                                                                 Share based                                     Foreign
                                                                                                           Share               Share         payments             Merger           currency          Retained 
                                                                                                          capital          premium             reserve                 relief           hedging           earnings                 Total
                                                                                                           £’000               £’000               £’000               £’000               £’000               £’000               £’000
Balance as at 31 December 2014                              61         4,935            964                –                –           (618)        5,342
Total comprehensive income for the year                        –                –                –                –                –        (1,585)       (1,585)
Other comprehensive income for the year
– cash flow hedge                                                         –                –                –                –            245                –            245
Issue of new shares                                                     31       12,277                –                –                –                –       12,308
Share issue costs                                                          –           (690)               –                –                –                –           (690)
Share based payments                                                  –                –           (222)               –                –                –           (222)
Share based payments
– reclassify lapsed options                                             –                –               (6)               –                –                6                –
Share based payments
– prior period adjustment                                                –                –            389                –                –                –            389
Dividend received                                                          –                –                –                –                –         1,810         1,810
Balance as at 31 December 2015
(as previously reported)                                           92       16,522         1,125                –            245           (387)      17,597
Profit for the year                                                            –                –                –                –                –         1,102         1,102
other comprehensive income for the year
– cash flow hedge                                                         –                –                –                –           (245)               –           (245)
Issue of new shares                                                       4              23                –         1,879                –                –         1,906
Share issue costs                                                          –                –                –                –                –                –                –
Share based payments                                                  –                –            473                –                –                –            473
Share based payments
– deferred tax asset                                                       –                –            122                –                –                –            122
Dividend received                                                          –                –                –                –                –         2,650         2,650
Balance as at 31 December 2016                              96       16,545         1,720         1,879                –         3,365       23,605
• Share capital represents the nominal value of the company’s cumulative issued share capital.
• Share premium represents the cumulative excess of the fair value of consideration received for the issue of shares in excess of
their nominal value less attributable share issue costs and other permitted reductions.
• Merger relief reserve represents the cumulative excess of the fair value of consideration received for the issue of shares in excess
of their nominal value less attributable share issue costs and other permitted reductions. Where the consideration for shares in
another company includes issued shares, and 90% of the equity is held in the other company.
• Retained earnings represent the cumulative value of the profits not distributed to shareholders, but retained to finance the future
capital requirements of the Company
• Share based payments reserve represents the cumulative value of share based payments recognised through equity.
• Foreign currency hedging reserve represents the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives.
The notes on pages 68 to 72 form an integral part of these financial statements. 68 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Notes to the Company
ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. General information
Nature of operations
CentralNic Group Plc (“the Company”) is the UK holding company of a group of companies which are engaged in the provision of
global domain name services. The company is registered in England and Wales. Its registered office and principal place of business
is 35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR.
2. Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of
certain fixed assets. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 – The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Companies Act 2006. The principal accounting policies are described below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the period.
3. Significant accounting policies
(a) Going concern
At 31 December 2016, the Company had net current assets of £20,355,000 (2015: £16,672,000) with the main current asset
being amounts owed from its subsidiaries amounting to £21,818,000 (2015: £16,719,000). The Company has assessed its
ongoing costs with cash generated by its subsidiaries to ensure that it can continue to settle its debts as they fall due.
The Directors have, after careful consideration of the factors set out above, concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements and the financial statements do not include any adjustments that would
result if the going concern basis was not appropriate.
(b) Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
(c) Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at
the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the
financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which
they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can
be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to
sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the financial statements. Neither is
deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being
charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Taxation arising on disposal of a revalued asset is split between the profit and loss account and the statement of changes in equity
on the basis of the tax attributable to the gain or loss recognised in each statement. CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 69
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(d) Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when the Company has become a party to the
contractual provisions of the instruments.
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
The carrying value of the Company’s financial assets, primarily cash and bank balances, and liabilities, primarily the Company’s
payables and other accrued expenses, approximate their fair values.
(i) Financial assets
On initial recognition, financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity
investments, loans and receivables financial assets, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables (including deposits and prepayments) that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in
an active market are classified as other receivables, deposits, and prepayments. Other receivables, deposits, and prepayments are
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment loss. Interest income is recognised by applying
the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Derivative financial instruments
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in
other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged items affect profit or loss.
(ii) Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities are classified as liabilities or equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. Interest,
dividends, gains and losses relating to financial liabilities are reported in profit or loss. Distributions to holders of financial liabilities
are classified as equity and charged directly to equity.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities comprise long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings, trade and other payables and accruals, measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest income over
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees on
points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
(e) Debtors
Short term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable are measured initially at fair value,
net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
(f) Creditors
Short term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including bank loans, are measured initially at
fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 70 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(g) Parent company disclosure exemptions
In preparing the separate financial statements of the parent company, advantage has been taken of the following disclosure
exemptions available in FRS 102:
• Only one reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding at the beginning and end of the period has been presented as the
reconciliations for the group (see note 19 in the notes to the group financial statements) and the parent company would be
identical. Hence, the parent company has not disclosed this reconciliation in its notes to the financial statements;
• Disclosures in respect of the parent company’s financial instruments and share-based payment arrangements have not been
presented as equivalent disclosures have been provided in respect of the group as a whole;
• No disclosure has been given for the aggregate remuneration of the key management personnel of the parent company as their
remuneration is included in the totals for the group as a whole; and
• No cash flow statement has been presented for the parent company.
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of
estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgments,
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not apparent from other sources. The
estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if
the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the statement of
financial position date that have a significant risk of causing a significant adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
in the Financial statements:
Share based payment
The fair value of share-based remuneration is determined at the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the statement of
comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking account of the estimated number of shares that will
vest. The fair value is determined by use of Black Scholes model method.
Recognition of deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will
be available in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. To determine the future taxable
profits, reference is made to the latest available profit forecasts. Where the temporary differences are related to losses, relevant tax
law is considered to determine the availability of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
5. Profit for the financial period
The Company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and, consequently, a profit and loss account for the
Company alone has not been presented. The Company’s profit for the financial period was £857,000 (2015: loss £1,340,000)
which included a net gain on foreign currency translation of £2,511,000 (2015: loss £7,900). The Company’s profit for the financial
year has been arrived at after charging auditor’s remuneration payable to Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP for audit services to the company
of £59,028 (2015: £35,126).
Notes to the Company
ﬁnancial statements continued CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 71
6. Employees and directors’ remuneration
Staff costs during the period by the Company were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Non-executive directors fees                                                                                                                      507                      154
Executive directors                                                                                                                                     670                      738
                                                                                                                                                              1,177                      892
The average number of employees of the company during the period was:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Number                         Number
Directors and management                                                                                                                             2                          2
                                                                                                                                                                     2                          2
7. Investments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £’000
At 31 December 2015 (as previously reported)                                                                                                                        536
Share Options in respect of prior years                                                                                                                                   (389)
At 31 December 2015 (restated)                                                                                                                                             147
Additions – acquisition of Instra Group of companies                                                                                                             4,317
Share options issued on behalf of subsidiaries                                                                                                                         148
Share options – deferred tax                                                                                                                                                    (37)
At 31 December 2016                                                                                                                                                        4,575
8. Debtors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Amounts owed by group undertakings                                                                                                   21,818                 16,719
Prepaid finance costs                                                                                                                                     –                      350
Deferred tax asset                                                                                                                                      181                          –
Other debtors                                                                                                                                              23                        26
                                                                                                                                                            22,022                 17,095
9. Share capital and share premium
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 72 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
10. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Trade creditors                                                                                                                                           173                      113
Accruals and deferred income                                                                                                                    348                      552
Accrued Interest                                                                                                                                           22                          3
Taxation payable                                                                                                                                         426                          –
                                                                                                                                                                 969                      668
11. Derivative financial instruments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2016                             2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £’000                            £’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges                                                                                 –                      245
                                                                                                                                                                     –                      245
On 18 December 2015, the Company entered into two forward foreign exchange option contracts in relation to the funding of the
acquisition of the Instra Group.
The principal amount of the first contract was to purchase AUD$30m at an effective exchange rate of AUD2.068 per pound sterling
with an expiry date of 7 January 2016. In the event that the prevailing spot rate at the date of expiration was favourable to this rate
then the contract would effectively purchase AUD$15m with a strike price of AUD2.068 per pound sterling and the remaining
AUD$15m would be purchased at the prevailing spot rate.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2016 were nil
(2015: AUD$30m).
As at 31 December 2015, the hedged transactions denominated in a foreign currency were considered highly probable to occur
and subsequently did so in January 2016.
Notes to the Company
ﬁnancial statements continued CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 73
Centralnic Group PLC’s interest is 100% in the issued ordinary share capital of these undertakings included in the
consolidated accounts.
                                                                   Country of incorporation
Subsidiary                                                   and principal operations                    Principal activity                                                    Registered office
Centralnic Limited                             England and Wales                  Domain registry services provider             35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
TLD Registrar Solutions Limited         England and Wales                  Domain registrar services provider            35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
Hoxton Domains Limited                   England and Wales                  Aftermarket domain services                    35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd                    England and Wales                  Holding Company                                   35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
Instra Holdings (Aus)Pty Ltd             Australia                                  Holding Company                                   Level 2, 222-225 Beach Road, Mordialloc, 
                                                                                                                                                                     Victoria, VIC3195
Instra Holdings (NZ) Ltd                    New Zealand                           Holding Company                                   C/o Grant Thornton New Zealand Ltd, L4, 
                                                                                                                                                                     152 Fanshawe Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
The companies listed below are 100% subsidiaries of Group Companies and only have ordinary share capital unless
otherwise stated.
                                                                                                   Country of incorporation
Parent Company                           Subsidiary                              and principal operations         Principal activity                                                   Registered office
CentralNic Limited                   CentralNic USA Limited      USA                                  US sales office                                            21700 Oxnard Street, Suite 1030,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Woodland Hills, California
CentralNic Limited                   GB.com Limited                 England and Wales           Dormant – holds domain name                   35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
CentralNic Limited                   Whois Privacy Limited        England and Wales           Dormant                                                      35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
CentralNic Limited                   dnsXperts UG                    Germany                           Domain management software services      Beueler Bahnhofsplatz 18, 53225 Bonn
TLD Registrar                           Internet Domain Service     Commonwealth of             Domain registrar services provider               Ocean Centre, Montagu Foreshore, East Bay Street, 
Solutions Limited                     BS Corp                            The Bahamas                                                                                       Nassau, New Providence, The Bahamas.
TLD Registrar                           Whois Privacy Corp           Commonwealth of             Domain registrar services provider               Postal Address: PO Box SS-19084, Nassau,
Solutions Limited                                                                The Bahamas                                                                                       New Providence, The Bahamas
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Domain Directors               England and Wales           Domain registrar services provider               35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
                                                (Europe) Ltd
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Europe Registry Ltd           England and Wales           Domain registrar services provider               35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Instra Corporation               England and Wales           Domain registrar services provider               35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
                                                (Europe) Ltd
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           White Label Domains         Malaysia                            Domain registrar services provider               No/ 36B, 2nd floor, Jalan Tun Mohd Fuad 2. 
                                                SDN BHD B12                                                                                                                                Taman Tun Dr Ismail, Kuala Lumpur,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wilayah,Persekutuan, 60000, Malaysia
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Domain Directors               Finland                              Domain registrar services provider               Accounting Services Tilimatic Ltd, Malminkatu 16,
                                                (Finland) Oy                                                                                                                                     Voimatalo, 6/F , FL-00100 Helsinki
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Sublime Technologies        France                              Domain registrar services provider               8 Rue Des Carmes 17000, La Rochelle, France
                                                (France) Sarl
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Domain Directors               France                              Domain registrar services provider               8 Rue Des Carmes 17000, La Rochelle, France
                                                (France) Sarl
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Tunglim International           Hong Kong                       Domain registrar services provider               Unit 903-905, 9/F ., Kowloon Centre., 33 Ashley 
                                                Pty Limited                                                                                                                                       Road, TsimShaTsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Sublime Technology           Hong Kong                       Domain registrar services provider               Unit 903-905, 9/F ., Kowloon Centre., 33 Ashley
                                                Limited                                                                                                                                             Road, TsimShaTsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Instra Holdings (UK) Ltd           Domain Directors CA Inc    Canada                             Domain registrar services provider               505 15183 Russell Avenue, White Rock Burnaby,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        BC, V4B2P4, Canada
Instra Holdings (Aus) Pty Ltd    Domain Directors PTY Ltd  Australia                            Domain registrar services provider               Level 2, 222 Beach Road, Mordialloc, VIC 3195
Instra Holdings (Aus) Pty Ltd    Ozenum PTY Ltd               Australia                            Domain registrar services provider               Level 2, 222 Beach Road, Mordialloc, VIC 3195
Instra Holdings (Aus) Pty Ltd    Instra Corporation               Australia                            Domain registrar services provider               Level 2, 222 Beach Road, Mordialloc, VIC 3195
                                                PTY Limited
Instra Corporation PTY             Instra Domain                     The Netherlands                Domain registrar services provider               Beechavenue 54 80, 1119PW, Schiphol-Rijk
Limited                                    Directors B.V.
Instra Corporation PTY             Instra Corporation               Singapore                         Domain registrar services provider               20 Cecil Street, #14-01 Equity Plaza, Singapore,
Limited                                    PTE Ltd                                                                                                                                           049705
Instra Corporation                    Domain Escrow                 England and Wales           Domain registrar services provider               35-39 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6AR
PTY Limited                             Services Limited
Instra Corporation PTY             Instra-Internet Services       Greece                              Domain registrar services provider               1 Dimokraatias Square, Thessaloniki, 54629,
Limited                                    One-person LLC                                                                                                                             Greece
Instra Holdings (NZ) Ltd            Instra Corporation Limited   New Zealand                     Domain registrar services provider               C/o Grant Thornton New Zealand Ltd, L4, 152
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fanshawe Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Instra Holdings (NZ) Ltd            Only Domains Limited        New Zealand                     Domain registrar services provider               C/o Grant Thornton New Zealand Ltd, L4, 152
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fanshawe Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Instra Holdings (NZ) Ltd            Private Ranger Limited       New Zealand                     Domain registrar services provider               Level 31 Vero Centre, 48 Shortland Street,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Particulars of subsidiaries and associates 74 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, the
7 June 2017 at 10.00am at the offices of the Company’s solicitors:
DWF LLP
20 Fenchurch Street
London EC3M 3AG
Announcements
• Half-year results for 2017 are expected in September 2017.
• Full year results for 2017 are expected in April 2018.
Dates are correct at the time of printing, but are subject to change.
Directors
Mike Turner (Chairman)
Benjamin Crawford (Chief Executive Officer)
Glenn Hayward (Executive Director)
Desleigh Jameson (Executive Director)
Samuel Dayani (Non-Executive Director)
Thomas Rickert (Non-Executive Director)
Thomas Pridmore (Non-Executive Director)
Iain McDonald (Non-Executive Director)
Registered office
35-39 Moorgate
London EC2R 6AR
Company Secretary
Glenn Hayward
Company website
www.centralnic.com
Nominated Adviser and Broker
Zeus Capital Limited
82 King Street
Manchester M2 4WQ
41 Conduit Street
London W1S 2YQ
3 Brindleyplace
Birmingham B1 2JB
Joint Broker
Peel Hunt LLP
Moor House
120 London Wall
London EC2Y 5ET
Auditors
Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP
St Bride’s House
10 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8EH
Solicitors to the Company
DWF LLP
20 Fenchurch Street
London EC3M 3AG
Taylor Wessing LLP
5 New Street Square
London, EC4A 3TW
Solicitors to the Nominated Adviser and Broker
DAC Beachcroft LLP
100 Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1BN
Financial PR
Abchurch Communications
125 Old Broad St
London EC2N 1AR
Bankers
Silicon Valley Bank
Alphabeta
14-18 Finsbury Square
London EC2A 1BR
HSBC Bank plc
89 Buckingham Palace Road
London SW1W 0QL
Company Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Capita Asset Services is our registrar and they offer many
services to make managing your shareholding easier and
more efficient.
Share portal
The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage
your shareholding quickly and easily. You can:
• View your holding and get an indicative valuation
• Change your address
• Arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account
• Request to receive shareholder communications by email
rather than post
• View your dividend payment history
• Make dividend payment choices
• Buy and sell shares and access a wealth of stock market
news and information
• Register your proxy voting instruction
• Download a stock transfer form.
Shareholder information CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 75
To register for the Share Portal just visit www.signalshares.com.
All you need is your investor code, which can be found on your
share certificate or your dividend tax voucher.
Customer support centre
Alternatively, you can contact Capita’s Customer Support Centre
which is available to answer any queries you have in relation to
your shareholding:
By phone – UK – 0871 664 0300 (UK calls cost 12p per
minute plus network extras). From overseas – +44 371 664
0300. Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday,
excluding public holidays.
By email – shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
By post – Capita Asset Services, The Registry,
34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
Sign up to electronic communications
Help us to save paper and get your shareholder information
quickly and securely by signing up to receive your shareholder
communications by email.
Registering for electronic communications is very straightforward.
Just visit www.signalshares.com. All you need is your investor
code, which can be found on your share certificate or your
dividend tax voucher.
Donate your shares to charity
If you have only a small number of shares which are
uneconomical to sell you may wish to donate them to charity
free of charge through ShareGift (Registered Charity10528686).
Find out more at www.sharegift.org.uk or by telephoning
020 7930 3737.
Share fraud warning
Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of
the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless
or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own. These
calls come from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are
mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in
this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has found most share
fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of
£20,000, with around £200m lost in the UK each year.
PROTECT YOURSELF
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted
shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or
research reports, you should take these steps before handing
over any money:
• Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
• Check the Financial Services Register at
http://www.fca.org.uk/ to ensure they are authorised.
• Use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm.
• Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there
are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are
out of date.
• Search our list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid
doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other
investments, you will not have access to the Financial
Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation
Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong.
REPORT A SCAM
If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA
using the share fraud reporting form at http://www.fca.org.uk/
scams, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should
contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Identity theft
Tips for protecting your shares in the Company:
• Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold
your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
• Keep correspondence from us and Capita in a safe place and
destroy any unwanted correspondence by shredding.
• If you change address, inform Capita in writing or update your
address online via the shareholder portal. If you receive a letter
from Capita regarding a change of address but have not
moved, please contact them immediately.
• Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or
lost in the post. If you change your bank account, inform
Capita of the details of your new account. You can do this by
post or online via the shareholder portal.
• If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers
registered and authorised to carry out that type of business.
• Be wary of phone calls or e-mails purporting to come from us
or Capita asking you to confirm personal details or details of
your investment in our shares. Neither we nor Capita will ever
ask you to provide information in this way. 76 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Top Level Domain or ‘TLD’
The suffix attached to internet domain names e.g., .com, .net
Second Level Domain or ‘SLD’
A domain that is directly below a top-level domain e.g. uk.com
Country Code Top Level Domain or ‘ccTLD’
An Internet top-level domain generally used or reserved for a
country, a sovereign state, or a dependent territory e.g., .uk, .jp
Domain Name System or ‘DNS’
A hierarchical distributed naming system for computers, services,
or any resource connected to the Internet or a private network
Domain Name Registrar
An organisation or commercial entity that manages the
reservation of Internet domain names
Registry Service Provider
A company that performs the technical functions of a TLD on
behalf of the TLD owner or licensee. The registry service
provider keeps the master database and operates DNS servers
to allow computers to route Internet traffic using the DNS
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names
and Numbers or ‘ICANN’
A non-profit private organisation that was created to oversee a
number of Internet-related tasks previously performed directly
on behalf of the U.S. government
Registry Operator
An entity that maintains the database of domain names for a
given top-level domain and generates the zone files which
convert domain names to IP addresses. It is responsible for
domain name allocation and technically operates its top-level
domain, sometimes by engaging a Registry Service Provider
Glossary    radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   
.   rg.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar
.   gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   
.   college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .web
s   com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   
.   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   
.   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   
.   rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr
e   e.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   
.   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   
.   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .pr
.   wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   
.   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   
.   ov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   
.   rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   
.   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   
.   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   
e   net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   
.   com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   
.   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   
.   nline   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   
.   rg.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   
.   art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   
.   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   
.   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   
.   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   
.   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   
.   rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatr
.      .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   
.   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   
.   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   
.   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .rent   .sa.com   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   
.   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   
.   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   .uk.com   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   
.   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   .za.com   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .r
.   br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov
e   e.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .space   .gb.net   .no.com   .theatre   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .za.com   .site   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .r
.   .jp.net   .bar   .radio.fm   .tech   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .ink   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   
.   kets   .hu.com   .com.de   .za.bz   .org.fm   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .radio.fm   .security   
.   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   .ar.com   .art   .space   .gb.net   .bar   .no.com   .theatre   .site   .pw   .in.net   .gr.com   .press   .se.net   .wiki   .com.fm   .love   .us.org   .hu.net   .sa.com   .rent   .jp.net   .tech   
.   .online   .radio.am   .eu.com   .uk.net   .college   .gb.com   .edu.fm   .la   .kr.com   .co.com   .jpn.com   .fans   .us.com   .com.se   .reit   .web.in   .br.com   .protection   .xyz   .tickets   .art   .hu.com   
.   .za.bz   .org.fm   .ink   .mex.com   .website   .cn.com   .fm   .ae.org   .rest   .qc.com   .feedback   .uy.com   .design   .se.com   .host   .gov.fm   .store   .de.com   .uk.com   .security   .ru.com   .cx   .net.fm   
CentralNic’s global business footprint
Designed and produced by fourthquarter
Contents
Highlights                                                   1
Introduction to CentralNic                           2
CentralNic’s key advantages                       5
CentralNic’s clients                                     6
Chairman’s statement                               10
Chief Executive’s report                            13
Strategic report                                         15
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s report                   18
Board of Directors                                    22
Ofﬁce locations Business footprint
Directors’ report                                        24
Corporate governance                              28
Remuneration report                                 31
Independent Auditors’ report                    34
Financial statements                                 35
Particulars of subsidiaries and associates   73
Shareholder information                            74
Glossary                                                   76 Bringing a
world online
35-39 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6AR
www.centralnic.com
Annual Report 2016
CentralNic Group Plc   Annual Report 2016
