 The best place to  
watch a movie
 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 For more information visit:
www.cineworldplc.com/investors
STRATEGIC REPORT
1 Highlights 2016
2 At a Glance 
4 Chairman’s Statement 
6  Chief Executive Officer’s 
Statement
8 Market Overview
10 Business Model 
12 Strategy and KPIs
18 Resources and Relationships 
22  Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
28 Financial Review
GOVERNANCE
33 Directors’ Biographies
37  C o r p o r a t e G ove r n a n c e 
Statement
37 Chairman’s Introduction
38 Compliance Statement
40 Leadership
42 Effectiveness
43  N o mi n a t i o n Co m mi t t e e 
Report
45 Accountability
48 Audit Committee Report
53  I ns ur a n c e
53  Relations with Shareholders
54  D i r e c t ors’ R e m u n e r a t i on 
Report
55 Remuneration Policy
64  Annual Report on 
Remuneration
73   D i r e c t ors’ R e p or t
78   S t a t e m e n t o f D i r e c to r s ’ 
Responsibilities
79  Ind e pe nd e n t A u d i t o r ’ s  
Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
82  C o n s o l i d at e d S t at e m e nt  
of Profit or Loss
83  Consolidated Statement of  
Other Comprehensive 
Income
84  C o n s o l i d at e d S t at e m e nt  
of Financial Position
85  C o n s o l i d at e d S t at e m e nt  
of Changes in Equity
86  C o n s o l i d at e d S t at e m e nt  
of Cash Flows
87  Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
129  Company Statement of 
Financial Position
130  Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity
131  Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
138 Shareholder Information
We are a  
business with a 
simple strategy
Our Vision…
To be the best place to watch a movie
 
Our Strategy is to:
1.  Deliver a great cinema experience  
for all cinemagoers, every time.
2.  Continue to expand our estate and 
look for profitable opportunities  
to grow.
3.  Ensure that we enhance our existing 
estate so we deliver a consistent level 
of quality across the Group.
4.  Be leaders in the industry by offering 
customers the latest audio and visual 
technology.
5.  Drive value for shareholders by 
delivering our growth plans in an 
efficient and effective way. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 1
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP REVENUE (£m)
+13.0%
797.8
705.8
2016 2015
ADJUSTED PROFIT (£m) 
AFTER TAX
(4)
+18.3%
2016 2015
93.8
79.3
EBITDA
(1)
   (£m)
+13.2%
175.8
155.3
2016 2015
ADJUSTED  (p)
DILUTED EPS
(4)
 
+16.8%
34.7p
29.7p
2016 2015
PROFIT 
AFTER TAX
(5)
 (£m)
+0.9%
82.0 81.3
2016 2015
DIVIDEND (p)
PER SHARE
+8.6%
19.0p
17.5p
2016 2015
Cineworld FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure FTSE 250
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
400
300
200
100
0
600
500
900
800
700
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2016 Dec 2015 Dec 2014
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Other Financial Highlights
u u Group revenue growth of 13.0%  
on a statutory basis and 8.7% on  
a constant currency basis
(2)
;
 • Solid UK and Ireland revenue 
growth of 6.0%; 
 • Strong ROW
(3)
 revenue growth of 
26.6% on a statutory basis and 
13.3% on a constant currency basis 
with record performances in 
Poland, Romania, Hungary and 
Czech Republic;
u u EBITDA double digit growth of 
13.2%, 8.4% on a constant currency 
basis;
u u Adjusted profit before tax
(4)
 
increased by 12.5% to £111.4m;
u u Statutory profit before tax 
decreased 1.5% to £98.2m;
u u Diluted EPS remained constant 
at 30.4p;
u u Final dividend increased by 8.6% 
to 19.0p; 
u u Net cash generated from operating 
activities of £150.1m; and 
u u Net debt increased to £282.3m due 
to the acquisition of five Empire 
cinemas compared to £245.2m at 
31 December 2015 with EBITDA to 
net debt ratio remaining at 1.6 times. 
Operational Highlights
u u Reached the milestone of over 100 
million customers coming through 
our doors to watch a movie;
u u Acquisition of five Empire cinemas, 
64 screens, including the iconic 
Empire Leicester Square;
u u Eight new site openings, four in the 
UK and four in the ROW, adding 78 
screens, bringing the total number of 
screens to 2,115 at 31 December 2016; 
u u Nine major refurbishments 
completed in 2016, six in the UK  
and three in the ROW; 
u u Leading technological innovation 
with five new IMAX screens and  
13 new 4DX screens, including the 
first 4DX screen in London; and
u u CEO, Moshe Greidinger awarded  
the Global Achievement Award in 
Exhibition at Cinemacon 2016. 
Highlights 2016
1 EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous leases and other non-recurring charges, impairments and reversals of 
impairments, transaction and reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets and the settlement of the defined benefit pension liability.
2 To provide information on a comparable basis, where % change vs. prior year information includes performance generated in currencies other than sterling, 
the % is presented on a constant currency basis. Constant currency movements have been calculated by applying the 2016 average exchange rates to 2015 
performance.
3 ROW is defined as Rest of the World and includes Poland, Israel, Romania, Hungary, Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovakia.  
4 Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets (excluding acquired movie distribution rights), and certain non-
recurring, non-cash items and foreign exchange as set out in Note 5. Adjusted profit before tax is an internal measure used by management, as they believe it 
better reflects the underlying performance of the Group and therefore a more meaningful comparison of performance from period to period. Adjusted profit 
after tax is arrived at by applying an effective tax rate to taxable adjustments and deducting the total from adjusted profit before tax.
5 Statutory profit after tax was impacted by the following items: a one-off cost of £4.8m in relation to the buy-out of the defined benefit pension scheme, 
removing all risks in relation to the scheme; adverse currency movements of £6.1m compared to an exchange rate gain of £7.7m in the prior year due to the 
translation of the Euro Term loan at the Balance Sheet date; and no one-off gains, such as the gain on the disposal of Cambridge for £6.4m in 2015.
Key Financial Highlights STRATEGIC REPORT  u
2
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
UK&I REVE NUE (£m)
+6.0%
494.0
465.9
2016 2015
ROW REVE NUE (£m)
+26.6%
303.8
239.9
2016 2015
UK&I ADMISSIONS (£m)
+1.8%
51.8
50.9
2016 2015
ROW ADMISSIONS (£m)
+13.6%
48.5
42.7
2016 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Cineworld is one of the UK’s leading cinema chains by admissions 
and box office revenues. The cinemas are modern, well designed 
multiplexes offering great customer service with high quality 
technology, stadium seating, and online ticketing services. The 
sites are situated mostly in leisure and retail parks. Cineworld 
shows a broad range of films to a large number of customers with 
a wide demographic and offers the highly successful “Unlimited” 
card which allows customers access to an unlimited number of 
films for a monthly subscription. Refurbishment of older sites, 
investment in new technologies and diversification of retail 
offerings are a key focus for Cineworld. During 2016 six sites were 
refurbished, four new cinema sites were opened and five Empire 
sites were acquired, including the iconic Empire Leicester Square. 
Cineworld is the only exhibitor in the UK to offer the highly 
successful 4DX experience, which includes motion seats, and 
several environmental effects such as water splash, wind, smell 
and more. These are built into an increasing number of movies to 
make the audience feel they are part of the action. At the end of 
2016, Cineworld operated nine 4DX screens including the first 
4DX in London which opened in December in Wandsworth. 
Cineworld also has 20 IMAX screens and its own Superscreen 
format. Two sites have VIP auditoriums which include a full movie 
and dining experience. Cineworld currently has 24 Starbucks 
coffee outlets within its circuit. 
Picturehouse is an arthouse chain which has a cosier 
atmosphere. It offers freshly-cooked food, bars and special 
events, which provides an alternative experience to the 
multiplexes. The sites generally have five screens or fewer and 
provide unique, local and intimate film viewing in cinemas that 
are both of high quality and of architectural merit. The flagship 
cinema is Picturehouse Central, located in Piccadilly which was 
fully renovated two years ago. It reopened as one of the most 
beautiful and special cinemas in London’s West End, and is 
equipped with the most advanced technology. It also has two 
unique restaurants and an exclusive Members Bar. Picturehouse 
operates in 13 towns and cities, with eight located in London 
‘villages’, and focuses on cinemagoers looking for art house 
movies and events side by side with mainstream commercial 
movies. Picturehouse has its own membership scheme which 
includes a range of benefits such as discounts on tickets and 
concession items, access to exclusive previews and special 
events, and more. The Picturehouse team works closely with 
independent movie creators and hosts movie festivals, and 
many other events. 
We are an international cinema chain operating in nine different 
territories with 226 sites and 2,115 screens. We are focused  
on providing our customers with the best possible cinema 
experience, offering a variety of movies, as well as different 
formats using the latest technologies. Our vision is always to  
be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
At a Glance
Our brands: UK and Ireland
971 Screens | 96 Sites 71 Screens | 22 Sites STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 3
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1
2
5
8
4
3
7
6
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Cinema City operates in six Central and Eastern European 
territories, and is either the number one or two chain in each  
of the markets in which it operates. The cinemas are modern, 
well-designed multiplexes offering a high quality cinema 
experience, showing a variety of movies, and providing great 
customer service. In each of the markets, Cinema City work 
closely with the local communities to provide its customers with 
a great tailored viewing experience for both international and 
local productions. The cinemas have large screens (among the 
highest screen/hall ratio in the world), significant stadium 
seating and market leading technologies such as IMAX, 4DX 
and VIP auditoriums. In order to maintain Cinema City’s position 
as the leading chain, both in number of screens and the quality 
of the experience, constant renovation of the circuit takes place, 
and new sites are developed. While Cinema City opened new 
cinemas in a number of the territories, Romania was the most 
important market for expansion in 2016 with three new cinema 
sites opened. In 2017 there are two sites planned to be opened 
in Poland, one in Romania and one in Czech Republic. 
Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the two brands which the Group 
operates in Israel. Yes Planet is the market leader, operating 
cinemas which, include IMAX, 4DX and VIP screens. The 
Rav-Chen cinemas are a smaller version of the multiplexes.  
As in the other territories, all the cinemas in Israel provide a  
high level of quality and service. The styles and designs of the 
cinemas are modern and all have stadium seating, large screens 
and the latest digital technology. The cinemas show a range  
of popular films from both international and local producers. 
During 2016 a state-of-the art 18 screen cinema was opened  
in Beer Sheva with IMAX, 4DX, and VIP screens, and another 
modern 12 screen multiplex site is due to be opened in Zichron 
during 2017. 
UK, Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel
In 2016, there were over 100 million customer 
admissions across all our cinemas.
COUNTRY NO. OF CINEMAS SCREENS
1. UK & Ireland 118 1,042
2. Poland 33 354
3. Romania 24 223
4. Hungary 19 163
5. Czech Republic 13 115
6. Israel 10 124
7. Bulgaria 6 65
8. Slovakia 3 29
Total 226 2,115
Theatre Operations Theatre Operations
Our Brands: Rest of the World
949 Screens | 98 Sites 124 Screens | 10 Sites STRATEGIC REPORT  u
4
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Anthony Bloom
Chairman (right)
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer (left)
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2016 was another record year 
for the Cineworld Group (the “Group”) and its shareholders. 
We achieved an important milestone – over 100 million 
people came through our doors to watch a movie. I would 
have found this inconceivable when we started the 
Company with one multiplex in Stevenage in 1996! 
Group EBITDA for the year increased by 13.2% to £175.8m 
(2015: £155.3m), on revenue which improved by 13.0% to 
£797.8m (2015: £705.8m). Statutory profit after tax 
increased by 0.9% to £82.0m (2015: £81.3m). 
We achieved this strong growth in EBITDA as a result of the 
full impact of our new cinemas which opened in 2015, the 
completed refurbishments of a number of our important 
cinemas, the acquisition of five Empire cinemas and the 
ongoing operating efficiencies which are constantly sought 
and implemented across the Group. All of these factors 
resulted in increased admissions, particularly in the ROW 
territories. Operating in nine different countries provides 
geographic diversification and a range of opportunities in 
both mature and growth markets. 
The Group’s Balance Sheet remains strong. Although there 
was a slight rise in net debt to £282.3m (due to the Empire 
acquisition and impact of foreign exchange movements on 
the Euro Term loans), the EBITDA to net debt ratio at the 
year end remained at 1.6 times. This Balance Sheet strength, 
together with the gratifying operating performance of the 
Group enabled the Board to declare an increased full year 
dividend of 19.0p per share, which represents 8.6% growth. 
The Group has increased its dividend in seven out of the  
10 years since it was listed, an achievement of which I am 
particularly proud.
In 2016 we successfully completed the acquisition of five 
Empire cinemas, including the iconic Empire Leicester 
Square. Pleasingly we were able to fulfil our long-held 
objective of obtaining a prestigious West End site. Together 
the five Empire sites added 64 additional screens to our 
circuit. Along with expansion, renovation and modernisation 
of the existing circuit is of equal importance to us, ensuring 
that we have high quality, well-designed, modern cinemas 
across the whole estate. During 2016 we completed nine 
major refurbishments and the improvement in operating 
performance at those sites is already evident. 
Shareholders will be pleased to know that we lead the way 
in offering the latest technology. We are the only operators 
of 4DX in the UK, a format proving increasingly popular  
with our customers. The first one opened in London at our 
Wandsworth site in December, and as part of the planned 
refurbishment of the Empire Leicester Square we intend to 
introduce 4DX. At the end of 2016 we had 27 4DX screens, 
33 IMAX screens and six of our own Superscreen formats.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 5
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
In 2016, over 100 million 
people came through 
our doors to watch a 
movie – a fantastic 
milestone for the 
Group.”
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
Martina for the energy and rigour that she brought to the 
Board during a period which has seen the Group expand 
considerably, both in the UK and internationally. Martina 
made a significant contribution to our affairs, and I wish 
her every success in her other ventures. 
Nisan Cohen was appointed as CFO and joined the Board as 
an Executive Director. Nisan is a member of the Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants in Israel and has been part of 
the Cineworld Group, and formerly the Cinema City Group 
for 16 years. As Vice President of Finance, he led the 
integration of the finance teams in the Group across nine 
territories after the combination between Cineworld and 
Cinema City International N.V. Lately, he served as Deputy 
CFO, working closely with the then interim CFO, Dean 
Moore. I have had the pleasure of working with Nisan since 
the combination with Cinema City in 2014 and have no 
doubt that his extensive experience, both commercial and 
financial, will continue to be an asset to the Group. 
Dean Moore, the previous interim CFO, was appointed to 
the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Audit Committee. Dean brings over 20 years of experience 
as a plc executive Director. The Board is satisfied that 
Dean meets the requisite criteria to be considered as 
independent, notwithstanding his brief ten month interim 
employment with the Group, during which his mandate was 
to focus primarily on the CFO succession planning process. 
I look forward to continuing to work with Nisan and Dean in 
their new roles. 
As a Board we take corporate governance standards 
extremely seriously and we always strive to attain the 
highest standards possible. We periodically review areas 
such as gender, diversity, health and safety and the 
environment and where appropriate improve our practices 
in those areas. 
On behalf of myself and the Board I would like to express 
my sincere appreciation to the Group’s executive 
management and all its employees for their continued hard 
work, competence, professionalism and their gratifying 
achievements during 2016. 
Outlook 
As we go into 2017, I look forward with confidence. There is 
a strong film release programme planned for the year. We 
have an excellent estate which will continue to grow (with a 
further 13 cinemas due to open this year), and number of 
major refurbishments planned. We have a strong Balance 
Sheet and can undertake our strategic objectives without 
financial strain. We are at the forefront of providing the 
latest technology to our customers and most importantly of 
all we have an excellent management team with extensive 
experience which is focused on ensuring Cineworld is 
always “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
9 March 2017
The wellbeing of our staff is fundamental to the efficient 
operation of the business. Without them we would not be 
able operate 2,115 screens in 226 sites, as we did at the end 
of 2016. This is not a trivial task – we show over 10,000 
movies every day, every week across nine different 
territories. The logistics involved are formidable and rely on 
highly motivated and dedicated staff. Accordingly, internal 
promotion and succession planning is a key part of our 
people strategy. 
We are currently scheduled to open a further 441 screens 
over the next four years – 264 of which are in the ROW 
territories and 177 in the UK. This expansion will be financed 
from internally generated funds and will provide excellent 
growth potential in the future. 
In summary, we went from strength to strength in 2016 and  
I believe we will continue to do so in 2017 and provide 
significant value to our shareholders. 
Board
There were no changes to the Board during 2016; however 
on 11 January 2017, after the year end three changes 
took place. 
Martina King, Non-Executive Director, Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit 
Committee, stepped down following six years of service to 
focus on her other business interests. I would like to thank  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
6
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
can enjoy unlimited buffet food, popcorn and soft drinks 
before watching the movie in a dedicated auditorium with 
luxurious reclining seats. Three new VIP sites were opened 
during the year in Glasgow Renfrew Street (UK), Beer Sheva 
(Israel) and Bucharest Titan (Romania). At 31 December 
2016 we had nine VIP auditoriums in the Group. 
Our membership schemes, the most significant being the 
Cineworld Unlimited programme, continue to provide our 
customers with a range of benefits, and are one of the pillars 
of our strategy for growing revenues and admissions. The 
schemes also bring operational benefits by encouraging 
repeat visits, often at off-peak times. The Unlimited 
programme was launched in Poland at the end of 2015 
and has performed in line with expectations during 2016. 
We also focused attention on our wider communities – the 
Group undertakes a range of activities and initiatives with 
charities, schools, and community groups. As an example, 
part of our schools’ programme, included holding over 400 
education screenings on weekday mornings with a total of 
over 32,000 students attending from 450 different schools 
across the UK. Similar activities are also undertaken in each 
of our ROW territories. In 2016 for the first time we were a 
partner with BBC’s Children In Need fundraising initiative 
where we raised over £400,000. 
Cinema Expansion
Following the record number of 18 openings in 2015, we 
opened a further eight cinemas during 2016, four in the UK, 
(Yate, Loughborough, Dalton Park and Harlow) and four in 
the ROW, (Beer Sheva - Israel, Timisoara Nepi, Bucharest 
Titan and Piatra Neamt - Romania). We have a further 441 
screens scheduled to open in the next four years, 132 which 
are scheduled to open in 2017. New sites will be opened in 
both our growth markets in the ROW as well as in the more 
mature markets of the UK and Israel. Our growth markets 
still hold significant potential for the Group, as the culture 
of going to the cinema becomes more established and 
attendance increases with the rising standard of living. 
Our Strategy
During 2016, we have made great progress in delivering our 
strategy and vision to be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
We served over 100 million customers who came through our 
doors, and provided them with the choice of which movie to 
watch, the choice of format and the choice of an expanded 
range of retail offerings - all with great customer service. 
Our strategy is to: 
• Above all deliver a great cinema experience for all 
cinemagoers, every time;
• Expand our estate and look for profitable opportunities 
to grow – through consistent cash generation and our 
debt facility we have the financial strength to take 
advantage of opportunities which present themselves; 
• Enhance our existing estate and new sites, ensuring we 
deliver a consistently high quality offering across the 
Group – our refurbishment and construction programme 
is at the heart of achieving this; 
• Be leaders in the industry by offering customers the 
latest audio and visual technology – expanding the 
premium formats such as IMAX, 3D, 4DX, Superscreen 
and VIP auditoriums and ensuring we invest in the latest 
innovative technology; and
• Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth 
plans in an efficient and effective way. 
Our main achievements in 2016 are summarised below. 
Customer Experience
Our cinemas now offer up to six different formats of how to 
watch movies; regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen 
and VIP auditoriums. Through both our expansion and 
refurbishment programme, we are focused on ensuring as 
many of our sites as possible have a range of these choices 
for our customers. 
As well as developing our exhibition offerings and capacity, 
we continue to pay particular attention to our retail products 
and services. Our on-site concessions aim to be best in class, 
providing a variety of food, drink and snack options. During 
2016, the Group has increased the number of Starbucks coffee 
outlets in our cinemas in the UK, taking the total number to 
24 at 31 December 2016 with further outlets planned for 2017. 
We have expanded the number of VIP auditoriums where 
customers experience a premium offering from the moment 
they walk through the door. A VIP ticket includes access to a 
private lounge ahead of the movie screening where customers 
We want to provide our 
customers with choice –  
the choice of which movie  
to watch, the choice of how  
to watch a movie and the 
choice of retail offerings  
whilst always receiving  
great customer service.”
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 7
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
We are also proud that many amongst our current Senior 
Management team have worked their way up into those 
positions after having started as trainees. 
Another key part of our people strategy is our fair wage 
policy – we are amongst the highest payers in the industry 
and we pay more than our statutory obligations, across all 
age groups and in all territories.
Value for Shareholders
The cash generative nature of our business underpins our 
business model. Our priorities for the use of our cash have 
remained consistent; to invest in the business to support 
organic growth in revenue and earnings, for selective 
merger and acquisition opportunities and to grow the 
dividend. During 2016 we have been able to reward 
shareholders with growth in both the dividend and adjusted 
diluted earnings per share, 8.6% and 16.8% respectively. The 
total full year dividend declared for 2016 is 19.0p 
(2015:17.5p). 
Future Outlook
As a management team we will continue to devote time and 
energy to assessing new site opportunities and potential 
acquisitions, identifying key sites for renovation and 
ensuring we provide the latest innovative technology to our 
customers. 
Looking forward, we are well positioned to continue 
delivering on our strategy in 2017. We have an excellent 
estate which is growing and constantly being upgraded 
where necessary to ensure the cinemas remain 
contemporary and of a high quality. We have a dedicated 
team who are focused on providing the best customer 
service and we are investing in the latest technology to 
maintain our position as leaders in the industry. In addition, 
there is an exciting film slate for 2017, which includes a 
number of sequels such as “Star Wars: Episode VIII”, 
“Despicable Me 3”, “Justice League”, “Paddington 2”, “Fast 
and Furious 8”, “Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No 
Tales”, “Transformers: The Last Knight” as well as new titles 
such as “Beauty and the Beast”, “Wonder Woman”, 
“Dunkirk”, “Coco” and many more. 
Whilst we remain cautious, we do not believe the expected 
exit of the UK from the European Union will have a 
significant impact on the underlying trading performance 
of the Group going forward based on the nature of our 
business which has a proven consumer appeal throughout 
all economic cycles.
As I have said before, teamwork is the secret of our success 
and the key to our future. Without our people we would not 
able to be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank the whole Cineworld team for 
their continued hard work and dedication during 2016 and I 
look forward to working alongside them in 2017. 
Moshe Greidinger 
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2017
During the year we announced the acquisition of the five 
Empire sites which has enabled the Group to increase 
its London presence, an area of the UK where we have 
previously been underrepresented. The Hemel Hempstead 
cinema was recently refurbished and is in line with our  
“new generation” style sites. In the near future we plan to 
also refurbish the Basildon and Poole sites. As the Bromley 
site is smaller, with four screens, we feel it is more 
appropriate to form part of the Picturehouse circuit. 
As we proactively focus on the management of our estate 
this may occasionally include closing specific sites where 
lease terms expire and it is not commercially beneficial 
or feasible to renew the lease. During 2016 we closed five 
sites, three in the UK, (Staples Corner, Hammersmith and 
Liverpool), one in Hungary, (Mammut), and one in Romania, 
(Arad GTC). 
Refurbishments
Our refurbishment programme was a key focus for 2016, 
with nine major refurbishments completed, six in the UK, 
(Stevenage, Glasgow Renfrew Street, Crawley, Cardiff, 
Wandsworth and Birmingham Broad Street) and three in 
the ROW (Polus and Au Park - Slovakia and Campona - 
Hungary). As previously highlighted, the UK estate is 
generally older than in the ROW and we will continue 
to renovate the estate further in 2017 to ensure all our  
cinemas are of the highest quality and equipped with the 
latest technology. 
Digital Film and Technological Innovation
We continued to expand the IMAX and 4DX formats across 
a selection of our sites. IMAX and 4DX are both extremely 
popular, especially for major releases such as “Star Wars: 
Rogue One” and “Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find 
Them”. In 2017 “Fast and Furious 8”, “Pirates of the 
Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales”, “Transformers: The Last 
Knight” and “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2” are expected to 
do well in both the IMAX and 4DX formats. We opened two 
IMAX screens during the year in Timisoara Nepi (Romania) 
and Beer Sheva (Israel) and also acquired three as part of 
the Empire acquisition in Basildon, Hemel Hempstead and 
Leicester Square. By the end of 2016, the Group was 
operating 33 IMAX screens in total and 27 4DX screens. 
Towards the end of 2016 new mobile applications were 
soft-launched to our customers across both Android and 
iOS platforms. The key features, as well as a new look and 
feel, were the ability to sign-up for Unlimited membership, 
and easier navigation to find tickets for performances 
across all of our formats. 
Our People 
Once again, 2016 saw considerable investment in people 
initiatives across the Group as we recognise that motivated 
and engaged people are pivotal to delivering our vision to 
be the “Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
Nurturing internal talent is a key part of our people strategy, 
and we are proud that over the last 12 months over 50% of 
cinema management positions have been filled by internal 
applicants. This success rate is underpinned by our regular 
training programmes and talent development reviews, 
which link directly to our learning and development offering.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
8
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Market Overview
Characteristics of the Cinema Market
The Group operates in nine territories and, as measured by 
number of screens, is either the number one or two 
operator in each. The nine territories are a blend of mature 
and growth markets which provides the Group with varying 
opportunities, including expansion and modernisation. 
Mature markets such as the UK and Israel tend to be 
characterised by higher admissions per capita, higher 
average ticket prices and a lower population per screen 
ratio. Growth markets have the opposite characteristics and 
provide great investment potential for the Group. Romania 
is an example of such a growth market where the Group 
invested significantly during 2015 and 2016 and will continue 
to do so in 2017. 
Structure of the Market and Competitive Landscape
There are four significant cinema chains in Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa, with over 1,000 screens. The cinema 
industry globally has recently seen an increase in acquisition 
activity, with AMC Entertainment acquiring Odeon during 
2016 and subsequently they also recently announced the 
proposed acquisition of the Nordic Cinema Group. Outside 
of the top four chains, the rest of the market is represented 
by smaller multiplex operators, which only operate in one or 
two territories, and independent operators which are 
specific to local markets.
European Cinema Industry
(1)
RANK COMPANY NO. OF SCREENS
1. AMC Entertainment 2,261
2. Cineworld 2,201
3. Vue Cinemas 1,841
4. Les Cinemas Gaumont Pathe 1,043
5. CJCGV 761
6. Nordic Cinema Group 666
7. CGR 466
8. Ster-Kinekor 460
9. UGC 459
10. Kinepolis 446
(1) Source: Dodana – information compiled across 2016
The geographic spread of the Group provides us with 
diversification and opportunities across both mature  
and growth markets.
External Factors
The cinema industry is dependent upon the customer 
choosing to spend disposable income on watching a movie. 
Value for money remains an important factor and cinema 
has tended to be a less expensive form of entertainment in 
the wider leisure market in which the Group competes. 
Historical trends and patterns show that cinema attendance 
is most closely related to the quality of the movies rather 
than the gross domestic product (GDP) of a country. 
Although there continue to be developments in the online 
video sector, superior experiences offered by technologies 
such as IMAX and 4DX are ensuring that watching a movie 
in the cinema is a unique experience which cannot be 
replicated at home or on a portable electronic device. Going 
to the cinema has also become more that just watching a 
movie, with the expansion of the retail offerings including 
coffee shops and bars. 
The customer experience has also been assisted by 
developments in technology, such as the ability to book 
online and through mobile applications. In addition, the 
digitalisation of cinemas has resulted in both a greater 
range of films being offered, and the streaming of live 
events such as opera, theatre and ballet.
Market Performance
The industry is largely dependent on the quality of films and 
therefore the appeal of such films to the cinemagoing 
public. Box office revenue is driven by admissions and 
average ticket price. Admissions depend on the number, 
timing and popularity of films. The average ticket price is 
driven by film mix, format of the film i.e. IMAX, 3D, 
Superscreen or 4DX, the demographics of admissions and 
local economic factors such as local levels of disposable 
income and competition. 
Following the strong film slate of 2015 with a number of 
global blockbusters including “Spectre”, “Star Wars: The 
Force Awakens” and “Jurassic World”, 2016 demonstrated 
that there was still an undiminished appetite for cinema 
attendance. The top performing movies for 2016 globally 
were “Captain America: Civil War” with global revenues of 
$1,153.3m, “Rogue One: A Star Wars Story” which managed 
to gross revenues of $1,034.0m in the last two weeks of 
December, “Finding Dory” with global revenues of $1,028.1m 
and “Zootopia”, which generated $1,023.8m (Source: 
Boxofficemojo.com). However, in certain territories, 
especially Poland and the Czech Republic, local films proved 
to be extremely popular and accounted for a greater 
percentage of annual admissions. In 2016 the top three films 
in Poland were all local movies.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 9
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Property Market and Development 
The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon  
local market conditions. Planning laws, the economic 
environment, and the ability of developers to finance their 
projects are factors which impact on cinema location. These 
characteristics differ by territory. In more mature markets 
(such as the UK and Israel), the rate of new cinema 
openings has been slower in recent years, partly due to the 
limited number and long lead time of new retail and leisure 
developments. Despite this, the Group has been successful 
in opening 16 new sites over the past two years in the 
mature UK and Israel markets. As the estate is generally 
older in the mature markets, refurbishment of existing 
cinemas, in particular in the UK, is vitally important and 
accordingly six major refurbishments were completed in the 
UK during 2016 by the Group. The opposite can be seen in 
developing markets (such as Romania) where the number of 
COUNTRY TOP 3 FILMS FOR THE TERRITORY ORIGIN
UK & Ireland 1.  Star Wars: Rogue One US
2.  Fantastic Beasts and Where 
To Find Them
UK/US
3. Bridget Jones’s Baby UK
Poland 1 .   P i t b u l l .  
Niebezpieczne kobiety
Poland
2. Planeta singli Poland
3. Pitbull. Nowe porządki Poland
Romania 1.  Suicide Squad US
2. The Jungle Book UK/US
3. Doctor Strange US
Israel 1.  The Secret Life of Pets US
2. Zootopia US
3. Trolls US
Czech Republic 1.  Deadpool US
2. The Revenant US
3. Lida Bacrova Czech
Slovakia 1.  Finding Dory US
2. The Secret Life of Pets US
3. Deadpool US
Bulgaria 1.  Ice Age: Collision Course US
2. Zootopia US
3. Star Wars: Rogue One US
development opportunities tends to be greater. As a Group, 
we have opened 12 new sites in less mature markets over 
the last two years. Where there are site closures, especially 
of older sites in the UK, this also provides further 
opportunities for new investments. 
Other Income
Retail and screen advertising revenues are significant 
additional sources of income for cinema chains. Popcorn 
and soft drinks remain the most popular retail items. There 
is, however, a growing demand for cinemas to offer a wider 
range of products, including healthier variants of traditional 
offerings. There is also an increase in supplementary 
products including branded coffee outlets such as 
Starbucks in the UK. 
Screen advertising revenue varies depending on the type 
of films screened, the number of minutes and value of 
advertising sold, the volume of attendees who view the film, 
and the placement of advertisements close to the start of 
the film. The strength of the film slate in 2015 and the 
success of major films in the current year had a positive 
impact on the screen advertising revenues in 2016, 
especially in the Group’s ROW territories. 
Distribution income is generated in certain territories in the 
ROW. The revenue is generated by acquiring rights to a 
specific title, or acting as a local country distributor for a 
main Hollywood studio. Where rights are directly acquired, 
the revenue is earned through royalties from cinema 
exhibition and also from Video on Demand, DVDs and TV 
screenings. 
Future Market Trends
Although streaming and downloading of films at home is 
increasingly popular, a multiplex cinema provides a unique 
experience which cannot be replicated at home. A trip to 
the cinema is a social occasion and watching a movie on 
a large screen with superb sound is attractive to all age 
groups. Cinema auditoriums are also increasingly being 
used for purposes other than just exhibiting feature movies, 
such as the streaming of live events, for example, opera and 
ballet and for corporate events. 
The cinema industry continues to believe that the interests 
of the film industry and the customer are generally best 
served by the existence of the cinematic window, the period 
between the release of a film in a cinema and on any other 
platform. There is no expectation that the current cinema 
window will significantly change in the near future.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
10
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Business Model
Our primary customers are the cinemagoing public 
who rely on us to provide the best entertainment 
experience. We aim to give our customers, not just the 
choice of cinema, but also the choice of how to watch 
movies. In many cinemas, we have up to six different 
offerings of how to watch movies: regular screens, 
3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen and VIP theatres. 
We provide the films our customers want to see in the 
most appropriate venues and locations, using the best 
technology, with the right retail offerings and great 
customer service. Our ticket price represents the various 
offerings of how to watch a movie. Our major source 
of revenue is driven by admissions, and our ability to 
maximise this income is dependent on the quality of 
the film slate and on the experience we can offer. Our 
admissions also have a direct effect on screen advertising 
revenues, and on retail sales, primarily of food and drink. 
Our business model is underpinned by the 
following:
People and Culture
Our people underpin the whole of our operations as 
they are the face of our cinemas. They are focused on 
ensuring that our customers enjoy the best possible 
experience during their visit. A well-established training and 
development programme is used to maintain standards as 
well as support the Group focus on internal succession.
Financial Strength
By continuing to achieve healthy margins and 
maintaining a strong Balance Sheet we can continue 
to invest in our business, expanding and modernising 
the estate. Our continued investment in technology 
is a pivotal part of evolving the viewer experience 
we offer, but it also plays a role in ensuring we 
have flexibility in the use of our auditoriums. 
We create value for shareholders through our focus on 
continually aiming to enhance the experience for our customers. 
We share the value we generate by reinvesting in the business 
and expanding our offer to customers, rewarding our employees 
and paying dividends to our shareholders. 
Trusted Commercial Relationships
Delivering a high quality film slate is one of the key external 
drivers of our business. Whilst we do not have control over 
what is produced, our close and long-standing relationships 
with the film distributors are fundamental to providing the 
best and most varied selection for our customers at the 
right time. Our brands are important to our commercial 
partners, helping to deepen our relationships with the film 
distributors, retail suppliers, advertisers and landlords. 
Risk Management and Governance 
Monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk 
management and internal control ensures that the Group’s 
assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors 
and irregularities are prevented or detected with a  
minimum delay.
Outputs
Customer Experience 
Our customers experience is fundamental to our success. 
By delivering our vision to be “The Best Place to Watch a 
Movie”, we are ensuring that our customers have a positive 
experience and increase the likelihood of their repeat visits. 
Motivated Team
The investment we make and the way we operate is key to 
maintaining a happy and motivated workforce. For more on 
our people refer to Resources and Relationships on page 18. 
Group Financial Performance  
and KPIs 
The Group’s financial results and our progress against 
our KPIs are the key measurable outcomes of what 
we achieve. These are outlined in detail in our KPIs 
on page 12 and the Financial Review on page 28. 
Shareholder Returns 
To be able to reward our shareholders we remain 
focused on driving revenues, increasing earnings 
and prudently managing our cash position, to 
ultimately provide returns to shareholders. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 11
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
UNLIMITED
Profit Reinvestment
Profit Reinvestment
Our Market & Brands Outputs
Our Portfolio of Locations
Our Operations
Our Offering
People  
& Culture
Financial  
Strength
Trusted  
Commercial 
Relationships
Risk Management  
& Governance
u Cinema Operations
u Group Support 
Functions
u Film buying, 
programming and 
distribution
u Property & 
Construction
u UK & Ireland
Cineworld,  
Picture House
u Rest of World
Cinema City,  
Yes Planet
u Customer 
Experience
u Motivated 
Teams
u Group 
Financial 
Performance 
and KPI Delivery
u Shareholder 
Returns
u High Street
u Retail &  
Leisure Parks
u Shopping Centres
u Stand Alone
u Box Office
4DX, 3D IMAX,  
VIP, Unlimited, 
Superscreen
u Advertising
u Distribution
u Retail
Starbucks, Candy King, 
Baskin Robbins
Our Vision: To be the best place to watch a movie
Our Purpose: To provide the films our customers want to see in the  
most appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology  
with the right retail offerings and great customer service  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
12
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
+7.2%
100.3
93.6
2016 2015
ADMISSIONS
(£m)
Strategy and Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
In order to implement and measure the Group’s strategic performance, we monitor the  
following Key Performance Indicators in addition to the Group’s overall financial performance. 
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
1.
Delivering a great cinema 
experience for all cinemagoers, 
every time.
2.
Expanding our estate and 
looking for profitable 
opportunities to grow.
3.
Ensuring that we enhance our 
existing estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality across 
the Group.
4.
Being leaders in the industry  
by offering our customers  
the latest audio and visual 
technology.
5.
Driving shareholder value by delivering our growth plans  
in an efficient and effective way.
Our people are the face of our 
business. They are key to delivering a 
great customer experience to all of our 
customers. It is therefore important  
to us that we recruit high quality 
employees and invest in them. 
We want to ensure our customers have 
choice – this includes the movies they 
can watch, how they watch the movies, 
the type of venue they watch a movie 
in and a variety of retail offerings 
provided to cater for all demographics. 
What we achieved in 2016
Achieved record customer admissions, 
reaching the fantastic milestone of 
over 100m admissions across the 
Group. 
Employee engagement levels 
increased to 75% from 70% in 2015 
with an outstanding response rate  
of 98%.
Our “BeMore” programme, which 
supports our top talent displaying 
potential and fulfils our internal 
succession requirements, saw the 
graduation of 24 junior managers. 
When selecting new sites for 
development we consider the location, 
accessibility, competition, and other 
local economic factors. 
What we achieved in 2016 
Completed the acquisition of five 
Empire sites including the iconic 
Empire Leicester Square which 
increases our London presence.  
The five cinemas comprised:
u u Basildon – 18 screens
u u Bromley – 4 screens
u u Hemel Hempstead – 17 screens
u u Leicester Square – 9 screens
u u Poole – 16 screens
Built on the previous record number of 
18 openings in 2015 with an additional 
eight openings, four in the UK&I and 
four in the ROW.
UK&I
u u Yate – 6 screens
u u Loughborough – 8 screens
u u Dalton Park – 7 screens
u u Harlow – 6 screens
ROW
u u  Timisoara Nepi (Romania) –  
13 screens 
u u Beer Sheva (Israel) – 18 screens
u u  Bucharest Tital (Romania) –  
14 screens
u u Piatra Neamt – 6 screens
We have a pipeline of 441 new screens 
which are contracted to come on-
stream over the next four years. 
NO. OF NEW SITES: 
13
2015: 18
TOTAL NO. OF SCREENS 
2,115
2015: 2,011
Providing our customers with high 
quality cinemas throughout the estate 
is of upmost importance. As the UK 
estate is generally older than in the 
ROW, refurbishments are key to 
ensuring the cinemas remain 
contemporary and include the 
latest technology, stadium seating, 
and retail offerings.
What we achieved in 2016
A record nine major refurbishments 
were completed, six in the UK and three 
in the ROW. 
UK&I
u u Stevenage
u u Glasgow Renfrew Street
u u Crawley
u u Cardiff
u u Wandsworth
u u Birmingham Broad Street
ROW
u u Polus (Slovakia)
u u Au Park (Slovakia)
u u Compania (Hungary)
NUMBER OF REFURBISHMENTS 
COMPLETED 
9
2015: 3
We want to continue the roll-out of  
the latest technology across the 
Group, by continuing to strengthen  
our partnership and relationships  
with IMAX and 4DX. 
What we achieved in 2016 
The first 4DX was opened in London  
at our Wandsworth site in December. 
There were thirteen 4DX screens 
opened across the Group in total 
during 2016, bringing the total  
number of 4DX screens to 27 as at 
31 December 2016. 
Two new IMAX screens were opened, 
in addition to the three IMAX screens 
acquired from Empire. We are now 
currently the largest IMAX exhibitor in 
the UK and have a total of 33 screens 
across the Group as at 31 December 
2016. 
NUMBER OF PREMIUM FORMATS 
 
4DX
27
2015: 14
IMAX
33
2015: 28
To be able to reward our shareholders we remain focused on driving revenues, 
increasing earnings and prudently managing our cash position. 
What we achieved in 2016 
Delivered growth in underlying profitability, with an increase in EBITDA, adjusted 
EPS and dividends.
Continued to focus on driving efficiencies across the Group for example by the 
extension of the shared service centre in Poland. Having successfully established 
the customer service call centre in 2015, during 2016 our tier 1 IT and UK 
purchasing functions were transitioned to Poland to unlock further efficiencies 
across the Group.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 13
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
0
50
100
150
200
+13.2%
175.8
155.3
2016 2015
EBITDA
(£m)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
£1.90
£1.74
2016 2015
RETAIL SPEND PER PERSON
(£m)
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
(p)
+8.6%
19.0p
17.5p
2016 2015
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
+16.8%
34.7p
29.7p
2016 2015
ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS
(p)
0
1
2
3
4
5
£4.99
£4.82
2016 2015
AVERAGE TICKET PRICE
(£m)
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
1.
Delivering a great cinema 
experience for all cinemagoers, 
every time.
2.
Expanding our estate and 
looking for profitable 
opportunities to grow.
3.
Ensuring that we enhance our 
existing estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality across 
the Group.
4.
Being leaders in the industry  
by offering our customers  
the latest audio and visual 
technology.
5.
Driving shareholder value by delivering our growth plans  
in an efficient and effective way.
Our people are the face of our 
business. They are key to delivering a 
great customer experience to all of our 
customers. It is therefore important  
to us that we recruit high quality 
employees and invest in them. 
We want to ensure our customers have 
choice – this includes the movies they 
can watch, how they watch the movies, 
the type of venue they watch a movie 
in and a variety of retail offerings 
provided to cater for all demographics. 
What we achieved in 2016
Achieved record customer admissions, 
reaching the fantastic milestone of 
over 100m admissions across the 
Group. 
Employee engagement levels 
increased to 75% from 70% in 2015 
with an outstanding response rate  
of 98%.
Our “BeMore” programme, which 
supports our top talent displaying 
potential and fulfils our internal 
succession requirements, saw the 
graduation of 24 junior managers. 
When selecting new sites for 
development we consider the location, 
accessibility, competition, and other 
local economic factors. 
What we achieved in 2016 
Completed the acquisition of five 
Empire sites including the iconic 
Empire Leicester Square which 
increases our London presence.  
The five cinemas comprised:
u u Basildon – 18 screens
u u Bromley – 4 screens
u u Hemel Hempstead – 17 screens
u u Leicester Square – 9 screens
u u Poole – 16 screens
Built on the previous record number of 
18 openings in 2015 with an additional 
eight openings, four in the UK&I and 
four in the ROW.
UK&I
u u Yate – 6 screens
u u Loughborough – 8 screens
u u Dalton Park – 7 screens
u u Harlow – 6 screens
ROW
u u  Timisoara Nepi (Romania) –  
13 screens 
u u Beer Sheva (Israel) – 18 screens
u u  Bucharest Tital (Romania) –  
14 screens
u u Piatra Neamt – 6 screens
We have a pipeline of 441 new screens 
which are contracted to come on-
stream over the next four years. 
NO. OF NEW SITES: 
13
2015: 18
TOTAL NO. OF SCREENS 
2,115
2015: 2,011
Providing our customers with high 
quality cinemas throughout the estate 
is of upmost importance. As the UK 
estate is generally older than in the 
ROW, refurbishments are key to 
ensuring the cinemas remain 
contemporary and include the 
latest technology, stadium seating, 
and retail offerings.
What we achieved in 2016
A record nine major refurbishments 
were completed, six in the UK and three 
in the ROW. 
UK&I
u u Stevenage
u u Glasgow Renfrew Street
u u Crawley
u u Cardiff
u u Wandsworth
u u Birmingham Broad Street
ROW
u u Polus (Slovakia)
u u Au Park (Slovakia)
u u Compania (Hungary)
NUMBER OF REFURBISHMENTS 
COMPLETED 
9
2015: 3
We want to continue the roll-out of  
the latest technology across the 
Group, by continuing to strengthen  
our partnership and relationships  
with IMAX and 4DX. 
What we achieved in 2016 
The first 4DX was opened in London  
at our Wandsworth site in December. 
There were thirteen 4DX screens 
opened across the Group in total 
during 2016, bringing the total  
number of 4DX screens to 27 as at 
31 December 2016. 
Two new IMAX screens were opened, 
in addition to the three IMAX screens 
acquired from Empire. We are now 
currently the largest IMAX exhibitor in 
the UK and have a total of 33 screens 
across the Group as at 31 December 
2016. 
NUMBER OF PREMIUM FORMATS 
 
4DX
27
2015: 14
IMAX
33
2015: 28
To be able to reward our shareholders we remain focused on driving revenues, 
increasing earnings and prudently managing our cash position. 
What we achieved in 2016 
Delivered growth in underlying profitability, with an increase in EBITDA, adjusted 
EPS and dividends.
Continued to focus on driving efficiencies across the Group for example by the 
extension of the shared service centre in Poland. Having successfully established 
the customer service call centre in 2015, during 2016 our tier 1 IT and UK 
purchasing functions were transitioned to Poland to unlock further efficiencies 
across the Group.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
14
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
The best customer experience
Cinema just keeps  
getting better
We are transforming our customers’ experiences through 
continued investment in refurbishments, new technologies  
and customer service.
VIP
A premium cinema experience which 
includes access to a private lounge 
ahead of the movie screening where 
customers can enjoy unlimited buffet 
food, popcorn and soft drinks before 
watching the movie in a dedicated 
auditorium with luxurious reclining 
seats.
9
LOCATIONS SCREENS
1 Israel 3
2 Poland 2
3 UK & Ireland 2
4 Hungary 1
5 Romania 1
IMAX 
The ultimate in ‘big screen’ 
experience, IMAX is the most 
immersive cinematic experience.
33
LOCATIONS SCREENS
1 UK & Ireland 20
2 Poland 5
3 Israel 3
4 Romania 2
5 Bulgaria 1
6 Czech Republic 1
7 Hungary 1
4DX 
Customers travel from far and wide 
to enjoy the hugely-exhilarating 
multi-sensory 4DX experience.
27
LOCATIONS SCREENS
1 UK & Ireland 9
2 Poland 5
3 Israel 4
4 Romania 3
5 Hungary 1
6 Czech Republic 2
7 Bulgaria 2
8 Slovakia 1 STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 15
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Foyer Experience
Customers are wowed entering 
our fully digital foyers with huge 
LED screens that make the 
trailers come alive.
Superscreen
Our in-house big screen 
experience has jaw-dropping 
Dolby Atmos sound and 
comfortable designer  
Italian seats.
IMAX Laser
Crystal clear laser projection  
from IMAX provides the  
sharpest on-screen experience.
Starbucks
Cineworld opened its 24th 
Starbucks at Cineworld 
Wandsworth.
Number of cinemas
226
LOCATIONS CINEMAS SCREENS
1 UK & Ireland 118 1,042
2 Poland 33 354
3 Romania 24 223
4 Hungary 19 163
5 Czech Republic 13 115
6 Israel 10 124
7 Bulgaria 6 65
8 Slovakia 3 29
Number of screens
2,115 STRATEGIC REPORT  u
16
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Employee engagement
Investing in 
our people
Our teams are trained to enhance  
the excitement of going to the 
movies by making the experience  
as effortless as possible.
TRAINING COURSES 
We offer a range of courses, including  
our BeReady, BeMore and BeGreat 
programmes which are tailored for 
employees at varying levels of their career. 
APPRENTICE PROGRAMME 
We now have 64 apprentices in our 
programme, providing opportunities  
for young people to learn straight from 
school as well as offering an exciting 
career into the cinema industry.
64
NEW EMPLOYEES  
Staff retention is at an all time high.  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 17
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Cineworld Group events in 2016
Awards
The highlight of the year is the awards 
dinner at the company conference, 
with the Department of the year 
award in 2016 won by the Learning 
and Development team. 
Children in Need 
Cineworld teams raised over 
£400,000 in support of BBC’s 
Children in Need – the first time 
Cineworld has supported such a 
major national campaign. Multiple 
events were hosted across cinemas 
and all box office income from our 
Movies for Juniors programme 
was donated during Children in 
Need week.
Company Conference
Over 300 management team 
members, suppliers and partners 
attend our annual conference, held 
in 2016 at both Cineworld Wembley 
and the famous Wembley Stadium. 
Training Programmes
Our BeMore training programme 
ensures that we prepare the 
managers of tomorrow; as we 
continue to grow our estate we 
invest in the people who will be  
the future General Managers of  
our cinemas.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
18
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Health and Safety
Our Ethical Principles
1  We will act truthfully
2 We will act with integrity
3 We will respect our customers
4 We will treat individuals properly
5 We compete fairly
6 We will treat our suppliers properly
7 We will manage relations with 
shareholders effectively
8 We will maintain high standards of 
financial record keeping and 
reporting
9  We will comply with the rules on 
inside information and share dealing
10  We will maintain high standards of 
health and safety
11  We will respect the environment
12 We will seek to contribute  
to the community
 Our Customers    
Our People
 Key Commercial Relationships                        Our Communities
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Resources and Relationships
Our business model and strategy are underpinned by key 
resources and relationships.
Introduction 
Our key relationships for the Group are with our customers, 
our people, our commercial partners and our wider 
communities. How we behave and interact with each of 
these parties reflects on our reputation, which is a key asset 
underpinning the successful delivery of our strategy. 
Our Group policy on ethics seeks to guide the behaviour  
of our people by specifying 12 principles which establish 
common values through which we do business. We strive  
to ensure that we act in appropriate ways to maintain and 
enhance our reputation. The Group seeks to act with 
honesty and integrity in its dealings with customers, 
employees, shareholders, regulators, suppliers and  
our wider community. 
Health and safety is of major importance to us when 
considering the day-to-day health, safety and welfare of  
our customers, employees and contractors. With over 100 
million customer visits a year and over 9,000 employees, 
the Group seeks to maintain the highest standards in the 
effective management of our health and safety obligations, 
and our duty of care to our customers and staff. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 19
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Each year, every cinema in the Group is subject to health 
and safety assessments (including aspects of fire, food  
and occupational) self-assessments and audits. Results  
are compared year-on-year and any significant issues  
are followed up with the assistance of specialist external 
consultants where needed. Overall, the results have shown 
that standards remain high. All incidents are logged, 
investigated and action taken, where appropriate, to ensure 
that the chances of a reoccurrence are reduced as far as 
reasonably possible.
Our Customers
Our customers are fundamental to our success. We focus 
on ensuring that they have a positive experience every time 
to increase the likelihood of repeat visits. We aim to deliver 
a broad range of films, in high quality venues with retail 
offerings to suit our customers’ tastes all of which 
contribute to achieving our vision.
We also have initiatives which aim to extend the relationship 
with the customer beyond a single visit. In the UK, and from 
the end of 2015 in Poland, we have our Unlimited subscription 
service which is a fixed monthly (or annual) subscription 
enabling customers to watch as many 2D films as they wish. 
We also have a number of other membership schemes across 
the UK and other territories which offer discounts and allow 
us to interact frequently with our customer base. 
Event cinema screenings bring a wider range of content to 
our customers, enabling our audiences to see live shows 
taking place around the world. Operating in this way supports 
such productions, making them more commercially viable, 
accessible to more people and, in turn, brings more people to 
the cinema and, frequently, a different type of customer.
As many of our customers still associate going to the 
cinema as a treat or special occasion, they expect traditional 
cinema snacks as part of their experience. However, we offer 
a range of products to our customers, and we work closely 
with our partners to provide healthier alternatives where 
appropriate. We ensure that we provide good nutrition and 
allergen advice to enable our customers to make informed 
choices, with the latter now being available on our website. 
At our Picturehouse circuit, the food and drink proposition is 
more akin to that found in restaurants and closely tailored  
to the audience profile to which it caters. A wide range of 
snacks and meals are available, many of which include 
ingredients sourced from local producers and suppliers.
The Group actively promotes a philosophy of access for all 
by offering accessible cinemas for the handicapped that 
show a wide range of films and event cinema. Employees 
receive disability awareness training and specific advice  
on welcoming disabled customers. Many of our cinemas 
offer audio-descriptive, autism-friendly and subtitled 
performances, and in some territories, the Group allows 
customers with disabilities to be accompanied by a carer, 
free of charge. All new cinemas are designed to exceed 
current statutory requirements and to provide buildings 
which are technically advanced, accessible and safe.  
When cinemas undergo major refurbishment as part of  
an ongoing programme of improvements and renovations, 
the opportunity is taken to enhance access within cinemas 
where practicable to do so.
The Group actively encourages our future film-going 
audience by specifically tailoring film schedules to attract 
families and young people. Where necessary, these 
performances are dubbed into the native language to ensure 
that all customers can enjoy the full cinema experience. 
Concessionary rates are offered for senior citizens and 
students at certain times of the day. Throughout the Group, 
all national regulators’ film classification guidelines are 
followed, unless the local regulators require otherwise. In 
some of our territories, there are no classification guidelines, 
and in such cases we provide information to customers 
about films so they can make informed choices about the 
type of film being shown. We also ensure that all trailers are 
complementary in terms of suitability to the main feature.
Our People
Once again, 2016 saw considerable investment in people 
initiatives across the Group as we recognise that motivated 
and engaged teams are pivotal to delivering our vision to be 
the ‘Best Place to Watch a Movie’. 
Nurturing talent is a key part of our people strategy and,  
in support of our growth strategy, we are proud that over 
the last 12 months more than 50% of cinema management 
positions were filled by internal applicants. This success rate 
is underpinned by our regularly held talent development 
reviews which directly link to our learning and development 
offering. The talent review process allows us to identify high 
performing and high potential talent from across the estate 
and invest in their development so they can achieve their 
full potential. Much of our learning and development focus 
in 2016 has been on developing content for our various and 
extensive programmes. 
There are three core parts to our learning and development 
offering: 
• BeReady - trains people who are ‘New to Role’ to enable 
them to feel part of our family and to develop their 
competence and confidence, whilst they learn on the job. 
• BeGreat - supports people with their performance and 
capability; employees are up-skilled in the technical and 
soft skill aspects of their role. All training is delivered in a 
workshop format, where learnings are embedded and 
transferred back into the workplace.  
• BeMore – supports the top talent displaying potential and 
fulfils our internal succession requirements. 2016 saw the 
graduation of 24 junior managers who took part in our  
12 month residential management ‘BeMore’ programme. 
Since graduation, 17 of these managers have either 
progressed to a higher management position or moved 
into a new, larger complexity cinema. This year’s 
programme also offers an opportunity to complete a 
qualification (accredited by the Institute of Leadership and 
Management “ILM”). Additionally, we extended the 
opportunity of completing an optional NVQ qualification 
to our Team Members and Supervisors on our ‘BeMore’ 
programme. We have around 250 Team Members and 
Supervisors being supported in the programme in order 
to prepare them for their next role and a number are now 
completing an NVQ in Customer Service or an NVQ in 
Team Leading. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
20
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
We also have a 24 month apprenticeship programme, 
attendance in which has trebled during 2016. We now have 
64 apprentices in our programme, providing opportunities 
for young people to learn straight from school by offering 
an exciting career path into the cinema industry. Many 
apprentices go on to become Cinema Supervisors. 
We are also very proud of our online Learning Management 
System ‘CineLearn’ – CineLearn has grown to become the 
foundation of our learning and development offering, with 
over 4500 employees now having access to the platform, 
which supports their personal and professional development. 
The system is now being accessed 90 times per day across 
the estate, demonstrating the ease and accessibility of the 
platform as well as the culture of learning within the Group. 
Another key part of our people strategy is our fair wage 
policy, across all age groups and in all territories. In addition, 
we update and improve bonus schemes, rewarding people 
across a range of measures from Group performance to 
personal performance, to driving sales and more. We also 
offer an extensive range of benefits including unlimited free 
cinema tickets, guest tickets, discounts on food and drinks, 
bike to work schemes, childcare vouchers and many other 
benefits which suit our people’s needs.
We are enormously proud of our employee engagement 
scores. For the fourth consecutive year, engagement levels 
have increased and in 2016 we achieved an engagement 
score of 75% (up from 70% in 2015) and a truly outstanding 
participation rate of 98%. These scores have been achieved 
by continuing to listen to our people through our surveys 
then implementing initiatives which are important to them 
and their needs, such as increased levels of pay, succession 
planning and promotions, and learning and development 
opportunities.
Diversity and Human Rights
The Group is an equal opportunity employer and seeks  
to recruit, retain and promote staff on the basis of their 
qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude. A wide range  
of applicants are encouraged to apply for all roles. In 
employment-related decisions, the business complies with 
all relevant legislation, including that specifically targeted  
at preventing discrimination, and such principles are 
embedded through the business by requisite policies.
Gender Breakdown of Cineworld People
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
SENIOR
 MANAGERS
(1)
TOTAL  
EMPLOYEES
Male 6 6 5,094
Female 3 3 4,852
(1) Senior managers are those people who report directly to an Executive 
Director. Data is based on the average headcount for 2016. 
Our Commercial Relationships
We work hard at developing good relationships with a range 
of film studios and distributors, both major and independent. 
Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on providing 
our customers with a wide range of movies has resulted in 
many opportunities for us to work with film studios on 
simplifying the film buying process and on promoting 
smaller films to a wider audience. We also work closely with 
industry bodies, including the Film Content Protection 
Agency (FCPA), to combat film piracy. During 2016 the 
Group were awarded a total of 22 awards out of a possible 
32 awards from the FCPA, demonstrating our dedication to 
the UK’s theatrical protection programme. 
The Group is committed to protecting the intellectual 
property rights of films and Event Cinema. Policies and 
procedures are constantly reviewed and developed to 
ensure cinema management are able to effectively monitor 
and prevent film piracy. Night-vision technology is utilised 
and there is an increased vigilance around high profile titles 
which are particularly vulnerable.
The Group will continue to work closely with relevant 
industry and law enforcement organisations in order to help 
reduce and prevent film piracy.
We build relationships with developers, landlords and local 
planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new sites 
for the future. We also work closely with suppliers of 
technological enhancements, for instance IMAX and 4DX, 
which enables us to ensure that we are delivering the best 
possible experience to our customers, as well as looking to 
maximise box office revenues.
Strong relationships with our principal retail suppliers, such 
as Coca-Cola, Baskin Robbins, Candy King, Starbucks and 
Pepsi enable us to work together on promotions that help 
drive retail sales. We seek to manage relationships with our 
suppliers fairly, and to work in accordance with our 
aspirations as set out in our ethical policy. 
The Group also works as a venue partner for numerous film 
festivals. While many are well known and high profile, in 
certain territories the Group sponsors festivals showcasing 
local film producers’ work and runs short film competitions 
for students encouraging the development of future talent. 
This involvement once again helps to promote the Group’s 
brands through the wider film industry.
Resources and Relationships continued STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 21
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Our Communities
Our work with charities, schools, and community groups 
across all our territories is very important to us. We are 
involved with a wide range of activities including working 
with distributors on charity screenings, providing free shows 
for organisations and working closely with local schools and 
organisations. 
In 2016, for the first time, Cineworld partnered with the 
BBC’s Children In Need initiative, where as a team we raised 
over £400,000. Our Picturehouse cinemas work very 
closely with their charity of choice, Plan International UK, 
and host regular awareness-raising and fundraising 
activities in venues, including free preview screenings and 
interactive activities for audiences. In 2016, Picturehouse 
Cinemas also donated 10p from every bottle of water sold  
in their cinemas to Plan International UK.
For 2017, Picturehouse Cinemas have now changed bottled 
water supplier to Life Water. Life donated a significant 
amount of their proceeds to charity and the plastic bottles 
used by it are amongst the most environmentally-friendly in 
the market. 
Our schools’ programme saw us working with a variety of 
partners to deliver a wide range of educational screenings 
for primary and secondary schools, including the Holocaust 
Memorial Day Trust, London International Film Festival, 
World Book Day and the National Literacy Trust.
We worked with our distributors to create special schools 
promotions and programmes for films such as Macbeth, 
Suffragette and The Stanford Prison Experiment. We ran 
talks and screenings for Black History Month, Anti Bullying 
Week, Science and Engineering Week, Refugee Week, 
Roald Dahl’s Centenary, World Book Day and Holocaust 
Memorial Day.
Across the last academic year, our key achievements 
included:
• We held over 400 education screenings on weekday 
mornings with a total of over 32,000 students attending 
from 450 different schools across the UK. 
• We showed 942 Saturday morning Kids’ Club screenings, 
with an audience of circa 55,000.
• We showed 1,246 weekday morning Toddler Time 
screenings, with an audience of circa 27,500.
• We held 224 Autism Friendly screenings with a total of 
circa 3,764 total admissions. 
• Dementia Friendly Screenings - Picturehouse launched 
this strand at Hackney and Liverpool, with 11 screenings 
taking place and a total of 380 admissions.
We seek to comply with all relevant environmental 
legislation and to operate in an environmentally sensitive 
manner. The Directors acknowledge the impact that the 
business has on the environment and seek to mitigate it. 
Often changes which help to mitigate our environmental 
impact also reduce our operating costs. 
Being a multisite business, the Group is conscious of its  
total energy consumption and amount of waste materials 
generated and is actively working on reducing both. The 
Group’s mandatory greenhouse gas report can be found  
in the Directors’ Report on pages 76 to 77.
Our cinema websites enable e-tickets to be purchased  
and used, avoiding the need to print tickets. In new and 
refurbished cinemas, poster cases are now digital reducing 
the need to deliver, install, and ultimately throw away large 
paper posters. All these efforts help to reduce our use of 
resources and carbon footprint. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
22
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Cineworld’s approach to risk management and internal 
control is designed to manage risk at all levels, of the 
business, recognising that although we can take mitigating 
actions on all risks the mitigation is not guaranteed to 
address the full impact of any risk. Therefore, where 
possible, the Group has implements appropriate mitigation 
strategies to reduce the overall risk exposure in line with  
the Board’s risk appetite.
During the year the Group further strengthened the 
components of the Risk Management Framework through 
its programme of ongoing monitoring and reporting. This 
ensured that the risk profile remained up-to-date and 
accurately reflected the Group’s risk exposure. 
The Board undertook a formal annual review of risk 
appetite, ensuring that the view it has established for each 
of the principal risks reflects its current perspective and  
its willingness to accept risk in pursuit of the strategic 
objectives of the Group. Full details of the Group approach 
to risk management are set out on page 45.
In addition, the Directors’ viability assessment has taken into 
consideration the potential impact of the principal risks in 
the business model, future performance, solvency and 
liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating 
actions such as reducing capital expenditure. More details 
about the viability assessment may be found on pages 49 
to 50.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group during the year, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency and liquidity. The time-frame horizon 
for consideration of the principal risks is aligned to the three 
year period used when considering the future viability of 
the Group (please see the Group’s viability statement on 
page 38). 
The specific impact of Brexit on our principal risks has been 
considered by the Board and Senior Management. Whilst 
we remain vigilant, we do not believe the result of the EU 
referendum will have a significant impact on the underlying 
trading performance of the Group going forward based on 
our business, which has a proven consumer appeal through 
all economic cycles.
Principal Risks Summary Strategic 
Relevance
Risk 
Trend
1. Technology and Data 1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5 
2. Availability and Performance  
of Film Content
1 / 4 / 5 
3. Expansion and Growth of 
Our Cinema Estate
2 / 3 / 4 / 5 
4. Viewer Experience and 
Competition
1 / 3 / 4 / 5 
5. Revenue from Retail/
Concession Offerings
1 / 5 
6. Cinema Operations 1 / 5 
7. Regulatory Breach 1 / 2 / 3 / 5 
8. Strategy and Performance 1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5 
9. Retention and Attraction of 
Senior Management and Key 
Employees
1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5 
10. Governance and Internal 
Control
1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5 
11. Terrorism and Civil Unrest 1 / 5 
Key
   Increase
   Decrease
 No significant change
The Group’s principal risks are set out on the following 
pages together with: 
• a description of the risk and its potential impact; 
• examples of the current controls and mitigation; 
• a summary of developments in the year;
• an indication of the direction of travel of the risk 
exposure; and
• an indication of the link to the Group’s strategic 
objectives as set out on pages 12 and 13.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Operating as a cinema chain across nine different territories 
presents a number of risks and uncertainties that continue  
to be the focus of the Board’s ongoing attention.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 23
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
1
Technology and Data Control
Owner: Deputy CEO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
The Group continues to grow its 
reliance on IT systems and data.  
From online ticket sales to managing 
financial information and everything  
in between, the Group is reliant on its 
IT systems remaining operational and 
secure. Therefore, any critical system 
interruption for a sustained period 
could have a significant impact on the 
Group’s performance. In addition, any 
breach (cyber or otherwise) of data 
protection rules or security measures 
surrounding the storage of confidential 
and proprietary information (including 
movie content) could result in 
unauthorised access, loss or disclosure 
of this information. This could lead to 
claims, regulatory penalties, disruption 
of operations of the Group and 
ultimately reputational damage.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
The Group IT function monitors, 
manages and optimises our systems, 
including ensuring their resilience 
through regular back-ups and the 
implementation of security measures. 
Additional external experts are 
employed where necessary to oversee, 
and help manage, major projects 
involving the upgrading or replacement 
of key systems. The Group continually 
reviews its approach to information 
security, specifically controlling the 
sensitive data it holds through 
restricted access.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The continual increase in global criminal 
cyber activity and the ongoing 
implementation of a number of new IT 
systems in the Group has necessitated 
that the Board specifically focus on this 
area continues to remain high. An 
enhancement in the resilience of Group 
systems has occurred during the year. 
All IT systems and Data have now been 
transitioned to an outsourced data 
centre that is then backed up by a 
secondary centre at a different location.
2
Availability and Performance of Film Content
Owner: CCO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
Underpinning the overall success of 
the Group is the quality of the film 
slate, the timeliness of release and the 
appeal of such films to our customers. 
Where the film studios do not produce 
sufficiently attractive films, or films 
underperform, this has a direct impact 
on cinema attendance and, therefore, 
the principal box office revenue for the 
Group may decline. 
Controls and Mitigation Activity
We work closely with film distributors 
to acquaint ourselves, as early as 
possible, with the upcoming film  
slate in order to forecast likely film 
performance. Although access to  
the latest film slate is reliant on our 
relationship with the film distributors, 
the Cineworld Group strategy is to 
show a wide range of films over and 
above the traditional Hollywood 
blockbusters. This allows us to reduce 
the exposure to reduced attendance 
by meeting specific local area demand 
for type and content of films shown. 
The operating flexibility of having 
digital projection technology available 
in all our cinemas has enhanced the 
capacity utilisation of the Group, as 
digital film content can be easily 
moved to and from auditoriums to 
maximise admissions.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
In part due to significant global sporting 
events, there were fewer blockbusters 
released in 2016 compared to 2015. 
However, the level of admissions 
demonstrated there remains an 
undiminished appetite for cinema 
attendance, especially for family titles in 
the ROW territories. In addition, locally 
produced movies continue to be popular, 
with the top three films in Poland for 
2016 all being produced locally. (For 
further information see Market Overview 
on page 8 and 9). There is a strong film 
release programme for 2017 and, 
therefore, we expect these to drive 
continued growth in admissions. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
24
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
3
Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate
Owner: CEO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 2 / 3 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
Growth in the estate is dependent  
on the development of new sites or 
the acquisition of existing cinemas. 
Planning laws, the economic 
environment, availability of capital for 
developers and location choice are 
some of the factors that may impact 
the Group’s development and growth 
plans. 
Controls and Mitigation Activity
The Group devotes a considerable 
amount of time to assessing new site 
opportunities and this, along with 
further acquisitions, is a key part of 
our future growth strategy. We also 
maintain good relationships with 
potential key development partners. 
This allows us to be aware of  
the availability of space in new 
developments and to ensure factors 
such as local planning laws and 
demographic changes are understood 
and monitored. Board approval is 
obtained for all new sites and 
significant refurbishments.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The Group grew the state as a further 
eight new cinemas (four in the UK and 
four in ROW) opened during the year.  
A further 441 screens are scheduled to 
open across the next four years, with 132 
scheduled to open in 2017. (For further 
details see CEO’s statement on pages 6 
and 7).
4
Viewer Experience and Competition
Owner: COO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 3 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
Although cinema admissions are 
predominantly driven by the quality 
and availability of films, ensuring that 
the Group continually enhances the 
viewer experience is crucial. Any 
decrease in the quality of the services 
we offer, from the ease of booking,  
the technology we use, to a friendly 
farewell on departure, could result  
in loss of customers to competitors 
and/or other leisure/entertainment 
attractions. Furthermore, the 
development of existing and new 
technology (such as 3D television  
and internet streaming) has also 
introduced competitive forces as they 
offer alternative ways to view films.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
Our strategy is focused on continually 
improving the quality of services we 
offer to customers. This includes 
increasing the efficiency of online 
booking, removing clutter from the 
foyers, investing in technical 
innovation and premium offerings 
(4DX and other large screen formats), 
upgrading seating options (further 
roll-out of the VIP offering) and 
improving retail offers. Customer 
interaction with the Group outside of 
the cinema environment is also 
important. We have enhanced 
subscription and membership 
programmes to offer added value 
through offers and information.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend 
As many as six different formats 
(regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, 
Superscreen and VIP auditoriums) are 
available, to give our customers the 
widest viewing choice.
We reinforced our market-leading 
position in technology by introducing 
4DX into a further 13 sites and IMAX into 
a further five sites (for further details see 
CEO’s statement on pages 6 and 7). STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 25
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
5
Revenue from Retail/Concession Offerings
Owner: CCO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 5
Description and Impact
Retail/concession sales generally 
fluctuate in line with admissions and 
the type of film on show. Therefore, if 
admissions were to fall, revenue from 
retail sales could decrease. Retail 
spend may also decrease due to 
changes in customer preferences, 
decreased disposable income or other 
economic and cultural factors. In 
addition, the price of items such as 
energy and foodstuffs has a direct 
impact on costs. The ability of the 
Group to understand and react quickly 
to the changing customer need is a 
key part to maintaining and increasing 
revenue.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
A key strategy for the Group is to 
maintain a strong relationship with the 
principal retail suppliers. We run 
targeted promotions, as well as bring 
in different ranges of products to meet 
changing customer demand. The 
introduction of franchising models for 
some of the key suppliers has also 
been an important way of enhancing 
the range of offerings.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The retail spend per customer increased 
with a 5.1% rise in 2016. The retail 
offering continued to expand and 
diversify with a further seven Starbucks 
outlets opened during the year, taking 
the total circuit to 24 at 31 December 
2016, with a number of further openings 
scheduled for 2017. The second UK VIP 
site was opened in the UK (Glasgow 
Renfrew Street) and there are plans to 
open additional sites where there is the 
appropriate market opportunity (for 
further details see CEO’s statement on 
pages 6 and 7 and Financial Review on 
pages 28 to 32).
6
Cinema Operations
Owner: COO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 5
Description and Impact
Operating cinemas well is pivotal to 
the overall success of the Group. Key 
to this is to ensure that management 
understand the local market (film 
scheduling, pricing and retail offerings), 
effectively manage their employees, 
maintain service standards, and are 
able to react to incidents should they 
occur. A reduction in performance in 
any area can have a direct effect on the 
overall viewer experience, reputation of 
the cinemas and ultimately the Group’s 
financial performance.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
Cinema management continually 
monitor their staffing requirements, 
making adjustments to scheduling 
based on customer demand, forecasts 
and film scheduling. On a monthly 
basis, detailed operational and 
financial reviews are undertaken by 
cinema management teams to ensure 
performance matches expected 
targets.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
There is continual improvement in the 
operational and financial performance  
of the Cinemas in the Group driven by  
a combination of ongoing process 
evolution and underpinned by continual 
investment in learning and development 
programmes (please see Resources and 
Relationships on pages 18 to 21). A key 
focus in the later part of 2016 was,  
and continues to be, the alignment of 
operational processes and procedures  
of the five cinemas acquired from Empire 
with those of Cineworld. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
26
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
7
Regulatory Breach
Owner: Deputy CEO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 2 / 3 / 5
Description and Impact
The Group’s business and operations 
are affected by regulations covering 
such matters as planning, the 
environment, health and safety 
(cinemas and construction sites), 
licensing, food and drink retailing, data 
protection and the minimum wage. 
Failure to ensure ongoing compliance 
with regulation/legislation could result 
in fines and/or suspension of activity.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
Management operates an ongoing 
cinema compliance programme, 
supplemented by independent 
compliance assurance reviews by 
external advisers where appropriate. 
Group support functions use a 
combination of ongoing staff 
development as well as updates from 
professional advisers to ensure 
management are aware of the latest 
regulations in key areas.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The results of our cinema compliance 
programmes, health and safety 
assessments, and wider assurance 
activity continue to indicate no 
significant increase in risk exposure, 
with standards of compliance 
in all areas remaining high (for 
further details see Resources and 
Relationships on pages 18 to 21).
8
Strategy and Performance
Owner: Deputy CEO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
Delivery of our long-term objectives 
requires the effective setting, 
communicating, monitoring and 
executing of a clear strategy.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
A structure is in place to support 
effective strategy development, as 
well as ongoing reporting and 
monitoring of business performance 
on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly 
and annual basis. Monitoring Senior 
Management performance against 
their agreed personal objectives is an 
ongoing exercise. 
There are various communication 
strategies (e-mails, meetings and 
conferences) used to ensure the 
strategic goals of the Group are clearly 
understood and executed by Senior 
Management.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
The 2016 annual management 
conference provided the platform 
to reconfirm the Group’s strategy 
with Senior Management and ensure 
a clear understanding of execution 
requirements. There have been changes 
at a Senior Executive level with Nisan 
Cohen (CFO), Renana Teperberg (CCO) 
and Matt Eyre (COO) all now holding 
Group-wide roles and joining the CEO 
and Deputy CEO for an expanded 
Executive Management Team. They are 
supported by Senior Vice Presidents 
who lead on specific functional areas 
and support them in monitoring 
current business performance and 
looking at future strategic direction. 
9
Retention and Attraction of Senior  
Management and Key Employees
Owner: Deputy CEO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
The Group’s performance and its 
ability to mitigate significant risks 
within its control depends on its 
employees and senior management 
teams. Therefore, reliance is placed on 
the Group’s ability to recruit, develop 
and retain Senior Management and 
other key employees. If the Group 
loses key people this could have an 
impact on its ability to deliver business 
objectives.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
To ensure the long-term success of the 
Group, it uses a variety of techniques 
to attract, retain and motivate its staff, 
with particular attention to those in 
key roles. These techniques include 
the regular review of remuneration 
packages, share incentive schemes, 
training, regular communication with 
staff and an annual performance 
review process. As an overall approach 
internal promotion is preferred where 
possible. 
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
Nurturing talent across the Group 
is a key part of our strategy and, in 
support of that, internal succession 
plays a key part with more than 50% of 
cinema management positions filled by 
internal applicants. This success rate is 
underpinned by regularly-held talent 
development reviews which directly 
link to the learning and development 
programmes (please see Resources 
and Relationships on pages 18 to 21). STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 27
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
10
Governance and Internal Control
Owner: CFO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 2 / 3 / 4 / 5
Description and Impact
Maintaining corporate governance 
standards and an effective and 
efficient risk management and internal 
control system proportionate to the 
needs of the Group is a key part of 
short and long-term success. Any 
failure and/or weakness in this area 
(financial and non-financial) could 
have an impact on the efficient and 
effective operations of the Group.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
The Group uses various mechanisms 
to support the implementation and 
effectiveness of controls. These 
include: 
• Implementation of the Group Risk 
Management Framework;
• Ongoing self-assessment process 
for monitoring cinema compliance 
and financial control standards;
• Work of Internal Auditors;
• Regular consultation and advice 
from external advisers;
• A risk based cinema compliance 
and financial control audit 
programme;
• The delivery of targeted risk based 
internal audit reviews; and
• The use of technology for live 
forensic monitoring.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
Continued evolution of the Group’s 
risk management programme, and the 
delivery of supporting assurance activity, 
is providing ongoing improvements to 
the overall system of internal control 
(please see Corporate Governance 
report pages 46 to 47). The creation 
of a new role within the Group of 
Head of Risk and Assurance in August 
2016 is a further step by the Group to 
ensure ongoing compliance with its 
governance standards, risk management 
assessment and internal controls. 
11
Terrorism and Civil Unrest
Owner: CEO
Risk Trend 
Strategic Relevance: 1 / 5
Description and Impact
Cinema businesses could be affected 
by civil unrest or terrorist acts/threats, 
resulting in the public avoiding going 
to the cinemas. This could be due to 
incidents in the locations in which the 
Group operates that increase general 
unease. The Group may be subject to 
an increased risk of boycott, targeted 
civil unrest or terrorist action/threat as 
a result of operating in and being 
linked to certain countries or types of 
film. This could adversely impact the 
financial performance of the Group.
Controls and Mitigation Activity
We receive communications from 
relevant government authorities and 
law enforcement agencies which keep 
us informed and allow us, when 
needed, to monitor any potential 
impact external events could have on 
the security of our cinema estate. 
Business continuity and disaster 
recovery plans are in place to ensure 
that management can react 
appropriately should an incident occur 
at a Group site. Appropriate insurance 
is in place to mitigate the financial 
consequences.
Commentary and Rationale for Trend
Incidents of terrorism across the globe 
means the Group continues to focus on 
this as part of its ongoing cinema 
operations.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
28
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Performance Overview
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016
YEAR ENDED 
31 DECEMBER 
2015
UK & 
IRELAND
REST OF THE 
WORLD
TOTAL 
GROUP TOTAL GROUP
STATUTORY 
MOVEMENT
CONSTANT 
CURRENCY 
MOVEMENT
Admissions 51.8m 48.5m 100.3m 93.6m 7.2% 7.2%
 £M £M £M £M
Box office 324.0 176.9 500.9 451.6 10.9% 7.0%
Retail 117.5 73.3 190.8 162.7 17.3% 12.6%
Other income 52.5 53.6 106.1 91.5 16.0% 9.8%
Total revenue 494.0 303.8 797.8 705.8 13.0% 8.7%
Financial Review
Cineworld Group plc results are presented for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 and reflect the trading and 
financial position of the UK and Ireland and the Rest of the 
World (‘ROW’) operating segments (the ‘Group’). The five 
Empire cinemas acquired from Cinema Holdings Limited 
became part of the Group on 11 August 2016 and their 
results since acquisition have been included within the UK 
and Ireland segment. 
Unless explicitly referenced, all percentage movements 
which are given reflect performance on a constant 
currency basis to allow a year-on-year assessment of 
the performance of the business without the impact 
of fluctuations in exchange rates over time. Constant 
currency movements have been calculated by applying 
the 2016 average exchange rates to 2015 performance.
Total revenue for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 
£797.8m, an increase of 13.0% on a statutory basis, and 8.7% 
on a constant currency basis. Overall admissions increased 
by 7.2%, whilst average ticket pricing remained broadly flat 
on a constant currency basis at £4.99, giving an overall 
increase in total box office revenues of 7.0%. Spend per 
person increased by 5.1% to £1.90 resulting in retail revenue 
growth of 12.6%. Other revenues increased by 9.8%.
The principal income for the Group is box office revenue. 
Box office revenue is a function of the number of 
admissions and the ticket price per admission, less VAT. 
In addition, the Group operates membership schemes 
which provide customers with access to screening in 
exchange for subscriptions fees, and this revenue is also 
reported as part of box office. Admissions (one of our key 
performance indicators), depend on the number, timing and 
popularity of the films we are able to show in our cinemas.
Admissions are also a key driver for the two other main 
revenues for the Group. These are retail revenue, the sale 
of food and drink for consumption within our cinemas 
and screen advertising income, from advertisements 
shown on our screens prior to feature presentations.
UK and Ireland
YEAR ENDED 
31 DECEMBER 
2016
YEAR ENDED 
31 DECEMBER 
2015
STATUTORY 
MOVEMENT
CONSTANT 
CURRENCY 
MOVEMENT
Admissions 51.8m 50.9m 1.8% 1.8%
£M £M
Box office 324.0 311.9 3.9% 3.9%
Retail 117.5 107.2 9.6% 9.6%
Other income 52.5 46.8 12.2% 12.2%
Total revenue 494.0 465.9 6.0% 6.0%
The results for the UK and Ireland include the two cinema 
chain brands in the UK, Cineworld and Picturehouse, and for 
the first time also include the five Empire cinemas acquired 
on 11 August 2016.
Box Office
Box office revenue represented 65.6% (2015: 66.9%) of total 
revenues for the UK and Ireland. Admissions in the year 
increased by 1.8% and combined with an increase in the 
average ticket price of 2.1% this resulted in revenue growth 
of 3.9%. This is a pleasing result as admissions in the UK and 
Ireland cinema industry as a whole were down 2.1% during 
the same period (Source: UK Cinema Association). 
The overall box office performance was underpinned  
by a solid film slate in 2016, despite 2015 being a strong 
comparative. In 2016, in the UK overall, the top three films 
grossed £149.4m (“Star Wars: Rogue One” - £50.7m, 
“Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them” - £50.6m and 
“Bridget Jones’s Baby” - £48.1m) compared to the top three 
films in 2015 which grossed £245.4m (“Spectre” – £93.8m, 
“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” – £87.3m and “Jurassic 
World” – £64.3m). 
The average ticket price achieved in the UK and Ireland 
grew by 2.0% to £6.25 (2015: £6.13). The increase in average 
ticket price was in part due to price rises during the period, 
but is mainly reflective of the continued expansion and 
popularity of premium offerings. The most popular IMAX 
and 4DX films during the year were “Star Wars: Rogue One”, 
“Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them” and “Star Wars: 
The Force Awakens”.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 29
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Retail
Food and drink sales are the second most important source 
of revenue and represented 23.8% (2015: 23.1%) of total 
revenues for the UK and Ireland. Total retail revenues in  
the UK and Ireland were £117.5m (2015: £107.2m) increasing 
by 9.6%.
Net retail spend per admission increased by 7.6% in the year 
to £2.27 (2015: £2.11). This was partly due to the film mix, but 
predominantly reflects the expansion of our cinemas’ retail 
offerings, strong promotions, growth in the Unlimited 
customer base and operational improvements. In addition,  
a further seven Starbucks outlets were opened during the 
year taking the total to 24 at 31 December 2016, with a 
number of further openings scheduled for 2017. The second 
VIP site offering food, drink and snacks as part of the entry 
price was opened in Glasgow Renfrew Street and there are 
plans to open additional sites where there is the appropriate 
market opportunity. 
Other Income
Other Income includes all revenue streams other than box 
office and retail and represents 10.6% (2015: 10.0%) of total 
revenue. It increased to £52.5m (2015: £46.8m) and grew  
by 12.2%.
The largest single element of Other Income is screen 
advertising revenue. Screen advertising revenue is earned 
through our shareholding in Digital Cinema Media Limited 
(“DCM”), our joint venture screen advertising business. 
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising time on cinema 
screens on behalf of the UK cinema industry. It also engages 
in related promotional work between advertisers and 
cinemas. Screen advertising revenue varies depending on 
the type of films screened, the number of minutes and value 
of advertising sold, the number of attendees who view the 
film and the placement of advertisements in relation to the 
start of the film. As a result of the nature of the film slate 
and the admissions levels in 2016 the advertising revenues 
were broadly in line with 2015. Also included within Other 
Income is the online booking fee. The trend towards 
booking online continues which is supported by our 
investment in online and mobile booking facilities. Revenue 
from event hire has also continued to increase during 
the year. 
Rest of the World (“ROW”)
YEAR ENDED 
31 DECEMBER 
2016
YEAR ENDED 
31 DECEMBER 
2015
STATUTORY 
MOVEMENT
CONSTANT 
CURRENCY 
MOVEMENT
Admissions 48.5m 42.7m 13.6% 13.6%
£M £M 
Box office 176.9 139.7 26.6% 13.2%
Retail 73.3 55.5 32.1% 17.9%
Other Income 53.6 44.7 19.9% 7.6%
Total revenue 303.8 239.9 26.6% 13.3%
The results for the ROW include the cinema chain brands - 
Cinema City in the Central and Eastern Europe territories 
and Yes Planet and Rav-Chen in Israel. The information 
is presented on a constant currency basis to provide 
information on a comparable basis unless otherwise stated.
Box Office
Box office revenue represented 58.2% (2015: 58.2%) of total 
revenues for the ROW. Admissions in the year increased by 
13.6%, while average ticket prices remained broadly flat on 
a constant currency basis at £3.65, resulting in an overall 
increase in box office revenues of 13.2%. Double digit 
admissions growth was seen in four of the ROW territories, 
Romania, Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary. These levels 
of growth are partly due to improvements in the local 
economies but largely due to significant expansion, with 33 
new screens opened during the year in Romania, in addition 
to the 44 screens opened there in 2015 and the 15 screens 
opened in Poland in 2015. Growth was achieved in all 
other territories apart from in Bulgaria where there was a 
marginal decrease. 
The average ticket price was impacted primarily by the 
nature of the film slate in 2016, which included a number of 
family movies. In the ROW, family films with generally lower 
ticket prices, account for a higher proportion of total 
admissions and, with the strong family film slate in 2016 this 
had an impact on the overall average ticket price achieved 
and offset increases from the continued expansion of 
premium offerings where a further seven 4DX screens 
and two IMAX screens were opened. In addition, locally 
produced movies continued to be popular particularly in 
Poland and Czech Republic, with the top three movies in 
Poland for the year all being produced locally. 
Retail
Food and drink sales are the second most important 
source of revenue and represent 24.1% (2015: 23.1%) of 
total revenues for the ROW. Total retail revenues were 
£73.3m (2015: £55.5m) increasing by 17.9%.
Retail spend per admission increased by 3.9% to £1.51 (2015: 
£1.30) during the year with the greatest increases achieved 
in Romania and the Czech Republic, which saw increases of 
11.1% and 7.2% respectively. The increase was predominantly 
driven by the film mix but also the expansion of offerings, 
with two new VIP sites, one in Beer Sheva (Israel) and 
Bucharest Titan (Romania), as well as ongoing operational 
improvements. 
Other income
Other income includes distribution, advertising and other 
revenues and represents 17.7% (2015: 18.7%) of the total 
revenues. Forum Film is the Group’s film distribution 
business for ROW. Forum Film operates across the ROW 
region and distributes films on behalf of major Hollywood 
studios as well as owning the distribution rights to certain 
independent movies. New Age Media is the Group’s 
advertising and sponsorship arm for the ROW. The main 
driver for the overall increase in other income was the 
advertising revenue which performed very strongly in 2016, 
predominantly as a result of the increase in admissions. The 
distribution revenues decreased year-on-year largely due to 
the strong comparative in 2015, when Forum Film had  
the distribution rights for three blockbusters, “Spectre”, 
“Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2” and “Star Wars: The 
Force Awakens”.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
30
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Financial Performance
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016
YEAR ENDED  
31 DECEMBER 
2015
UK & IRELAND ROW TOTAL GROUP TOTAL GROUP
Admissions 51.8m 48.5m 100.3m 93.6m
£M £M £M £M
Box office 324.0 176.9 500.9 451.6
Retail 117.5 73.3 190.8 162.7
Other Income 52.5 53.6 106.1 91.5
Total revenue 494.0 303.8 797.8 705.8
EBITDA
(1)
97.1 78.7 175.8 155.3
Operating profit 60.2 52.6 112.8 103.1
Financial income 2.4 0.6 3.0 8.7
Financial expense (15.8) (1.8) (17.6) (12.1)
Net financing costs (13.4) (1.2) (14.6) (3.4)
Share from joint venture – – – –
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 46.8 51.4 98.2 99.7
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (10.1) (6.1) (16.2) (18.4)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group 36.7 45.3 82.0 81.3
The following commentary focuses on Group profitability, 
cash flow and the Balance Sheet except where stated.
EBITDA and Operating Profit
Overall, the Group’s EBITDA increased by 13.2% to £175.8m 
(2015: £155.3m). EBITDA margin remained consistent with 
the prior year at 22.0%.
EBITDA generated by the UK and Ireland increased by 1.5% 
during the year to £97.1m (2015: £95.7m). The EBITDA 
margin of 19.7% represented a 0.8 percentage point decline 
from 2015, largely as a result of the cessation of VPF income 
during the year and the slight decrease in admissions on a 
like-for-like basis, which is consistent with the overall UK 
market. EBITDA generated by the ROW increased by 32.0% 
to £78.7m (2015: £59.6m). The EBITDA margin of 25.9% 
represented a 1.1 percentage point improvement from 2015, 
predominantly driven from the increase in admissions, 
increase in spend per person as well as a savings across a 
number of direct cost lines.
As the Group operates in nine territories, it is exposed to 
exchange rate fluctuations. Wherever possible, cash income 
and expenditure are settled in local currency to mitigate 
exchange losses. However, there are translation exchange 
differences arising when presenting the year-on-year 
performance of the ROW in the reporting currency of 
the Group. 
During 2016, the EU referendum in the UK had a significant 
impact on the value of the British pound, causing it to 
depreciate against other foreign currencies. Whilst this had 
a positive benefit to the Group when translating the results 
of the overseas operations it had a negative impact on 
translation of the Euro Term loan at 31 December 2016. 
During the year EBITDA of £175.8m was £8.1m higher than  
it would have been had it been translated by applying the 
exchange rates at the start of the year, and £8.2m higher 
based on the average rate for the comparable 2015 period. 
Operating profit of £112.8m was 9.4% higher than the prior 
year (2015: £103.1m). Operating profit included a number of 
non-recurring and non-trade related items that have a net 
negative impact of £4.4m (2015: £2.8m). These primarily 
related to:
• The one-off cost related to the MGM defined benefit 
pension scheme buy-out of £4.8m (2015: nil);
• Transaction and reorganisation net costs of £1.5m (2015: 
£1.9m), £0.8m of costs related to the integration and 
relocation of head office functions and redundancy 
costs, £0.5m of costs incurred on the acquisition of five 
Empire cinemas, £1.0m incurred on the early termination 
of contracts and a credit of £0.8m for VAT recovered on 
previously incurred transactions;
• A net credit of £1.5m (2015: £1.7m) of which £1.7m 
primarily was the release of specific onerous lease 
provisions due to improvements in future trading 
assumptions, a further release of £1.0m due to the 
closure of a site with an onerous lease provision in place, 
a gain on property provisions of £0.1m and the write-off 
of £1.3m lease-related assets no longer considered 
recoverable, 
• A net credit in relation to impairments of £0.4m (2015: 
cost of £9.0m) - £1.7m related to the write-back of capital 
expenditure for sites previously impaired which are now 
performing and £1.3m related to the write off of capital 
expenditure for sites which were not performing 
satisfactorily, and
• There are no one off gains or losses from disposals 
during the year (2015: £6.4m).
The total depreciation and amortisation charge (included 
in administrative expenses) in the year totalled £58.6m 
(2015: £49.4m). Of this, £28.9m related to depreciation 
and amortisation in the UK and Ireland (2015: £25.6m) 
and £29.7m related to depreciation and amortisation 
in the ROW (2015: £23.8m). The increase year-on-year 
is predominantly due to the additional number of sites 
in the Group.
Financial Review continued
(1) The Group defines EBITDA as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss as Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous 
leases and other non-recurring charges, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction and reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets and the 
settlement of the defined benefit pension liability. EBITDA is considered an accurate and consistent measure of the Groups trading performance, and items 
adjusted to arrive at EBITDA are considered to be outside the Groups ongoing trading activities. STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 31
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Finance Costs
The Group entered into a five-year facility in January 2014 
which was used to part-finance the combination with 
Cinema City, repay the pre-combination facilities of both 
Cineworld and Cinema City and fund the general working 
capital requirements of the Group. The facility included 
term loans of £165.0m and €132.0m and revolving credit 
facilities of £75.0m and €60.0m. 
On 29 July 2015 the Group signed an amendment and 
extension to its existing banking facility which was effective 
immediately upon signing and extends the facility to June 
2020. As a result, the term loans were reduced from 
£157.5m and €126.0m to £130.0m and €63.0m. In August 
2016 the Group extended the single currency revolving 
credit facility of £190.0m to £215.0m to partly fund the 
empire acquisition. 
The facility remains subject to the existing two covenants: 
the ratio of EBITDA (as defined in Note 1) to net debt and 
the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance 
charges. A margin, determined by the results of the 
covenant tests at a given date is added to LIBOR or 
EURIBOR. The margins currently applicable to Group are 
1.40% on the term loans and 1.15% on the revolving credit 
facility.
The Group has hedging arrangements in place to mitigate 
the potential risk of a material impact arising from interest 
rate fluctuations. At 31 December 2016, the Group had 
seven (2015: six) interest rate swaps, four GBP denominated 
swaps which hedged 82% (2015: 59%) of the Group’s 
variable rate GBP unsecured term loan and, three Euro 
denominated swaps hedging 100% (2015:100%) of the Euro 
denominated unsecured loan. 
Net financing costs totalled £14.6m during the year (2015: 
£3.4m) which is a net increase of £11.2m. The main reason 
for the increase is the net movement of exchange rates 
during the year which gave rise to a loss on the translation 
of the Euro Term loan at the Balance Sheet date of £6.1m 
(2015:foreign exchange gain of £7.7m). 
Finance income of £3.0m (2015: £8.7m) included a gain of 
£1.9m (2015: £nil) primarily from hedging arrangements 
which have ceased during the year, £0.7m (2015: £0.3m) 
related to interest income and £0.4m (2015: £0.4m) related 
to finance income on assets held by defined benefit pension 
schemes.
Finance expense of £17.6m (2015: £12.1m) included £7.8m in 
respect of interest on bank loans and overdrafts (2015: 
£9.3m), with the decrease being the result of the reduction 
of the term loans and £6.7m primarily due to foreign 
currency losses on the Euro Term loan (2015:gain £8.0m). 
Other net finance costs of £3.1m (2015: £2.8m) included 
amortisation of prepaid finance costs of £1.4m (2015: £1.3m) 
and £1.7m (2015: £1.2m) in respect of the unwind of discount 
and interest charges on property-related leases. 
Taxation 
The overall tax charge during the year was £16.2m giving an 
overall effective tax rate of 16.5% (2015:18.5%).The reduction 
from the prior year largely results from the Group’s 
geographical mix of profits. The corporation tax charge in 
respect of the current year was £12.4m (2015: £11.2m) and 
the deferred tax charge was £3.8m (2015: £7.2m), resulting 
in a current year effective tax rate of 18.1% (2015: 18.5%). The 
deferred tax charge principally related to temporary 
differences on the movements of fixed assets. In the 
medium-term future we expect our effective tax rate to 
remain at a similar level. 
The Group takes a responsible attitude to tax, recognising 
that it affects all of our stakeholders. The Group seeks at  
all times to comply with the law in each of the jurisdictions 
in which we operate, and to build open and transparent 
relationships with those jurisdictions’ tax authorities. The 
Group’s tax strategy is aligned with commercial activities of 
the business, and within our overall governance structure 
the governance of tax and tax risk is given a high priority by 
the Board.
Earnings
Profit on ordinary activities after tax for the year was 
£82.0m, (2015: £81.3m). The profit after tax has remained 
broadly flat as a result of the one off items in the year; the 
loss incurred on the Euro Term loan of £6.1m compared to a 
gain of £7.7m in 2015, the one-off cost of £4.8m relating to 
the buy-out of the MGM defined benefit pension scheme 
and no significant one-off gains in the year, such as the 
Cineworld Cambridge disposal in the prior year for £6.4m. 
Basic earnings per share amounted to 30.8p (2015: 30.7p). 
Eliminating the one-off, non-trade related items described 
above (totalling £4.4m within operating profit), amortisation 
of intangibles of £4.6m, exceptional finance credits of £1.9m 
and net foreign exchange losses of £6.1m, adjusted diluted 
earnings per share were 34.7p (2015: 29.7p).
Acquisition of Empire cinemas
On 28 July 2016 the Group announced the acquisition 
of five cinemas from Cinema Holdings Limited by means 
of an acquisition of 100% of the shares. The acquisition 
was completed on 11 August 2016, at which point the 
consideration equated to £94.5m which would be settled 
equally in cash, and in Cineworld Group plc ordinary shares 
in addition to the transfer of the trade and assets of the 
Group’s Haymarket cinema to Cinema Holdings Limited. 
The shares will be issued in five instalments during a 12 
month period, based on an issue price reflecting 20 days’ 
average trading price prior to the date of each issuance. 
The first issue of shares took place on 18 November 2016. 
The fair value of net assets acquired with the five Empire 
cinemas totalled £33.9m. We have attributed the fair value 
to the acquired assets and liabilities and as a result the 
acquired net assets were increased by £2.4m. The residual 
goodwill of £60.6m represents a number of factors 
including the strategic location of the sites acquired, the 
established benefit of the sites being established sites, the 
value the acquired sites can add to Cineworld’s existing 
brand and products as well as synergies expected to be 
realised post-acquisition.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
32
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Balance Sheet
Overall, net assets have increased by £128.7m, to £663.4m 
since 31 December 2015. This is due to the acquisition of the 
five Empire cinemas, £57.5m, movements in non-current 
assets of £99.5m, which predominantly relates to the 
foreign currency gains on translation of £86.3m and the 
opening of new sites, refurbishments completed during the 
year and movements in other net liabilities of £29.3m.
MGM Pension Scheme Buy-out 
On 15 December 2016 the MGM defined benefit 
pension scheme was bought out by Aviva Annuity UK 
Limited, with all risks in relation to the scheme passing 
to Aviva Annuity UK Limited as of the buy-out date. 
This transition was treated as a settlement occurring 
on 15 December 2016 (the inception date). Following 
this transaction, all members of the Scheme have had 
their benefits secured with Aviva Annuity UK Limited. 
The past service liabilities at 31 December 2016 are 
therefore shown as nil (2015: net asset of £10.5m).
Cash Flow and Net Debt
The Group continued to be cash generative at the operating 
level. Total net cash generated from operations in the year 
was £150.1m (2015: £165.9m). Net cash spent on investing 
activities during the year was £130.3m (2015: £80.3m), 
£47.0m for the acquisition of the five Empire cinemas, 
£83.7m on the development of new sites, refurbishments 
and technology and £0.7m related to interest received. 
Net debt increased by £37.1m to £282.3m at 31 December 
2016 (2015: £245.2m). The main movements were due to the 
net drawdown on the revolving credit facility of £28.0m 
during the year, offset by repayments during the year on 
the term loans (net of foreign exchange movements) of 
£6.4m, an additional finance lease liability of £8.2m and fair 
value gains in respect of financial instruments of £0.5m. Net 
debt at the year-end represented 1.6 times the rolling 
12 month EBITDA figure for the Group. 
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for 
approval a final dividend in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2016 of 13.8p per share, which taken together 
with the interim dividend of 5.2p per share paid in 
September 2016 equates to a total dividend in respect of 
2016 of 19.0p per share (2015: 17.5p per share). The record 
date for the dividend is 26 May 2017 and the payment date 
is 22 June 2017. 
Post Balance Sheet Events
On 7 February 2017 the Group disposed of it 100% interest 
in Picturehouse Entertainment Limited for £2.3m. No 
significant impact is expected on the Group’s Statement 
of Profit or Loss or Statement of Financial Position. 
By order of the Board
Nisan Cohen
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2017
Financial Review continued
The Strategic Report is set out on Pages 1 to 32.
By order of the Board
Moshe Greidinger Israel Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2017 GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 33
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Biographies
As at 31 December 2016
Anthony Bloom 
Chairman
Age 77 
Date appointed as Chairman: 
October 2004
Tenure on Board:
12 years 2 months
Independent: 
No
Committee memberships: 
No formal memberships, but has 
attended all meetings by invitation
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive Board-level and Chairman 
experience in a range of companies, 
sectors and jurisdictions
• Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor 
of Law, University of Witwatersrand, 
South Africa (cum laude)
• Master of Law, Harvard Law School
• Sloan Fellow, Graduate School of 
Business, Stanford University
• Doctor of Law (H.C.), University 
of Witwatersrand, awarded in 
recognition of his contribution 
towards establishment of a non-racial 
society in South Africa
Previous Directorships
• Chairman and Chief Executive of The 
Premier Group Limited (South Africa)
• Director of Barclays Bank (South 
Africa)
• Director of South African Breweries
• Director of Liberty Holdings (South 
Africa)
• Director of RIT Capital Partners PLC
• Deputy Chairman of Sketchley PLC
Principal external appointments:
• Non-Executive Director of London 
Symphony Orchestra
• Non-Executive Director of 
TechnoServe, Inc.
Israel Greidinger
Deputy Chief Executive Officer 
Age 55
Date appointed to Board:
February 2014
Tenure on Board:
2 years 10 months
Independent: 
No
Committee memberships: 
None
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 20 years’ senior executive 
experience in the cinema industry in 
central and eastern Europe, and Israel
• 1994–2014 Cinema City International 
N.V. (“CCI”), appointed Chief 
Financial Officer 1995
• 1985–1992 Managing Director of 
C.A.T.S. Limited (Computerised 
Automatic Ticket Sales)
• 1992 to 1994 President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Pacer C.A.T.S. 
Inc
Principal external appointments:
• Director of Israel Theatres Limited 
since 1994
Israel is the brother of Moshe Greidinger. 
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer
Age 64
Date appointed to Board:
February 2014
Tenure on Board:
2 years 10 months
Independent: 
No
Committee memberships: 
None
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 40 years’ senior executive 
experience in the cinema industry in 
central and eastern Europe, and Israel
• 1994–2014 Cinema City International 
N.V. (“CCI”) 
• Cinema City Group, various executive 
positions since 1984
• “Exhibitor of the Year Award” at 
ShoWest in Las Vegas in 2004
• “International Exhibitor of the Year 
Award” at CineEurope, in Amsterdam 
in 2011, with special recognition for 
having developed new markets in 
central and eastern Europe
• “Global Achievement in Exhibition 
Award” at CinemaCon in Las Vegas 
in 2016
Principal external appointments:
• Director of Israel Theatres Limited 
since 1983
• Co-Chairman of the Cinema Owners 
Association in Israel since August 
1996
• Head of the Board of Trustees of the 
Hebrew Reali School of Haifa
Moshe is the brother of Israel Greidinger. GOVERNANCE  u
34
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Alicja Kornasiewicz
Non-Executive Director
Age 65
Date appointed to Board:
May 2015
Tenure on Board:
1 year 7 months
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships: 
• Audit Committee
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive central and eastern Europe 
financial and political experience
• 2011–2012 Chairwoman of the 
Supervisory Board of Bank Pekao 
S.A.
• 2010–2011 President of the 
Management Board of Bank Pekao 
S.A.
• 2000–2010 Executive management 
roles at UniCredit Bank
• 1997–2000 Secretary of State for the 
Ministry of the State Treasury of the 
Republic of Poland
Principal external appointments:
• Managing Director and Head of 
CEE for Morgan Stanley & Co, 
International PLC since 2012
Scott S. Rosenblum
Non-Executive Director
Age 67
Date appointed to Board:
February 2014
Tenure on Board:
2 years 10 months
Independent: 
No
Committee memberships:
• Nomination Committee
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive experience of management 
of an international law firm, and of 
corporate governance and disclosure 
matters
• Extensive experience and expertise 
in areas of general corporate and 
securities law, corporate finance, 
mergers and acquisitions, and joint 
ventures
• 2004–2014 member of the 
Supervisory Board of Cinema City 
International N.V. (“CCI”), appointed 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board 
of CCI in 2011. Also Chairman of the 
CCI Remuneration Committee and 
the CCI Appointment Committee 
from November 2006 and was a 
member of the CCI Audit Committee
• Licensed as a lawyer and admitted to 
the New York Bar Association
Principal external appointments:
• Partner, Executive Committee 
and Co-Chairman of Corporate 
Department in the law firm of 
Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP, 
New York since 1991, and Managing 
Partner 1994–2000
• Serves, and has served, as a director 
and advisor to the boards of various 
public and private companies
Arni Samuelsson
Non-Executive Director
Age 74
Date appointed to Board:
February 2014
Tenure on Board:
2 years 10 months
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships:
• Nomination Committee
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 40 years of cinema exhibition 
and film distribution experience, 
principally through SAMfélagið 
(Samfilm) – a cinema exhibitor and 
film distributor in Iceland, of which 
he has been joint owner and Chief 
Executive Officer since it was formed 
in 1975
• 1972–1982 Director and owner of 
Vikurbaer, a supermarket business in 
Keflavik
Principal external appointments:
• Chief Executive Officer of Samfilm 
EHF (SAMfélagið’s distribution arm) 
since 1975
• Chief Executive Officer of 
SAMcinema (SAMfélagið’s cinema 
arm) since 1975
Directors’ Biographies continued
As at 31 December 2016 GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 35
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Eric (Rick) Senat
Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director
Age 67
Date appointed to Board:
July 2010
Tenure on Board:
6 years 5 months
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships:
• Nomination Committee (Chairman)
• Remuneration Committee
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Over 40 years’ experience in the  
film industry
• 1976–2001 Warner Bros, becoming 
Senior Vice President for Business 
Affairs in Europe. Closely associated 
with the “Harry Potter” films, 
“Greystoke”, “Batman”, “Superman” 
and many others
• 2001 – 2007 Director of Hammer 
Film Productions
• 1999 – 2003 Deputy Chair of the 
British Film Institute
• Solicitor and Bachelor of Law, 
University College London
Principal external appointments:
• Non-Executive Chairman of the 
London Film Museum since 2009
• Non-Executive Chairman of Mad Dog 
Casting Limited since 2016
Julie Southern
Non-Executive Director
Age 57
Date appointed to Board:
May 2015
Tenure on Board:
1 year 7 months
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships:
• Audit Committee (Chair)
• Remuneration Committee
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Experience as a Chief Financial 
Officer and Chief Commercial 
Officer, driving strategy, revenue and 
commercial planning, and working 
across multiple industry sectors and 
sizes of organisations
• 2010–2013 Chief Commercial Officer 
of Virgin Atlantic Airways
• 2000–2010 Chief Financial Officer of 
Virgin Atlantic Airways
• 1996–2000 Group Financial Director 
of Porsche Cars GB Ltd
• 1988–1995 Finance Director of  
H J Chapman & Co
• Chartered Accountant (ICAEW) and 
graduate of Cambridge University 
(Economics B.S)
Principal external appointments:
• Non-Executive Director and Chair 
of the Audit Committee at Rentokil-
Initial Plc since 2014
• Non-Executive Director and Chair 
of the Audit Committee at DFS 
Furniture Plc since 2015
• Non-Executive Director at NXP 
Semiconductors N.V. since 2013
• Non-Executive Director and Chair 
of Remuneration Committee of 
Stagecoach Group Plc since 2016 GOVERNANCE  u
36
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Directors’ Biographies continued
As at 31 December 2016
Changes since the year-end
Appointment
Dean Moore
Non-Executive Director 
Age 59
Date appointed to Board:
January 2017
Independent: 
Yes
Committee memberships: 
• Remuneration Committee 
(Chairman)
• Audit Committee
Martina King stepped down from 
the Board on 11 January 2017.
Martina King
Non-Executive Director
Age 55
Date appointed to Board:
July 2010
Tenure on Board:
6 years 5 months
Independent: 
Yes
Appointment
Nisan Cohen
Chief Financial Officer
Age 44 
Date appointed to Board:
January 2017
Independent: 
No
Committee memberships: 
None
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Part of the Cineworld Group for 
sixteen years. Previously, as Vice 
President of Finance, he led the 
integration of the finance teams in 
the Group across nine countries after 
the combination of Cineworld with 
Cinema City International N.V. More 
recently he served as Deputy Chief 
Financial Officer 
• Member of The Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants in Israel
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience: 
• Chief Financial Officer of N Brown 
Group plc (2004-2015)
• Chief Financial Officer of T&S  
Stores plc 
• Chief Financial Officer of Graham 
Group plc (1996 to 1999)
•  C h a r t e r e d A cc o u nt a nt
Committee memberships:
• Audit Committee
• Remuneration Committee (Chair)
Relevant skills, qualifications,  
and experience:
• Extensive experience in company 
turnaround, management, marketing, 
online media, and data analytics.
• 2011–2012 Managing Director  
of Aurasma
• 2005–2014 Non-Executive Director 
Capita plc
• 1999–2004 Managing Director  
of Yahoo! UK and Europe
• 1993–1999 Managing Director  
of Capital Radio plc
Principal external appointments:
• CEO of Featurespace since 2012
• Non-Executive Director of 
Debenhams Plc since 2009 GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 37
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Governance Statement
I am pleased to present the Corporate 
Governance Statement for 2016, which 
has been a busy year for the Board 
and its Committees.
Introduction
Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Statement 
for 2016, which has been a busy year for the Board and its 
Committees. 
As ever, the Board remains committed to ensuring that a high 
standard of corporate governance is continuously maintained 
throughout the Group, and that we meet all the standards 
expected of a FTSE 250 company. We believe that good 
governance is the bedrock of the Group’s strategy, and is 
essential to the way the business operates on a daily basis.
During the year, significant initiatives undertaken include 
working on the appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer, 
reviewing the Company’s Remuneration Policy (which is due 
to be voted on at our 2017 AGM), continuing to develop our 
system of risk management and internal control as part of the 
culture of the Group, and undertaking an external audit tender 
process at the beginning of the year. 
We announced the appointment of the new Chief Financial 
Officer, Nisan Cohen, at the beginning of 2017. Nisan has been 
with the Group for over 15 years, latterly as Deputy Chief 
Financial Officer. It has always been important to Cineworld to 
develop internal talent at all levels, and Nisan’s promotion to the 
Board is an endorsement of these principles. The Nomination 
Committee provided substantial support in this process. 
In March 2016, we also announced the promotion of Renana 
Teperberg and Matthew Eyre to the roles of Chief Commercial 
Officer and Chief Operations Officer respectively. Renana 
and Matthew are long-standing members of the executive 
team, and their promotions underline again the Company’s 
commitment to nurturing the internal pipeline of talent, 
and, in the case of Renana, the objective of cultivating and 
expanding opportunities for talented women to progress 
within Cineworld. 
In addition, I am delighted to welcome Dean Moore to the 
Board. Dean was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director in January 2017, following the stepping down of 
Martina King. He also became Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. 
The Board is satisfied that Dean meets the requisite criteria to 
be considered independent, notwithstanding his brief interim 
employment of ten months from March 2016 by Cineworld, 
during which his mandate was to focus on the Chief Financial 
Officer succession planning process. I believe that Dean’s 
extensive experience, both financial and commercial, will be a 
great asset to the Group, and his contribution will strengthen 
the rich combination of skills, culture and independence that 
already exists on our Board.
The Remuneration Committee had a full agenda this year, 
updating the Company’s Remuneration Policy and developing 
a new Long Term Incentive Plan, both of which are due to 
be voted on at this year’s AGM. As part of the process the 
views of the investment community were taken into account 
to ensure that future targets for our Executive Directors 
are stretching and appropriate. Details of the work of the 
Remuneration Committee in this area are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72.
The Audit Committee was also been fully occupied in 2016. 
In the early part of 2016 it oversaw an audit tender process, 
which resulted in the reappointment of KPMG as our External 
Auditor. Full details of the process and its outcome may be 
found on pages 51 to 52. The Committee has continued work 
on its key agenda items of oversight of the External Audit, and 
a robust evaluation of risk management policies. Information 
on these and other areas of focus for the Committee are 
outlined in the Audit Committee Report on pages 51 to 52.
The Board’s evaluation this year was carried out by an 
external facilitator, as required by the Code. The process was 
constructive, and I am pleased to report that the evaluation 
supported the view that the Board and its Committees are 
operating efficiently and productively. 
Lastly, I would like to extend my thanks to Martina King, 
who stepped down from the Board in January 2017. Martina’s 
contribution over her six years on the Board was of significant 
value to the Group, the Board and me, in particular in her role 
as Remuneration Committee Chair.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman GOVERNANCE  u
38
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Directors’ Statements
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies 
listed on the London Stock Exchange for the year covered 
by this statement are contained in the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) published by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council in September 2014, and a copy is available 
on its website www.frc.org.uk. For the year ended 31 
December 2016, the Board considers that the Company was 
compliant with the provisions of the Code.
Going Concern
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for 12 months from the 
date of signing these accounts. Thus they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial 
statements. In adopting the going concern basis for preparing 
the financial statements, the Directors have considered the 
business activities as set out on pages 1 to 32 and the Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 to 27. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities, as well as the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing capital, are described on pages 
28 to 32. Financial risk management objectives, details of 
financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposure 
to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in Note 21 of the 
financial statements.
Viability 
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over 
a three year period, taking into account the Group’s current 
position and the potential impact of the Principal Risks 
and Uncertainties set out on pages 22 to 27. Based on this 
assessment, and having considered the established controls 
for the risks, and the available mitigating actions, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 2019. 
For more information on the viability assessment, please see 
pages 49 to 50 of the Audit Committee Report.
Robust Assessment of Principal Risks
The Directors consider they have undertaken a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency and liquidity. Please refer to pages 
22 to 27 for further information on the Company’s Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties, and their impact on the prospects of 
the Company.
Review of Internal Control and Risk Management
The Directors have carried out a review of internal control and 
risk management. Please refer to pages 45 to 47 for further 
information. 
Fair, Balanced and Understandable
The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy. Please refer to page 49. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 39
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Application of Code Principles
The information below explains how the Company has applied 
the main principles of the Code. The information required to 
be disclosed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule (“DTR”) 
7.2.6 is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 73 to 77 and 
is incorporated into this statement by reference.
A. Leadership
A.1 The Role of the Board
The Board met formally seven times during the year (including 
a strategy day) and held other meetings on an ad hoc basis 
as required. There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for 
the Board, together with delegated authorities throughout the 
Group.
A.2 Division of Responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly 
defined. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the Board and for overseeing the Board’s 
setting of strategy. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible 
for leading the day-to-day management of the Group and the 
implementation of the strategy.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages 
the meeting timetable (in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary) and facilitates open and constructive dialogue 
during the meetings.
A.4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive 
environment in Board meetings and actively invites the Non-
Executive Directors’ views. The Non-Executive Directors 
provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to 
management and meet during the year in the absence of the 
Executive Directors.
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The Composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly 
reviewing the composition of the Board. In making 
appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee 
considers the wide range of skills, knowledge, independence 
and experience required in order to maintain an effective 
Board.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the 
Nomination Committee. Further details of the activities of the 
Nomination Committee can be found on pages 43 and 44.
B.3 Time Commitment 
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time 
commitment expected from them and details are set out in 
their letter of appointment. External directorships of Executive 
Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, are 
discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
B.4 Development 
All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board 
and, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, the 
development needs of each Director are checked.
B.5 Information and Support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, 
ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely 
information.
B.6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation 
The Board and its Committees have this year undertaken 
an external evaluation of their respective performances, in 
accordance with the Code. Details of the evaluation can be 
found on page 42. 
B.7 Re-election of Directors 
All Directors are subject to shareholder election or re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and Business Reporting
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 32 and provides 
information about the performance of the Group, the business 
model, strategy and the principal risks and uncertainties 
relating to the Group’s future prospects.
C.2 Risk Management and Internal Control 
The Board decides the Group’s risk appetite and annually 
reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems. The activities of the Audit Committee, 
which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to 
the management of risk, are summarised on page 49.
C.3 Audit Committee and Auditors 
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the 
Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s financial reporting processes, internal control and risk 
management framework, the work undertaken by the External 
Auditor, and the internal audit work of PwC and the Risk and 
Assurance Team. The Chair of the Audit Committee provides 
regular updates to the Board.
D. Remuneration
D.1 Level and Components of Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration 
appropriately with a view to ensuring the long-term success 
of the Company, and structures remuneration so as to link it to 
both corporate and individual performance, thereby aligning 
management’s interests with those of the shareholders. 
Benchmarking exercises are carried out as appropriate 
by external advisers to ensure remuneration levels are 
appropriate.
D.2 Procedure for Development of Remuneration Policy and 
Setting Remuneration Packages
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the 
approach to setting the remuneration policy and packages 
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 
54 to 72.
E. Relations with Shareholders
E.1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue
The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders. 
The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with 
shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept 
informed of shareholder views.
E.2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting 
The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity to 
meet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the members 
of the Board informally following the formal business of the 
meeting. GOVERNANCE  u
40
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Leadership
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the Company. The Board is responsible for the overall leadership 
of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable 
financial performance to enhance shareholder value. In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial and other 
resources are available to enable the Group’s objectives to be met. The basis on which the Board seeks to preserve value over the 
longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 32.
The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also once for a strategy day. Ad hoc meetings of the Board take place as 
required. The meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board 
also meets, as and when necessary, to discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues. All Directors receive notice of such 
meetings and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and medium-term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial 
performance; approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approval of site selection; succession planning; 
approving appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to Directors’ remuneration 
and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and an overview of Group financial and 
operational information. Regular briefings by the management team are given to the Board, to deepen the collective 
understanding of the business, leading in turn to more effective debate. 
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the 
Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Moshe Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the 
Group’s responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders. He is responsible for organising the 
business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution 
of Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation of the Board and he, when appropriate, discusses matters 
with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. He holds regular meetings with his executive team.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, 
and a Remuneration Committee, to which certain Board functions have been delegated. Each of these Committees has formal 
written terms of reference which clearly define their responsibilities. The terms of reference of each of the Board’s three 
Committees are available on the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/corporate-governance).
Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees
During the financial year, there were no changes to the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. 
Membership was as follows:
Chair Member Member
Audit Committee Julie Southern Martina King Alicja Kornasiewicz
Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson
Remuneration Committee Martina King Rick Senat Julie Southern
All the Committees remained compliant with the Governance Code as regards their membership during the year.
Changes to Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees since the Year End
On 11 January 2017, Martina King stepped down as a Director on the Board, including as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
and as a member of the Audit Committee. Dean Moore, who was appointed to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 11 January 2017, took over as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and also became a member of the  
Audit Committee. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 41
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Attendance at Meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Board 
(including 
strategy day)
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2
 
Attended
 
Attended
 
Attended
 
Attended
Directors for the whole year
Anthony Bloom 7/7
(1)
5/5
(2)
4/4
(2)
2/2
(2)
Israel Greidinger 7/7 N/A N/A N/A
Moshe Greidinger 7/7 N/A N/A N/A
Martina King 7/7 4/5 4/4
(1)
N/A
Alicja Kornasiewicz 7/7 4/5 N/A N/A
Scott Rosenblum 7/7 N/A N/A 2/2
Arni Samuelsson 7/7 N/A N/A 2/2
Rick Senat 7/7 N/A 4/4 2/2
(1)
Julie Southern 7/7 5/5
(1)
4/4 N/A
(1) Chairman of Board/Board Committee.
(2) Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation. GOVERNANCE  u
42
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Effectiveness
Directors and Directors’ Independence
For the duration of the year, the Board was composed of 
nine members, five of whom were considered independent. 
Scott Rosenblum is not viewed as independent because of his 
previous business dealings with the Greidinger family and its 
interests. The names of the Directors at the year-end, together 
with their biographical details, are set out on pages 33 to 36.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-
Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment 
and are made available for inspection by any person at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours, 
and will be available at the AGM. Further details of the letters 
of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the 
service contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72.
For a FTSE 250 company, the Code recommends that a 
majority of non-executive members of the Board of Directors 
should be independent in character and judgement, and 
free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to 
affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement. The Board 
considers that Martina King, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat, 
Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were, for the year, 
Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dean Moore, who was appointed a Non-Executive Director 
on 11 January 2017, following Martina King’s stepping down 
from the Board at the same time, is considered by the Board 
to be independent. The Board is satisfied that Mr Moore 
meets the requisite criteria to be considered independent, 
notwithstanding his previous interim employment within 
the Group, given the nature of the role he performed in the 
ten-month period from March 2016, where his mandate was 
to focus on the Chief Financial Officer succession planning 
process.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective 
viewpoint and range of experience to the Company and 
ensure that no individual or group of individuals is able to 
dominate the Board’s decision-making. They play a key role 
in reviewing proposals and providing constructive challenge 
generally and in particular in respect of strategy. They also 
ensure that appropriate standards are maintained. All the Non-
Executive Directors have access to independent legal advice 
subject to consulting with the Board and following the agreed 
procedure.
Rick Senat, the Senior Independent Director, is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the 
normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to 
resolve or for which contact is inappropriate. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and 
supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate 
governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed 
and facilitating the good information flow within the Board 
and the Board-appointed Committees.
Performance Evaluation
The Board evaluation for 2016 was undertaken by an 
external facilitator, Edis-Bates Associates. As they have no 
other connections with the Company, they were therefore 
considered independent in accordance with the Code. The 
process, which was initiated in July 2016, was constructive and 
confirmed that the Board and its Committees are operating 
effectively. 
Re-election and Election
All the Directors will be retiring and will be offering themselves 
for re-election or election at this year’s AGM, reflecting current 
best practice under the Code. Biographical details of all the 
current Directors are set out on pages 33 to 36. In view of 
the performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each 
Director standing for re-election or election continues to show 
the necessary commitment and continues to be an effective 
member of the Board due to his or her skills, expertise and 
business acumen. 
The Board believes that the re-election of Anthony Bloom as 
Chairman of the Board is in the best interests of shareholders. 
Anthony has a comprehensive understanding of the Company’s 
business and operations and played a key role in the Company’s 
combination with Cinema City in 2014. He also brings to the role 
extensive board-level and chairman experience in a range of 
companies, sectors and jurisdictions.
Chairman’s Commitments
The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, but 
the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere 
with the performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 43
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
It has been another busy period for 
the Nomination Committee in terms of 
succession planning, culminating in the 
announcement of the appointment of 
the new Chief Financial Officer.
Chairman Rick Senat
Committee 
members
Scott Rosenblum, Arni Samuelsson
Number of  
meetings held  
in 2016 2
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary  
to the Committee.
Nomination Committee Report
Chairman’s Introduction
Dear Shareholders 
I am pleased to present our report on the Nomination 
Committee and its activities during the year.
It has been another busy year for the Committee in terms of 
Board succession planning, culminating in the announcement 
in January 2017 of the appointment of Nisan Cohen as the new 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO). 
Working in conjunction with the Chair of the Audit Committee 
and the acting CFO at the time, Israel Greidinger, the 
Committee played a key role in the planning process for this 
nomination. Following a formal recruitment process, and with 
the assistance of executive search firm, Norman Broadbent, 
Dean Moore was recruited to act as interim CFO in March 
2016. At the same time, internal candidate Nisan Cohen was 
promoted to the role of Deputy CFO. 
As reported at the time, it was anticipated that Nisan would 
ultimately be appointed to the CFO position on a full-
time basis, subject to his performance developing to the 
satisfaction of the Board. 
Following a period of ten months, where Dean worked closely 
with Nisan on the development and strengthening of key 
skills and expertise in anticipation of a future promotion to 
the senior role, the Board considered and supported the 
promotion of Nisan to the role of CFO. Further details of the 
Committee’s work in relation to the appointments of Dean 
Moore and Nisan Cohen are set out in the report below on 
page 44. 
In January 2017, we also considered and recommended 
the appointment of Dean Moore as an independent Non-
Executive Director, in place of Martina King, who stepped 
down from the Board at that time. Part of our ongoing work 
as a Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Board 
and its Committees, mindful of the contributing factors to 
effectiveness such as diversity, independence, and the right 
mix of skills and experience. Dean Moore brings with him a 
wealth of financial and commercial experience and skills, which 
the Committee believes will be of tremendous benefit to the 
Board and the Group. 
Last year I was pleased to report that we had attained 
significant female representation on the Board, with a 
proportion of over 30% being female. This was indeed the 
case for 2016, too; however, following Martina King’s departure 
in January 2017, and the appointments of Dean and Nisan, this 
proportion has decreased. This is a reflection of our policy to 
appoint the best candidate for each role, but we are mindful of 
current recommendations, and give due regard to these when 
considering both external appointments and internal talent 
development. 
Rick Senat
Chairman of the Nomination Committee GOVERNANCE  u
44
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Composition 
During the year, the Committee comprised three Non-
Executive Directors (namely Scott Rosenblum, Arni 
Samuelsson and Rick Senat). While Rick Senat and Arni 
Samuelsson are considered to be independent, Scott 
Rosenblum is not. The majority of the Committee are 
independent as required by the Code.
The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging 
its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It 
is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, the size, structure and 
composition of the Board, retirements and appointments 
of additional and replacement Directors, the independence 
of Directors, and it makes appropriate recommendations to 
the Board on such matters. It is also responsible for ensuring 
that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties 
on appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being 
specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are available on the Company’s website 
(www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/corporate-governance).
The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during 
the financial year and for other meetings as required on an 
adhoc basis. Due to the important role that the Directors play 
in the success of the Group, the Chairman is invited to attend 
meetings, and does so, except when his own position or his 
successor is being discussed.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own 
performance, reviewed the structure of the Board and the 
three Committees, and discussed succession and diversity 
issues. 
Board Diversity
While the Committee considers diversity to be important 
when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible 
new appointees, it believes that the single most important 
factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it considers, 
on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular role. It 
is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board 
representation to be achieved by particular dates. As part 
of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that 
candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds should be 
considered and, where reasonably possible, shortlists should 
comprise of candidates of both sexes. During the year, there 
was over thirty percent female representation on the Board. 
However, this percentage has lowered following Martina 
King’s stepping down in January 2017 and the appointments 
of Nisan Cohen and Dean Moore.
Recruitment Process for Board Directors
As part of the CFO succession planning process, the 
Nomination Committee, working in conjunction with the 
Audit Committee Chair, Julie Southern, and acting CFO 
at the time Israel Greidinger, engaged external search 
consultancy Norman Broadbent to assist with the search for 
a candidate to fill the role. Further to a formal selection and 
interview process, during which several candidates were 
short-listed, Dean Moore was appointed as interim CFO in 
March 2016. At the same time, it was announced that internal 
candidate, Nisan Cohen, would become Deputy CFO, and 
would work closely with Dean in preparation for a potential 
promotion to the role of CFO which, subject to the Board 
being satisfied with Nisan’s development, would take place 
in around a year’s time. 
Following a ten-month period, it was announced on 
11 January 2017 that Nisan Cohen had been appointed to 
the position of CFO and that he would join the Board as 
an Executive Director. It was also announced that Dean 
Moore had been appointed to the Board as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director, and would become Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit 
Committee. Given the process undertaken at the time of 
Dean’s appointment as interim CFO, an external search 
consultancy was not engaged in connection with his 
appointment as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Moore meets the requisite 
criteria to be considered independent, notwithstanding his 
previous interim employment within the Group, given the 
nature of the role he performed in the ten-month period 
from March 2016, where his mandate was to focus on the 
CFO succession planning process.
Norman Broadbent, the external search consultancy used 
for the search conducted in 2016, has no connections 
with the Group or any of its Directors, and was chosen 
following a consideration of a number of prospective search 
consultancies.  GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 45
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
First Line Second Line Third Line
Board and Committees
Executive Directors
Operations
External Audit (provided by KPMG)
Regulators
Group  
Support  
Functions
Process and control implementation
and development at cinemas 
Operationalise:
 —   Cinema operating manuals (policies 
and process)
—   Regional/District Manager oversight
— Training and development
—   Regulatory and compliance 
requirements
Group and Territory oversight/
monitoring and strategy/policy
setting   
Support and review:
 —   Operational performance reviews
—  Executive Directors’ oversight  
and challenge
—  Group Board and Committee’s 
oversight and challenge  
—  Financial oversight  and review
—  Risk Management Framework  
design and implementation
—  Assistance in process  
and control development
—  Management self-assessments
—  Customer satisfaction surveys
Independent challenge to the levels of
assurance provided  by management on
the e…ectiveness of governance, risk
management and internal controls   
Challenge and Assure:
 —    Risk-based audits (provided by PwC)
— Cinema compliance audit programme
—  Cinema self–assessments 
—  Annual health and safety audits 
— Insurance inspections 
— Fraud and loss prevention monitoring
— Mystery shopper visits
 – Cineworld
– Picturehouse
– Cinema City  
– Yes Planet
Accountability
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual 
Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a 
fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
financial position and prospects. The detailed work to ensure 
this, and to substantiate the fair, balanced and understandable 
statement, is undertaken by the Audit Committee.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, monitoring 
and maintaining an effective system of risk management and 
internal control. These systems provide reasonable assurance 
that the Group’s assets are safeguarded and that material 
financial errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with 
a minimum of delay. The Group approach has been developed 
using the principles of the Three Lines of Defence model (a 
simple but well-established governance and internal control 
model. Please see diagram below).
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Code:
• there is an ongoing and robust process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the 
Group (for more details please see Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 22 to 27);
• the systems have been in place for the year under review;
• the systems are regularly reviewed by the Executive 
Directors and the Board and are deemed to be effective 
with no significant weaknesses identified; and 
• the systems comply with the FRC guidance on risk 
management, internal control and related financial business 
reporting. 
During the year, the Board has directly, and through delegated 
authority to the executive management team and the Audit 
Committee, overseen and reviewed the performance and 
evolution of the approach to risk management and internal 
control. 
As part of the continued focus on, and investment in, risk 
management and internal control, the Group recruited a Head 
of Risk and Assurance who took up the post in August 2016. 
The key responsibilities are to lead on: 
• Risk Management 
• Internal Audit 
• Fraud Detection and Loss Prevention
• Insurance  GOVERNANCE  u
46
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Risk Management
The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and the 
executive management team, has overall responsibility 
for implementing an effective risk management approach. 
The Group approach is governed by its Risk Management 
Framework that sets out the policy, oversight structure, 
accountability, monitoring and reporting of risk within the Group, 
and facilitates the following objectives for risk management:
• identify, measure, control and report on business risk that 
will undermine the achievement of the Group strategic 
objectives, both strategically and operationally, through 
appropriate analysis and assessment criteria;
• better allocate effort and resources for the management of 
key and emerging risks;
• drive business improvements and improved intelligence for 
key decision-making; and
• support and develop the Company’s reputation as a well 
governed and trusted organisation.
The application of the key components of the Risk 
Management Framework have been: 
Oversight Structure and Accountability – the implementation 
of a risk management oversight and accountability structure 
has ensured that risk consideration is undertaken from both a 
‘top-down’ and ‘bottom-up’ perspective. The Group maintains 
a Group Strategic Risk Register as well as operational risk 
registers for Group support functions and cinema operations. 
Ongoing Process – the approach taken is focused on risk 
identification (using cause and effect analysis), inherent and 
residual risk assessment, key controls identification, and 
the development and implementation of further mitigation 
strategies where required. As part of this process, risk appetite 
is considered for each of the principal risks, allowing the Board 
to clearly set out the nature and extent of the risk the Group is 
willing to accept in pursuit of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Escalation, Monitoring and Reporting – a clear escalation policy 
is in place to ensure changes to risk exposure are notified up 
through the governance structure as required. Risk leads are 
identified for all risks and have the responsibility for ongoing 
monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls and the 
progress against the implementation of further mitigating 
actions. 
There is a cycle of ongoing monitoring and reporting activities 
in place with risk information being presented to the Board, 
Audit Committee, and the executive management team.
Culture – to support embedding the application of the Risk 
Management Framework into the culture and behaviours of 
the Group, ongoing training and communication has been 
delivered by the Risk and Assurance team. Details of the 
Group’s principal risks and how they are being managed or 
mitigated are provided on pages 22 to 27.
Internal Control
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, 
it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the system 
of internal control to the executive management team. The 
detailed review of internal control has been delegated to 
the Audit Committee. Senior Management within each part 
of the Group are responsible for internal control and risk 
management within its own area and for ensuring compliance 
with the Group’s policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee has oversight of the programme of 
assurance activities to allow for its ongoing review of the 
effectiveness of internal control. The delivery of this assurance 
programme in the first half of the year was led and delivered 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) with the support 
of the in-house Internal Audit team and then from August 
was led by the new Head of Risk and Assurance with PwC 
providing specialist support where needed. Details of the 
activities that the Audit Committee has been involved in 
during 2016 are set out on pages 48 to 53.
Internal Audit – the Internal Audit Plan is a combination of 
Group-wide risk based reviews (providing assurance over 
the key controls relied upon for the principal risks) as well as 
additional specific reviews requested by management.
Cinema Compliance – the Cinema Compliance Plan is a 
combination of one and three day reviews that are delivered 
across the Group. Each cinema in the Group is risk-assessed 
based on financial, operational and management information 
to determine which cinemas would be included in the audit 
programme for the year. 
In addition to the programme of on-site reviews conducted by 
the Risk and Assurance team, an annual self-assessment audit 
is undertaken by each cinema.
Fraud Detection and Loss Prevention – to support the Group 
in fraud detection and loss prevention, a software tool is used 
for ongoing analysis of our key data sources to swiftly identify 
any irregular transaction activity that could indicate instances 
of fraud, loss or failure of procedural compliance. In addition, 
a programme of anonymous site visits are undertaken to 
review the customer journey (from ticket purchase to cinema 
departure). 
External Audit – the External Auditor provides a supplementary, 
independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the 
internal control system which they assess in the course of their 
work. Their findings are reported to the Audit Committee. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 47
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Operational Controls – the Executive Directors, on a day-to-
day basis, are involved in reviewing the key operations of the 
business through their interaction with Senior Management 
across the Group and their discussions on operational 
performance and delivery.
Financial Control – the Group has internal control and risk 
management arrangements in relation to the Group’s financial 
reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated 
accounts. The arrangements include procedures to ensure 
the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU or FRS 101, as appropriate, 
with reasonable assurance and that require reported data 
to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring 
internally and by the Audit Committee.
Ongoing financial performance is monitored through regular 
reporting to Executive Directors and monthly reporting to 
the Board. Capital investment and all revenue expenditure is 
regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, 
with post-investment and period end reviews as required. A 
comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit 
detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the 
Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for 
approval.
Across all territories, a financial controls checklist is in place for 
all Finance Directors. On an annual basis they are required to 
undertake a self-assessment sign-off of these controls which 
is then followed up by Internal Audit reviews for compliance 
validation.
Other Assurance Activities – a programme of Health and 
Safety audits (delivered by our outsourced provider, NSF, for 
the UK) take place throughout the year across the Group. 
Customer surveys and mystery shopper visits also take place 
to ensure customers receive the optimum viewer experience. 
Policies and Procedures – the Group has in place a range of 
governance-related policies which are regularly reviewed and 
communicated to employees. These include Whistleblowing, 
Gifts and Hospitality, and Health and Safety. GOVERNANCE  u
48
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
I am pleased to present this Report 
on the activities of the Audit Committee 
for the year.
Chair Julie Southern
Committee 
members
Dean Moore, Alicja Kornasiewicz 
(Martina King left the Committee in 
January 2017 but served for the whole of 
the financial period)
Number of  
meetings held  
in 2016 5
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary  
to the Committee.
Audit Committee Report
Chair’s Introduction
Dear Shareholders
I am pleased to present this report on the activities of the 
Audit Committee for 2016. The report sets out details of the 
work undertaken by the Committee during the year to support 
the Board in its oversight and monitoring of the robustness 
and integrity of financial reporting, providing assurance on 
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems, and in the appointment and supervision of 
the external auditor.
As I reported last year, the Committee instigated an audit 
tender process in February 2016. The audit had not been 
tendered since the Group listed in 2007 and, following 
the completion of the integration with Cinema City, it was 
considered to be an appropriate time to proceed with  
the tender. 
Led by the Committee, a tender document was distributed 
in February 2016 to four firms. Our assessment criteria 
included capability, understanding of key issues pertinent 
to the business, experience, independence , cultural fit, and 
an assessment of the overall audit approach and quality. 
After careful consideration and discussion, the Committee 
decided to recommend to the Board that KPMG should be 
reappointed. 
During the year, the Committee continued to review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management and 
internal controls. As in 2015, the Group has been supported in 
the delivery of the internal audit programme by PwC, who have 
led on all aspects of the programme, including internal audit, 
cinema compliance, risk management and financial controls. In 
August, we were pleased to welcome Cineworld’s new Head 
of Risk and Assurance. This entailed a change in approach so 
that PwC’s role became that of a supporting co-source provider 
with their focus directed towards risk based internal audits and 
financial controls reviews. This strengthening of the in-house 
team was further bolstered by the appointment of a new Head 
of Tax, a Group role that will further enhance the structure of 
the international finance team.
Throughout the year and supported by the Risk and Assurance 
team, we have reviewed our Principal Risks, including a 
review of the potential impact on our business model, future 
performance, solvency and liquidity. We have also reviewed 
and assessed management’s proposals in relation to the Going 
Concern and Viability Statements. More details of our work on 
these areas may be found on page 49.
A key focus for the Committee is the consideration of the 
significant risks, issues and areas of judgement in relation 
to the financial statements. We have worked closely with 
management and the External Auditor to ensure that we 
have a firm understanding of these issues, so that we can 
develop clear views on how they should be addressed. Areas 
of significance for 2016 include accounting for the acquisition 
of five Empire cinemas, the valuation of property, plant and 
equipment, and onerous lease provisions. Further details of 
our formal position on these areas may be found on page 
50 to 51.
Our Committee evaluation was conducted by an external 
facilitator this year, in accordance with the Code, and I am 
pleased to note that the evaluation confirmed that the 
Committee is considered to be performing well, and providing 
strong support to the Board. 
Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Martina 
King for her significant contribution to the Audit Committee 
over the years, and to welcome Dean Moore, who became a 
member of the Committee in January 2017. With his extensive 
experience and strong financial background, I am sure Dean 
will be a great asset. 
Julie Southern
Chair of the Audit Committee GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 49
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Composition
For the duration of the year, the Committee comprised 
three independent Non-Executive Directors (namely Julie 
Southern (Chair), Martina King, and Alicja Kornasiewicz). Julie 
is a Chartered Accountant and is considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience. On 11 January 
2017, Non-Executive Director Dean Moore took up a place on 
the Committee, following the stepping down of Martina King. 
Dean Moore is considered by the Board to have recent and 
relevant financial experience, and is also considered to be 
independent.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior 
executives, other Directors, the Head of Risk and Assurance, 
the Internal Auditor, and the External Auditor may be invited 
to attend meetings, but are not members.
Roles and Responsibilities
The Committee has a clear set of responsibilities that are 
set out in its Terms of Reference, which are available on 
the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/
corporate-governance). The Committee assists the Board 
in discharging its responsibility with regard to financial 
reporting, the control environment, the work of the External 
and Internal Auditors, and the Risk and Assurance Team, 
including:
• monitoring the financial reporting process;
• reviewing the integrity of the Annual and Interim Reports, 
including reviewing significant financial judgements 
therein;
• reviewing the Group’s risk assessment process, the output 
of that assessment and the associated risk management 
systems;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls;
• considering the scope of both the Internal and External 
Auditors’ activities, their reports and their effectiveness;
• reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit 
work undertaken by the External Auditor; and
• advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 
Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
What the Committee did in 2016
The Audit Committee met five times during the year, during 
which time it:
• monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed 
the interim and annual financial statements (including 
the preliminary announcement) with particular reference 
to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, 
together with significant estimates and financial reporting 
judgements and the disclosures made therein;
• considered the interim results and the Annual Report and 
Accounts in the context of the requirement that they are 
fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing papers 
prepared by management with regard to this principle. 
This included reviewing the documents to ensure that 
the description of the business agrees with its own 
understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern 
the Group, the discussion of performance properly 
reflects the relevant period and that there is a clear link 
between all the areas of disclosures;
• received and discussed (in the absence of management, 
where appropriate) reports from the External Auditor 
in respect of their review of the interim results, the audit 
plan for the year and the results of the annual audit. 
These reports included the scope for the interim review 
and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the 
External Auditor to evaluate and conclude on key areas 
of the audit, their assessment of materiality, the terms of 
engagement and raising awareness to the Committee 
of the likely impact of future changes to regulation and 
accounting standards;
• monitored the performance of PwC as the Internal 
Auditor and, from August 2016, the work of the Risk 
and Assurance team, reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal financial controls together with its 
broader internal control and risk management framework, 
to ensure consistent and appropriate financial controls 
across the Group;
• monitored the implementation of the Group’s internal 
audit plan for 2016, including further embedding the risk 
management framework, the risk based assurance plan 
for our financial control environment and our Group-wide 
cinema compliance programme;
• reviewed the results of non-financial audits (including 
food hygiene and fire safety) and where applicable agreed 
enhancements to procedures and reviewed remedial 
actions;
• made recommendations to the Board with regard to 
continuing the appointment and remuneration of the 
External Auditor, and as part of the external audit tender 
process in the early part of 2016, oversaw the Group’s 
relations with the External Auditor, determined their 
independence and monitored the effectiveness of the 
audit process;
• discussed the requirements for a longer-term viability 
statement and the related assessment work to enable the 
Board to make such a statement;
• continued to monitor the ongoing requirements regarding 
audit tender; and
• reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference. 
Going Concern
In recommending the adoption of the going concern basis 
for preparing the financial statements, the Audit Committee 
considered the business activities, as well as the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 22 
to 27, the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position, and borrowing facilities, as well as the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
capital, as described on pages 28 to 32 and the financial risk 
management objectives, details of financial instruments and 
hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity 
risk as set out in Note 21 of the financial statements.
Viability 
Part of the Audit Committee’s work in the year has been to 
discuss and consider the requirement under the Code for a 
longer-term viability statement, and the related assessment 
work needed in order to enable the Directors to make such a 
statement.
Following work overseen by the Audit Committee, in 
accordance with the Code, the Directors have assessed the 
viability of the Group over a period longer than one year, 
taking into account the Group’s current position and the  GOVERNANCE  u
50
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
potential impact of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set 
out on pages 22 to 27.
 
The Directors have determined that a three year period 
constitutes an appropriate period over which to provide its 
viability statement based on the Group’s strategic forecast 
period which is driven by the visibility of the future film 
slate, the Group’s property expansion and renovation plans, 
investment in technology and relationships with the film 
distributors. 
The Group’s business model and strategy are central to an 
understanding of its prospects, and details can be found on 
pages 1 to 32. The nature of the Group’s activities is long-
term, and the business model is open-ended. The Group’s 
current overall strategy has been in place for several years, 
subject to the ongoing monitoring and development. 
The Directors’ viability assessment has taken into 
consideration the potential impacts of the principal risks 
in the business model, future performance, solvency and 
liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating 
actions such as reducing capital expenditure and dividend 
payments.
For the purpose of assessing the Group’s viability, the 
Directors identified that, of the principal risks detailed on 
pages 22 to 27, the following are the most important to the 
assessment of the viability of the Group:
• Availability and performance of film content; 
• Viewer experience and competition; and 
• Expansion and growth of our cinema estate.
Based on the principal risks identified above, scenario-based 
assessments were performed for the Group. The scenarios 
applied included: 
• Reducing both admissions, average ticket price, and retail 
spend as a result of lack of film content, and/or increased 
competition through the emergence of new technology 
or alternative formats to watch films;
• Reducing margins through increased film costs, or 
increased labour costs;
• No further expansion of the cinema estate; and 
• A combination of the above. 
In performing the scenario assessments, with a decrease 
in revenues and increase in costs at far greater levels than 
previously experienced by the Group and no further expansion, 
the Group would still be able to continue to meet its day-to-day 
liabilities as they fall due over the three year period. 
Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the 
Group may face, the Directors consider that the scenario-
based assessment prepared of the Group’s prospects is 
reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty 
involved. 
 
The Directors believe the risk management and internal 
control systems in place allow them to monitor the key 
variables that have the ability to impact the liquidity and 
solvency of the Group and are confident that management 
are able to sufficiently mitigate any situations should 
they arise. Mitigating actions that could be taken include 
reducing capital expenditure, reducing dividend payments 
and reducing variable costs as well as the Group’s ability to 
change its capital structure if necessary through refinancing 
existing debt facilities and/or raising equity finance.
The Directors’ Viability Statement is set out on page 38.
Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the  
Financial Statements
During the year the Committee, management and the 
External Auditor considered and concluded on what the 
significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial 
statements and how these would be addressed.
(i) Accounting for the Acquisition of Five Empire Cinemas
On 11 August 2016, the Group completed the acquisition of five 
Empire cinemas from Cinema Holdings Limited. Full details 
of the acquisition are disclosed in Note 15. The provisional 
goodwill determined in respect of the acquisition is £60.6m. 
Given the complex and judgemental nature of the valuation 
exercise, and relating assumptions, the Committee believe 
the acquisition accounting should be identified as a 
significant accounting issue for the 2016 financial statements. 
Based on the Committee’s enquiries of management and the 
review of work performed by external valuation experts, the 
Committee satisfied themselves that: 
• the fair value of the acquired total identifiable net assets 
(with particular reference to intangible assets, property, 
plant and equipment and acquired leases) was consistent 
with the advice received from external experts and the 
terms of the sale and purchase agreement; 
• the fair value exercise was thorough and included all 
categories of assets and liabilities (including all lease 
contracts);
• management have performed detailed Balance Sheet 
reviews and are satisfied that classification of balances is 
correct and that recognition is appropriate and in line with 
the Group’s accounting policies; and 
• the subjectivity of the valuation process, including the 
extent of fair value adjustments, was appropriately 
disclosed in the annual financial statements.
(ii) Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment (“PPE”)
As detailed in Note 9 to the financial statements, there 
is a significant inherent risk that elements of the Group’s 
considerable PPE balances may prove to be irrecoverable, 
due to fluctuations in the underlying performance of cinemas 
or one-off events. Given the number of factors involved 
in predicting the performance of cinema sites operated 
by the Group, in multiple territories, this gives rise to an 
element of judgement being applied to the potential level 
of impairments to be recognised on a cash generating units 
(CGU) basis, predominantly at cinema site level. 
At each Balance Sheet date, management prepares 
an assessment which estimates the value in use of the 
cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets 
are allocated. Where individual sites cash flows are not 
considered independent from one another, mainly due to 
strategic or managerial decisions being made across more 
than one site, they may be combined into a single cash 
generating unit. 
Corporate Governance Statement continued GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 51
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in 
respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied. 
The main assumptions over growth rates, the impact of 
one-off events, expected cost increases and discount 
rates are updated to reflect management’s best estimate. 
When considering the appropriateness of the discount rate, 
management assess the territory specific discount rate, and 
ensure that they are updated for current market information 
and the Group’s current leverage. 
At the year end management prepared their valuation 
models for the Committee’s consideration, together with 
their proposed site impairments and drew the Committee’s 
attention to any specific judgements taken within the 
models. Management confirmed to the Committee that they 
have applied a consistent Group-wide methodology, in the 
preparation of the valuation models. The Committee satisfied 
itself that the approach was appropriate, the assumptions 
reasonable and that the impairments proposed were 
complete and accurate. The Committee also satisfied itself 
through enquiry of management and review of the Board 
papers that all significant events which may have impacted 
on the valuation of PPE had been appropriately captured in 
management’s assumptions and reflected in the valuation 
models and that appropriate disclosures, including in relation 
to sensitivities, had been included in the financial statements.
 
(iii) Onerous Lease Provisions
Provisions are made for onerous leases in the Group where 
it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease 
obligations are in excess of the economic benefits expected 
to be received from operating the site. As detailed in Note 1 
to the financial statements, the approach to estimating the 
onerous lease provision has remained consistent with the 
prior year. 
The number of onerous lease sites within the Group has 
continued to decrease each year and the balance has also 
reduced to £2.4m as at 31 December 2016. Consideration 
was given to whether this remains a significant risk by the 
Committee. As the balance remains material, and the models 
used by management are sensitive to the inputs including 
changes in performance of individual sites, it was concluded 
this should remain as a significant accounting issue for the 
current year. 
Management evaluate the appropriateness of the provision 
on at least an annual basis. The exercise involves reviewing 
forecast future cash flows on a site-by-site basis and 
ensuring that the provision in place remains at an appropriate 
level for any sites identified as having an onerous lease. As 
well as considering site performance, management also 
consider the appropriateness of the discount rates applied, 
the territory specific discount rate, and ensure that they are 
updated for current market information and the Group’s 
current leverage. 
Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that the 
methodology had been applied consistently year-on-year. 
Management confirmed that they have monitored the 
adequacy of the provision historically and concluded that 
there have been no material unprovided costs or unrequired 
provision identified.
In the prior year, Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) recognition was 
included as a significant issue for the UK and Ireland due 
to the complexity of the contract, however as the revenue 
ceased during the year and as the final amount received 
in the year is not material to the 2016 financial statements 
the Committee determined this is no longer considered a 
significant issue for the Group.
External Audit
The Committee reviews the appointment of the External 
Auditor each year before the cycle of audit commences and 
in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes note 
of the quality of the service received, the proposed fees and 
the Auditor’s independence. Management and all members 
of the Committee are consulted during the process. Further 
details of these processes are set out below.
Effectiveness
During the year, the Committee evaluated the performance 
and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed their effectiveness 
as External Auditor. The effectiveness of the 2015 audit was 
assessed by reference to the following:
• the effectiveness of the lead audit engagement partner, 
including the support provided to the Audit Committee;
• the planning and scope of the audit including 
identification of areas of audit risk and communication of 
any changes to the plan, and changes in perceived audit 
risks;
• the quality of communication with the Audit Committee, 
including the regular reports on accounting matters, 
governance and control; 
• the competence with which the External Auditor handled 
key accounting and audit judgements and communication 
of those to management and the Committee;
• their reputation and standing, including their 
independence and objectivity and their internal quality 
procedures; and 
• the quality of the formal report to shareholders.
Further, at the conclusion of each year’s audit, the Committee 
discusses the performance of the External Auditor with the 
Executive Directors and relevant senior finance managers 
considering areas such as the quality of audit team, business 
understanding, audit approach and management. Where 
appropriate, actions are agreed against points raised 
and subsequently monitored for progress. There were no 
significant findings from the evaluation this year. 
After taking into account all of the above factors, the 
Committee concluded that the External Auditor was effective. 
In addition, the Committee is satisfied that it has sufficient 
oversight of the External Auditor and its independence and 
objectivity is not compromised due to the safeguards in place.
Independence, Appointment and Tender
The Audit Committee instigated a tender process in 
February 2016. The audit had not been tendered since the 
Group listed in 2007 and, following the completion of the 
integration with Cinema City, it was considered to be an 
appropriate time to proceed with the tender. 
Led by the Audit Committee, a tender document was 
distributed in February 2016 to four firms, being Deloitte, 
Ernst & Young, KPMG and BDO, in respect of the 2016 audit.  GOVERNANCE  u
52
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Assessment criteria included capability, understanding of key 
issues pertinent to the business, experience, independence, 
cultural fit of the proposed teams (including the proposed 
teams in key locations), and an assessment of the overall 
audit approach and quality. After careful consideration and 
discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the 
Board that KPMG be reappointed. 
In addition, following the conclusion of the 2015 audit, the 
Company’s lead audit partner, Mark Summerfield, was due to 
rotate off the audit of the Group and be replaced as Senior 
Statutory Auditor by Hugh Green. The rotation of the Senior 
Statutory Auditor occurred as planned and the Committee 
considers Hugh Green to have the requisite substantial, 
relevant experience. 
The Company will continue to comply with the relevant 
tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable 
under UK and EU regulations, which require the next 
external audit tender to occur by 2026. In addition, the 
External Auditor will be required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years and, as 
a result, the current lead audit partner will be required to 
change in 2021. The Committee continues to review the 
auditor appointment and the need to tender the audit.
The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess 
whether, in their professional opinion, they are independent 
and confirm this to the Committee. KPMG has provided 
this confirmation. In addition, the Company considers it has 
complied with the Competition and Markets Authority’s 
Statutory Audit Services Order.
 
Non-Audit Services
The Committee considers the independence of the External 
Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to 
consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the 
External Auditor to perform non-audit services. In particular, 
under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs 
to be approved by the Committee if the value of such work 
is likely to be greater than £30,000. KPMG have provided 
certain non-audit services to the Group, principally in respect 
of advice on tax compliance and advisory services (£0.2m) 
and pensions advisory services (£0.2m). The Committee 
is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by KPMG 
and their objectivity has not been impaired by reason of this 
further work. More information on the Non-Audit Services 
may be found in Note 4 of the financial statements. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 53
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme 
to help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio 
of insurance policies is kept under regular review with its 
insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s activities and exposures taking into account cost, 
and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Remuneration Committee
Composition 
For the duration of the year, the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors (Martina 
King (Chair), Rick Senat, and Julie Southern). The Committee 
met four times during the year and, in addition, a number of 
ad hoc times to deal with specific issues. On 11 January 2017, 
Martina King stepped down from her role as a Non-Executive 
Director and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. Dean 
Moore was appointed in her place and is the new Chair of the 
Committee.
Roles and Responsibilities
The activities of the Remuneration Committee are covered in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72, and 
are incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement 
by reference.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in 
determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, 
including making recommendations to the Board on the 
Group’s policy on executive remuneration, determining the 
individual remuneration and benefits package of each of 
the Executive Directors and monitoring and approving the 
remuneration of Senior Management below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Willis Towers 
Watson as an external adviser in November 2008 and again 
took advice from them during the year. Willis Towers Watson 
have no other connection with the Group except as the 
actuary to the pension schemes of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, 
the Group’s operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends 
discussions by invitation except when his own position is 
being discussed. Given the essential part remuneration plays 
in the success of the Group, the Chairman of the Board is 
also invited to attend meetings of the Committee and does 
so except when his own remuneration is being considered. 
The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the 
Non-Executive Directors. The report of the Remuneration 
Committee is set out on pages 54 to 72.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on 
the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com/about-us/
corporate-governance).
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional 
and private investors. An Annual Report is sent to all new 
shareholders and is otherwise made available to shareholders 
via the Company’s website unless they have specifically 
requested that a copy is sent to them. Presentations are given 
to shareholders and analysts following the announcement 
of the interim results and the preliminary announcement of 
the full year results. Trading updates are typically issued in 
advance of the full year end results in March and the interim 
results in August. 
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer, who 
have regular contact with investors over such matters, the 
Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to 
meet with shareholders as, and when, required. Additionally, 
the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer, and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for 
shareholders’ enquiries and dialogue throughout the year. The 
whole Board is kept up-to-date at its regular meetings with 
the views of shareholders and analysts and it receives reports 
on changes in the Company’s share register and market 
movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. 
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination 
Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, and 
that all Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides 
an overview of the business. Major Group announcements 
are available on the website and new announcements are 
published without delay. All major announcements are 
approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and 
circulated to the Board prior to issue. The Group also has 
internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised 
release of information.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
9 March 2017 GOVERNANCE  u
54
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Directors’ Remuneration Report
I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. The focus of the 
Committee this year has been on 
reviewing our Policy to ensure it continues 
to support our business strategy.
Annual Statement
Dear Shareholders
As the new Chairman of Cineworld’s Remuneration Committee 
(the “Committee”), I am pleased to present our Remuneration 
Report for 2016, for which we will be seeking your approval at 
our Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in May 2017. 
I would like to also take this opportunity to thank outgoing 
Chair, Martina King, for her significant contribution to the 
Remuneration Committee during 2016.
2016 Performance and Remuneration
The Group delivered a successful year of trading in 2016 with 
total revenue increasing 13% to £797.8m (2015: £705.8m), 
and EBITDA up 13.2% at £175.8m (2015: £155.3m). This 
performance enabled an 8.6% increase in the full year dividend 
per share. The decisions in relation to executive remuneration 
outcomes made by the Committee were taken in the context 
of this performance. 
Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors, which are based 
on a matrix of Group EBITDA performance against budget, 
and the achievement of stretching individual objectives, paid 
out at the level of 78.6% of base salary for each of the CEO 
and Deputy CEO (equivalent to the same percentages of 
maximum opportunity). As EPS performance targets for the 
PSP were reached in full over the three-year period 2014–2016, 
there was 100% vesting of the awards made in 2014.
Activities over the Year
The main focus of the year has been the review of the 
Company’s Remuneration Policy, and the development of a 
new long-term incentive (‘LTI’) plan, both of which we will be 
putting forward for shareholder approval at our AGM this year. 
Over the past few months, led by my predecessor Martina 
King, the Remuneration Committee has carried out a detailed 
review of our executive remuneration arrangements, taking 
into account the experience of operating our Remuneration 
Policy over the last three years, developing market practice, 
the feedback we have received from shareholders, and in light 
of our ongoing business strategy. 
Overall, the revised Policy is similar to the version approved by 
shareholders in 2014. This reflects the Committee’s view that 
the current straightforward remuneration arrangements have 
worked well, and continue to align with our business priorities.
In addition, our Performance Share Plan (the ‘2007 PSP’) is 
coming to the end of its ten-year lifespan. The Committee has 
therefore decided to introduce a new plan in the form of an 
‘omnibus plan’. 
2017 Remuneration Policy
When considering the Remuneration Policy, the Committee 
has taken account of the fact that Cineworld is relatively 
unusual in that our CEO and Deputy CEO have an indirect 
interest in just under 30% of the Company’s issued capital 
through their interest in Global City Holdings N.V.
(1)
. This means 
that we believe that some aspects of executive remuneration 
arrangements which are typically used to align the interests 
of executives with shareholders, such as bonus deferral and 
shareholding guidelines, have less direct relevance for them. 
We do recognise that our newly-appointed CFO should 
also be aligned with shareholders, and he will be required to 
retain some of the shares from vested LTI awards until he has 
reached the required shareholding level outlined below.
Changes to our Policy
Having carefully reviewed our bonus and long-term incentive 
arrangements, the Committee has decided to make no 
major changes to their structure / performance metrics / 
opportunity levels. Note, however:
• Future LTI awards will be made under the new ‘omnibus’ 
plan described in the following section – but no change in 
terms of award vehicle / individual limits / performance 
conditions / clawback provisions will be made, except that 
the level of vesting for threshold performance will reduce 
from 30% to 25% of an award.
• There will be an increased shareholding requirement of 
150% of salary, with expectation of retention of 50% of 
vested LTI awards (net of tax) until the level is met. New Long Term Incentive Plan
We will be putting a separate AGM resolution to shareholders 
to approve the rules of a new LTI plan to replace the 
current 2007 PSP which expires on 22 April 2017. The plan 
is proposed to be in the form of an ‘omnibus’ plan in order 
to give the Company flexibility to make different kinds of 
award (e.g. conditional shares, phantom shares and cash 
awards) in order to address legislation / tax issues which 
have been encountered in some jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. Note that awards to Executive Directors 
will continue to be determined by the shareholder-approved 
Remuneration Policy and we are making no substantial 
changes in our approach to LTI awards at this level.
Summary
The Committee has carefully considered our remuneration 
arrangements and we believe that they currently work well, 
so the changes we are proposing are relatively minor. We 
believe that the new Remuneration Policy and the new long-
term incentive plan are in the best interests of the business 
and will support the continued successful delivery of our 
strategy over the coming years. We hope you will support 
the relevant resolutions at our 2017 AGM.
The Remuneration Report
Regarding the full report on our activities below, you will 
see that there are two other sections. The first part, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy on pages 55 to 63, sets 
out our proposed Remuneration Policy, which is being 
put to the vote at this year’s AGM. The second part, the 
Annual Report on Remuneration, describes how the 
Committee implemented the 2014 Policy with regard to the 
remuneration of Directors in 2016. 
The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent 
in matters of remuneration and we hope that this report 
continues this approach and is easy to understand and 
informative.
Dean Moore
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
(1) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V.(GCH). Shares in GCH are 
held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel 
Greidinger.
GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 55
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Remuneration Policy
Policy Effective Date
This section describes the Committee’s Policy on the 
remuneration of Directors. The Policy will be put to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM in May 2017 and will 
come into effect from the date of the AGM. The Committee 
intends that this Policy will remain in effect for a period of 
three years unless there are changes requiring shareholder 
approval. Following approval at the AGM, remuneration 
payments and payment for loss of office to Directors can only 
be made if they are consistent with this Policy or otherwise 
approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
Current Policy on Remuneration
The objective of the Group’s Remuneration Policy is that 
Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration 
for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience. 
Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group 
to attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are 
remunerated appropriately and competitively and that 
they are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group 
performance in line with the best interests of shareholders. 
This is balanced with the need to mitigate risk and accordingly 
incentives are structured to ensure that no Director is 
encouraged to take inappropriate risks because of the level of 
potential variable rewards.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration 
appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee 
considers, when appropriate, benchmark remuneration data 
for selected comparable companies and seeks to ensure 
that an appropriately significant proportion of potential pay 
is performance-related and that total pay opportunity is 
consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay for superior 
performance.
The policy of the Committee is to set performance conditions 
for annual bonuses and long-term incentives which are 
appropriately stretching but fair given the environment in 
which the Group operates, taking into account internal and 
external expectations.
While the Board’s normal practice is to operate within 
the above parameters, it will take account of individual 
circumstances and tailor remuneration packages accordingly. 
In cases of material variance, it would seek to take account of 
major shareholders’ views.
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an 
annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share based 
long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and other 
benefits as explained below. GOVERNANCE  u
56
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Basic Salary
To provide a core level of 
remuneration to enable the 
Company to attract and retain 
skilled, high-calibre executives 
to deliver its strategy.
Salaries may be adjusted and 
any increase will ordinarily be 
(in percentage terms) in line 
with those across the Group, 
in aggregate, allowing for 
location.
Percentage increases beyond 
those granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded 
in certain circumstances such 
as where there is a change 
in responsibility, progression 
in the role, experience or a 
significant increase in the 
scale of the role and/or size 
value and/or complexity of 
the Group.
Executive Directors’ salary levels are agreed on joining and 
thereafter reviewed annually, generally on 1 July each year.
The Committee considers both the nature and the status 
of the Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, 
experience and performance of each Executive Director. 
The Committee compares the Group’s remuneration 
packages for its Executive Directors and employees with 
those of Directors and employees of similar seniority 
in companies whose activities are comparable with the 
Group. The Committee also takes into account the progress 
made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary 
increases across the rest of the Group.
Pension
To provide market-
competitive retirement 
benefits.
Monthly employer 
contribution up to 20% of 
basic salary or in the form of a 
cash pension allowance.
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited 
to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a 
money purchase plan. Bonuses are not pensionable.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group 
scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance 
equivalent to employer pension contribution (i.e. currently 
up to 20% of base salary).
The Company’s pension contribution may be conditional 
on the Executive Director contributing a percentage of 
their base salary to the pension scheme in line with general 
scheme requirements. Executives may make pension 
contributions under “salary sacrifice” arrangements. 
Savings as a result of such an arrangement may be shared 
with the Executive Director in the form of an additional 
pension contribution.
Other Benefits
To provide market-
competitive benefits and 
support the health and safety 
of individuals.
The cost to the Group of 
providing such benefits will 
vary from year to year in 
accordance with the cost of 
insuring such benefits.
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include 
the provision of a company car or car allowance, private 
mileage, life insurance, permanent health insurance, private 
medical cover and, for the Chief Executive Officer and 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, a disturbance allowance.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of 
Directors to ensure that overall packages are attractive and 
additional benefits may be introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all 
employees (including Directors) and the intention is to 
expand it over a period of time.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The table summarises the Policy for each element of pay: GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 57
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Annual Bonus
To incentivise the annual 
delivery of financial and 
operational targets.
Maximum opportunity for 
Executive Directors of 100% 
of salary.
The level of bonus is based primarily on overall Group 
performance in meeting its primary financial objectives 
in EBITDA for the financial period. The level of bonus is 
determined by a matrix of budgeted EBITDA and personal 
performance levels. The weighting of measures is circa 80% 
budgeted EBITDA and 20% personal performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the budget is 
challenging and so there is a clear link between the 
short-term Group performance and payout under the 
arrangements.
• No bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% 
of budgeted EBITDA is not achieved. At this level 
(assuming “good” performance against individual 
objectives), a bonus of 30% of maximum opportunity 
would be payable.
• The maximum bonus level is only payable if both 110% of 
budgeted EBITDA and exceptional performance against 
individual objectives is achieved.
The personal element is determined by the achievement of 
individual strategic objectives, which vary year from year to 
ensure that objectives are aligned with the business plan.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committee’s 
belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both 
to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas 
of the business that the relevant individual can directly 
influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed 
annually to ensure alignment to strategy.
Bonuses are paid in cash following the approval of the 
Group Annual Report.
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, 
he/she will be paid on the usual payment date a proportion 
of any bonus entitlement, which would have otherwise 
accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus period which was 
actually worked. GOVERNANCE  u
58
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Performance Share Awards
To encourage sustainable 
profitability over a period of 
time aligned to the overall 
objective of achieving 
sustainable growth.
The maximum award to an 
individual in any year under 
the rules of the subsisting 
share schemes is 200% of 
base salary.
However, the Remuneration 
Committee does not currently 
intend that awards to 
Executive Directors should 
exceed 150% of their base 
salary.
If it is considering changing 
this approach, it will consult 
with key shareholders before 
doing so.
Annual awards of conditional shares or nil cost options are 
made to Executive Directors and members of the Senior 
Management Team at the discretion of the Committee. 
From the AGM in 2017, awards will be made under The 
Cineworld Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan, subject 
to shareholder approval of the plan. Prior to this, awards 
were made under The Cineworld Group Performance Share 
Plan (‘PSP’).
Awards may vest after three years, subject to continuing 
employment and the achievement of stretching three-year 
EPS growth performance conditions which are aligned with 
the Group’s strategy of delivering long-term growth.
The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth 
targets on an annual basis for each award to ensure they 
are sufficiently stretching in light of both internal and 
external performance expectations. Threshold performance 
is generally intended to align to the performance of the 
relevant market and/or of competitors. If the stretch 
performance level is achieved, we would expect to have 
significantly outperformed the relevant market and/or our 
competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 25% of an award will 
vest. At the stretch level of performance, 100% of an award 
will vest. Between these levels, vesting will be determined 
on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares 
or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have 
been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend 
record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant may 
have a proportional part of their Performance Share award 
replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted 
under the CSOP schedule to The Cineworld Group plc 
2017 Long Term Incentive Plan (“CSOP Plan”), up to 
the maximum value of options permitted by legislation 
(currently £30,000). Such awards are subject to identical 
performance vesting conditions as the Performance Shares 
they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied in 
exceptional circumstances following the grant of an award 
so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to 
make their achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy. 
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, 
such as rights issues, to maintain a holder’s position, but not 
so as to enhance it.
It is the Committee’s intention to settle awards in shares, 
but the plan rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if 
required. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 59
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Clawback and Malus
The Remuneration Committee reserves the discretion to 
apply ‘malus’ by reducing or withholding annual bonus 
payments from the formulaic outcome based on EBITDA 
performance (for example, in the event of misconduct or 
misstatement of financial results). Following payment, the 
Committee will retain the discretion to ‘claw back’ bonuses in 
the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
The rules of the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term 
Incentive Plan include ‘claw-back’ provisions that will apply 
to Awards granted to Executive Directors and may, if the 
Committee determines, apply to any other Award other than 
an option granted pursuant to the CSOP Plan. The provisions 
apply where it is discovered (within two years of the vesting 
of an Award) that there has been a material misstatement in 
the financial results of the Company and/or an act of gross 
misconduct on the part of the Award Holder (that takes 
place before the vesting date of the Award but only comes to 
light after the Award vests) and such misstatement or gross 
misconduct has resulted in an Award vesting to a greater 
extent than it otherwise should have done (“Excessive 
Award”).
In these circumstances, the Committee may make reductions 
(up to the value of the Excessive Award) to other Awards 
held by the Award Holder in question which would otherwise 
vest under the LTIP (including cash awards) and/or require 
the Award holder in question to pay an amount equal to the 
value of the Excessive Award which has not otherwise been 
recovered (after taking into account any income tax and 
social security paid by the Award holder in relation to the 
Excessive Award).
Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards
Awards under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term 
Incentive Plan (subject to shareholder approval of the plan), 
the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP adopted 
by the Company in 2010 (“2010 CSOP”) can be satisfied 
using new issue shares, shares held in treasury or shares 
purchased in the market in conjunction with the Cineworld 
Group Employee Benefit Trust (the “Trust”), established by 
the Company on 24 March 2006 with independent trustees 
based in Jersey.
Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
The Cineworld Group 
Sharesave Scheme
To enable Group employees 
to become Cineworld 
shareholders, encouraging 
alignment and rewarding for 
Group performance.
The maximum saving level 
is aligned with that for all 
employees and the limit under 
legislation (currently £500 
per month).
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the 
Sharesave Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customs-
approved scheme open to all employees of nominated 
Group companies.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to 
acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% 
of the market value at grant if they agree to enter into a 
savings contract for a three-year period. Consistent with 
the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, 
such as rights issues, to maintain a holder’s position, but not 
so as to enhance it.
This Policy also provides the ability for Executive Directors 
to participate in any other all-employee plan which may be 
introduced in future up to the limits which apply to other 
employees.
Share Ownership Guidelines
To provide alignment 
between Executive Directors 
and shareholders.
N/A Each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a 
period of time, a holding in shares equal to 150% of their 
base salary.
In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive 
Directors are expected to retain 50% of any shares they 
acquire under the PSP or on the exercise of options, 
after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other 
deductions, until such time as they have built up such 
a holding. For the purposes of these guidelines, only 
beneficially owned shares will generally count towards the 
holding – however, the Remuneration Committee retains 
discretion to determine whether the requirement has been 
met in specific circumstances. GOVERNANCE  u
60
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed:
• In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be issued under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan, the PSP and under any other executive share or option scheme established by the Company, and operated 
on a discretionary basis, may not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
• In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be issued under any employees’ share or option scheme 
established by the Company may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
Resulting Total Pay Levels Under Different Scenarios
The chart below illustrates how the potential future compensation of the Executive Directors may vary at different levels of 
performance and the percentage each element may form together with the possible total value.
For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have been made:
• The base salary levels are those in effect as at 1 January 2017 (or on appointment for the CFO). Bonus opportunity and 
Performance Share award levels are as set out in the Policy Table above.
• Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and other benefits.
• Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2016 for the CEO and Deputy CEO, and estimated for the CFO.
• For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout of 67% of maximum and threshold vesting (25%) for Performance 
Shares have been made.
• No share price increase has been assumed.
CEO Deputy CEO CFO
Fixed Elements
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum
£2.0m
£1.5m
£2.5m
£0.5m
£0m
£1.0m
Short-Term Variable Element
£2,169,923
£538,422
£1,347,788
£760,548
Long-Term Variable Element
100%
100% 57% 36%
27%
26%
15%
38%
100% 70%
51%
21%
23%
26%
56%
28%
35%
26%
16%
39%
£938,813
£1,499,360
£349,157
£497,057
£679,757
9%
Recruitment Remuneration Policy
New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on remuneration packages with the same structure and elements as 
described in the Policy Table above. On appointment, base salary level will be set taking into account a range of factors 
including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost. Annual bonus opportunity will be no greater than 100% of 
salary and the maximum performance share award will be 150% of salary.
For external appointments, although we have no plans to offer additional benefits, cash and/or share-based elements on 
recruitment, the Committee reserves the right to do so when it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and 
shareholders. Such payments will take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and, to the 
extent possible, would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
If it is necessary in the circumstances, the Committee reserves the right to offer a longer initial notice period than one year. In 
such a circumstance, this would reduce to a notice period of at most 12 months.
Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment and the individual’s remuneration arrangements as soon as 
practicable following the appointment via an announcement to the regulatory news services and on the Group’s website.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration 
obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
Service Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts with Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality 
executives and to obtain protection from their sudden departure, whether or not to competitor companies. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 61
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In addition, service contracts are an important element 
in maintaining protection for the Group’s business and its 
commercially sensitive information.
A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts is set out below:
Moshe Greidinger Israel Greidinger Nisan Cohen
Effective Date of Contract 27 February 2014 27 February 2014 11 January 2017
Notice Period
(1)
12 months 6 months 6 months
Remuneration • Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or car 
allowance
• Entitlement to participate in 
annual bonus scheme
• Disturbance allowance
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
•  Permanent health insurance
• Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or car 
allowance
• Entitlement to participate in 
annual bonus scheme
• Disturbance allowance
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health insurance
• Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or car 
allowance
• Entitlement to participate in 
annual bonus scheme
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health insurance
Termination Company has right to 
terminate on payment on pre-
agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment on pre-
agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment on pre-
agreed basis
Non-Competition During employment and for 
12 months thereafter
During employment and for 
6 months thereafter
During employment and for 
6 months thereafter
(1) The Group’s policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service 
contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary 
each year.
Loss of Office Policy
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any 
payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of 
any loss where possible. To allow the Company to terminate 
an Executive Director’s employment contract legally so it 
would not face a claim for wrongful termination (although a 
claim for unfair dismissal could still exist), its policy is to pre-
agree arrangements which would apply on termination. Only 
the Company has the right to trigger such arrangements and 
it has complete discretion as to whether it does.
Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, in lieu 
of giving notice, terminate an Executive Director’s service 
contract by making a payment equivalent to 100% of base 
salary and contractual benefits for the notice period. In this 
event, the Executive Director would not be entitled to any 
bonus for the unworked portion of his notice period, but 
would be eligible for a pro rata bonus for the period up to the 
date of the termination of his contract.
Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, 
benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up until 
the date of the termination. Any bonus entitlement will be 
paid as normal on a pro-rated basis.
Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option 
Schemes vary:
A. Under the Cineworld Group PLC 2017 Long Term 
Incentive Plan:
An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the 
employment of the Group unless the participant is a ‘good 
leaver’ (including death, injury, ill-health or disability and 
redundancy) or the Remuneration Committee in its absolute 
discretion otherwise determines. Any such discretion would 
only be applied by the Committee where it considers that 
continued participation is justified by reference to past 
performance to the date of leaving or because of the 
prevailing circumstances. In such cases, the award would 
generally become exercisable on the original vesting date 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of 
the three-year performance period which has elapsed 
and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions 
unless the Remuneration Committee determines other 
arrangements are justified. In the case of death, options will 
remain exercisable for a period of 12 months following the 
date of death. Options that have already vested before an 
Award holder ceases to be employed by the Company or by 
one of its subsidiaries but which has not yet been exercised 
at the time that the Award holder ceases to be so employed 
(for whatever reason), will remain capable of exercise in 
accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless 
the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion 
otherwise determines. Alternatively, with the agreement 
of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange 
their awards for equivalent options to acquire shares in the 
acquiring company or its parent company. GOVERNANCE  u
62
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
B. Under the PSP:
An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the 
employment of the Group due to resignation or ‘for cause’. 
If a participant leaves employment for any other reason, the 
award would generally become exercisable on the original 
vesting date on a reduced basis taking into account only that 
part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed 
and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions 
unless the Remuneration Committee determines other 
arrangements are justified.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, 
may be exercised during the period of one month after which, 
to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse. Alternatively, 
with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants 
may exchange their awards for equivalent options to acquire 
shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
C. Under the CSOP:
An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the 
employment of the Group. However, if a participant leaves 
the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, 
redundancy, retirement or any other reason as determined 
by the Remuneration Committee or if the company or 
business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, 
then unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute 
discretion otherwise determines, his option will become 
exercisable on the original vesting date on a reduced 
basis taking into account only that part of the three-year 
performance period which has elapsed. An option, to the 
extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the 
period of six months after which, to the extent unexercised, 
the option shall lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. Such options become exercisable for a limited 
period of time. Alternatively, in the case of a takeover, with 
the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants 
may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire 
shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, 
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. Such options become exercisable for a limited 
period of time. Alternatively, in the case of a takeover, with 
the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants 
may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire 
shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
D. Under the Sharesave Scheme:
An option granted may normally not be exercised until the 
option holder has completed their savings contract and then 
not more than six months thereafter. However, if a participant 
leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement (on reaching 60 years or 
any other contractual retirement age), or if the company or 
business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, 
the option will become exercisable. An option, to the extent 
it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period 
of six months (12 months in the case of death) after which, to 
the extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
and/or a winding-up of the Company, options may be 
exercised for a limited period of time. Alternatively, in the 
case of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring 
company, the participants may exchange their options 
for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring 
company or its parent company.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Director Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom (Chairman) 7 October 2004 1 month
Alicja Kornasiewicz 26 May 2015 1 month
Dean Moore 11 January 2017 1 month
Scott Rosenblum 27 February 2014 1 month
Arni Samuelsson 27 February 2014 1 month
Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month
Julie Southern 26 May 2015 1 month GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 63
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Non-Executive Directors
Letters of Appointment
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
and their notice periods are as follows:
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do 
not have service contracts with the Company. The terms and 
conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors 
are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the 
provisions of the Articles of Association.
It is the Board’s policy that the appointment of each Non-
Executive Director is terminable on a short notice unless 
their appointment is terminated by a resolution of the 
shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-
elected by shareholders in general meeting when it aims to 
ensure no notice is necessary.
The Company’s policy is that Non-Executive Directors 
receive a fixed fee for their services as members of the 
Board and its Committees. Non-Executive Directors 
do not participate in the Company’s share incentives or 
otherwise receive performance-related pay but may receive 
reimbursement for travel and incidental costs incurred in 
furtherance of Company business.
The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking 
into account appropriate advice (except in the case of 
the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee), in line with prevailing market 
conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with 
the necessary experience and ability to make a significant 
contribution to the Company’s affairs. No Director 
participates in discussions relating to the setting of his or her 
own remuneration. Fee levels are reviewed on an annual basis.
Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end 
of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to 
the date of cessation.
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in 
the Company
When considering salary increases for the Executive 
Directors, the Committee takes into account average 
levels of increase awarded to employees generally. Salary 
increases will normally be broadly in line with those for other 
employees.
The Committee does not formally consult employees 
in relation to the Remuneration Policy for the Executive 
Directors. However, the Company regularly carries out 
engagement surveys which enable employees to share their 
views with management.
Consideration of Shareholder Views in Developing Policy
The Committee is grateful that shareholders have been 
supportive of its Policy in the past. As appropriate, the 
Committee will continue to engage and communicate with 
shareholders regarding Cineworld’s Remuneration Policy and 
take suitable action when required.
In reviewing this Policy, the Remuneration Committee 
has taken into account feedback received from some 
shareholders. We have also consulted with major 
shareholders on the proposed changes from the Policy 
introduced in 2014. GOVERNANCE  u
64
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Annual Report on Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee and its Role
For the duration of the year, the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, Martina 
King, Julie Southern and Rick Senat, who are all considered 
to be independent. The Chair of the Committee was Martina 
King and the Secretary of the Committee was the Company 
Secretary. On 11 January 2017, Non-Executive Director Dean 
Moore took over from Martina King as Chair of the Committee. 
Dean Moore is considered by the Board to be independent.
The Remuneration Committee’s principal responsibilities are 
to:
• make recommendations to the Board for approval of the 
Group’s broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the 
Company’s Senior Management;
• determine the specific remuneration packages of the 
Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 
and Senior Management;
• approve the terms of the service agreements of the 
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Senior 
Management; and
• approve the design of, and determine the targets for, any 
performance-related pay schemes and long-term incentive 
plans.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee 
are available on the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.
com/about-us/corporate-governance). The terms are 
reviewed annually.
The Committee met for four scheduled meetings during 
the period and details of the members’ attendance record 
is set out on page 41. In addition to its scheduled meetings, the 
Committee met a number of times ad hoc to deal with specific 
issues.
A summary of the Committee’s agenda over the period is 
detailed below:
• reviewing the Chairman’s fees and the salaries of the 
Executive Directors;
• setting the salary of the Company Secretary and reviewing 
the salaries of Senior Management;
• deciding the targets for the annual bonus scheme;
• making awards under the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
and the 2010 CSOP, including consideration of target 
calibration and award levels;
• reviewing the 2016 AGM voting figures and considering the 
views of shareholders;
• reviewing the Remuneration Policy and the design of the 
Cineworld Group plc 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan;
• preparation of this report; and
• considering the remuneration arrangements across the 
Group.
Remuneration Committee Advisers
The Committee once again received advice from Willis Towers 
Watson during the year in relation to the Company’s Policy 
and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, Executive 
Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management. 
Willis Towers Watson was appointed by the Remuneration 
Committee in November 2008 following a selection process 
involving a number of remuneration consultants. Their terms 
of engagement are available on request from the Company 
Secretary. They attended four scheduled meetings during 
the year at the request of the Committee. Willis Towers 
Watson’s fees for advice to the Committee were £80,428 
(2015: £37,159). Willis Towers Watson is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily 
operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive 
remuneration consulting in the UK.
Willis Towers Watson has no other connections with the 
Company, except as the actuary to the pension scheme of 
Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s operating company in 
Ireland. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the 
advice provided on executive remuneration is objective and 
independent and that no conflict of interest arises as a result 
of these other services.
The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman 
of the Company (Anthony Bloom), the Chief Executive Officer 
(Moshe Greidinger), the Deputy Chief Executive Officer (Israel 
Greidinger), Senior Vice President of Human Resources (Tara 
Rooney) and the Company Secretary (Fiona Smith), although 
they did not participate in discussions relating to the setting of 
their own remuneration. The Committee also consulted with 
the Chief Executive Officer and received recommendations 
from him in respect of changes to remuneration packages for 
Senior Management.
Board Changes in 2016
There were no Board changes in 2016. On 11 January 2017, 
Martina King stepped down from the Board, and Nisan Cohen 
and Dean Moore were appointed. Nisan Cohen became 
Chief Financial Officer and Dean Moore was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 65
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Remuneration for 2016
This section covers the reporting period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 and provides details of the implementation of 
the Company’s Policy during the period. Those sections of the report which are subject to audit are marked as such.
Single Total Figure Table (audited information)
The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
Financial 
Year
Base salary 
and fees 
(£000)
Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Executive 
Directors
Moshe Greidinger 2016 557 84 437 – 1,419
(3)
– 1,419 91 2,588
2015 550 77 476 – – – – 110 1,213
Israel Greidinger 2016 380 77 298 – 968
(3)
– 968 60 1,783
2015 375 74 325 – – – – 75 849
Philip Bowcock
(4)
2016 – 1 – – 451
(3)
– 451 – 452
2015 375
(6)
20
(7)
248 4.5 492
(5)
15 507 75
(8)
1,229.5
Stephen Wiener
(4)
2016 – – – – – – – – –
2015 – 1 – – 356
(5)
– 356 – 357
Non–Executive 
Directors
Anthony Bloom 2016 175 – – – – – – – 175
2015 175 – – – – – – – 175
Martina King 2016 60 – – – – – – – 60
2015 56 – – – – – – – 56
Alicja 
Kornasiewicz 2016 50 – – – – – – – 50
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
David Maloney
(4)
2016 – – – – – – – – –
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
Scott Rosenblum 2016 50 – – – – – – – 50
2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
Arni Samuelsson 2016 50 – – – – – – – 50
2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
Rick Senat 2016 65 – – – – – – – 65
2015 61
(9)
– – – – – – – 61
(9)
Julie Southern 2016 70 – – – – – – – 70
2015 39 – – – – – – – 39
Peter Williams
(4)
2016 – – – – – – – – –
2015 24 – – – – – – – 24
(1) See page 66 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors.
(2) Under the ShareSave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures in this table 
relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3) The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.525, being the average price for the last three months of the 
period (as PSP will not vest until 6 June 2017), and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in 
respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. Currently, the dividend equivalent payment to Moshe Greidinger would amount to £101,604, 
the dividend equivalent payment to Israel Greidinger would amount to £69,276, and the dividend equivalent payment to Philip Bowcock would amount to £32,256.
(4) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015, Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 March 2014, Peter Williams left the Company on 26 May 2015, and 
David Maloney left the Company on 26 May 2015.
(5) Details of the actual gain made are set out on page 71. The actual figures set out in the table above differ from those included in the 2015 Annual Report figures as last 
year an estimated value of £5.58 a share was used to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards had not yet vested. The figures above reflect the share price of £5.10 
on the date of vesting, 15 March 2016.
(6) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ salary paid in lieu of notice amounting to £62,500.
(7) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ benefits paid in lieu of notice amounting to £3,066.
(8) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice amounting to £12,500.
(9) Figure includes a payment of £5,800 to Rick Senat for the portion of 2015 for which he served as Senior Independent Director. GOVERNANCE  u
66
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Base Salary (audited information)
The base salaries of the Executive Directors are usually reviewed on an annual basis. As described in the Policy, the Committee 
compares the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and employees with those for Directors and employees 
of similar seniority in companies whose activities are broadly comparable with the Group. It also takes into account the progress 
made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the Group.
The salaries of the CEO and Deputy CEO were increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 July 2016. Average salaries across the Group 
were increased 2.5%.
Salary levels as at the end of the financial period were:
Moshe Greidinger: £563,750 p.a.
(1)
Israel Greidinger: £384,375 p.a.
(1)
(1) Part of Moshe Greidinger’s and Israel Greidinger’s salaries are paid in Israel to enable social security and government healthcare deductions to be made.
Pension (audited information)
Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan, or alternatively 
may receive a pension allowance in cash. The Company contribution to this pension scheme for the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Deputy Chief Executive Officer is 20% of salary. The Executive Directors have elected not to participate in this scheme and 
instead receive a cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Company pension contributions/allowances for the period were:
(£000)
Moshe Greidinger: £91
Israel Greidinger: £60
Other Benefits (audited information)
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors comprised the provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life 
insurance, permanent health insurance, and private medical cover.
Benefit
Israel 
Greidinger
Moshe 
Greidinger
Car/car allowance £14,000 £14,000
Permanent health insurance/ private medical £1,676 £1,676
Life assurance £21,496 £28,372
Disturbance allowance £40,000 £40,000
Israel Greidinger and Moshe Greidinger both received a Disturbance Allowance of £40,000 for the period as, under the terms of 
their employment contracts, they are required to spend a sufficient and proportionate amount of time at the Company’s head 
office in Brentford, Greater London.
Annual Bonus (audited information)
Annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in the year was a maximum of 100% of base salary. As described in the 
Policy section, the annual bonus for the year was determined by a matrix of EBITDA compared to budget, and the achievement 
of specified individual objectives. The choice of these measures reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation 
should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can 
directly influence. The weighting between the Group’s financial performance and personal performance was 80%:20%. The 
Committee retains the absolute discretion to apply ‘malus’ by reducing or withholding annual bonus payments from the formulaic 
outcome based on EBITDA performance (for example, in the event of misconduct or misstatement of financial results).
The individual performance element for the CEO and the Deputy CEO for 2016 focused on the strategic growth agenda of the 
Group. Emphasis was placed on successful openings of new cinemas on time and on budget, and the subsequent management 
of those new sites from an operational point of view. Other factors considered in assessing performance included the 
identification and development of acquisition targets, successfully delivering results from the Group’s renovation programme, 
the effectiveness of steps taken to improve the customer experience, the introduction of the latest technology, and the 
implementation of the Group’s IT strategy.
The Committee judged the individual objectives to have been achieved at the top level out of five for both the CEO and the 
Deputy CEO. In making this assessment, the Committee considered a number of factors including the continued profitable 
growth of the Company, the eight new sites that were opened during 2016, as well the acquisition of five Empire sites in August.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 67
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Positive factors that were also considered included nine major refurbishments which were completed during the year, the 
introduction of the latest technology which saw the Group end 2016 with 27 4DX screens, 33 IMAX screens and 6 Superscreens, 
and the progress made in implementing the Group’s IT roadmap.
The table below shows the EBITDA targets and performance achieved against them in 2016.
EBITDA performance
Individual 
objective 
performance
Threshold bonus 
opportunity 
(£000)
Maximum bonus 
opportunity 
(£000)
Bonus paid  
(% of maximum)
Bonus paid  
(% of base salary)
Bonus paid 
(£000)
Moshe Greidinger 102% of budgeted
EBITDA achieved
Above and
 Beyond
98.5 557 78.6 78.6 437
Israel Greidinger 102% of budgeted
EBITDA achieved
Above and
 Beyond
67.1 380 78.6 78.6 298
The Committee judged the individual objectives have been achieved at the top level out of five for both the CEO and the Deputy CEO.
On the basis of the EBITDA and individual performance achieved, the CEO was awarded a bonus of 78.6% of salary and the 
Deputy CEO was awarded a bonus of 78.6% of salary.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) (audited information)
(a) Awards Vesting Following the End of the Performance Period Ending in December 2016
Awards under the PSP made in June 2014 are due to vest on 6 June 2017. The performance condition applicable to these awards 
is summarised below:
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 10% p.a. Nil
10% p.a. 30%
18% p.a. 100%
Between 10% and 18% p.a. Straight-line basis
The adjusted diluted EPS figure for the year represented compound average annual growth of 23.2% on a pro forma basis, 
compared to the base year, with the result that the level of vesting for this award was 100%. The number and value of shares that 
will vest to each of the Executive Directors is set out on page 71 of this report.
(b) Awards Made in the Year
Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in April 2016. The vesting of these awards will be based on 
Cineworld’s three-year EPS growth performance, as summarised in the table below. Following the combination with Cinema 
City, the Committee discussed the performance condition at some length and decided for awards in June 2014 to increase 
significantly the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting from those used for previous awards, and to express targets as 
absolute growth figures given the significantly increased international nature of the Group following the Combination, making 
UK RPI a less directly relevant factor. The same approach was taken in 2016. However, to reflect the prevailing circumstances and 
expectations, the thresholds for minimum and maximum vesting were slightly reduced.
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 6% p.a. Nil
6% p.a. 30%
12% p.a. 100%
Between 6% and 12% p.a. Straight-line basis
In the past, total shareholder return has been considered as an alternative or additional performance measure, but difficulties 
in identifying appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance 
measure. The Remuneration Committee reviews the operation of the PSP each year and the performance conditions for each 
grant to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing internal and external expectations.
The number and value of share options under the PSP which were awarded to the Executive Directors and vested during the 
period are set out on page 71 of this report. GOVERNANCE  u
68
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees (audited information)
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed following completion of the combination with Cinema City in February 
2014 in light of the significant increase in the size and complexity of the Group. The adjusted fee levels were set in order to be 
comparable with equivalent fees in companies of broadly similar size and complexity. The fee for the position of Audit Committee 
Chair was increased from £15,000 p.a. to £20,000 p.a. with effect from 1 January 2016. The other Non-Executive fees were not 
increased during 2016.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance-related payments, nor do they 
receive any pension entitlement or other benefits apart from expenses in relation to travel costs to attend Cineworld Board 
meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
Position held
Fees as at 1 January 2016  
and at 31 December 2016
Chairman £175,000 p.a.
Senior Independent Director £10,000 p.a.
Non-Executive Director £50,000 p.a.
(2)
Audit Committee Chair £20,000 p.a.
(1)
Remuneration Committee Chair £10,000 p.a.
Nomination Committee Chair £5,000 p.a.
Committee Member Nil
(1) The fee for Audit Committee Chair was increased by £5,000 p.a. to £20,000 p.a. with effect from 1 January 2016.
(2) Base fee.
Loss of Office Payments (audited information)
There were no loss of office payments during the financial year.
Payments to Past Directors
There were no payments to past Directors during the financial year, other than the continuation of private health insurance for 
Philip Bowcock until June 2016, as disclosed in last year’s Annual Report.
External Appointments
Moshe and Israel Greidinger are both directors of Israel Theatres Limited. In relation to these roles, they did not receive any fees.
Directors’ Shareholdings at 31 December 2016 (audited information)
Ordinary shares
Share options 
subject to 
performance
conditions
(1)
Executive Directors
Israel Greidinger 76,626,344
(2)
382,329
Moshe Greidinger 76,626,344
(2)
560,751
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony Bloom 2,208,006
(3)
–
Martina King 2,563 –
Alicja Kornasiewicz – –
Scott Rosenblum 16,877 –
Arni Samuelsson – –
Rick Senat 53,874 –
Julie Southern – –
(1) Relates to unvested awards under the PSP. This figure includes awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016 as the vesting of the 2014 awards described above will not happen 
until June 2017.
(2) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”). Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger (Israel 
Greidinger’s entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidinger’s entire interest in GCH was 
transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016).
(3) Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretionary trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 69
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016 and 9 March 2017, including any 
interests in shares and share options provisionally granted under the PSP and 2010 CSOP, are presented above.
Nisan Cohen became a Director on 11 January 2017 and has unvested awards under the PSP in relation to 19,792 shares. This 
figure includes awards made in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Dean Moore, who also became a Director on 11 January 2017, does not have 
any interests in shares or share options.
As described in the Policy Table on page 59, each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, a holding in 
shares equal to 150% of their base salary (this was 100% under the 2014 Policy).
Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger (Israel Greidinger’s entire 
interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidinger’s entire 
interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016). Following the transfers, Moshe and 
Israel Greidinger ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company. However, given the family connection 
described above, the Remuneration Committee has determined that they will both be considered as meeting the above 
shareholding requirement.
Eight-Year Total Shareholder Return Performance and CEO Pay
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel 
and Leisure indices over the past eight financial years. The Remuneration Committee believes these to be the most appropriate 
comparators as Cineworld is a member of both indices.
Cineworld FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure FTSE 250
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
400
300
200
100
0
600
500
900
800
700
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2016 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 GOVERNANCE  u
70
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Financial year
CEO single 
figure of total 
remuneration
(£000)
(2)
Bonus as 
proportion 
of maximum 
opportunity
LTI 
vesting as 
proportion 
of maximum 
opportunity
2016 £2,588
(1)
79% 100%
2015 £1,213 87% –
(3)
2014 £1,440 76% 100%
2013 £1,326 41% 81%
2012 £1,258 60% 99%
2011 £1,252 68% 100%
2010 £1,212 82% 100%
2009 £858 85% –
(1) The increase in the CEO single figure between 2015 and 2016 primarily relates to the first vesting of a PSP award to the CEO since appointment. The value of this 
award vesting has increased due to the significant increase in the Company’s share price over the vesting period.
(2) Up to 2013 these figures solely relate to Stephen Wiener who was CEO up to and including 27 February 2014. For 2014, it represents a combination of two months of 
Stephen Wiener and ten months of Moshe Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during 2014.
(3) Moshe Greidinger, CEO, did not have an LTI which vested in the year. For those who did, the proportion was 100%.
Percentage Increase in CEO remuneration
The percentage changes in the value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 for the CEO and 
employees generally are set out in the table below:
CEO
(1)
Employees
generally
(2)
Salary 1.27% 2.5%
Non-pension benefits 9.1% 0.3%
Annual bonus (8.2)% (8.3)%
(1) Moshe Greidinger’s salary increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 July 2016.
(2) The figures reflect increases for UK-based monthly salaried employees excluding the senior management group. This group has been selected as the UK is the 
country in which the CEO spends a significant proportion of his time.
Relative Importance of Pay Spend
The table below shows figures for people costs, shareholder dividends and a number of other significant distributions of turnover 
that the Committee considers to be relevant in order to provide context to the relevant importance of pay spend.
2016 2015 % change
Staff and Employee Costs £112.9m £98.8m 14.2%
Of which, Directors’ remuneration costs £5.2m £4.2m 23.8%
Corporation tax paid £9.8m £10.4m (0.6)%
Dividends paid £47.0m £39.0m 20.5%
Retained earnings £110.5m £96.3m 14.7%
Shareholder Voting Results from 2016 AGM
At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on 19 May 2016, the resolution to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report was approved on a show of hands. The proxy vote was as set out below. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy was not put to the vote as it was approved at the AGM held on 8 May 2014.
Number of votes
% of votes 
cast
For 211,980,121 98.30%
Discretionary 33,603 0.02%
Against 3,631,619 1.68%
Total votes cast 215,645,343 100%
Votes withheld
(1)
11,276,607 –
(1) A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 71
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Share and Share Option Awards Granted and Vesting During the Year (audited information)
Awards or grants were made under the Company’s Share and Share Options Schemes as follows:
PSP: Awards consisting of nil cost options over shares were granted to the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer equivalent in value to 150% of their base salary on 18 April 2016 which will become exercisable after three years. 
Details of the awards are set out below. Awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance 
conditions specified on page 71.
CSOP: A number of recipients of a PSP had a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC-approved share option 
granted under the CSOP. There was no such substitution in respect of the PSP awards granted to any of the Executive Directors 
during the year.
Awards granted or vesting during the year:
(a) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
Details of awards made and vesting during the period are:
Name of Director
At
1 January 2016
Awarded 
during year
Vested 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At  
31 December 
2016
Exercise 
Price
Market 
value at 
date of
exercise
(3)
Exercise
period
(2)
Gain
(4)
Current 
Directors
Israel 
Greidinger
– 102,645
(1)
– – – 102,645 £Nil – 18/04/19–
17/10/19
–
Moshe 
Greidinger
– 150,547
(1)
– – – 150,547 £Nil – 18/04/19–
17/10/19
–
Past Directors
Philip 
Bowcock
90,176
(5)(8)
– 90,176
(8)
90,176
(7)
– – £Nil £5.24 15/03/16–
14/09/16
£504,800.80
Stephen 
Wiener
65,287
(5)(6)
– 65,287 65,287
(7)
– – £Nil £5.24 15/03/16–
14/09/16
£365,473.40
(1) Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 15 April 2016, the last business day before grant, was £5.48. The face value of the awards to Israel Greidinger 
and Moshe Greidinger were £562,500 and £825,000 respectively. All awards were granted as nil cost options.
(2) Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which for the awards made in 2016 are set on page 67).
(3) This was the price per share received in respect of those shares which were sold.
(4) The gain has been calculated using the realised share price on the date of exercising and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have 
been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payments amounted to £23,369.52 for 
Stephen Wiener and £32,278.56 for Philip Bowcock.
(5) The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
(6) The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Stephen Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period had not been completed in full.
(7) The performance condition attaching to the grants was satisfied in full.
(8) The entitlement was reduced to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 31 October 2015 so the performance period will not be completed in full.
Details of the awards vesting in June 2017
Name of Director
Date 
awarded
Number 
awarded
Vesting 
date
Number 
vesting
Number 
lapsing
Exercise 
price
Exercise 
period
Current Directors
Israel Greidinger 06/06/14 162,619 06/06/17 162,619 – £Nil 06/06/17-
05/12/17
Moshe Greidinger 06/06/14 238,508 06/06/17 238,508 – £Nil 06/06/17-
05/12/17
Past Directors
Philip Bowcock 06/06/14 162,083 06/06/17 75,718 86,365
(1)
£Nil 06/06/17-
05/12/17
(1) The performance condition has been satisfied in full so there was no reduction in the shares vesting, but there is a reduction to take account of the fact that Philip Bowcock left on 
31 October 2015 so the performance period had not been completed in full. GOVERNANCE  u
72
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
(b) Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan
No Director was granted an option during the period and no options vested during the period.
No Director, past or present, holds a CSOP option which will vest in 2017 financial year.
(c) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
No Directors currently participate in the Company’s Sharesave Scheme.
Implementation of Policy in 2017
For the 2017 financial period, the salaries and other benefits of the Executive Directors will be reviewed in the usual manner, 
with any salary increases being effective from 1 July 2017. From his appointment as Chief Financial Officer on 11 January 2017, 
the annual salary of Nisan Cohen was £290,000 and he will receive a pension cash allowance of 14.8% of salary.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO and 54% of salary for the CFO. 
Bonus payments in relation to 2017 will be subject to Committee discretion to apply ‘malus’ as described on page 59. Following 
payment, the Committee will retain the discretion to ‘claw back’ bonuses in the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial 
results.
The face value of awards under the PSP in 2017 will be 150% of salary for the CEO and Deputy CEO and 60% of salary for 
the CFO. The calibration targets for these awards is set out in the table below. Note that the level of vesting for threshold 
performance has been reduced to 25% of the award compared to 30% in previous years.
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 5% p.a. Nil
5% p.a. 25%
11% p.a. 100%
Between 5% and 11% p.a. Straight-line basis
In considering the appropriate calibration of targets, the Committee has taken into account both the internal business plan and 
external analyst estimates. The absolute ranges are lower than in the last couple of years but we would note that the enlarged 
Group is now fully included in both the base and end years, as well as highlighting that the targets for 2014-2016 awards included 
significant integration synergies, which have now largely been successfully achieved. The Committee believes that the growth 
targets are stretching and, if they are achieved, a significant amount of value will have been created for shareholders. Given 
the international nature of the Group, the Committee continues to believe that UK RPI is a less directly relevant factor and will 
therefore express the targets as absolute growth levels.
As for 2016 awards, in addition to the EPS performance condition, the Committee, in its absolute discretion, will need to be 
satisfied that an award holder has performed their duties at a satisfactory level over the three years from date of grant in order 
for awards to vest. The Committee, therefore, will retain the absolute discretion to apply ‘malus’ to unvested awards, by reducing 
or withholding vesting. Following vesting, the Committee will also retain the discretion to claw back PSP shares in the case of 
misconduct or misstatement of financial result.
Incorporation by Reference
The sections “The Remuneration Committee and its Role” and “Remuneration Committee Advisers” also form part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement, and are incorporated into that statement by reference.
By order of the Board
Dean Moore
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2017
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 73
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
The comparative period is the year ended 31 December 2015.
Management Report 
This Directors’ Report, together with the Strategic Report on 
pages 1 to 32, form the Management Report for the purposes  
of rule 4.1.8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Information Contained Elsewhere in the Annual Report 
Information required to be part of this Directors’ Report 
and certain other information can be found elsewhere in 
the Annual Report as indicated in the table below, and is 
incorporated into this Report by reference: 
Information Location in Annual Report
Audit Tendering Pages 51 to 52
Corporate Governance Statement Pages 37 to 53
Diversity, Human Rights and 
Our People
Pages 18 to 21 
(Resources and 
Relationships)
Directors’ Biographies Pages 33 to 36
Financial instruments:
Information on the Group’s financial 
risk management objectives and 
policies, and its exposure to credit 
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk 
and foreign currency risk
Note 21, Page 123
Going Concern Statement Page 38
Key Performance Indicators Pages 12 to 13
An Indication of Likely Future  
Developments in the Business  
Affecting the Company 
Pages 1 to 32 
(Strategic Report)
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Financial 
Statements
Page 78
Viability Statement Page 38
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking 
and so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events, and depend upon circumstances, that will occur in 
the future. Therefore, results and developments can differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking 
statements reflect knowledge and information available 
at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the year ended 31 December 
2016 are presented under International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU and applicable law. 
However, the Company has elected to prepare its financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. The 
results for the year are set out in the Group Consolidated 
Statement of Profit or Loss on page 82. 
An interim dividend of 5.2p per share was paid on 9 September 
2016. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.8p 
per share which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 22 June 2017 to 
shareholders on the register on 26 May 2017.
Events Affecting the Company Since Year End
On 7 February 2017 the Group disposed of its 100% interest in 
Picturehouse Entertainment Limited for £2.3m. No significant 
impact is expected on the Group’s Statement of Profit or Loss 
or Statement of Financial Position.
Financial Risk Management 
The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of 
the Group and the risks associated therewith. Full details 
are set out at Note 21 to the financial statements, and are 
incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference.
Funding and Liquidity 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial Review on pages 28 to 32. In addition, Note 21 to 
the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial 
risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk. Such sections are incorporated into this Directors’ 
Report by reference.
International Operations and Branches
At the year end, the Group had operations in the UK, Jersey, 
Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, Bulgaria, 
Romania and Slovakia. GOVERNANCE  u
74
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Directors’ Report continued
The following notifications were received in the period from 
1 January 2017 up to the date of this report:
Shareholder Voting rights
% of total 
voting rights
(1)
Nature of 
holding
BlackRock, Inc 17,496,138
(3)
6.53
(2)
Indirect
Aviva plc 7,853,267 2.94 Direct and 
Indirect
(1) Percentages are stated as at the time of notification and show the latest 
notification details.
(2) 4,127,267 (1.53%) of this figure represents qualifying financial instruments 
and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financial 
instruments.
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”) is interested in aggregate 
in 29% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the 
Company. The Company and GCH entered into a relationship 
agreement dated 10 January 2014 to regulate the relationship 
between them. Under the relationship agreement, the parties 
acknowledge that the Group is capable of carrying on 
business independently, and that all arrangements between 
the Company and GCH will be on arm’s length terms. The 
restriction on the disposal of ordinary shares in the Company 
by GCH has now expired, but there is a requirement (where 
reasonably practical) to consult with and consider the 
reasonable views of the Chairman or Senior Independent 
Director of the Company prior to a disposal of ordinary shares 
in the Company.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of 
ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary share 
capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. Details 
of the share capital, and changes in it over the year, are shown 
in Note 20 to the financial statements.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive 
Company reports and accounts, to attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to 
exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of 
any prior approval of any transfers other than (i) those which 
may be applicable from time to time under existing laws or 
Substantial Shareholdings
At 31 December 2016, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests 
in the voting rights of the Company. Notifications confirming a party’s interest has gone below the threshold notification level 
have not been included: 
Shareholder Voting rights
% of total 
voting rights
(1)
Nature of holding
Global City Holdings N.V.
(2)
76,626,344 29.0 Direct
BlackRock, Inc. 18,383,284
(3)
6.91
(3)
Indirect
Mawer Investment Management Ltd. 13,350,543 4.98 Direct
Aviva plc 12,912,432 4.86 Direct and Indirect
Royal London Asset Management Limited 10,578, 562 3.98 Direct
(1) Percentages are stated as at the time of notification. The total number of voting rights at 31 December 2016 was 267,581,189.
(2) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V.(GCH). Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger (Israel 
Greidinger’s entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidinger’s entire interest in GCH was 
transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016).
(3) 3,321,045 (1.24%) of this figure represents qualifying financial instruments and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments.
regulation or (ii) if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the 
issued share capital held in certificated form has been served 
with a disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required 
information concerning interests in that share capital, and (iii) 
in respect of shares issued as consideration in respect of the 
Empire acquisition which are subject to a lock-up of 12 months 
from 12 August 2016. 
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard 
to control of the Company. Except as set out in the Major 
Shareholder Voting Arrangements or Share Capital and 
Control sections above, there are no restrictions on voting 
rights attaching to the ordinary shares and the Company is 
not aware of any known agreements between shareholders 
that restrict the transfer of voting rights attached to ordinary 
shares. No treasury shares are held by the Company and no 
shares are held by any trustee in connection with any Share 
Scheme operated by the Group.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association (“Articles”), together 
with English law, define the Board’s powers. Changes to the 
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with 
the Articles themselves and legislation in force at the relevant 
time.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change 
of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early 
repayment of all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to 
compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a 
change in control; however, provisions in the Company’s share 
schemes may cause options or awards granted to employees 
to vest on a change of control.
Issue of New Shares and Authority to Purchase Shares
At the AGM held on 19 May 2016, shareholders gave authority 
for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value 
of £884,100 subject to certain conditions. This authority will 
expire at the 2017 AGM of the Company or on 18 August 2017, 
whichever is earlier. GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 75
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Interests
Ordinary shares held directly
Ordinary shares held by companies in 
which a Director has a beneficial interest 
or is connected
Director
31 December 
2015 31 December 2016
31 December
2015 31 December 2016
Anthony Bloom – – 2,208,006
(1)
2,208,006
(1)
Israel Greidinger – – 76,626,344
(2)
76,626,344
(2)
Moshe Greidinger – – 76,626,344
(2)
76,626,344
(2)
Martina King 2,563
(3)
2,563
(3)
– –
Alicja Kornasiewicz – – – –
Scott Rosenblum 10,377 16,877 – –
Arni Samuelsson – – – –
Rick Senat 53,874 53,874 – –
Julie Southern – – – –
(1) Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretionary trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
(2) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V.(GCH). Shares in GCH are held in trust for the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger (Israel 
Greidinger’s entire interest in GCH was transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015 and Moshe Greidinger’s entire interest in GCH was 
transferred to a trust for the benefit of his children on 13 October 2016).
(3) Martina King stepped down from the Board on 11 January 2017.
Between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016, a total of 
2,348,868 shares were issued. Further details of the 2,348,868 
ordinary shares issued in the period in this respect including 
in relation to the acquisition of 5 Empire cinemas are set out in 
Note 20 and Note 15 to the financial statements.
At the AGM held on 19 May 2016, shareholders gave authority 
for the purchase of up to 26,520,000 ordinary shares in the 
Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares 
have been acquired under this authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the 
AGM to renew both the Company’s authority to issue new 
shares and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares 
for cancellation or placing in treasury. Details of the proposed 
resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM (the “AGM 
circular”) dispatched or made available to shareholders with 
the Annual Report and Accounts (or on notification of its 
availability). 
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial year 
had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the 
beginning and end of the year under review as set out above.
Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company 
arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes are 
set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 and 69. 
No rights to subscribe for shares in or debentures of other 
Group companies were granted to any of the Directors or 
their immediate families, or exercised by them, during the 
year. None of the Directors had any disclosable interest in the 
shares of Group companies other than the Company and there 
have been no changes to Directors’ share interests between 31 
December 2016 and the date of this report.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association (“Articles”) set out 
the rules governing the appointment and replacement of 
Directors. Under the Articles, one-third of the Directors 
must retire by rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, offer 
themselves for re-election each year. A Director (excluding 
as Chairman of the Board) must retire (and will be counted in 
the one-third to retire) if he was last appointed or reappointed 
three years or more prior to the AGM or has served more 
than eight years as a Non-Executive Director. In addition 
any Director appointed during the year must stand for 
election as well. In accordance with best practice, however, 
all the Directors are retiring and are offering themselves for 
re-election or election this year at the AGM.
Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in 
2016, the Board is satisfied that each Director standing for 
re-election or election continues to show the necessary 
commitment and to be an effective member of the Board due 
to their skills, expertise and business acumen. 
Under the terms of the relationship agreement between 
the Company and GCH (described further in the Major 
Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above), GCH 
has the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director (but 
only if none of Moshe Greidinger, Israel Greidinger and 
Scott Rosenblum are on the Board) for so long as it holds 
at least 10% of the voting rights in the Company.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration, and information on their 
service contracts, are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 54 to 72.
Conflicts of Interest
The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, 
to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that 
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the 
Company. There is in place a formal system for the Board to 
consider authorising such conflicts whereby the Directors who 
have no interest in the matter decide whether to authorise 
the conflict. In deciding whether to authorise the conflict, 
the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way 
which they consider would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and 
they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such 
authorisations. The Board believes that the arrangements for 
reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively. GOVERNANCE  u
76
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Directors’ Report continued
Directors’ Interests in Contracts
The Group has a number of property lease agreements 
in place with Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”) (and or its 
subsidiary undertakings). Further details of the amounts 
paid under these agreements can be found in Note 24 to 
the financial statements. Shares in GCH are held in trust for 
the benefit of the children of Moshe Greidinger and Israel 
Greidinger.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party 
during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in their 
service contracts or letters of appointment described in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and in Note 24 to the financial 
statements, Related Parties.  
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnity
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers. 
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under 
which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors 
as permitted by law and by the Articles against liabilities they 
may incur in the execution of their duties as Directors of the 
Company. 
Political Donations
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make no 
donations to political parties. 
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the 
basis of the suitability of their qualifications and experience, 
regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual 
orientation or religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment from disabled 
people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes. 
Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of 
staff who become disabled, including considering them for 
other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s 
employees remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, 
recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld 
maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit 
of its employees, which can be accessed by employees via the 
Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human 
Resources manual on the Company’s intranet. Continuing 
education, training and development are important to ensure 
the future success of the Group and employee development is 
encouraged through appropriate training. The Group supports 
individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education 
qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified 
level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings 
are held regularly to provide updates on the Group’s business 
and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback. The 
Company also maintains both an internet website which is 
freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head 
office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its 
performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme in 
the UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
Environmental Matters and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Information on the Group’s environmental policies are 
summarised in the Resources and Relationships section on 
pages 18 to 21. This section provides the greenhouse gas 
(“GHG”) emission data and supporting information required 
by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013.
Organisational Boundary
The organisational boundary used for the Company’s GHG 
reporting is operational control. 
Reporting Scope
The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes 
1 and 2 (comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas 
emissions) from global operations.
As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional “outside 
of scope” emissions are included for owned transport to 
account for biofuel additions. Scope 3 well-to-tank (for all 
fuels) and transmission and distribution (from electricity) 
emissions are also included.
Emissions Included 
Mandatory emissions sources as specified by the 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (“Defra”) 
have been included in this report (see also ‘Estimates and 
Exclusions’ below). 
Table 1 shows Defra’s stated mandatory areas for reporting 
and how the stated categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements
Ref Defra requirement Relevance
A1 Fuel combustion (stationary) Natural gas (heating)
A2 Fuel combustion (mobile) Owned transport (fleet)
B Facility operation: process emissions N/A
B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration and air conditioning
C Purchased electricity, heat, steam, cooling Electricity only
GHG Emissions Data
The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2016 are shown in Table 2 below in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (tCO
2
e). GOVERNANCE  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 77
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Estimates and Exclusions
A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity 
and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2016. 
This affects under 0.1% of total emissions.
Data on fugitive emissions from ROW jurisdictions other 
than Czech Republic and Poland were not available and are 
excluded from the emissions figures given above. Also, Polish 
gas data was captured in local currency and converted into 
kWh. This affects less than 4% of total group emissions. 
Emissions Intensity
The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover. This 
was chosen due to ready availability of the data. The value for 
the year was 198.1 tonnes CO
2
e per £m turnover. 
For comparison, 2015’s emissions were 155,292 tonnes CO
2
e at 
an intensity of 220.0 tonnes CO
2
e per £m turnover. 
Methodology and Emissions Factors
This report was calculated using the methodology set out 
in Defra’s updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ref. PB 13944), issued by 
Defra in June 2013. Emissions factors are taken from DECC/
Defra 2015 update. 
Emissions factors for fuels use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream 
additions to account for emissions from sourcing and 
processing fuel. Owned transport emissions include outside-
of-scope additions for biogenic additions. Electricity emissions 
include transmission and distribution losses.
Annual General Meeting 
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at the Cineworld 
Cinema in Wandsworth, Southside Shopping Centre, 
Wandsworth High Street, London SW18 4TF at 10.30am on 
18 May 2017 is contained in the AGM circular. Details of all the 
resolutions to be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
Auditor and Tender
Following the audit tender process in 2016, KPMG LLP was 
reappointed as External Auditor. The Company will continue 
to comply with the relevant tendering and auditor rotation 
requirements applicable under UK and EU regulations. Further 
details of the tender process may be found in the Audit 
Committee Report.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and each Director has taken all steps that 
he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
F Smith
Company Secretary
Cineworld Group plc
9 March 2017
Registered Office:
8th Floor
Vantage London
Great West Road
Brentford
TW8 9AG
Registered: England No: 5212407
Table 2: 2016 GHG Emissions
Ref Category tCO
2
e 2015 tCO
2
e 2016
A1 Fuel combustion (stationary) 18,330 22,855
A2 Fuel combustion (mobile) 922 1,150
B Facility operation 3,242 1,849*
C Purchased electricity 132,798 132,181
Total 155,292 158,035
*Our ‘facility operation’ emissions are entirely made up of refrigerant gas emissions from our air conditioning units. Changes in these emission levels are primarily driven 
by our maintenance regimes. The more servicing and replacement of air conditioning units is undertaken in a particular year, the higher this figure is. Therefore, from a 
carbon management perspective, minimal significance should be placed on fluctuations to this figure, which represents 1% of total emissions.  GOVERNANCE  u
78
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law they are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework. 
Under Company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In 
preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU; 
• for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Parent Company financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent 
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the 
annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the directors’ report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Moshe Greidinger
Chief Executive Office 
9 March 2017  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 79
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group 
plc (“Cineworld” or “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 
2016 set out on pages 82 to 137. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union; 
• the Parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had the 
greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit 
significance, were as follows:
Acquisition of 5 Empire Cinemas (Total consideration 
£94.5m) (New risk)
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 
93 (accounting policy) and pages 108–109 (financial 
statement disclosures).
• The risk – the acquisition of 5 Empire Cinemas on 12 
August 2016 was a significant transaction for Cineworld. 
The identification of acquired intangible assets and 
determination of their fair values are highly judgmental. 
In addition the acquired leases contain discrete terms 
including stepped rentals, varying lengths, break dates and 
rent reviews. There is significant complexity in assessing 
the classification of the longer term leases and recognising 
any acquisition adjustment in relation to the market rent 
of operating leases and the fair value of finance leases. 
Judgement is also involved in determining completeness 
and fair value of the other Balance Sheet items. Cineworld 
engaged external valuation specialists to inform the 
judgements and estimates required.
• Our response – Our audit procedures included examining 
the sale and purchase agreement, legal due diligence 
report, Group’s technical papers and handover accounts 
and comparing these to the proposed opening Balance 
Sheet positions. In addition we reviewed the above against 
the requirements of the relevant accounting standards. We 
used our own valuation specialists to assist in evaluating 
whether all intangible assets had been identified and 
whether the fair values were appropriate. Our evaluation of 
this included comparison to other similar acquisitions made 
by the Group, standard industry practice and our own 
knowledge of the business.
 In assessing any adjustment relating to market rent, we 
compared the rent amounts under the acquired leases to 
existing Cineworld cinema sites that are appropriate proxies 
of current market rent to create our own expectation of the 
market rent adjustment. Similarly the fair value adjustments 
in relation to finance leases acquired were audited with 
reference to external market data.
 To assess the classification of the leases we examined 
the Group’s technical paper and critically challenged the 
approach, inputs and conclusions by inspecting lease 
agreements and external valuation reports as well as 
comparing to our own knowledge of the business and 
standard industry practice.
 To assess fair value measurement of the remaining 
opening Balance Sheet position, we critically evaluated the 
report prepared by the Group’s external valuation expert 
and agreed opening balance position to the underlying 
information including fixed assets records and stock count 
as well as benchmarking against existing Cineworld cinema 
sites. We independently considered completeness based 
on our knowledge of the business, the legal due diligence 
and the terms of the Sale and Purchase agreement. 
 We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures regarding the acquisition and the underlying 
assumptions applied.
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment £445.4m 
(2015: £345.4m) Risk vs 2015 t u
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 94 
(accounting policy) and pages 103 – 104 (financial 
statement disclosures).
• The risk – The carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment balances at an individual cinema level may 
not be recoverable through future cash flows as national 
and local factors, such as movie slates or increased 
competition, can materially affect site performance. The 
key sensitivities in the calculation are the assumptions 
used in calculating the discount rate and the difficulties 
in accurately predicting site performance, particularly 
due to external uncontrollable factors. The latter is mainly 
because: the Group has no direct control over the films 
released for distribution; there is limited visibility over the 
release schedule more than 12 months into the future; and 
there can be variation in performance of the films over the 
diverse geographic footprint of the Group.
• Our response – Our audit procedures included challenging 
the cash flow forecasts for all cinema sites by comparing 
them against historical performance trends, together 
with assessing the basis for and impact of both expected 
changes in market conditions and the committed future 
plans of the business. Our assessment was based on: 
our existing knowledge of the business, the expected 
future movie slate and discussion with the directors. 
We considered the underlying assumptions within 
the forecasts, including comparing revenue growth 
and discount rates against our internal and external 
benchmark data.
 We assessed historical accuracy of the Group’s forecasting 
process through comparison of forecasts to actual 
results and considered whether the forecasts used in 
the current year impairment tests took into account 
actual performance during 2016, particularly for those 
cinemas where impairment assessments showed the least 
headroom. In considering the appropriateness of discount 
rates applied we took into account the level of risks we   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
80
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
considered was inherent in the underlying forecasts to 
which they were being applied.
 We assessed the Group’s sensitivity analysis and the 
resulting headroom on the value-in-use estimates across 
all cinemas and considered the appropriateness of the 
associated disclosures.
Onerous lease provisions £2.4m (2015: £5.6m) Risk vs 
2015  q
Refer to page 51 (Audit Committee report), page 94 
(accounting policy) and page 121 (financial statement 
disclosures).
• The risk – The onerous lease provision is revisited annually 
using a valuation model to determine whether any further 
provision or release is required. Estimating future operating 
cash flows at a cinema level requires consideration of 
current and expected market conditions both nationally 
and locally. The value of the provision is particularly 
sensitive to the assumptions used in relation to the discount 
rate and to forecast revenues. As explained in the carrying 
value of property, plant and equipment risk above, there 
is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting revenues. 
Given this uncertainty and the number of sites across 
the Group, this is deemed to be one of the Group’s key 
judgement areas. 
• Our response – Our audit procedures included challenging 
the operating cash flow forecast of each cinema considered 
at risk by performing those procedures described under 
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment risk. We 
further considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure 
around the degree of estimation involved in arriving at 
the provision and the level of sensitivity of the provision to 
changes in the input assumptions.
We continued to perform procedures over recognition of 
virtual print fee (“VPF”). However, following the expiration of 
VPF contract in the UK in 2016, we have not assessed this as 
one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, 
therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £4.5m (2015: £3.5m). This has been determined with 
reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation (of 
which it represents 4.6% (2015: 3.5%)).
We note that in planning our 2015 audit, materiality was 
originally set at 4.0% of budgeted Group profit before 
taxation. Actual profit exceeded budget largely due to foreign 
exchange gain on the euro-denominated loan. We did not 
increase our materiality level of £3.5m despite this change. 
We assessed that 2016 materiality should represent a higher 
proportion of profit before tax than that used to plan our 2015 
audit because we considered that the level of audit risk had 
reduced, principally due the time that had elapsed since the 
major acquisition of Cinema City in 2014 creating a higher level 
of stability within the business.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or 
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £225,000 
(2015: £175,000), in addition to other identified misstatements 
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scoping and coverage
Group revenue
Group audited           55%
Component audited  20%
Out of scope              25%
Group profit before taxation
Group audited           38%
Component audited  36%
Out of scope              26%
Group total assets
Group audited           70%
Component audited  15%
Out of scope              15%
The Group operates in nine countries across the UK and 
Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel, each of which 
is considered to be a reporting component. We performed 
audits for Group reporting purposes on three (2015: five) of 
these components, resulting in coverage of 75% (2015: 88%) 
of total Group revenue; 74% (2015: 81%) of Group profit before 
taxation; and 85% (2015: 93%) of Group total assets. For the 
remaining components, we performed analytical procedures 
at component level to re-examine our assessment that there 
was no significant risk of material misstatement within these.
The Group team is responsible for the audit of the UK 
component with some input from the Polish team in relation 
to processes relevant to the UK component performed in 
Poland. The Group team instructed the KPMG component 
auditors in Poland and Israel as to the significant areas to be 
covered (including the relevant risks detailed above) and the 
information to be reported back. The Group team approved 
component materialities, which were set at £3.4m (2015: 
£2.6m) for the UK component and at £2.5m (2015: £2.6m) 
for Poland and Israel, having regard to the mix of size and risk 
profile of the businesses within the Group.
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 81
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Group team visited the component locations in Poland 
and Israel, including to assess the audit risk and strategy 
and gain an understanding of the local finance environment. 
Meetings were held with these component auditors 
throughout the audit. At the planning stage these meetings 
focused on the audit approach, while during the fieldwork and 
reporting stage they focused on the findings and observations 
reported to the Group team. All findings were discussed in 
more detail, and any further work deemed necessary by the 
Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the 
course of the audit of the financial statements and from 
reading the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report:
• we have not identified material misstatements in those 
reports; and
• in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of 
principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors’ Statement of longer-term viability statement 
on pages 49 to 50, concerning the principal risks, their 
management, and, based on that, the Directors’ assessment 
and expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation 
over the three years to 31 December 2019; or 
• the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements 
concerning the use of the going concern basis of 
accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you 
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have identified other information in the Annual Report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or 
that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
Statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the audit 
committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ Statements, set out on pages 49 to 50, in 
relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 
38 relating to the Company’s compliance with the eleven 
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 78, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of 
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on 
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made 
solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject 
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at  
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Hugh Green
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf London
E14 5GL
United Kingdom
9 March 2017  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
82
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
for the Y ear Ended 31 December 2016
Note
Year ended 
31 December 
2016
£m
Year ended 
31 December
2015
£m
Revenue 2 797.8 705.8
Cost of sales (584.8) (517.2)
Gross profit 213.0 188.6
Other operating income 3 2.7 8.7
Administrative expenses (102.9) (94.2)
Operating profit 4 112.8 103.1
Analysed between:
EBITDA as defined in Note 1: 175.8 155.3
• Depreciation and amortisation 4 (58.6) (49.4)
• Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 4 1.5 1.7
• Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 0.4 (9.0)
• Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 (1.5) (1.9)
• Profits on disposals of assets classified as held for sale – 6.4
• Settlement of defined benefit pension liability 18 (4.8) –
Finance income 7 3.0 8.7
Finance expenses 7 (17.6) (12.1)
Net finance costs (14.6) (3.4)
Share from jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax – –
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 98.2 99.7
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 (16.2) (18.4)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group 82.0 81.3
Basic earnings per share (pence) 5 30.8 30.7
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 5 30.4 30.4
The Notes on pages 87 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 83
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Other  
Comprehensive Income
for the Y ear Ended 31 December 2016
Year ended
31 December 
2016
£m
Year ended 
31 December 
2015
£m
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group 82.0 81.3
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset (5.1) 0.2
Tax recognised on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 1.0 –
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge 0.5 1.1
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges recycled to profit or loss (1.9) –
Movement in fair value of net investment hedge (1.3) –
Foreign exchange translation gain/(loss) 88.2 (16.9)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of income tax 81.4 (15.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group 163.4 65.7  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
84
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 31 December 2016
31 December 2016 31 December 2015
Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 445.4 345.4
Goodwill 10 650.6 539.3
Other intangible assets 10 54.2 52.5
Investments in equity-accounted investee 11 0.9 0.6
Other receivables 14 6.0 6.1
Employee benefits 18 – 10.5
Total non-current assets 1,157.1 954.4
Current assets
Inventories 13 9.8 9.2
Trade and other receivables 14 74.0 67.8
Cash and cash equivalents 55.8 62.5
Total current assets 139.6 139.5
Total assets 1,296.7 1,093.9
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (16.8) (15.7)
Trade and other payables 17 (175.8) (141.8)
Current taxes payable (10.5) (8.4)
Provisions 19 (6.3) (4.7)
Total current liabilities (209.4) (170.6)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (321.3) (292.0)
Other payables 17 (76.5) (68.8)
Provisions 19 (11.6) (18.5)
Employee benefits 18 (1.8) (1.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 12 (12.7) (8.0)
Total non-current liabilities (423.9) (388.6)
Total liabilities (633.3) (559.2)
Net assets 663.4 534.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Group
Share capital 20 2.7 2.7
Share premium 306.4 295.7
Translation reserves 20 38.9 (49.3)
Merger reserve 207.3 207.3
Hedging reserves 20 (2.4) 0.3
Retained earnings 110.5 78.0
Total equity 663.4 534.7
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
Nisan Cohen
Director  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 85
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Y ear Ended 31 December 2016
Issued 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 2.6 294.9 207.3 (32.4) (0.8) 34.7 506.3
Profit for the year – – – – – 81.3 81.3
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Tax recognised on items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss – – – – – – –
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries – – – (16.9) – – (16.9)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – – (39.0) (39.0)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – – 0.8 0.8
Issue of shares 0.1 0.8 – – – – 0.9
Balance at 31 December 2015 2.7 295.7 207.3 (49.3) 0.3 78.0 534.7
Profit for the year – – – – – 82.0 82.0
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit and loss 
in respect of cash flow hedges – – – – (1.9) – (1.9)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset – – – – – (5.1) (5.1)
Tax recognised on items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss – – – – – 1.0 1.0
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Movement in net investment hedge – – – – (1.3) – (1.3)
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries – – – 88.2 – – 88.2
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – – (47.0) (47.0)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – – 1.6 1.6
Issue of shares – 10.7 – – – – 10.7
Balance at 31 December 2016 2.7 306.4 207.3 38.9 (2.4) 110.5 663.4  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
86
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the Y ear Ended 31 December 2016
Note
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit for the year 82.0 81.3
Adjustments for:
 Financial income 7 (3.0) (8.7)
 Financial expense 7 17.6 12.1
 Taxation 8 16.2 18.4
 Share from jointly controlled entities – –
Operating profit 112.8 103.1
Depreciation and amortisation 4 58.6 49.4
Non-cash property, pension and remuneration charges (0.1) (5.7)
Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 (0.4) 9.0
Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost 18 (0.8) (1.6)
Increase in trade and other receivables (6.0) (8.3)
Increase in inventories (0.6) (1.5)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (2.0) 32.1
Decrease in provisions and employee benefit obligations (1.6) (0.2)
Cash generated from operations 159.9 176.3
Tax paid (9.8) (10.4)
Net cash flows from operating activities 150.1 165.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.7 0.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of acquired cash (47.0) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (83.7) (88.6)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – 8.0
Investment in equity accounted investee (0.3) –
Net cash flows from investing activities (130.3) (80.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from share issue 0.3 0.9
Dividends paid to shareholders (47.0) (39.0)
Interest paid (7.8) (9.4)
Repayment of bank loans (6.4) (98.6)
Proceeds from bank loans 28.0 89.3
Payment of finance lease liabilities (1.0) (0.9)
Net cash flows from financing activities (33.9) (57.7)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (14.1) 27.9
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 7.4 (2.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 62.5 37.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 55.8 62.5  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 87
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements)
1. Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
Cineworld Group plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK standards including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; these are presented on 
pages 129 to 137.
 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these Group financial statements.
 
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial year are set out below.
 
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 6 to 7 and the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties section on pages 22 to 27. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 32. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
 
At the year end the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank loan, which consisted of a term loan 
and a revolving facility (see Note 16 to the financial statements).
Reclassification of items in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
To ensure the cost allocations within the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss are consistent with the operations of the 
Group, the classification of items between administrative expenses and cost of sales have been reviewed. 
Two reclassifications have been made to the comparative results for the year ended 31 December 2015:
• A proportion of UK cinema wage costs which were previously included in administrative expenses have been reclassified to 
cost of sales so all cinema employee costs are now included in cost of sales. 
• For consistency, credits to the Statement of Profit or Loss in respect of operating leases have been reclassified from 
administrative expenses to cost of sales to net against the charges. All operating lease items are now shown in cost of sales. 
Overall there is no impact on EBITDA, operating profit, the profit after tax or the net assets of the Group.
Going Concern
At the year end the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank loan, which consisted of a term 
loan and a revolving facility (see Note 16 to the financial statements).
The Group entered into a five-year facility in January 2014 which included term loans of £165.0m and €132.0m and revolving 
credit facilities of £75.0m and €60.0m. 
On 29 July 2015 the Group signed an amendment and extension to its existing banking facility which was effective immediately 
upon signing and extends the facility to June 2020. As a result, the term loans were reduced from £157.5m and €126.0m to 
£130.0m and €63.0m. In August 2016 the Group extended the single currency revolving credit facility of £190.0m to £215.0m to 
partly fund the empire acquisition. 
The facility remains subject to the existing two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA (as defined in Note 1) to net debt and the ratio of 
EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges. A margin, determined by the results of the covenant tests at a given date is 
added to LIBOR or EURIBOR. The margins currently applicable to Group are 1.40% on the term loans and 1.15% on the revolving 
credit facility. 
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that 
the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility for at least 12 months from the approval date of the 
financial statements, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going 
concern basis.
Measurement Convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at 
their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income or as available for sale.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
88
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The 
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control 
commences until the date on which control ceases.
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees)
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement and requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled 
entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s 
investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted 
investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses 
exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further 
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on 
behalf of an investee.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are 
eliminated. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to 
the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only 
to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Use of non-GAAP Profit and Loss Measures
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures, provide additional guidance to the statutory 
measures of the performance of the business during the financial year:
• EBITDA
• Adjusted profit before tax
• Adjusted profit after tax
The Group defines EBITDA as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss as Operating profit before depreciation 
and amortisation, onerous leases and other non-recurring charges, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction 
and reorganisation costs, profit on disposals of assets and the settlement of the defined benefit pension liability. EBITDA is 
considered an accurate and consistent measure of the Groups trading performance, items adjusted to arrive at EBITDA are 
considered to be outside the Groups ongoing trading activities.
Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets (excluding acquired movie distribution 
rights), and certain non-recurring, non cash items and foreign exchange as set out in Note 5. Adjusted profit before tax is an 
internal measure used by management, as they believe it better reflects the underlying performance of the Group and therefore a 
more meaningful comparison of performance from period to period.
Adjusted profit after tax is arrived at by applying an effective tax rate to taxable adjustments and deducting the total from 
adjusted profit before tax.
Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are 
stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the Balance Sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of 
the transactions.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition 
of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 89
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
Balance Sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The 
fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the Balance Sheet date, being the present value of the 
quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or 
liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is 
recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship 
but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is 
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to 
take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income immediately.
Net Investment Hedge
The Group uses net investment hedges to mitigate translation exposure on certain net investments in subsidiary companies. 
Changes in the fair values of hedging instruments are taken directly to the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income together 
with gains or losses on the foreign currency translation of the hedged investments. Until the investment is disposed all of these 
gains or losses are recognised in equity, within the hedging reserve. 
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, 
interest bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method less any impairment losses. A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of 
the statement of cash flows.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value. They are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are initially measured at fair value less attributable transaction costs. They are subsequently carried 
at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss 
over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as 
finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered 
separately from that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower 
of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
All other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s Balance Sheet.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
90
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Depreciation is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-
line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
• Land and buildings: freehold properties      50 years
• Land and buildings: long leasehold properties including leasehold improvements  life of lease
• Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements  30 years or life of lease if shorter
• Plant and machinery        3 to 16 years
• Fixtures and fittings        3 to 16 years
No depreciation is provided on land, assets held for sale or assets in the course of construction.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
Business Combinations
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred 
(including the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquire) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling 
interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately 
in the Statement of Profit or Loss . Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that 
the Group incurs in connection with business combinations are expensed as incurred. 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not 
amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Distribution rights that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible 
assets unless such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested 
for impairment at each Balance Sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. 
Distribution rights are amortised by film title from the date of release of the film, at 50% in the first year of release and 25% in 
each of the two subsequent years. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
• Brands   10 to 20 years
• Distribution rights 3 years
• Other intangibles 5 to 10 years
Non-current Assets Held for Sale
A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if its 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale 
and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to Statement of Profit or Loss. The same applies to gains 
and losses on subsequent remeasurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. Any 
impairment loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, 
except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment 
property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Intangible assets and property, 
plant and equipment once classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out 
(“FIFO”) principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location 
and condition, and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
selling costs.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 91
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to determine whether there is any indication 
of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill assets that have an 
indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each Balance Sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other intangible assets in the unit on 
a pro rata basis. A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as 
a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Pension Plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Profit or 
Loss as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior years, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value 
of any plan assets.
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic 
benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the 
present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets 
(excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in the Statement of 
Other Comprehensive Income. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) 
for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual year to 
the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the 
year as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service 
or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The Group recognises gains and 
losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the 
Black-Scholes model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture 
is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Group to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each 
Balance Sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
92
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Government Grants
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be 
received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. They are then recognised in the Statement of 
Profit or Loss as other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of 
a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is 
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of 
shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions. All 
the Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods and services
• Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
• Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
• Advertising revenue is recognised over the period the advert is shown in cinemas.
• Distribution revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to for cinema distribution, for other media 
the revenue is recognised over the life of the distribution contract.
• Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually 
in advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to 
which it relates.
• Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Given the nature of the Group’s revenue streams recognition of revenue is not considered to be a significant judgement area.
Other Income
Other income represents rent receivable and profit on disposals of fixed assets. Rental income is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the life of the lease.
Expenses
Operating Lease Payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Lease incentives received are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as an integral part of the total lease expense. Where the Group has operating leases 
that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises the guaranteed minimum lease 
payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on property provisions, 
finance lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign 
exchange gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets 
concerned have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount 
are deferred and recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and 
the associated finance lease liabilities on the Group’s Balance Sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets 
concerned have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is 
recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has 
been completed at fair value.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 93
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the Balance Sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary 
differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither 
accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries 
to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on 
the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised.
Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An 
operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be 
allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
Judgements
The key judgements are:
Business Combinations
When the Group undertakes a business combination, there are specific judgments which need to be made in respect of the 
acquisition accounting. This includes determining the fair value of the acquired total net identifiable assets, with particular 
reference to intangible assets, property plant and equipment, acquired leases and any required provisions. Details of the 
acquisition undertaken by the Group during the year, including the specific judgements taken are set out in Note 15. 
Finance and Operating Leases
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset. The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 “Leases” when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, 
and in most cases the outcome is clear. The Group is not intending to early adopt the new lease accounting standard, IFRS 16, 
“Leasing” which will be effective from 1 January 2019.
Depreciation and Amortisation
For the Group to be able to depreciate the property, plant and equipment and amortise the intangible assets, appropriate 
useful economic lives must be determined for each class of asset. Judgement is applied based on knowledge and experience 
of the assets within the Group to determine the expected useful economic life for each of the different asset classes. For all 
property plant and equipment or intangible asset additions these are allocated to the various asset classes and depreciated or 
amortised accordingly.
Hedging Arrangements
In order to be able to hedge account the Group must consider the effectiveness of its hedging arrangements in accordance 
with IAS 39, “Financial Instruments”. The Group has two types of hedging arrangements, the first is interest rate swaps to fix a 
portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements and the second is a net investment hedge to reduce the 
Group’s future exposure to changes in foreign currency as a result of our foreign operations. Judgement must be applied when 
determining whether financial instruments will be accounted for as a hedge and as to whether the required criteria for hedge 
accounting will be met by these specific instruments.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
94
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
year in which the estimate is revised and in any future years affected.
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key 
estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use 
of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. To estimate the value in use, the Group estimates the expected 
future cash flows from the cash generating unit and discounts them to their present value at a determined discount rate, which is 
appropriate for the territory where the goodwill is allocated to.
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation. A sensitivity 
analysis has been performed over the estimates (see Note 10).
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist or based on the annual 
impairment assessment. The annual assessment requires an estimate of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the 
tangible fixed assets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual cinema site level. Where individual sites cash flows are 
not considered independent from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial decisions being made across more than one 
site, they may be combined into a single cash generating unit. 
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cinema and 
discount these to their net present value at a determined discount rate which is appropriate for the territory where the assets 
are held.
The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied. The 
Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cash 
generating units, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the risks associated with the specific cash flows. A 
sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates (see Note 9).
Onerous Leases
Provision is made for onerous leases where it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations are in excess of 
the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of 
exiting from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operate the lease and any penalties or 
other costs from exiting it early. 
When calculating the provision for an onerous lease the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash 
flows to be generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate 
which is appropriate to the territory where the cinema is located. The resulting provision is sensitive to the assumptions in respect 
of future cash flows and the discount rate applied. The Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best 
estimate of the future cash flows to be generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the 
risks associated with these cash flows. A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates (see Note 19).
Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group had two defined benefit pension plans, the MGM Pension Scheme and the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory 
Pension Plan.
The MGM Pension Scheme was settled during the year through an insurance buy-out arrangement. The final present value of the 
obligation was calculated by independent actuaries as at the buy-out date, with input from management, in accordance with the 
Group’s usual approach as outlined below. Further details of the buy-out can be found in Note 18.
The obligations under these plans are recognised in the Balance Sheet and represent the present value of the obligations 
calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial valuations include assumptions such as 
discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions vary from time to time according 
to prevailing economic and social conditions. It is considered that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but it is 
recognised that the resulting pension liability can be very sensitive to these assumptions. Details of the assumptions used are 
provided in Note 18.
Going forward without the MGM Pension Scheme the estimation uncertainty regarding employee post retirement benefit 
obligations will be significantly reduced for the Group as the Adelphi-Carlton scheme is less significant.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 95
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Accounting Policies continued
Virtual Print Fees
A Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) is recognised as a discount from the cost the Group pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving 
to the studios of the move to digital. The income recognition criteria in respect of the VPF received in the UK is complex as it 
includes the number, type and timing of screenings.
A VPF is receivable the first time a film is played in a digital format on a screen rather than using 35mm film. A VPF is recognised 
on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and is included in cost of sales as a reduction of the film hire costs. 
VPFs in the UK were received in 2016, but will not be received thereafter.
Tax
The Group operates in nine territories and is subject to tax in numerous territories and jurisdictions. Judgement is required in 
determining the provisions in relation to tax as there are varying tax treatments which have to be applied to transactions across 
the jurisdictions. The treatments can be complex and cannot be finally determined until formal resolutions have been reached 
with the relevant tax authorities – these can take several years to conclude. Provisions are made based on management’s 
interpretation of country specific tax laws and likely settlement outcomes based on the facts known at the Balance Sheet date. 
These judgements may impact the tax charge as well as the assets and liabilities. 
Deferred taxes are recognised in respect of temporary differences between the tax treatment and treatment within the financial 
statements for assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent they are expected to be recovered. 
Recoverability is assessed on an ongoing basis. Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively enacted rate which is expected to 
apply in the period the asset or liability is expected to be realised.
New Standards and Interpretations
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. The following standards, amendments 
and interpretations were adopted for the year ended 31 December 2016 and have not had a material impact on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group.
• Annual improvements to IFRSs
• Disclosure initiative – amendment to IAS1 
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following standards and interpretations which have been issued but which are 
not effective for the year ended 31 December 2016. These standards and interpretations have not been adopted early. 
• IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments”
• IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” 
• IFRS 16, “Leasing”
At 31 December 2016 the impact of these changes on the Groups financial statements had not been quantified. However the 
impact of IFRS 16, is expected to significantly affect the Group’s lease accounting and Financial Statements. Changes to IFRS 9 
and IFRS 15 are not expected to have a material effect.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
96
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
2. Operating Segments
The Group has determined that is has two operating segments: UK and Ireland and Rest of the World (“ROW”). The results for 
the UK and Ireland include the two cinema chain brands, Cineworld and Picturehouse and for the ROW they include the cinema 
chain brands Cinema City in Central and Eastern Europe territories and Yes Planet and Rav Chen in Israel.
UK &
Ireland
£m
ROW
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 31 December 2016
Total revenues
(1)
494.0 303.8 797.8
EBITDA as defined in Note 1 97.1 78.7 175.8
Segmental operating profit 60.2 52.6 112.8
Net finance costs 13.4 1.2 14.6
Depreciation and amortisation 28.9 29.7 58.6
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.5 – 1.5
Profit before tax 46.8 51.4 98.2
Non-current asset additions – property, plant and equipment 46.9 72.4 119.3
Non-current asset additions – intangible assets 60.6 5.4 66.0
Investment in equity accounted investee 0.6 0.3 0.9
Non-current asset – goodwill 296.8 353.8 650.6
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges (0.5) (1.0) (1.5)
Impairments and reversals of impairments 0.8 (1.2) (0.4)
Segmental total assets 571.4 725.3 1,296.7
Year ended 31 December 2015
Total revenues
(1)
465.9 239.9 705.8
EBITDA 95.7 59.6 155.3
Segmental operating profit 71.3 31.8 103.1
Net finance costs (3.0) (0.4) (3.4)
Depreciation and amortisation 25.6 23.8 49.4
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.7 0.2 1.9
Profit before tax 68.3 31.4 99.7
Non-current asset additions – property, plant and equipment 57.7 41.9 99.6
Non-current asset additions – intangible assets – 5.0 5.0
Investment in equity accounted investee 0.6 – 0.6
Non-current asset – goodwill 236.2 303.1 539.3
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges (1.6) (0.1) (1.7)
Impairments and reversals of impairments 6.3 2.7 9.0
Segmental total assets 519.4 574.5 1,093.9
(1) All revenues were received from third parties.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 97
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Operating Segments continued
Entity Wide Disclosures
Revenue by country
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
United Kingdom & Ireland 494.0 465.9
Israel 63.5 52.0
Poland 98.1 78.0
Bulgaria 11.9 11.0
Romania 42.6 30.3
Hungary 49.7 39.0
Slovakia 8.4 6.7
Czech Republic 29.6 22.9
Total revenue 797.8 705.8
UK and Ireland
Revenue by product and service provided
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Box office 324.0 311.9
Retail 117.5 107.2
Other 52.5 46.8
Total revenue 494.0 465.9
ROW
Revenue by product and service provided
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Box office 176.9 139.7
Retail 73.3 55.5
Other 53.6 44.7
Total revenue 303.8 239.9
3. Other Operating Income
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Rental income 2.7 2.3
Profits on disposals of assets classified as held for sale – 6.4
Total other operating income 2.7 8.7  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
98
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
4. Operating Profit
Included in operating profit for the year are the following:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Depreciation (see Note 9) 47.9 38.4
Impairments (see Notes 9 and 10) 1.3 9.0
Reversals of impairments (see Notes 9 and 10) (1.7) –
Amortisation of intangibles (see Note 10) 10.7 11.0
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges (1.5) (1.7)
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.5 1.9
Hire of other assets – operating leases 87.3
(1)
80.8
(1)
Settlement of defined benefit pension liability 4.8 –
(1) £1.0m (2015: £0.9m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
In 2016 there is a gain of £1.7m (2015: £2.0m) on onerous leases following changes in trading assumptions and a further release of 
£1.0m due the closure of a site with an onerous lease provision in place. Other non-recurring charges included a gain on property 
provisions of £0.1m and the write off of £1.3m lease related assets no longer considered recoverable.
In 2016 transaction and reorganisation costs include £0.8m relating the integration and relocation of head office functions and 
redundancy costs (2015: £1.9m), £0.5m of costs incurred on the acquisition of five cinemas from Empire Cinemas Limited, £1.0m 
incurred in the termination of contracts and the recovery £0.8m in VAT in respect of previously incurred transactions costs.
The total remuneration of the Group auditor, KPMG LLP, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Auditor’s remuneration:
Group – audit 0.6 0.7
Company – audit – 0.1
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.8
– Audit related assurance services – 0.1
– Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.5
– Other advisory services 0.2 –
– All other services – –  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 99
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested 
ordinary shares held by the employee ownership trust.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders 
is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets recognised as part of business combinations and other one-
off income or expense and then adjusting for the tax impact on those items which is calculated at the effective tax rate for the 
current year. The performance of adjusted earnings per share is used to determine awards to Executive Directors under the 
Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”). Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to 
ordinary shareholders by weighted average number of any non-vested ordinary shares held by the employee share ownership 
trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 82.0 81.3
Adjustments:
Amortisation of intangible assets
(1)
4.6 4.2
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.5 1.9
Impairments and reversals of impairments (0.4) 9.0
Onerous lease cost and other non-recurring charges (1.5) (1.7)
Settlement of defined benefit pension scheme 4.8 –
Impact of foreign exchange translation gains and losses
(3)
6.1 (7.7)
Exceptional finance credit
(2)
(1.9) –
Profit on disposal of assets classified as held for sale – (6.4)
Adjusted earnings 95.2 80.6
Tax effect of above items (1.4) (1.3)
Adjusted profit after tax 93.8 79.3
Year ended
31 December 
2016
Total
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
Total
Weighted average number of shares in issue 266.2 264.7
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator 266.2 264.7
Dilutive options 4.4 2.5
Diluted earnings per share denominator 270.6 267.2
Shares in issue at year end 267.6 265.2
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 30.8 30.7
Diluted earnings per share 30.4 30.4
Adjusted basic earnings per share 35.2 30.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 34.7 29.7
(1) Amortisation of intangible assets includes amortisation of the fair value placed on brands, customer lists, distribution relationships, and advertising relationships as a 
result of the Cinema City business combination. It does not include amortisation of purchased distribution rights (which totalled £6.1m (2015: £6.5m)). 
(2) Exceptional finance credits of £1.9m in 2016 were made up of the net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity, no such charges were incurred 
in 2015.
(3) Net foreign exchange gains and losses included within earnings comprises of £6.1m foreign exchange loss recognised on translation of the Euro term loan at 
31 December 2016 (2015: £7.7m gain). 2015 Adjusted EPS has been amended, as it previously included £3.8m in foreign exchange losses recognised on translating 
overseas operations into the reporting currency of the Group. Management no longer consider these movements should be excluded.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
100
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
6. Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category, was 
as follows:
Number of staff
2016 2015
Head office 683 624
Cinemas 9,263 8,682
9,946 9,306
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees. No distinction is made between 
full-time and part-time employees in the analysis above. 
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Wages and salaries 101.8 88.6
Social security costs 8.8 7.8
Other pension costs – defined contribution 0.3 0.6
Share-based payments (see Note 18) 2.0 1.8
112.9 98.8
See pages 54 to 72 for details of Directors’ remuneration.
7. Finance Income and Expense
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Interest income 0.7 0.3
Net foreign exchange gain – 8.0
Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income (Note 18) 0.4 0.4
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit or loss in respect settled of cash flow hedges 1.9 –
Finance income 3.0 8.7
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 7.8 9.3
Amortisation of financing costs 1.4 1.3
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 0.6 0.8
Unwind of discount on finance lease liability 0.7 –
Unwind of discount on market rent provision 0.4 0.4
Net foreign exchange loss 6.7 –
Other financial costs – 0.3
Finance expense 17.6 12.1
Net finance costs 14.6 3.4
Recognised Within Other Comprehensive Income
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap 0.5 1.1
Foreign exchange translation (loss) (88.2) (16.9)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 101
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. Taxation
Recognised in the Income Statement
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 16.5 11.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years (4.1) –
Total current tax expense 12.4 11.2
Deferred tax expense
Current year 1.3 7.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.5 –
Total tax charge in statement of profit or loss 16.2 18.4
Effective tax rate 16.5% 18.5%
Current year effective tax rate 18.1% 18.5%
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Profit before tax 98.2 99.7
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 20.0% (2015: 20.25%) 19.6 20.2
Differences in overseas tax rates (5.9) (2.2)
Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.3 1.9
Other permanent differences 1.5 (1.5)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.6) –
Increase in unrecognised deferred tax assets (1.4) –
Effect of change in statutory rate on deferred tax 2.7 –
Total tax charge in statement of profit or loss 16.2 18.4
During the year there was a net deferred tax debit of £1.0m (2015: £Nil) recognised directly in the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income. This related to the actuarial loss on the defined benefit scheme and the movement in the fair value of the 
cash flow hedge on part of the Group’s bank loans; see Note 12.
Factors that May Affect Future Tax Charges
As at 31 December 2016 the Group had potential UK tax assets relating to the following:
• Capital losses of approximately £7.5m (2015: £7.5m).
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on £5.8m of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries which are potentially 
subject to withholding tax on distribution, as the Group can control the timing of remittances and it is probable that no 
remittance will be made in the foreseeable future. No withholding tax or other taxes are imposed under local tax laws on the 
distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries resident in the majority of the Group’s jurisdictions. 
At 31 December 2016 the Group had unrecognised potential tax assets relating to the following temporary differences:
• UK capital losses of £7.5m
• Overseas tax losses of £1.6m expiring over periods to 2025
• Other overseas temporary differences of £12.1m
If is not considered probable that future taxable profit will be available against which these deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply to the periods when the assets are 
realised or liabilities settled, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 31 December 2016. 
The Group operates in nine countries and is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the 
provision for taxes as the varying tax treatments applying to transactions across jurisdictions are complex and cannot be finally 
determined until formal resolutions have been reached with the relevant tax authorities. These can take several years to conclude. 
Provision is made based on management’s interpretation of country specific tax laws and likely settlement outcomes.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
102
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued
9. Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and 
buildings  
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures 
and
fittings
£m
Assets
in the
course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 134.6 108.8 133.1 23.4 399.9
Additions 21.0 15.5 24.1 39.0 99.6
Disposals (2.2) (4.4) (6.9) – (13.5)
Transfers 37.1 5.0 10.1 (52.2) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (2.3) (3.1) (1.3) 0.4 (6.3)
Balance at 31 December 2015 188.2 121.8 159.1 10.6 479.7
Additions 21.3 16.9 21.4 16.9 76.5
Additions due to acquisition 35.4 1.5 5.9 – 42.8
Disposals (5.2) (4.1) (2.3) – (11.6)
Transfers 4.9 6.7 8.6 (20.2) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange 9.5 24.3 25.3 1.2 60.3
Balance at 31 December 2016 254.1 167.1 218.0 8.5 647.7
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance at 1 January 2015 33.8 28.6 39.9 – 102.3
Charge for the period 7.3 15.5 15.6 – 38.4
Disposals (0.3) (2.6) (7.5) – (10.4)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (1.4) (1.9) (1.7) – (5.0)
Impairments 4.7 1.8 2.5 – 9.0
Reversals of impairments – – – – –
Balance at 31 December 2015 44.1 41.4 48.8 – 134.3
Charge for the period 9.5 20.3 18.1 – 47.9
Disposals (5.2) (3.5) (2.4) – (11.1)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange 3.5 15.8 12.3 – 31.6
Impairments 0.7 0.5 0.1 – 1.3
Reversals of impairments (0.1) (0.9) (0.7) (1.7)
Balance at 31 December 2016 52.5 73.6 76.2 – 202.3
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 144.1 80.4 110.3 10.6 345.4
At 31 December 2016 201.6 93.5 141.8 8.5 445.4
Land and buildings are made up of long and short leasehold properties (including leasehold improvements) and freehold properties.
The net book value of assets held under finance lease is:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Opening net book value 6.8 7.1
Additions 16.5 –
Depreciation charge (0.5) (0.3)
Closing net book value 22.8 6.8
The above assets held under finance leases relate to three cinema sites, two cinema sites for which the leased assets are included 
within land and buildings and equipment and another site in which they are held in plant and machinery. 
Interest of £0.5m (2015: £1.2m) has been capitalised during the period which relates to the construction of new sites.
No proceeds were received in the period in respect of the tangible fixed asset disposals.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 103
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Impairment
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist or based on the annual 
impairment assessment. The annual assessment requires an estimate of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the 
tangible fixed assets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual cinema site level. Where individual sites cash flows are 
not considered independent from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial decisions being made across more than one 
site, they may be combined into a single cash generating unit. 
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each CGU and 
discount these to their net present value at a pre-tax discount rate which is appropriate for the territory where the assets are 
held. A table summarising the rates used, which are derived from externally benchmarked data, is set out below:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
United Kingdom 9.20% 11.36%
Israel 12.73%
(1)
17.28%
Poland 12.65% 13.10%
Bulgaria 10.64% 15.27%
Romania 11.81% 16.69%
Hungary 12.96% 17.78%
Slovakia 11.11% 15.66%
Czech Republic 11.04% 15.48%
(1) For sites which generate significant rental cashflows in addition to cinema cashflows a separate discount rate of 13.06% was used to reflect the specific risks related to 
those CGUs.
For established sites, expected future cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors covering 
a one-year period. Cash flows beyond the first period are extrapolated using the assumptions used in the impairment model. 
Constant growth rate assumptions are used for projections on established sites. For new sites, where a constant growth would 
not accurately reflect market conditions, more detailed growth assumptions are used for the first five years. 
UK & Ireland ROW
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
%
Discount rate 9.20 11.36 (N/ A)
(1)
(N/ A)
(1)
EBITDAR growth rate
 
years 1-2 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00
EBITDAR growth rate year 3 onward 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
 
(1) Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used, a summary is disclosed above.
2017 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation. This was adjusted to add 
back rent (EBITDAR). Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 3.0% per annum over the life of 
the model. Cash flows are projected over the shorter of the life of the property lease or the intangible assets to which the cash 
flow relates.
Impairments recognised during the year totalled £1.3m within the UK and Ireland operating segment, £0.8m related to capital 
expenditure on cinema sites for which onerous lease provisions were in place, the remaining £0.5m related to the write off of 
residual assets held at sites which were closed during the year. 
Impairment Reversals
A review of future cash flows for previously impaired cinema sites identified improvements in trading performance at three sites 
sufficient to recognise a reversal of impairment. An impairment reversal of £0.5m was recognised for one site in the UK and £1.2m 
relating to two sites in the ROW, of these reversals £1.2m arose due to previously independent CGUs being considered together 
as they are now considered to be strategically or operationally inter-dependant.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
104
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
9. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
Impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in key assumptions. Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the established 
CGUs’ calculated recoverable amounts giving consideration to incremental changes in the key assumptions of EBITDAR and 
discount rates.
The cashflow models used in assessing the carrying values of sites opened within the last two years are based on specific 
assumptions made prior to opening in respect of the early growth phase of the sites. Therefore sensitivity analysis is not applied 
to these sites during this time.
The sensitivities applied reflect realistic scenarios which management believe would have the most significant impact on the cash 
flows described above.
Discounts rates are largely derived from market data, and these rates are intended to be long term in nature so therefore should 
be reasonably stable in the short term. However, the models are sensitive to changes in these rates. Increases by a factor of 1%, 
2% and 5% have been applied in the sensitised scenarios on the basis they reflect the range of likely to maximum variances in 
rates applied.
The growth rates for EBITDAR in years 1 and 2 have been reduced to 2%, 1% and nil. EBITDAR sensitivities reflect reductions in 
growth which would largely be driven by changes in admissions and ticket price. Given the short term admissions trends and 
ticket price inflation, sensitivities applied are believed to reflect a potential downside scenario. 
From year 3 onward a lower long term growth rate is applied, which is in line or below long term inflation in each territory. As 
such we already consider this assumption prudent and therefore this has not been included as part of the sensitivities performed. 
When reviewing the outputs of the sensitivity analysis, particular focus is given to material amounts where headroom is 
more limited. 
The impact on the total impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the first two years and 
the discount rates would be as follows:
£m
EBITDAR growth rate in years 1-2 reduced to 2% 4.8
EBITDAR growth rate in years 1-2 reduced to 1% 5.0
No growth in EBITDAR growth rate in years 1-2 5.2
1 percentage point increase to the discount rates 0.1
2 percentage point increase to the discount rates 0.1
5 percentage point increase to the discount rates 0.7
For CGUs which are still in a rapid growth phase and include significant rental cash flows in addition to the cinema cash flows, 
specific local factors should be considered when preparing the forecast admissions which differ from a constant future growth 
rate. Therefore the basic sensitivities highlighted above are not appropriate to be applied. As such these CGUs have been 
excluded from the above analysis and alternative sensitivities, reflecting management’s best estimate of likely possible changes, 
have been applied. 
EBITDAR is particularly sensitive to a change in admissions due to its particular growth profile. As such EBITDAR has been 
reduced to reflect a 15% reduction in mature admissions and related cash flows. In assessing the risk associated with these cash 
flows, discount rates have been increased across the various income streams to reflect the maximum expected variances which 
are considered realistic in practice. 
From the sensitivity analysis performed, including a mix of downsides when applying admissions decrease and discount rate 
increase, the potential impairment level ranges from headroom of £0.3m to impairment of £5.1m. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 105
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. Intangible Assets
Goodwill 
£m
Brand  
£m
Distribution 
rights
£m
Other 
intangibles
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 561.2 39.4 19.7 10.7 631.0
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – – – – –
Additions – – 4.9 0.1 5.0
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (13.5) (0.7) (0.5) (0.7) (15.4)
Balance at 31 December 2015 547.7 38.7 24.1 10.1 620.6
Additions 60.6 – 3.3 2.1 66.0
Disposals – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange 50.7 3.4 5.3 2.1 61.5
Balance at 31 December 2016 659.0 42.1 32.7 13.5 747.3
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
Balance at 1 January 2015 8.4 5.4 3.5 1.1 18.4
Amortisation – 2.7 6.5 1.8 11.0
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – (0.3) (0.3) (0.6)
Balance at 31 December 2015 8.4 8.1 9.7 2.6 28.8
Amortisation – 2.8 6.1 1.8 10.7
Disposals – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – 2.6 1.1 3.7
Balance at 31 December 2016 8.4 10.9 18.4 4.8 42.5
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 539.3 30.6 14.4 7.5 591.8
At 31 December 2016 650.6 31.2 14.3 8.7 704.8
Impairment Testing
Each individual cinema, or collections of cinemas which are strategically or operationally co-dependant, are considered to be one 
CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under IAS 36 to group CGUs, in order to reflect 
the level at which goodwill is monitored by management.
The ex-Cine-UK, ex-UGC (including Dublin) and Picturehouse businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that goodwill is 
now monitored on a UK wide level. Cinema City CGUs are considered as separate groups and have been tested for goodwill 
impairment on this basis, the Cinema City CGUs are considered on a territory basis, the territories being Poland (2016: £96.2m, 
2015: 85.3m), Israel (2016: £64.4m, 2015: £52.6m), Hungary (2016: £47.9m, 2015: £40.3m), Romania (2016: £99.7m, 2015: £85.8m), 
Bulgaria (2016: £15.3m, 2015: £13.1m), Czech (2016: £26.6m, 2015: £22.8m) and Slovakia (2016: £3.7m, 2015: £3.2m). 
The five sites acquired from Empire Cinemas Limited in the year are considered to have been fully integrated from the date of 
acquisition as there were no support functions included in the acquisition. The acquired goodwill in respect of this transaction is 
therefore included within the UK CGU.
The recoverable amount of UK and Cinema City CGU’s have been determined based on a value in use calculation. That 
calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period. Cash 
flows beyond the first five year period have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth rate does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for the market in which the CGU operates.
The UK business has discounted forecast cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% (2014: 11.36%) being a market 
participant’s discount rate. The Cinema City CGUs have discounted forecast cash flows using a pre-tax discount rates relevant to 
the operating territory of each CGU (see Note 9), being a market participant’s discount rate. This is considered to reflect the risks 
associated with the relevant cash flows each CGU.
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections for the purpose of the impairment review are as follows:
UK & Ireland ROW
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
%
Discount rate 9.20 11.36 (N/ A)
(1)
(N/ A)
(1)
EBITDA growth rate from year 5 onward 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
(1) Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used, a summary is disclosed in Note 9.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
106
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
10. Intangible Assets continued
2017 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation. 
Management have sensitised the key assumptions in the goodwill impairment tests and under both the base case and sensitised 
cases no impairment exists. The key assumptions used and sensitised were forecast cashflows and the relevant discount rate, 
which were selected as they are the key variable elements of the value in use. 
A reduction of 10% in the forecast cashflows for each CGU from year 2 to 5 or an increase in the discount rate applied to the 
cashflows of each CGU of 1 percentage point would not cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount for any 
CGU. Therefore, management believe that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not result in an 
impairment charge.
Amortisation Charge
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the statement of profit or loss:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Administrative expenses 10.7 11.0
11. Investment in Equity Accounted Investees
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entities:
Country of Incorporation
Class of 
shares held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50%
BLACK Schrauber Limited Israel Ordinary 50%
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited 
(“Odeon”). On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office 
and existing contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require 
the unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management 
control of DCM, therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Cost 0.9 0.9
Share of post-acquisition reserves (0.3) (0.3)
0.6 0.6
Share of post-tax loss – –
Carrying value 0.6 0.6
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100%:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Current assets 20.3 31.5
Non-current assets 1.8 1.7
Current liabilities (16.1) (22.8)
Non-current liabilities (6.4) (11.0)
Net liabilities (0.4) (0.6)
Income 65.2 65.3
Expenses (65.2) (65.3)
Net loss – –
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 107
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. Investment in Equity Accounted Investees continued
On 24 June 2015 the Group jointly formed a partnership for running a restaurant in the new complex in Jerusalem, as at 
31 December 2016 the assets, liabilities and net profit of BLACK Schrauber Limited were not material to the Group.
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Cost 0.3 –
Share of post-acquisition reserves – –
0.3 –
Share of post-tax loss – –
Carrying value 0.3 –
12. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 (6.2) (2.1) (6.1) (1.8)
Intangible assets – – (8.6) (6.8) (8.6) (6.8)
Employee benefits 0.5 1.0 (0.3) (2.1) 0.2 (1.1)
Onerous lease – 0.2 – – – 0.2
Market rent 0.4 0.6 (0.1) – 0.3 0.6
Interest rate swap 0.2 0.5 – – 0.2 0.5
Tax losses 0.3 0.4 – – 0.3 0.4
Other 1.0 – – – 1.0 –
Tax assets/(liabilities) 2.5 3.0 (15.2) (11.0) (12.7) (8.0)
Set off tax (2.4) (3.0) 2.4 3.0 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 0.1 – (12.8) (8.0) (12.7) (8.0)
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at the local tax rates on the 
above items.
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any key 
assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
1 January
2016
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
Forex
£m
31 December 
2016 
£m
Property, plant and equipment (1.8) (4.2) – (0.1) (6.1)
Intangible assets (6.8) (0.6) – (1.2) (8.6)
Employee benefits (1.1) 0.9 0.4 – 0.2
Onerous lease 0.2 (0.2) – – –
Market rent 0.6 (0.3) – – 0.3
Interest rate swap 0.5 (0.3) – – 0.2
Tax losses 0.4 (0.1) – – 0.3
Other – 1.0 – – 1.0
Tax liabilities (8.0) (3.8) 0.4 (1.3) (12.7)
13. Inventories
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Goods for resale 9.8 9.2
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the year amounted to £55.8m (2015: £45.5m).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
108
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
14. Trade and Other Receivables
Current
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Trade receivables 29.8 23.5
Other receivables 7.7 7.5
Prepayments and accrued income 36.5 36.8
 74.0 67.8
Non-current
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Other property receivables 4.5 4.6
Land lease premiums 0.9 0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.6 0.6
6.0 6.1
Other property receivables represent the fair value asset of leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B.V. 
The Virtual Print Fee accrued income balance recognised at the year end of £nil (2015: £3.5m) is included within the prepayments 
and accrued income. The balance is accrued based on the number of relevant film screenings during the year. 
15. Business Combinations
On 28 July 2016 Cineworld Group Plc (the “Group”) announced the acquisition of five Cinemas from Cinema Holdings Limited by 
means of an acquisition of 100% of the shares, including all of the voting rights.
Consideration transferred
The acquisition was completed on 11 August 2016, at which point the consideration equated to £94.5m which would be settled 
equally in cash, and in Cineworld Group plc ordinary shares in addition to the transfer of the trade and assets of the Group’s 
Haymarket cinema to Cinema Holdings Limited. The shares will be issued in five instalments during a 12 month period, based on 
an issue price reflecting 20 days’ average trading price prior to the date of each issuance. The first issue of shares took place on 
18 November 2016. 
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred
£m
Cash consideration 47.0
Share consideration 47.0
Transfer of cinema assets 0.5
Total fair value of consideration transferred 94.5
The fair value of the shares issued to Cinema Holdings Limited will include £42.0m split into four tranches, issued at three month 
intervals with the first issued on the three month anniversary of completion of the acquisition.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed
£m
Fair value of total net identifiable assets upon acquisition
Property, plant and equipment: 42.8
Finance lease liability (8.2)
Deferred tax provisions (0.2)
Provisions for liabilities (0.5)
Cash and cash equivalents –
Total net identifiable assets 33.9
Goodwill 60.6
Consideration transferred 94.5
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 109
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. Business Combinations continued
The Key Judgments considered were as follows:
Property and leases
The fair value of property, plant and equipment of £42.8m included a number of adjustments. Old cinema equipment and assets 
which were previously held at their residual value of £3.2m were fully depreciated as the residual value is not expected to be 
realised. A fair value adjustment of £3.0m was made in respect of the Bromley site in recognition of the residual value in the 
sellers books being below the current market value.
As well as considering the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment, management also considered the lease contract 
for each of the cinemas. Where leases include options to extend beyond the existing contracted term this was taken into 
consideration. Two leases held on the Leicester Square site were classified as finance leases and a liability for the fair value of the 
minimum expected lease payments on each recognized, a corresponding asset was recognised in respect of the fair value of the 
lease within Property, Plant and Equipment.
Tax
The acquired deferred tax liability of £0.2m reflects taxable temporary differences on fixed assets at acquisition.
No income tax liability is recognised on acquisition as future tax charges are not expected to arise in respect of tax positions 
open at the date of acquisition.
Identifiable Intangible Assets
There were no identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition. Management consider the residual Goodwill of £60.6m to 
represent a number of factors including the strategic location of the sites acquired, the established benefit of an established site, 
the value the acquired sites can add to Cineworld’s existing brand and products as well as synergies expected to be realised post 
acquisition. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss since 11 August 2016 contributed by the acquired sites 
was £11.9m. The profit before tax contributed was £2.6m over the same period. Had the five cinemas been consolidated from 
1 January 2016 (the commencement of the current financial period), the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss would show 
revenue of £814.5m and profit before tax of £101.9m.
Acquisition related costs of £0.5m were charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for 
the year ended 31 December 2016.
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.6 0.6
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 307.1 285.3
Liabilities under finance leases 13.6 6.1
321.3 292.0
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.5 1.0
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 14.9 14.0
Liabilities under finance leases 1.4 0.7
16.8 15.7  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
110
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
31 December 2016 31 December 2015
Currency Nominal interest rate
Year of 
maturity
Face
value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Face
value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Unsecured bank loan – 1 GBP LIBOR +1.40% 2020 276.8 273.9 256.2 252.4
Unsecured bank loan – 2 EURO EURIBOR +1.40% 2020 46.2 45.8 44.1 43.5
Unsecured bank loan – 3 NIS 2.6% 2020 2.3 2.3 3.4 3.4
Finance lease liability – 1 GBP 7.2% 2029 6.0 6.0 6.2 6.2
Finance lease liability – 2 EURO 6.5% 2021 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.6
Finance lease liability – 3 GBP 6.2% 2060 7.9 8.2 – –
Finance lease liability – 4 GBP 9.6% 2036 – – – –
Total interest bearing liabilities 339.9 337.0 310.5 306.1
See Note 21 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Within one year 1.3 0.8
Between one and two years 1.3 0.8
In the second to fifth years 4.2 2.6
Over five years 27.2 6.4
34.0 10.6
Less future finance charges (19.3) (3.8)
14.7 6.8
Analysis of Net Debt
Cash at 
bank
and in hand
£m
Bank
overdraft
£m
Bank
loans
£m
Finance
leases
£m
Interest rate
swap
£m
Net debt
£m
At 1 January 2015 37.4 (2.1) (307.1) (7.4) (2.7) (281.9)
Cash flows 27.9 2.1 1.9 1.0 – 32.9
Non-cash movement – – (1.8) (0.4) 1.1 (1.1)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates (2.8) – 7.7 – – 4.9
At 31 December 2015 62.5 – (299.3) (6.8) (1.6) (245.2)
Cash flows (14.1) – (13.4) 1.0 – (26.5)
Non-cash movement – – (1.8) (9.2) 0.5 (10.5)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates 7.4 – (7.5) – – (0.1)
At 31 December 2016 55.8 – (322.0) (15.0) (1.1) (282.3)
The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 111
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. Trade and Other Payables
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Current
Trade payables 30.1 33.9
Other payables 27.7 24.8
Accruals and deferred income 81.0 83.1
Deferred consideration 37.0 –
175.8 141.8
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income 74.8 67.0
Government grants 1.7 1.8
76.5 68.8
Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight-lining operating leases.
18. Employee Benefits
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension 
Scheme, and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
MGM Scheme
The Scheme is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary. The Scheme 
closed to future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
On 15 December 2016 the scheme was bought out by Aviva Annuity UK Limited, with all risks in relation to the scheme passing 
to Aviva Annuity UK Limited as of the buyout date. This transition was treated as a settlement occurring on 15 December 2016 
(the inception date). Following this transaction, all members of the Scheme have had their benefits secured with Aviva Annuity 
UK Limited, discharging the Group’s legal and constructive obligations for the scheme. The past service liabilities at 31 December 
2016 are therefore shown as nil.
The Group has engaged its actuary’s assistance in measuring the defined benefit asset for the purposes of IAS19 revised for the 
year ended 31 December 2016 as well as at the buyout date.
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2015. 
The present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured 
using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses up to the date of the buyout were recognised in the year in which they occurred, but outside the 
Statement of Profit or Loss, through Other Comprehensive Income.
The Group made contributions of £0.8m during 2016 (2015: £1.6m).
The net surplus/(deficit) in the pension scheme is:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
MGM Pension Scheme – 10.5
Net surplus – 10.5
Following the buyout transaction there is no asset or liability recognised in respect of the fair value of the scheme, £1.6m is 
recognised within other receivables in respect of the amount due to the Group from the settlement of the scheme.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
112
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
18. Employee Benefits continued
Profile of the Scheme
The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees, former employees and current pensioners.
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Analysis of defined benefit obligation by membership category
Total value of current employees benefits – 2.9
Deferred members benefits – 10.0
Pensioner member benefits – 18.1
Total defined benefit obligation – 31.0
Following the buyout transaction, all members of the scheme have had their benefits secured with Aviva Annuity UK Limited, 
there is no longer any obligation by the Group to the members of the scheme.
Funding Requirements
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out 
by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2015 and showed a surplus of £1.7m. The Group paid deficit contributions of £0.8m in 2016 to 
support the scheme, following the buyout transaction no further contribution in respect of the scheme are expected.
Risks Associated with the Scheme
Following the buyout transaction all of the risks in respect of the scheme have been transferred to Aviva Annuity UK Limited. 
Prior to settlement, the Scheme exposed the Group to a number of risks, the most significant of which are:
Asset Volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond 
yields; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The Scheme holds a 
significant proportion of growth assets (equity diversified growth funds and global 
absolute return fund) which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the 
long-term, create volatility and risk in the short term. The allocation to growth assets is 
monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the Scheme’s long-term objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s 
liabilities for accounting purposes, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the 
value of the Scheme’s bond holdings.
Inflation Risk A significant proportion of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and 
higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of 
inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation). The majority of the 
assets are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an 
increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life Expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, 
so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
A contingent liability previously existed in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (“GMP”). The UK 
Government intends to implement legislation which could result in an increase in the value of GMP for males. This would increase 
the defined benefit obligation of the plan. At this stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change. The buyout 
premium paid includes an estimated additional cost for GMP equalisation and this cost is therefore included in the settlement 
recorded through the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are set out below:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations – (31.0)
Fair value of plan assets – 41.5
Surplus in scheme – 10.5
When the members’ benefits have been fully paid, the rules of the scheme permit any surplus to revert to the employer (the 
Group). Therefore the surplus on the scheme has been recognised as an asset. The fair value of plan asset remaining at 31 
December 2016 represent the residual balance following settlement of the scheme and all risks and obligations transferring to 
Aviva Annuity UK Limited, it is expected that these assets will transfer to the Group on completion of the buyout process.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 113
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
At beginning of year (31.0) (32.4)
Interest cost (1.1) (1.1)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (9.0) 1.4
Benefits paid 2.0 1.1
Settlements 39.1 –
At end of year – (31.0)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
At start of year 41.5 41.0
Interest income 1.5 1.4
Re-measurement gain/(loss) 3.9 (1.2)
Contributions by employer 0.8 1.6
Administration costs incurred (0.3) (0.2)
Benefits paid (2.0) (1.1)
Settlements (43.8) –
At end of year 1.6 41.5
(Expense)/income recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Operating cost
 Administration expenses (0.3) (0.2)
 Settlement cost (4.8) –
Net finance costs
 Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income 0.4 0.4
Other comprehensive income
 Re-measurement of the defined benefit asset (5.1) 0.2
Total recognised in profit and loss and other comprehensive income (9.8) 0.4
The income is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Administrative expenses (5.1) (0.2)
Finance income 0.4 0.4
Total 4.7 0.2
Analysis of amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the year (5.1) 0.2  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
114
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
18. Employee Benefits continued
The Scheme assets are invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market):
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Equities – 8.3
Absolute return funds – 16.1
Liability driven instruments – 16.7
Other – 0.4
Total – 41.5
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Interest income 1.5 1.4
Re-measurement of plan assets in excess of interest income 3.9 (1.2)
Actual return on plan assets 5.4 0.2
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 are set out below:
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
%
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
%
RPI Inflation 3.55 3.1
CPI Inflation 2.55 2.0
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 5.55 4.1
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.25–3.3 1.8–3.3
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.85 3.70
The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Scheme’s liabilities.
Main demographic assumptions
Year ended
31 December 2016
Year ended
31 December 2015
Year ended
1 January 2015
Mortality table adopted S1PXA base table with
future improvements in
 line with CMI 2014 core
projections with long-term
improvement rate of 
1.75% per annum.
S1PXA base table with
future improvements in
 line with CMI 2014 
core projections with 
long-term improvement 
rate of 1% per annum.
S1PXA base table with
future improvements in
line with CMI 2013 core
projections with long-term
improvement rate of 
1% per annum.
Life expectancy for male 
currently aged 65 22.4 22.1 22.1
Life expectancy for female  
currently aged 65 24.5 24.4 24.3
Cash commutation
None
Members assumed to
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump
sum at retirement
Members assumed to
 exchange 31% of their
 pension for a cash lump
sum at retirement
The mortality assumptions are based on the recent actual mortality experience of scheme members, and allow for expected 
future improvement in mortality rates.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 115
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior years is as follows:
Balance Sheet
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended 
1 December 
2015 
£m
Year ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
Year ended
26 December 
2013 
£m
Year ended
27 December 
2012 
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation – (31.0) (32.4) (28.8) (28.1)
Fair value of plan assets – 41.5 41.0 34.1 32.5
Surplus – 10.5 8.6 5.3 4.4
Experience Adjustments
Year ended
31 December 
2016 
£m
Year ended 
1 December 
2015 
£m
Year ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
Year ended
26 December 
2013 
£m
Year ended
27 December 
2012 
£m
Experience (loss)/gain on plan assets (3.9) 1.2 (5.2) (0.1) 0.4
Experience (loss)/gain on plan liabilities – (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 1.0
Sensitivity to Key Assumptions
No sensitivity analysis has been performed given there remains no liability on the Group’s Balance Sheet at the 31 December 2016. 
Defined Contribution Plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.3m (2015: £0.6m). There was £nil accruing to these pension 
schemes as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £0.1m).
Accrued Employee Retirement Rights
Local applicable labour laws and agreements in the ROW require certain Group companies to pay severance pay to dismissed 
or retiring employees (including those leaving their employment under certain other circumstances). The calculation of the 
severance pay liability has been made in accordance with labour agreements in force and based on salary components that, in 
management’s opinion, create entitlement to severance pay. 
Group companies’ severance pay liabilities to their employees are funded partially by regular deposits with recognised pension 
and severance pay funds in the employees’ names and by purchase of insurance policies. They are accounted for as if they were 
a defined contribution plan. The amounts funded as above are netted against the related liabilities and are not reflected in the 
Balance Sheet since they are not under the control and management of the companies. 
The amounts of the liability for severance pay presented in the Balance Sheet (see below) reflect that part of the liability 
not covered by the funds and the insurance policies mentioned above, as well as the liability that is funded by deposits 
with recognised central severance pay funds held under the name of the Company’s subsidiaries. 
The cost of severance provision is determined according to the projected unit credit method. It has been calculated using a 
discounted cash flow approach. The calculations are based on the following assumptions: 
• Discount at 31 December 2016 1.73%. 
• Expected returns on plan assets at 31 December 2016 1.02%. 
The net provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement comprises:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Present value of unfunded obligation 3.3 2.4
Less: Fair value of plan assets (1.5) (1.1)
1.8 1.3  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
116
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
18. Employee Benefits continued
Movements in the provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement: 
Gross  
amount 
£m
Amount 
deposited 
£m
Net amount 
£m
At start of period 2.4 (1.1) 1.3
Payments made upon retirement (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Net movement in provision – charged to net profit 0.5 – 0.5
Foreign exchange movements 0.5 (0.2) 0.3
3.3 (1.5) 1.8
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan
The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil. 
The trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded 
to the Group. Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised. The Scheme has a surplus of £0.3m as at 31 December 2016 
(2015: £0.6m).
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2016. Based on this 
assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had 
accrued to members. In view of this, a suspension of Group contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 31 December 
2016. Total contributions for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 were £nil and £nil, respectively. No 
contributions are expected for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Share-Based Payments
As at 31 December 2016 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Cineworld Group 2007 Performance 
Share Plan, the Cineworld Group plc Company Share Option Plan and the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave Scheme. Details of 
each of the schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72. 
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The following share options have been granted under the PSP and were outstanding at 31 December 2016:
Date of grant Exercise period
2016 
Number  
of shares 
’000
2015 
Number 
of shares 
‘000
6 June 2014 3 years from 6 June 2014 567 584
23 April 2015 3 years from 23 April 2015 398 414
30 June 2015 3 years from 30 June 2015 7 7
18 April 2016 3 years from 18 April 2016 352 –
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years 
subject to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows:
6 June 2014
Under these grants, awards of 705,515 shares were made in total. Awards of 563,210 shares were made with the performance 
conditions set out below.
• 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 
2016) is not less than the annual compound increase of 10% per annum;
• 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) is at least equivalent to 
the annual compound increase of 18% per annum, and
• where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 
and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a 
straight-line basis between 30% and 100%. 
Further awards over 142,305 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no 
specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2014 grant was defined as adjusted pro forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 117
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
23 April and 30 June 2015 
Under these grants, awards of 517,530 shares were made in total. Awards of 405,826 shares were made with the performance 
conditions set out below.
• 30% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ending 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017) is 
not less than 8.0%;
• 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ending 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017) is at least 16.0%, and
• where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ending 1 January 2015 and 
the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2017) is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-
line basis between 30% and 100%.
“EPS” means adjusted earnings per share calculated by dividing the profits for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders 
(adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets and other one-off income or expense adjusted pro forma and 
applying a tax effect on all adjustments) by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the period, after excluding 
non-vested ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust at that time and adjusting for the effects of dilutive options
Further awards over 111,704 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with 
no specified performance conditions attached.
18 April 2016 
Under these grants, awards of 366,465 shares were made in total. Awards of 253,192 shares were made with the performance 
conditions set out below.
• 30% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ending 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2018) is 
not less than 6.0%;
• 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ending 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2018) is at least 12.0%, and 
• where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ending 1 January 2015 and 
the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2018) is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-
line basis between 30% and 100%.
EPS means adjusted earnings per share calculated by dividing the profits for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders 
(adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets and other one one-off income or expense adjusted pro forma and 
applying a tax effect on all adjustments) by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the period, after excluding 
non-vested ordinary shares held by the employee benefit trust at that time and adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
Further awards over 113,273 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with 
no specified performance conditions attached.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options outstanding are as follows:
Date of grant
Share price
at grant
(£)
Exercise 
price
(£)
Expected 
volatility
(%)
Expected 
life
(years)
Dividend 
yield
(%)
Risk
free rate
(%)
Fair value 
(£)
6 June 2014 3.46 – 41 3 4.3 0.56 3.07
23 April 2015 4.81 – 39 3 4.3 0.59 4.22
30 June 2015 4.81 – 39 3 4.3 0.59 4.22
18 April 2016 5.48 – 38 3 2.9 0.37 5.02
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2016 is shown below:
Number 
of options 
2016 
Equity-
settled 
‘000
Number 
of options 
2015 
Equity-
Settled 
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,425 1,926
Exercised in shares during the year (413) (772)
Granted during the year 366 518
Lapsed during the year (54) (247)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,324 1,425
A charge of £1.7m was recorded in the statement of profit or loss for the four PSP schemes.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
118
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
18. Employee Benefits continued
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
The following share options have been granted under the CSOP and were outstanding at 31 December 2016:
Date of grant Exercise period
2016 
Number 
of shares 
‘000
2015 
Number 
of shares 
‘000 Performance conditions
6 June 2014 3 years from 6 June 2014 5 14 Awards of 2,891 shares were made with the
same conditions as the 2014 PSP grant. 
Awards of 14,455 were made with no
performance conditions attached.
23 April 2015 3 years from 23 April 2015 38 50 All awards were made with no 
performance conditions attached. 
18 April 2016 3 years from 18 April 2016 21 – All awards were made with no
performance conditions attached.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options outstanding are as follows:
Date of grant
Share price
at grant
(£)
Exercise 
price
(£)
Expected 
volatility
(%)
Expected 
life
(years)
Dividend 
yield
(%)
Risk
free rate
(%)
Fair value 
(£)
6 June 2014 3.46 3.46 41 3–10 years 4.3 0.56 0.73
23 April 2015 4.81 4.81 39 3–10 years 4.3 0.59 0.94
18 April 2016 5.48 5.48 38 3-10 years 2.9 0.37 1.16
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2016 is shown below:
Number 
of options 
2016 
Equity-
settled
Number 
of options 
2015 
Equity-
settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 87 104
Exercised during the year (19) (63)
Granted during the year 24 50
Lapsed during the year (28) (4)
Outstanding at the end of the year 64 87
A charge of £0.1m was recorded in the statement of profit or loss for the four CSOP schemes. 
Sharesave scheme
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options.
The following share options have been granted under the Sharesave scheme and were outstanding at 31 December 2016:
Date of grant
2016
Number of 
shares
’000
2015 
Number of
shares
‘000
8 May 2014 349 386
12 May 2015 330 406
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 119
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. Employee Benefits continued
A reconciliation of option movement over the year to 31 December 2016 is shown below:
Number 
of options 
2016 
Equity-
settled 
’000
Number 
of options 
2015 
Equity-
Settled 
‘000
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 792 1,013
Exercised during the year (13) (543)
Granted during the year – 430
Lapsed during the year (100) (108)
Outstanding at the end of the year 679 792
A charge of £0.2m was recorded in the statement of profit or loss for the 3 Sharesave schemes. 
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments are as follows:
Year ended
December 
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 December 
2015 
£m
Recognised in equity 1.6 0.8
Recognised in the statement of profit or loss 0.4 1.0
2.0 1.8
The share-based payment expense recognised in creditors relates to dividends accrued by the option holders over the 
vesting period.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows:
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 2016
(£) 
Equity-
settled
Number 
of options 
2016 
Equity-
settled
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 2015
(£) 
Equity-
settled
Number 
of options 
2015 
Equity-
Settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1.24 2,305 0.77 3,044
Exercised in shares during the year 0.22 (445) 0.77 (1,378)
Granted during the year 0.33 390 1.90 998
Lapsed during the year 2.49 (183) 0.84 (359)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1.17 2,057 1.24 2,305
Exercisable at the end of the year – – 2.81 5  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
120
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
18. Employee Benefits continued
Single Total Figure Table (audited information)
The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
Financial 
Year
Base salary 
and fees
(£000)
Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Executive 
Directors
Moshe Greidinger 2016 557 84 437 – 1,419
(3)
– 1,419 91 2,588
2015 550 77 476 – – – – 110 1,213
Israel Greidinger 2016 380 77 298 – 968
(3)
– 968 60 1,783
2015 375 74 325 – – – – 75 849
Philip Bowcock
(4)
2016 – 1 – – 451
(3)
– 451 – 452
2015 375
(6)
20
(7)
248 4.5 492
(5)
15 507 75
(8)
1,229.5
Stephen Wiener
(4)
2016 – – – – – – – – –
2015 – 1 – – 356
(5)
– 356 – 357
Non–Executive 
Directors
Anthony Bloom 2016 175 – – – – – – – 175
2015 175 – – – – – – – 175
Martina King 2016 60 – – – – – – – 60
2015 56 – – – – – – – 56
Alicja 
Kornasiewicz 2016 50 – – – – – – – 50
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
David Maloney
(4)
2016 – – – – – – – – –
2015 30 – – – – – – – 30
Scott Rosenblum 2016 50 – – – – – – – 50
2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
Arni Samuelsson 2016 50 – – – – – – – 50
2015 50 – – – – – – – 50
Rick Senat 2016 65 – – – – – – – 65
2015 61
(9)
– – – – – – – 61
(9)
Julie Southern 2016 70 – – – – – – – 70
2015 39 – – – – – – – 39
Peter Williams
(4)
2016 – – – – – – – – –
2015 24 – – – – – – – 24
(1) See page 66 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors.
(2) Under the ShareSave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures in this table 
relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3) The gain on PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of £5.525, being the average price for the last three months of the 
period (as PSP will not vest until 6 June 2017), and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in 
respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. Currently, the dividend equivalent payment to Moshe Greidinger would amount to £101,604, 
the dividend equivalent payment to Israel Greidinger would amount to £69,276, and the dividend equivalent payment to Philip Bowcock would amount to £32,256.
(4) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015, Stephen Wiener left the Company on 31 March 2014, Peter Williams left the Company on 26 May 2015, and 
David Maloney left the Company on 26 May 2015.
(5) Details of the actual gain made are set out on page 71. The actual figures set out in the table above differ from those included in the 2015 Annual Report figures as last 
year an estimated value of £5.58 a share was used to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards had not yet vested. The figures above reflect the share price of £5.10 
on the date of vesting, 15 March 2016.
(6) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ salary paid in lieu of notice amounting to £62,500.
(7) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ benefits paid in lieu of notice amounting to £3,066.
(8) Philip Bowcock left the Company on 31 October 2015 and this figure includes two months’ pensions allowance paid in lieu of notice amounting to £12,500.
(9) Figure includes a payment of £5,800 to Rick Senat for the portion of 2015 for which he served as Senior Independent Director.
Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan or alternatively 
may receive a pension allowance in cash. The Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive Directors is 20% of 
salary. All the Executive Directors (except Stephen Wiener) have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive a 
cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 121
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Provisions
Property 
provisions 
£m
Other 
provisions
£m
Total 
provisions 
£m
Balance at 31 December 2015
Current 1.5 3.2 4.7
Non-current 13.5 5.0 18.5
15.0 8.2 23.2
Provisions made – 2.1 2.1
Provisions released to administrative expenses during the year (3.1) – (3.1)
Utilised against rent during the year (4.3) (1.9) (6.2)
Unwound against interest during the year 1.9 – 1.9
Balance at 31 December 2016 9.5 8.4 17.9
Current 0.9 5.4 6.3
Non-current 8.6 3.0 11.6
Total 9.5 8.4 17.9
Other provisions do not require significant judgement and have historically been settled at in line with reported fair values.
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations, market rent adjustments and other property liabilities. Market 
rent provisions relate to the fair value of liabilities on leases acquired, which are assessed on acquisition and released over the 
remaining life of the lease.
The property provision includes onerous leases, which are assessed as being the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations in 
excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the lease 
net cost of exiting from the contract and is measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operate the lease and any 
penalties or other costs from exiting it, measured on a discounted basis. The remaining provision will be utilised over the period 
to the next rent review date or the remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease. This is between one and 30 years (see 
further analysis below).
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as:
Within one year 1.2 1.5
Between one and two years 1.6 1.4
In the second to fifth years 2.8 3.8
Over five years 3.9 8.3
9.5 15.0
The level of onerous lease provision is dependent upon judgement in forecasting future cash flows and used in arriving at 
the discount rate applied to cash flow projections. Management have sensitised the key assumptions in assessing property 
provisions including the discount rate, management believe that under any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions 
on which provision is based they would not significantly change. Other property provisions are not considered to require ongoing 
judgement as amounts relate to pre-determined unwinds and releases.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
122
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
20. Capital and Reserves
Share Capital
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Cineworld Group plc
Allotted, called up and fully paid
267,581,189 (2015: 265,232,321) ordinary shares of £0.01 each 2.7 2.7
Translation Reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Merger Reserve
In accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium on ordinary shares issued in relation to acquisitions is 
recorded as a merger reserve.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swaps entered into, to hedge against variable interest 
payments on £147.5m (2015: £119.0m) of the total £322.9m (2015: £300.3m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been 
adopted the gains/losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are 
recycled to the statement of profit or loss. During 2016 a £1.9m gain was recycled through the Statement of Profit or Loss in 
respect of the fair value of cash flow hedges on loans settled during the year.
A foreign currency exposure arises from the Group’s net investment in its Dutch subsidiary, which has a Euro functional currency. 
The risk arises from fluctuations in exchange rates between the Pound and the Euro, which cause the value of the net investment 
to vary.
The Group hedges part of its exposure to changes in the value of the investment arising from variances in Euro to Pound 
exchange rate. The hedge is designated against the Group’s Euro term loan and €54.0m of the investment in the Dutch 
subsidiary. The loan is designated as the hedging instrument for the changes in value that is attributable to the £GBP/EURO spot 
rate.
The Group assesses effectiveness by comparing changes in the carrying amount of the debt that is attributable to a change in 
spot rate with changes in the value of the investment in the foreign operation due to movements in the spot rate. The Group’s 
policy is to hedge the net investment only to the extent of the debt principal.
The changes in fair value of the hedged item and instrument were reflected in the table were recognised in the hedge and foreign 
exchange reserve respectively for the hedged item and hedging instrument.
Carrying amount 
at inception 
£m
Carrying amount 
31 December 2016 
£m
Change in 
fair value
£m Asset Liability Asset Liability
Euro denominated loan – 47.5 – 46.2 1.3
Euro denominated investment 47.5 – 46.2 – (1.3)
47.5 47.5 46.2 46.2 –
Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the year:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Interim 13.8 13.3
Final (for the preceding year) 33.2 25.7
47.0 39.0
An interim dividend of 5.2p per share was paid on 9 September 2016 to ordinary shareholders (2015: 5.0p). The Board has 
proposed a final dividend of 13.8p per share, which will result in total cash payable of approximately £37.0m on 22 June 2017. In 
accordance with IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2016.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 123
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Financial Instruments
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk.
• Liquidity risk.
• Market risk.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Group has in place a risk management programme and regular reports are made to the Audit Committee, which is tasked 
with general oversight.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk 
limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to 
reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and 
procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles 
and obligations.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain 
risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, due to the nature of the Group’s business, trade 
receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 14. Of the 
total balance of £29.8m (2015: £23.5m) due 75% (2015: 83%) are within credit terms. The bad debt provision as at 2016 is £Nil 
(2015: £306,000), with a bad debt expense in the year of £Nil (2015: £nil). Based on past experience the Group believes that 
no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due. The credit risk on liquid funds and 
derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under 
both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of 
netting agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments 
calculated using interest rates in force at each Balance Sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the 
Balance Sheet.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
124
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
21. Financial Instruments continued
31 December 2016
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months or 
less 
£m
6–12 
months 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 322.0 (325.3) (7.5) (7.5) (12.7) (297.6) –
Finance lease liabilities 15.0 (34.0) (0.6) (0.7) (1.3) (4.2) (27.2)
Trade payables 30.1 (30.1) (30.1) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.2 (0.2) (0.2) – – – –
Interest rate swap 2 0.2 (0.2) (0.2) – – – –
Interest rate swap 3 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Interest rate swap 4 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Interest rate swap 5 0.2 (3.0) – (1.3) (0.8) (0.9) –
Interest rate swap 6 0.2 (3.0) – (1.3) (0.8) (0.9) –
Interest rate swap 7 0.1 (0.5) – – (0.2) (0.3) –
368.2 (396.5) (38.8) (10.8) (15.8) (303.9) (27.2)
31 December 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months or 
less 
£m
6–12 
months 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 299.3 (303.8) (7.7) (7.7) (11.9) (276.5) –
Finance lease liabilities 6.8 (10.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.7) (2.1) (6.8)
Trade payables 33.9 (33.9) (33.9) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Interest rate swap 2 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Interest rate swap 3 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 4 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 5 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 6 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
341.6 (349.7) (42.7) (8.6) (13.0) (278.6) (6.8)
The Group entered into a five-year facility in January 2014 which included term loans of £165.0m and €132.0m and revolving 
credit facilities of £75.0m and €60.0m. 
On 29 July 2015 the Group signed an amendment and extension to its existing banking facility which was effective immediately 
upon signing and extends the facility to June 2020. As a result, the term loans were reduced from £157.5m and €126.0m to 
£130.0m and €63.0m. In August 2016 the Group extended the single currency revolving credit facility of £190.0m to £215.0m to 
partly fund the empire acquisition. 
The facility remains subject to the existing two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA (as defined in Note 1) to net debt and the ratio of 
EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges. A margin, determined by the results of the covenant tests at a given date is 
added to LIBOR or EURIBOR. The margins currently applicable to Group are 1.40% on the term loans and 1.15% on the revolving 
credit facility. 
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the 
Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility for at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial 
statements, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
Cash Flow Hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow 
hedges are expected to occur.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 125
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Financial Instruments continued
31 December 2016
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months or 
less 
£m
6–12 
months 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 0.2 (0.2) (0.2) – – – –
Swap 2 0.2 (0.2) (0.2) – – – –
Swap 3 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Swap 4 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Swap 5 0.2 (3.0) – (1.3) (0.8) (0.9) –
Swap 6 0.2 (3.0) – (1.3) (0.8) (0.9) –
Swap 7 0.1 (0.5) – – (0.2) (0.3) –
1.1 (7.1) (0.6) (2.6) (1.8) (2.1) –
31 December 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months or 
less 
£m
6–12 
months 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – –
Swap 2 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) – – – –
Swap 3 (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 4 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 5 0.2 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
Swap 6 (0.2) (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) – –
1.6 (1.6) (0.7) (0.5) (0.4) – –
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk
Operating across nine territories increases the Groups exposure to currency risk. Wherever possible, overseas operations will 
fund their day-to-day working capital requirements in local currency with cash generated from operations, naturally hedging 
the currency risk exposure to the Group. Management will continually monitor the level of currency risk exposure, and consider 
hedging where appropriate. Currently the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the assets and liabilities of its 
foreign entities to be of low materiality and no hedging has been undertaken.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed-rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to 
enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt 
be restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have fixed interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates.
The Group has hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the potential risk of a material impact arising from interest rate 
fluctuations. At 31 December 2016, the Group had seven (2015: six) interest rate swaps, four GBP denominated swaps which 
hedged 80% (2015: 82%) of the Group’s variable rate GBP unsecured term loan and, the three remaining Euro denominated 
swaps hedging 100% (2015:100%) of the Euro denominated unsecured loan. 
The revolver loan, of which £158.0m (2015: £130.0m) was drawn down at the end of the year, is not hedged. At the year end the 
Group had six (2015 year end: six) interest rate swaps which hedged 100% (2015: 100%) of the Group’s variable rate unsecured 
Euro denominated term loan and 82% (2015: 59%) of the sterling denominated term loan. As a result, there is no impact on the 
statement of profit or loss relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in interest rates.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
126
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
21. Financial Instruments continued
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying amount
31 December 
2016
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Fixed rates instruments
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap) (1.1) (1.6)
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – hedged portion) (158.0) (119.0)
Finance lease liabilities (14.9) (6.8)
(174.0) (127.4)
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – unhedged portion) (164.1) (180.3)
£158.0m (2015: £119.0m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swaps with the balance attracting a 
variable interest rate. 
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group accounts for fixed-rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss except where derivatives qualify for 
hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge 
accounting was adopted from the year ended 27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £1.6m (2015: £1.9m) or decreased equity by £1.6m 
(2015: £1.9m) for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2015: £nil). 
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss 
by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2015.
Profit or loss Equity
Effect in GBP thousands
100 bp 
increase
100 bp 
decrease
100 bp 
increase
100 bp 
decrease
31 December 2016
Variable rate instruments (3,100) 3,100 (3,100) 3,100
Interest rate swap 1,500 (1,500) 1,500 (1,500)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (1,600) 1,600 (1,600) 1,600
31 December 2015
Variable rate instruments (3,300) 3,300 (3,300) 3,300
Interest rate swap 1,400 (1,400) 1,400 (1,400)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (1,900) 1,900 (1,900) 1,900
Fair Values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are 
carried in the financial statements.
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that 
their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Carrying 
amount 
31 December 
2016
£m
Fair value 
31 December 
2016 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Fair value 
31 December 
2015 
£m
Unsecured bank loans 322.0 323.0 299.3 303.8
Finance lease liabilities 15.0 15.0 6.8 6.8
Interest rate swaps 1.1 1.1 1.6 1.6
338.1 346.7 307.7 312.2
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates. The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross 
of debt issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 127
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Financial Instruments continued
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the 
instruments based on valuations at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. The volatile nature of the markets means that 
values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Fair Value Hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows:
• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
• Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
31 December 2016
Derivative financial instruments – 1.1 – 1.1
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 337.0 – 337.0
31 December 2015
Derivative financial instruments – 1.6 – 1.6
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 306.1 – 306.1
There have been no transfers between levels in 2016. No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 55.8 62.5
Bank loans 322.0 307.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 596.0 570.6
973.8 940.8
The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current 
gearing ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current circumstances. Ratios 
used in the monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges.
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as 
the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
22. Operating Leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
31 December  
2016
£m
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Less than one year 102.7 0.5 103.2 93.8 0.1 93.9
Between one and five years 390.7 0.8 391.5 352.3 0.2 352.5
More than five years 1,161.9 1.2 1,163.1 1000.3 – 1000.3
1,655.3 2.5 1,657.8 1,446.4 0.3 1,446.7
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £17.5m (2015: £15.1m).
Lease Arrangements
The Group enters into operating leases for sites in all territories in UK and Ireland and the ROW. These leases are typically for 25-
35 years with rent increases and options to renew leases determined in line with local market practice in each territory. The key 
contractual terms of each lease are taken into consideration when calculating the rental charge over the lease term. There are no 
significant restrictions placed on the Group as a result of its leasing arrangements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
128
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
23. Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made:
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Contracted 44.7 35.0
Capital commitments at the end of the current and preceding financial year relate to new sites.
24. Related Parties
The compensation of the Directors is as follows:
Salary and 
fees including 
bonus 
£000
Compensation 
for loss of
office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
Year ended 31 December 2016
T otal compensation for Directors 5,192 – 151 5,343
Salary and fees 
including bonus 
£000
Compensation 
for loss of
office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
Year ended 31 December 2015
T otal compensation for Directors 3,973 – 260 4,233
Share-based compensation benefit charges for Directors was £2.3m in 2016 (2015: £0.9m). Details of the highest paid Director 
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 72.
Other Related Party Transactions
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up 
on 10 July 2008. Revenue receivable from DCM in the year ending 31 December 2016 totalled £18.3m (2015: £18.4m) and as 
at 31 December 2016 £nil (2015: £nil) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In addition the Group has a working capital 
loan outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2015: £0.5m).
During the year the Group incurred property charges of £7.8m by companies under the ownership of Global City Holdings N.V. 
(“GCH”), which is considered a related party of Group as Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are directors in both groups.
Details of subsidiaries held by the Group can be found in Note 28.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 129
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company Statement of Financial Position
at 31 December 2016
Note
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
31 December 
2015 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 28 741.4 646.9
Current assets
Debtors 29 343.2 296.5
Cash at bank – 0.1
343.2 296.6
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial 
liabilities 30 (13.1) (11.1)
Other payables 31 (118.1) (48.1)
Bank overdraft (49.7) (27.3)
(180.9) (86.5)
Net current assets 162.3 210.1
Total assets less current liabilities 903.7 857.0
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest-bearing loans 30 (307.7) (286.4)
Net assets 596.0 570.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 20 2.7 2.7
Share premium account 306.4 295.7
Merger reserve 207.3 207.3
Profit and loss account 81.2 63.8
Hedging reserve (1.6) 1.1
Shareholders’ funds – equity 596.0 570.6
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
Nisan Cohen
Director  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
130
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Y ear Ended 31 December 2016
Issued 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at 31 December 2015 2.7 295.7 207.3 1.1 63.8 570.6
Profit for the year – – – – 66.2 66.2
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit and loss in respect 
of cash flow hedges – – – (1.9) – (1.9)
Other comprehensive income
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – 0.5 – 0.5
Movement in net investment hedge – – – (1.3) – (1.3)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly 
in equity – – – – – –
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – (47.0) (47.0)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – (1.8) (1.8)
Issue of shares – 10.7 – – – 10.7
Balance at 31 December 2016 2.7 306.4 207.3 (1.6) 81.2 596.0  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 131
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
26. Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 32 and the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 
22 to 27. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial 
Review on pages 28 to 32. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the 
following disclosures: 
• a Cash Flow Statement and related notes; 
• Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets; 
• Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries; 
• Disclosures in respect of capital management;
• The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs;
• An additional Balance Sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective change in 
accounting policy; and 
• Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel. 
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any 
impairment in value.
Impairment
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
of such assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable value, an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred Taxation
Deferred tax is recognised using the Balance Sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all temporary differences except as otherwise required by IAS 12.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an addition to fixed asset investments with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of 
the options granted is measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options 
were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except 
where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share 
appreciation rights is measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each Balance Sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in 
fair value recognised in profit and loss spread equally over the vesting period.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the 
cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s 
financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed by 
the subsidiary are recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of 
shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
132
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
continued
27. Staff Numbers and Costs
The Company pays no employees. Salaries of the Directors of the Company, including Non-Executive Directors, as well as 
the Company Secretary are recharged to the Company from its subsidiary Cineworld Cinemas Ltd. Total salaries paid to Non-
Executive Directors were £520,000 (2015: £509,000). See pages 54 to 72 for further details of Directors’ emoluments.
28. Fixed Asset Investments
Company
Shares in Group 
undertakings 
£m
Balance at 31 December 2015 646.9
Additions 94.5
Balance at 31 December 2016 741.4
Net book value
At 31 December 2015 646.9
At 31 December 2016 741.4
Registered Office Principal activity Class
% of shares 
held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Holding B.V. PO Box 1370 
NL-3000 BJ Rotterdam
The Netherlands
Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 1 Limited 8th Floor, Block E, Iveagh Court,
Harcourt Road, Dublin 2, Ireland
Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 3 Limited 8th Floor, Block E, Iveagh Court,
Harcourt Road, Dublin 2, Ireland
Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 4 Limited 8th Floor, Block E, Iveagh Court, 
Harcourt Road, Dublin 2, Ireland
Financing company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held
Augustus 2 Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine-UK Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company and cinema 
operation
Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Holding company Ordinary 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi-Carlton Limited 8th Floor, Block E, Iveagh Court,
Harcourt Road, Dublin 2, Ireland
Cinema operation Ordinary 100  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 133
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Registered Office Principal activity Class
% of shares 
held
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Property company Ordinary 100
Classic Cinemas Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Retail services company Ordinary 100
Digital Cinema Media Limited 350 Euston Road, London, 
NW1 3AX
Screen Advertising Ordinary 50
Picturehouse Cinemas Limited 
(formerly City Screen Limited)
8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Bath) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Brighton) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Brixton) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Cambridge) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Clapham) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Exeter) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Greenwich) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Liverpool) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Norwich) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Newman Online Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Software development 
and provider
Ordinary 100
City Screen (Oxford) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Southampton) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (SOA) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Stratford) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Bookings Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Ticket booking operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Virtual) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (York) Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Entertainment Limited 8th Floor, Vantage London, Great 
West Road, Brentford,TW8 9AG
Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 2 8th Floor, Block E, Iveagh Court,
Harcourt Road, Dublin 2, Ireland
Financing company Ordinary 100
28. Fixed Asset Investments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
134
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
continued
Registered Office Principal activity Class
% of shares 
held
Basildon Cinema 2 Limited 2nd floor , The Le Gallais 
Building, 54 Bath Street, St 
Helier, Channel Islands, JE2 1FW
Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Basildon Cinema Number Two 2 Limited 2nd floor , The Le Gallais 
Building, 54 Bath Street, St 
Helier, Channel Islands, JE2 1FW
Cinema Operations Ordinary 
and 
Preference 
100
Bromley Cinema 2 Limited 2nd floor , The Le Gallais 
Building, 54 Bath Street, St 
Helier, Channel Islands, JE2 1FW
Cinema Operations Ordinary 
and 
Preference 
100
Empire Cinema 2 Limited 2nd floor , The Le Gallais 
Building, 54 Bath Street, St 
Helier, Channel Islands, JE2 1FW
Cinema Operations Ordinary 
and 
Preference 
100
Hemel Hempstead Two Cinema 2 Limited 2nd floor , The Le Gallais 
Building, 54 Bath Street, St 
Helier, Channel Islands, JE2 1FW
Cinema Operations Ordinary 100
Poole Cinema 2 Limited 2nd floor , The Le Gallais 
Building, 54 Bath Street, St 
Helier, Channel Islands, JE2 1FW
Cinema Operations Ordinary 
and 
Preference 
100
Cinema City Holdco (Hungary) K.F.T. 1132 Budapest, Váci út 22-24 Financing company Ordinary 100
I.T. Planet Advertising Ltd 91 Medinat Hayehudim, Herzelia, 
Israel
Dormant Ordinary 100
Norma Film Limited 91 Medinat Hayehudim, Herzelia, 
Israel
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema Theatres Limited 91 Medinat Hayehudim, Herzelia, 
Israel
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema-Phone Ltd 18 Haneviim, Haifa, Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Limited 91 Medinat Hayehudim, Herzelia, 
Israel
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
IT Magyar Cinema Moziüzemeltető és 
Filmforgalmazó K.F.T.
1132 Budapest, Váci út 22-24 Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Palace Cinemas Hungary K.F.T. 1132 Budapest, Váci út 22-24 Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Hungary K.F.T. 1132 Budapest, Váci út 22-24 Cinema operations Ordinary 100
New Age Cinema K.F.T. 1132 Budapest, Váci út 22-24 Advertising Ordinary 100
Seracus Limited Prodromou, 75
1st floor, Flat/Office 101
Strovolos, 2063, Nicosia, Cyprus
Holding company Ordinary 100
Forum 40 Fundusz Inwestycjny 
Zamkniety
Zabłocie street No 25/20
Post code 30-701, City Kraków, 
Poland
Holding company Ordinary 100
All Job CC sp. Zoo. SJ CC SP.ZO.O. SP.J.
UL. WOŁOSKA 12
02-675 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-33-62-959
KRS- 0000493229
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CC Sp. Zoo UL. FOSA 37 
02-768 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-33-04-554
REGON: 015805025
KRS- 0000217016
Fund general partner Ordinary 100
28. Fixed Asset Investments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 135
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Registered Office Principal activity Class
% of shares 
held
Cinema City Poland CC sp. Zoo SJ UL. FOSA 37
02-768 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-30-97-055
KRS- 0000493032
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema City Poland spolka 
komandytowa sp. Zoo (Poland)
UL. FOSA 37
02-768 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-30-97-055
KRS- 0000493032
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Poland CC Sp. Zoo SJ CC SP.Z O.O SP.J.
UL. WOŁOSKA 12
02-675 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-32-47-566
KRS- 0000493092
Film distribution Ordinary 100
I.T. Poland Development 2003 CC sp. 
Zoo SJ
UL. FOSA 37
02-768 WARSZAWA
NIP 982-02-32-895
KRS- 0000493402
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
New Age Media CC sp. Zoo SJ UL. POWSIŃSKA 31
02-903 WARSZAWA
522-26-16-744
KRS- 0000493146
Advertising Ordinary 100
Entertainment SCSp 39 Avenue John F. Kennedy, 
L-1855, Luxembourg
Holding company Ordinary 100
Film SCSp 39 Avenue John F. Kennedy, 
L-1855, Luxembourg
Holding company Ordinary 100
Hollywood SCSp 39 Avenue John F. Kennedy, 
L-1855, Luxembourg
Holding company Ordinary 100
Star SCSp 39 Avenue John F. Kennedy, 
L-1855, Luxembourg
Holding company Ordinary 100
Studio SCSp 39 Avenue John F. Kennedy, 
L-1855, Luxembourg
Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Czech s.r.o. Arkalycká 951/3
149 00 Praha 4
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Czech s.r.o. Arkalycká 951/3
149 00 Praha 4
Film distribution Ordinary 100
Forum Home Entertainment Czech 
s.r.o.
Arkalycká 951/3
149 00 Praha 4
Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Slovakia s.r.o. Einsteinova 20
851 01 Bratislava
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Slovakia s.r.o. Einsteinova 20
851 01 Bratislava
Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Bulgaria EOOD 45 Bregalnitza Str, 5 floor
Vazrajdane Region
Sofia 1303, Bulgaria
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Bulgaria EOOD 45 Bregalnitza Str, 4 floor
Vazrajdane Region
Sofia 1303, Bulgaria
Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Romania SRL 13 Ana Davila street, Sector 5, 
Bucharest 050491
Romania
Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Romania SRL 13 Ana Davila street, Sector 5, 
Bucharest 050491
Romania
Film distribution Ordinary 100
28. Fixed Asset Investments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
136
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Registered Office Principal activity Class
% of shares 
held
New Age Media Romania SRL 13 Ana Davila street, Sector 5, 
Bucharest 050491
Romania
Advertising Ordinary 100
Cinema City Cinemas sp. Zoo UL. FOSA 37 
02-768 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-33-04-554
REGON: 015805025
KRS- 0000217016
Group services Ordinary 100
Northfleet sp. Zoo UL. FOSA 37 
02-768 WARSZAWA
NIP 521-33-04-554
REGON: 015805025
KRS- 0000217016
General partner Ordinary 100
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
continued
28. Fixed Asset Investments continued  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 137
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. Debtors
31 December 
2016 
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 343.2 296.5
30. Interest-Bearing Loans, Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
31 December 
2016
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 307.1 285.4
Interest rate swaps 0.6 1.0
307.7 286.4
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 12.6 10.5
Interest rate swaps 0.5 0.6
13.1 11.1
For details of interest bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities see Note 17.
31. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
31 December 
2016
£m
31 December 
2015
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 80.6 46.5
Deferred consideration 37.0 –
Accruals 0.5 1.6
118.1 48.1
Fair Values
Fair value disclosures for debtors and creditors have not been prepared on the basis that their carrying amount is a reasonable 
approximation to fair value.
32. Share-Based Payments
See Note 18 to the Group financial statements.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
138
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Shareholder Information
as at 31 December 2016
Directors
A H Bloom (Non-Executive Director and Chairman)
M Greidinger (Chief Executive Officer)
I Greidinger (Deputy Chief Executive Officer)
R Senat  (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
J Southern (Non-Executive Director)
M King  (Non-Executive Director)
S Rosenblum (Non-Executive Director)
A Samuelsson (Non-Executive Director)
A Kornasiewicz (Non-Executive Director)
Head Office
8th Floor
Vantage London
Great West Road
Brentford TW8 9AG
Telephone Number
020 8987 5000
Website
www.cineworldplc.com
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registered Office
8th Floor
Vantage London
Great West Road
Brentford TW8 9AG
Final Dividend – 2016
Announcement 9 March 2017
Ex Dividend 25 May 2017
Record Date 26 May 2017
Payment Date 22 June 2017
Auditor
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Joint Brokers
Barclays Bank Plc
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Legal Advisers to the Company
Slaughter and May
1 Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 139
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  u
140
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Notes Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
Bleed Trim
Live
B L AC K C YA N MA GE N T A Y E L LO W
PATCH BUILD Job Job Description 336425	 	IT	-	INTL	-	TEASER	ONE	SHEET 1	 Warner	Bros.	 03.27.17	1	 175	340	 1		 100 27"x	40"
Sub L/S Dmax File Name Customer id Build% Final Size Proof Date
Billing Block% WB Rev# Date Billing Block Used INTL	FULL	PAGE (00/00/00) XX%
10:29AM		03/27/17	 336425id1_IT_Intl_Teaser_27x40_1Sheet
Upcoming releases
for 2017
Transformers: The Last Knight
June
Guardians Of The Galaxy  
Vol 2
April
Despicable Me 3
June
Alien: Covenant
May
Pirates Of The Caribbean: 
Salazar’s Revenge
May
Spider-Man: Homecoming
July
Valerian And The City Of A 
Thousand Planets
August
Paddington 2
November
Wonder Woman
June
War For The Planet Of 
The Apes
July
Dunkirk
July
The LEGO Ninjago Movie
October
It
September
Justice League
November
Kingsman: The Golden Circle
September
Star Wars: The Last Jedi
December Cineworld Group plc
8th Floor
Vantage London
Great West Road
Brentford TW8 9AG
020 8987 5000
www.cineworldplc.com
