 17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	8 17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	8
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc   	 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
36 Soho Square
London W1D 3QY
England
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7494 2111
Fax +44 (0) 20 7494 0151
www.bloomsbury.com
corporate: www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk 17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	8 17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	8
Bloomsbury Publishing has established itself 
as one of the world’s leading independent 
publishing houses with a valuable portfolio  
of intellectual properties.
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and HRH Prince Philip with Her Highness Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser Al Missned and  
Nigel and Joanna Newton at the launch of Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing at Windsor Castle.
Publishing books of excellence and originality www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
1
Stock Code: BMY
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights
Financial
The highlights for 2009 include:
	 Revenue of £87.22m (2008, £99.95m – publication of HP7 paperback 
and The Tales of Beedle the Bard)
	 Adjusted pre-tax profit of £7.71m (2008, £11.85m – publication of HP7 
paperback)*
	 Basic  earnings per share of 6.77p (2008, 10.67p – publication of HP7 
paperback), adjusted basic earnings per share of 7.56p (2008, 
10.96p)*
	 Profit from Bloomsbury USA of £0.45m before central cost recharges 
(2008, £0.38m) 
	 Cash of £35.04m (2008, £51.91m)
	 Final dividend per share increased 5% to 3.65p (2008, 3.47p).  Full 
year dividend per share increased by 5% to 4.43p (2008, 4.22p) 
*  adjusted figures are stated before the amortisation of intangibles and impairment of goodwill.
Operating
	 Profits ahead of consensus market forecasts. They were achieved in 
difficult trading conditions and against high comparatives including 
paperback release of HP7 in 2008
	 Strong sales driven by an excellent publishing programme including 
River Cottage Everyday by Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall, The Suspicions 
of Mr Whicher by Kate Summerscale, The Guernsey Literary and Potato 
Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows, Ordinary 
Thunderstorms by William Boyd and The Fat Duck Cookbook by 
Heston Blumenthal
	 Strong pipeline of releases for 2010 including launch of newly 
designed edition of Harry Potter on 1st November
	 Strengthened academic publishing division with acquisitions of 
Tottel Publishing and Hodder Education Humanities list
This document does not constitute and should not be construed as an issue for sale or subscription or 
solicitation of any offer or invitation; or advice or recommendation to subscribe for the ordinary shares of 
the Company; nor should it be relied on in connection with any contract to be entered into by the recipient; 
nor does it constitute an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity under section 21 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA); or constitute an invitation to effect any transaction with the 
Company; or to make use of the services provided by the Company. Past performance cannot be relied on 
as a guide to future performance.
Highlights & Overview
Highlights 01
Group at a Glance  02
Year at a Glance 04
Chairman's Statement  06
Chairman’s Statement 06
Directors' Report – Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement  08
Financial Review  18
Risk Management  22
Corporate Responsibility 23
Corporate Responsibility 25
Directors' Report – Corporate Governance
Board of Directors  26
Corporate Governance  28
Other Statutory Information  31
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  34
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement  42
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income  43
Consolidated Balance Sheet  44
Company Balance Sheet 45
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  46
Company Statement of Changes in Equity  47
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  48
Company Cash Flow Statement  49
Accounting Policies  50
Notes to the Accounts 56
Notes to the Accounts  61
Company & Shareholders Information
Directors, Secretary and Advisers  91
Financial Calendar  92
Shareholder Information  93
Notice of Annual General Meeting  94
Notes to Notice 96
Appendix to the Notice of Meeting 98
Remuneration Report  35
Independent Auditor’s Report 40
Table of contents Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
2
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Group at a Glance
Specialist Publishing Division
30% of Group Turnover
Bloomsbury Professional 
Law and Tax
Bloomsbury Academic
Scholarly
A&C Black
Reference Publishing
	 John Wisden and Co is now fully 
integrated into A&C Black. Sales of the 
Almanack were increased in 2009, partly 
as a result of a marketing partnership 
with the county cricket boards and the 
Middlesex County Cricket Club. Wisden 
Cricketers’ Almanack was published in 
e-book format for the first time in 2009, 
along with an e-book Wisden Collection 
for libraries.
	 Arden Shakespeare, acquired in 
December 2008, was incorporated into 
our core drama list alongside Methuen 
Drama. The list has already benefited 
from Methuen Drama’s specialist sales 
and marketing in the UK. In the USA 
Arden was launched as part of 
the new US publishing division, 
Bloomsbury Academic and Professional.
	 In 2009 Bloomsbury Academic 
implemented its organic growth 
strategy and also acquired the 300 title 
Humanities backlist from Hodder 
Education. 
	 At Berg, the Oxford based academic 
publisher, sales in 2009 exceeded 
expectations, with impressive growth in 
journals sales. 
	 Bloomsbury increased its presence in 
academic and professional publishing 
with the acquisition of Tottel Publishing, 
now renamed Bloomsbury Professional.
	 Notable successes in 2009 included 
Documentary Credits (4th ed) and Joint 
Ventures and Shareholders’ Agreements 
(3rd ed), both aimed at the top end 
of the commercial law market. 
Subscription and loose-leaf publishing 
remained strong throughout the year. 
The Irish Legal System (5th ed), the 
standard first year undergraduate text 
book, was a major success.
Bloomsbury Information
BQFP, BQFJ, Q Finance 
	 QFINANCE – The Ultimate Resource was 
published in September. The website 
(www.qfinance.com) and the book 
were launched with major events in 
Doha, London and New York.
	 Excellent progress was made on all 
fronts during 2009 under our 
management service contract with 
Qatar Foundation. BQFP brought out a 
dual-language Arabic/English edition 
of The Selfish Crocodile in April 2009 to 
mark Qatar’s first World Book Day 
which BQFP spearheaded in association 
with the UK’s World Book Day 
organisation and Qatar University. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
3
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Group at a Glance
Trade Publishing Division
70% of Group Turnover
Berlin Verlag
German Trade Publishing
Bloomsbury USA
Trade and Specialist
Bloomsbury UK
Trade Publishing
	 2009 was a year where we benefited from 
enduring bestsellers across the Adult list, 
many of them from our backlist. 
	 Strong sales were driven by an excellent 
publishing programme including River 
Cottage Everyday by Hugh Fearnley 
Whittingstall, The Suspicions of Mr Whicher 
by Kate Summerscale, The Guernsey Literary 
and Potato Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann 
Shaffer and Annie Barrows, Ordinary 
Thunderstorms by William Boyd and The Fat 
Duck Cookbook by Heston Blumenthal.
	 On the Children’s list The Graveyard Book  
by best-selling author Neil Gaiman was 
published simultaneously in an adult as well 
as a children’s edition. It won the Teenage 
Children’s Book Award and has been long 
listed for the Carnegie Medal. Troubadour by 
Mary Hoffman was short-listed for the Costa 
Award for Children’s Literature.
	 Harry Potter performed extremely well 
during the year and sales increased on the 
back of the success of the sixth film, Harry 
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
	 We launched Bloomsbury’s Public Library 
Online in May 2009, a concurrent-user 
online-access subscription service to deliver 
themed digital bookshelves into UK public 
libraries. Berlin Verlag has also launched a 
German language version and there is 
potential for further overseas 
development.
	 The US turned in a good performance for 
the year, particularly in children’s books. 
The Academic list was also launched.
	 My Horizontal Life was in the top 15 on The 
New York Times paperback non-fiction list 
every week during 2009. Logicomix was on 
The New York Times paperback graphic 
novel bestseller list for 18 weeks and 
Methland two weeks on the extended The 
New York Times hardcover non-fiction 
bestseller list.
	 Disney released The Princess and the Frog 
which is based on ED Baker’s The Frog 
Princess published by Bloomsbury USA and 
this has provided the opportunity to 
re-promote her backlist.
	 The backlist continued to hold up well with 
ongoing sales from Khaled Hosseini’s The 
Kite Runner as well as Elizabeth Gilbert’s Eat, 
Pray, Love. The paperback publication of 
Khaled Hosseini’s A Thousand Splendid Suns 
quickly made its way to the top of the 
bestseller list and became one of the top 
selling titles of the year for Berlin. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
4
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
2009 Publishing Year at a Glance
The Suspicions of Mr Whicher is a Richard and Judy Best Read pick and is discussed on television; it becomes a top ten bestseller (UK)
The Outlander by Gil Adamson is shortlisted for the Commonwealth Writers' Prize, Winner of the International Association of Crime Writers 
Dashiell Hammett Prize and longlisted for the IMPAC Dublin Literary Award (UK)
Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean’s edition of The Graveyard Book wins the Newbery Medal (UK)
Message in a Bottle by Valerie Zenatti is shortlisted for the Marsh Award for Children’s Literature in Translation (UK)
The Room (Das Zimmer) by Helen Garner is a bestseller and wins the Barbara Jefferis Prize (Germany)
January February March April May June
J. K. Rowling is awarded France’s Legion of Honour (UK)
 
How Kirsty Jenkins Stole the Elephant by Elen Caldecott is shortlisted for the Waterstone’s Children’s Book Prize (UK)
Booktrust selected Little Monster’s Book of Numbers for the second year running to be inserted into the BookStart gift bags (UK)
Paradiso by Thomas Klupp wins the Nicolas Born Debut Prize, the Förderpreis and is shortlisted for the important Aspekte Literaturpreis; the first 
German TV channel ARD called it ‘our debut novel of the year’ (Germany)
Burnt Shadows by Kamila Shamsie is shortlisted for the Orange Prize (UK)
Mark Walden was selected as one of eight authors to write a book for World Book Day, Interception Point and reached number four in the UK 
Children’s Fiction Chart (UK)
www.247Tales.com, a new online writing competition from Bloomsbury, launches on World Book Day and challenges young writers to create 
stories using 247 words or fewer, inspired by 247 tales by Bloomsbury authors (UK)
The Big Fat Duck Cookbook by Heston Blumenthal wins the Design and Production award at the British Book Industry Awards, the Photography 
award at the James Beard Foundation Awards (the US food Oscars) and the Design award at the International Association of Culinary 
Professionals Awards (UK)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard by J. K. Rowling is shortlisted for the Galaxy Children’s Book of the Year (UK)
Keine Kunst by Peter Esterhazy won the Angelus Mitteleuropäischer Literaturpreis, the Manès Sperber Preis and the Fußballbuch des Jahres 
(Germany)
Gargoyle by Andrew Davidson won the German Award for Book of the Month of the Phantastik Couch; outside Germany it won the Sunburst 
Award for Canadian Literature of the Fantastic and the First Fiction Award Book of the Month Club (Germany)
Bloomsbury Library Online, a new innovation in electronic book lending, is launched (UK)
The Winter Vault by Orange-prizewinning author Anne Michaels wins the Giller Prize (UK) 
The Informers by Juan Gabriel Vásquez is shortlisted for the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize (UK)
Neil Gaiman’s bestselling novel, Coraline, was made into a film of the same name. Coraline has since been nominated for 
Best Animated Feature at the 2010 Oscars (UK)
The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows is a top twenty bestseller (UK)
The Big Fat Duck Cookbook by Heston Blumenthal wins the Food Book of the Year Award at the Guild of Food Writers’ Awards (UK)
The Senator’s Wife by Sue Miller is a Richard and Judy Summer Read pick and is discussed on television (UK)
The Graveyard Book by Neil Gaiman, with illustrations by Dave McKean, wins the Locus Award (UK)
Bloomsbury Publishing is fantastically represented on the Carnegie longlist with The Traitor Game by B.R. Collins; Stravaganza: City of Secrets by 
Mary Hoffman; Shadow Web by N. M. Browne; The Declaration by Gemma Malley; Uncle Montague’s Tales of Terror by Chris Priestley; and Sovay 
by Celia Rees (UK) www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
5
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
2009 Year at a Glance
The Bloomsbury Group, a new library of books from the early-twentieth century, chosen by readers for readers, is launched 
(UK and US)
Re-launch of the Bloomsbury Children’s Books website, www.bloomsbury.com/childrens, with brand new livery, child-centric focus 
and added content (UK)
B. R. Collins (Author) and Emma Matthewson (Bloomsbury Editorial Director) win the 2009 Branford Boase for The Traitor Game (UK)
J. K. Rowling’s Comic Relief editions of Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them were repackaged 
and reissued for a whole new generation of readers who did not ‘grow up’ with Harry Potter, and who have not yet experienced the 
excitement of life at Hogwarts (UK)
The Graveyard Book by Neil Gaiman, with illustrations by Dave McKean, wins the highly-coveted sci-fi and 
fantasy Hugo Award (UK)
Ordinary Thunderstorms by William Boyd is read on BBC Radio 4: in 2009, Bloomsbury had more books read on BBC Radio 4 than in any other 
year including The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society; Aberystwyth Mon Amour; The Lost Child; The Blue Hour; The Outlander; The 
Locust and the Bird; The Spy Game; To Heaven by Water; The Rapture; In Other Rooms, Other Wonders; and Family Britain (UK)
The British Library adopt Bloomsbury Library Online (UK) 
Underworld by Cathy MacPhail is selected as one of ten books offered in the government funded Booked Up Scheme, to give a child in 
secondary school a free book (UK)
Neil Gaiman’s audio edition of The Graveyard Book, read by the author, wins the Children’s Best Audio Book of the Year (UK)
QFINANCE – The Ultimate Resource was published (UK)
Nine Lives by William Dalrymple is launched by a major Barbican musical production of the same name (UK)
Syren, the fifth book in Angie Sage’s international bestselling Septimus Heap series, reaches number 11 in the UK Children’s 
Hardback Chart (UK)
Methland by Nick Reding is a New York Times bestseller and goes on to win the Heartland Prize for Non-Fiction and to be a New York 
Times Notable Book of 2009 (US)
Livability by Jon Raymond wins the Ken Kesey Award for Fiction (US)
Let the Great World Spin by Colum McCann wins the National Book Award (the US equivalent of the Booker) and is a number one bestseller in 
Ireland (UK)
In Other Rooms, Other Wonders by Daniyal Mueenuddin is shortlisted for the National Book Award (UK)
A commemorative edition of The Last Fighting Tommy by Harry Patch and Richard van Emden is published after the death of the last surviving 
veteran of the WWI trenches (UK)
Margaret Atwood’s 70th birthday is celebrated with a set of seven special hardback editions of her most-loved books (UK)
Chef by Jaspreet Singh is shortlisted for the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize for Best Book and longlisted for the International IMPAC Dublin 
Literary Award, ahead of UK publication in spring 2010 (UK)
The Suspicions of Mr Whicher by Kate Summerscale is the number two paperback non-fiction bestseller of the year and number 15 in 
the official 2009 UK Top 50 (UK).
River Cottage Every Day by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall is a top ten bestseller in the same month as his Channel 4 television series and 
is in the Top 20 Hardback Non-fiction titles of 2009 (UK).
The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows wins the WHSmith/The Times Paperback of 
the Year Award and The Suspicions of Mr Whicher is shortlisted (UK).
The Rapture by Liz Jensen is selected for the new Channel 4 TV Book Club (UK).
July August September October November December Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
6
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Chairman’s Statement
The last year has been one of the most turbulent since the 
Depression. Across the world it has challenged the economic survival 
of country, corporation and consumer alike. It has accelerated a shift 
of the world’s economic axis. And it is engendering a fundamental 
reassessment of political ideology across the planet as governments 
have sought to play their part in keeping the ship afloat. The world 
has been brought together by the crisis, and yet new divisions are 
emerging as a result.
I can think of no other conditions like them in living memory – in the 
corporate world they have tested to the limit the fundamental ethos 
and strategies of business organisations. Some have been found 
wanting and their businesses have collapsed. Others have 
prospered, their businesses reinforced and their competitive 
positions enhanced.
Bloomsbury entered the crisis with a clear strategy, a strong financial 
position, an experienced and established management team, a 
strengthened governance structure, and the enduring 
determination of its Founder and Chief Executive, Nigel Newton, and 
the Executive Directors on the Board, Richard Charkin and Colin 
Adams, to preserve the entrepreneurialism and cultural backbone 
which have driven this Company and the Group for almost a quarter 
of a century.
That strategy involves the stabilisation of the Group’s revenue 
streams through the steady development of its Professional and 
Academic arm, the further growth of its successful ventures in the 
Gulf, constant and rigorous attention to its core trade publishing 
activities and digitisation of its activities across the entire Group.
Behind this strategy lies a deep and almost instinctive understanding 
of the transformational forces at work in the publishing industry and 
an ability to respond to them. Thus, for example, the key acquisitions 
in building the Group have been in the Specialist arm of the Group 
– they have been targeted and measured, are integrating well and 
have all been manageable and within the financial resources of the 
Group. The new Qatar ventures have been beneficial to Bloomsbury, 
but they have also widened the cultural bandwidth of the Group 
with a country with the highest potential, resources and influence in 
the Middle East. The unremitting housekeeping of the Trade arm of 
the Group has seen its US business revived and a steady, sustaining 
flow of revenues from the core activity which forms the basis of a 
good publishing company. In all these activities, digitisation of the 
platforms, delivery systems and infrastructure has been an 
underlying driver. The growing force and opportunities of new 
delivery systems for the published product is a constant reference 
point for the Board and the Group’s management.
These and other initiatives fit within a strategy which has served the 
Group well when others have been found wanting. Bloomsbury is in 
good shape to capitalise on the potential of the year ahead.
Charles Black will retire at this year’s Annual General Meeting. His 
wisdom, balance and deep understanding of the publishing 
industry will be sorely missed. He brought into Bloomsbury A&C 
Black, a five generation business founded by his family in 1807. A&C 
Black is core to Bloomsbury’s Academic and Professional business. 
Charles is the Senior Independent Director of the Group and 
Chairman of its Audit and Remuneration Committees. There is no 
replacing such a mix of talent, intuition and integrity and Charles 
leaves behind an enduring legacy which will benefit all the Group’s 
stakeholders for decades to come.
Michael Mayer, according to The Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance, loses his independence and will retire at the end of his 
ninth year. A good company is constantly balancing the costs of 
conformance governance (not necessarily consistent with good 
governance) with the economics of a vibrant and successful 
business, and Michael, through his incisive grasp of the economics of 
business, invaluable knowledge of the process of acquisition 
economics and corporate financial husbandry, a deep and abiding 
loyalty to the Group and his instinctive understanding of the role of 
the Non-Executive Director, has made an immense contribution to 
Bloomsbury and challenged this balance to the limit. His departure 
at the end of this year is a sad one for the Group and he, too, will be 
sorely missed.
On behalf of the Group and all its stakeholders, I thank them both for 
their invaluable contribution – a contribution impossible to 
recognise fully in a few words on a sheet of paper.
However, change brings opportunity, and the Nominations 
Committee is well advanced, using the services of an independent 
search firm, in the selection of two new Directors from an impressive 
list of candidates to replace Charles and Michael when they retire.
Finally, the contribution of each and every one of the people who 
work in this Group cannot be overstated. Led by an Executive team 
strengthened the year before last by Richard Charkin’s arrival – now  www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
7
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
67
85
1
18
20
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
by JK Rowling
1
The Kite Runner 
by Khaled Hosseini
18
The Little Friend 
by Donna Tartt
85
Imperial Life in the Emerald City 
by Rajiv Chandrasekaran
67
Schott's Original Miscellany 
by Ben Schott
20
BOOKS THAT
DEFINED THE 
DECADE
a key management asset of the Group – it is they who have 
ensured that its strategy is executed and its ethos and culture 
developed and enhanced. The acquisitions have brought 
with them talent and skills which have enriched Bloomsbury 
and the conditions of the last two years have toughened and 
seasoned the entire team. On behalf of the Board and all the 
stakeholders of this Group, they have our sincere thanks.
In summary, driven by a team of dedicated professionals 
working throughout this Group, it is the Board’s intention 
that Bloomsbury will continue to change and adapt to the 
rapidly developing dynamics of the publishing industry. It is 
far from certain that the turbulence of the past two years is 
over, but the Group is well placed to exploit the opportunities 
of the future.
Jeremy Wilson
Chairman
30 March 2010
Bloomsbury
Hits The Top Spot
Chairman’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
8
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Overview
This excellent set of results, ahead of consensus market forecasts 
and in a difficult environment against a strong comparative year, 
demonstrates the strength of the portfolio of revenue streams in 
the Group. The growth in the Specialist Division was augmented by 
the acquisitions of the legal and tax publisher Tottel, now renamed 
Bloomsbury Professional, and the Hodder Education Humanities 
list. Both have performed well and made good contributions to  
the Group.
In the second half of 2009 the Trade Division launched one of its 
strongest lists to date. Major titles included River Cottage Every Day 
by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, The Fat Duck Cookbook by Heston 
Blumenthal and Ordinary Thunderstorms by William Boyd. Major 
backlist sellers included A Thousand Splendid Suns and The Kite 
Runner by Khaled Hosseini, Eat, Pray, Love by Elizabeth Gilbert, the 
seven Harry Potters, The Suspicions of Mr Whicher by Kate 
Summerscale and The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society by 
Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows.
In November 2009 Borders, the UK retail bookshop chain, closed. 
While the amount owed to us by Borders was covered by existing 
bad debt provisions, the long-term impact is a reduced number of 
high-street booksellers. At the same time we are seeing an increase 
in online book sales, partially offsetting the high-street retail decline.
E-book revenues are small but growing and there has been a 
considerable uplift in activity in the last twelve months including the 
Amazon Kindle released internationally. We are looking for 
opportunities to create new revenue streams from our digital files by 
content aggregation and innovative marketing.
Financial Performance
Revenue for the Group was £87.22m (2008, £99.95m including 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in paperback and The Tales
of Beedle the Bard). Revenues from the UK were £58.89m (2008, 
£71.06m). Revenues from the US were £18.78m (2008, £17.32m). 
Revenues from Continental Europe generated by Berlin Verlag 
were £9.55m (2008, £11.57m).
The Board manages the financial performance of the Group based 
on the geographic location of its operating units and subsidiaries. 
Accordingly, the paragraphs which follow discuss financial 
performance separately for operations based in the UK, North 
America and Continental Europe. The Group has also entered into 
various arrangements to provide management services to entities in 
Qatar. These entities are not controlled by the Group and 
accordingly are not consolidated. The Group earns management 
and consultancy income from these contracts and financial 
performance under these contracts is discussed according to the 
geographic location of the Bloomsbury operating unit providing 
these services.
Profit before tax for the Group was £7.13m (2008, £11.63m). Profit 
before tax before intangibles amortisation and goodwill impairment 
was £7.71m (2008, £11.85m). Basic earnings per share was 6.77 pence 
(2008, 10.67 pence). Diluted earnings per share was 6.74 pence (2008, 
10.67 pence). Basic earnings per share before intangibles 
amortisation and goodwill impairment was 7.56 pence (2008, 10.96 
pence). Diluted earnings per share before intangibles amortisation 
and goodwill impairment was 7.53 pence (2008, 10.96 pence).
At the year end the Group had net cash balances of £35.04m (2008, 
£51.91m) after the net cash consideration of £10.31m (2008, £7.43m) 
paid for the two (2008, four) acquisitions made during the reporting 
period. We continue to invest in future growth through acquiring 
new authors and titles and specialist publishing companies. Our  www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
9
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights & Overview
Directors Report – Business Review
Directors Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
strong balance sheet puts us in an excellent position to take 
advantage of these opportunities as they arise. As at 31 December 
2009 the Group had under contract 1,073 titles (2008, 1,139) for 
future publication, with a gross investment of £23.7m (2008, £26.4m). 
After payment of the initial tranches of advances to authors, our 
liability for future cash payments on these contracted titles at that 
date was £13.4m (2008, £15.6m). The reduction in the number of 
titles in our forward publishing programme is part of our strategy to 
give greater focus on each title published and increase the potential 
to create bestsellers.
UK
The UK performance was very good even compared to the previous 
year which saw the release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in 
paperback.
Chief Executive’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
10
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Bloomsbury increased its presence in academic and professional 
publishing with the acquisition of Tottel Publishing, now renamed 
Bloomsbury Professional, and Hodder Education’s Higher Education 
Humanities list in July. Both have comfortably matched our 
expectations for 2009. The Bloomsbury Professional list has proved 
highly resilient in the face of the difficult economic climate. Many of 
the titles remain essential publications and are part of routine 
expenditure by law and accounting firms.
Notable successes in 2009 included Documentary Credits (4th ed) and 
Joint Ventures and Shareholders’ Agreements (3rd ed), both aimed at 
the top end of the commercial law market. Subscription and 
loose-leaf publishing remained strong throughout the year. The Irish 
Legal System (5th ed), the standard first year undergraduate text 
book, was a major success. The Scottish law market held up 
extremely well, and 2nd edition of Drafting Wills in Scotland was well 
received. The key to driving revenue growth for Bloomsbury 
Professional is the migration of our content to an online platform. 
We are also continuing to search for law and tax acquisitions to build 
critical mass.
At Berg, our Oxford-based academic publisher, sales in 2009 
exceeded expectations, with impressive growth in journals sales. 
Berg has launched seven journals in the past four years and 
acquired three, and the investment in these new titles is now 
resulting in double digit growth in revenue both in 2009 and 
projected for 2010. Subscription publications are more recession-
resistant than other print products, are less price sensitive, are sold 
direct to the customer at low discount and subscription income is 
received upfront. Berg’s journals are essential for academics in their 
respective subject areas and are less susceptible to library cuts. 
Berg’s sales to the higher education sector, as with other lists in the 
Specialist division, have benefited from the 6% increase in student 
numbers in the UK since September 2009. These counter-cyclical 
qualities are another reason for Bloomsbury’s increased investment 
in professional and academic publishing.
A&C Black www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
11
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
THE ARDEN SHAKESPEARE
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Bloomsbury Academic’s digital platform will be launched in May 
2010 and the digital subscription-based Berg Fashion Library in May 
2010, a substantial academic resource aimed at academics and 
students of fashion, costume and the applied arts, which will be sold 
and distributed by Oxford University Press (‘OUP’). The fit between 
the Berg Fashion Library and OUP’s Grove Dictionary of Art is 
excellent. Berg has recently agreed an image bank partnership with 
the Victoria and Albert Museum to display its costume images within 
the Library. Later in 2010 we are publishing the ten-volume Berg 
Encyclopedia of World Dress and Fashion. This monumental work, the 
work of hundreds of scholars and experts worldwide, will be 
Bloomsbury’s most substantial new reference work in 2010.
Several long-term projects are under way in the Gulf. In September 
2008 a publishing company was established in Doha by the Qatar 
Foundation which will publish children’s books, novels, non-fiction 
for adults and children, academic monographs and reference works 
both in Arabic and in English. The mission of Bloomsbury Qatar 
Foundation Publishing (BQFP) is also to promote reading and writing 
development and to transfer publishing skills into Qatar. Excellent 
progress was made on all fronts during 2009 under our 
Chief Executive’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
12
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Bloomsbury Academic Bloomsbury Professional
management service contract with Qatar Foundation. BQFP brought 
out a dual-language Arabic/English edition of The Selfish Crocodile in 
April 2009 to mark Qatar’s first World Book Day which BQFP 
spearheaded in association with the UK’s World Book Day 
organisation and Qatar University. BQFP also hosted book groups, 
writing and reading courses and other reading development 
initiatives. The first publishing list will be launched in April with the 
Arabic language edition of the The Gruffalo as the lead children’s 
title and on the adult side Nothing To Lose But Your Life (in Arabic and 
English) by Suad Amiry, the Palestinian writer whose first novel  
Sharon and My Mother-in-Law was an international success. The 
cultural collaboration of Britain and Qatar will be celebrated by a 
reception hosted by Her Majesty the Queen and the Duke of 
Edinburgh at Windsor Castle in April to mark the launch of 
Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing.
In September we published QFINANCE – The Ultimate Resource. The 
website (www.qfinance.com) and the book were launched with 
major events in Doha, London and New York. QFINANCE, the result of 
Bloomsbury’s partnership with the Qatar Financial Centre Authority, 
is a comprehensive information resource focused on best practice 
for finance professionals.
In 2009 Bloomsbury Academic implemented its organic growth 
strategy and also acquired the 300 title upper level Humanities 
textbook backlist from Hodder Education. Textbook sales exceeded 
expectations as student numbers expanded during the year. Earlier 
in the year iFactory was appointed to develop the Bloomsbury Digital 
Platform. Bloomsbury Academic will be the first imprint of the Group 
launching its new website on the platform in the spring of 2010. 
Academic library purchasing, which is core to the monograph 
programme, is moving to e-books quite rapidly now, especially in 
the USA. The transition to e-book sales holds exciting opportunities as 
multimedia content is added by authors to enhance scholarly 
communications.
Arden Shakespeare, acquired in December 2008, was incorporated 
into our core drama list alongside Methuen Drama. The list has 
already benefited from Methuen Drama’s specialist sales and 
marketing in the UK. In the USA Arden was launched as part of 
the new US publishing division, Bloomsbury Academic and 
Professional. Arden released Double Falsehood in March 2010, 
the controversial play which Shakespeare was said to have  
contributed to. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
13
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Berg Publishing Bloomsbury Information
BQFP , BQFJ
John Wisden and Co is now fully integrated into A&C Black. Sales of 
the Almanack were increased in 2009, partly as a result of a 
marketing partnership with the county cricket boards and the 
Middlesex County Cricket Club. Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack was 
published in e-book format for the first time in 2009, along with an 
e-book Wisden Collection for libraries.
In response to the growing number of e-book retailers and increased 
demand for digital content, more than one thousand of A&C Black 
books will be offered for sale as e-books in 2010. Two significant new 
ornithology e-book collections in 2010 will be The Poyser Library and 
The Helm Family Guides, which will be available as e-books and as 
print on demand editions. Many of these titles have long been out of 
print and are sought after by collectors and ornithologists.
We will also be publishing with a range of partners who link us to our 
markets, including The Federation of Small Businesses (Good Small 
Business Guide), The Royal Shakespeare Company (The RSC Toolkit for 
Teachers), The RSPB (including Gardening for Wildlife) and The 
Wildlife Trust (Birds in Your Garden). We have also entered into an 
important new CD-publishing agreement for theatre titles with The 
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA).
Chief Executive’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
14
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Adult
2009 was a year where we benefited from enduring bestsellers across 
the Adult list, many of them from our backlist. One of the strongest 
sellers in the year was Kate Summerscale’s The Suspicions of Mr 
Whicher, winner of the Samuel Johnson Prize, Richard & Judy 
Bookclub Best Read and the Galaxy Book of the Year, reaching No. 1 
on The Sunday Times non-fiction paperback bestseller list. The two 
Khaled Hosseini novels, The Kite Runner and A Thousand Splendid 
Suns, sold strongly all year. Our word-of-mouth bestseller, Eat, Pray, 
Love, continues to sell robustly with a film starring Julia Roberts in the 
pipeline. We had a Richard & Judy bookclub title in Sue Miller’s new 
novel, The Senator’s Wife, an Orange Prize shortlist in Kamila 
Shamsie’s Burnt Shadows and a new word-of-mouth bestseller in The 
Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann Shaffer and 
Annie Barrows. New novels were published by three of Bloomsbury’s 
biggest authors  – Margaret Atwood, John Irving and William Boyd 
– and by a new author to our list, Colum McCann, with his novel Let 
the Great World Spin, which won the National Book Award and went 
to No. 1 in the Irish bestseller list.
Non-fiction bestsellers included The Last Fighting Tommy, The Life of 
Harry Patch; Richard van Emden’s Sapper Martin; Family Britain, 
David Kynaston’s follow up to Austerity Britain; and the follow up to 
Al Gore’s bestseller Inconvenient Truth, Our Choice. 2009 also saw the 
addition to the list of Monty Don with his Ivington Diaries and the 
extraordinary success of two food titles: River Cottage Every Day by 
Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall and The Fat Duck Cookbook by Heston 
Blumenthal.
2010 got off to a great start with the new Elizabeth Gilbert, 
Committed; Operation Mincemeat, the new book by Ben McIntyre 
(author of bestseller Agent Zigzag), was number 1 for four weeks; and 
the paperback of Liz Jensen’s Rapture was chosen for the new TV 
Book Club. Highlights of the year ahead also include the film tie-in 
edition of Eat, Pray, Love, the paperback of William Boyd’s Ordinary 
Thunderstorms, and new novels by Barbara Trapido, Sue Miller and 
Jon McGregor, whose Even the Dogs has been tipped for the Man 
Booker Prize. Highlights for the autumn in non-fiction include the 
Authorised History of the Secret Intelligence Service and a companion 
to the hit TV series Cranford. We continue to build our highly 
successful food list, to concentrate on building and promoting our 
backlist and we will also be publishing more up-market crime fiction. 
Five crime novels will be published in 2010 and the ex chief of MI5, 
Stella Rimmington, has joined Bloomsbury with a two-book deal. We 
continue to find and nurture new talent. We will publish eight first  www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
15
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Children’s
novels in 2010, one of which has been chosen for a major bookshop 
promotion, and another of which has been longlisted for the  
Impac Prize.
On the Children’s list The Graveyard Book by international best-selling 
author Neil Gaiman was published simultaneously in an adult as well as 
a children’s edition. It won the Teenage Children’s Book Award and 
has been longlisted for the Carnegie Medal. Troubadour by Mary 
Hoffman was shortlisted for the Costa Award for Children’s Literature.
Harry Potter performed extremely well during the year and sales 
increased on the back of the success of the sixth film, Harry Potter and 
the Half-Blood Prince. Sales of the boxed sets were particularly good. 
We have an extensive programme of rejacketing Harry Potter which 
will be launched in July. The film of HP7 is released in November.
In June 2010 we have a new book by bestselling author of Holes Louis 
Sachar entitled The Cardturner.
We launched Bloomsbury’s Public Library Online in May 2009, a 
concurrent-user online-access subscription service to deliver 
themed digital bookshelves into UK public libraries. Themes include 
Reading Groups, Children’s History, Teen Fiction, Wisden and Arden 
Shakespeare. Online access sold on a subscription model is a proven 
digital delivery model for reference books which we have extended 
to trade fiction and non-fiction. This has already sold into many 
library authorities nationwide providing online access to 3.5m 
potential users. In March 2010 we rebranded as Bloomsbury’s Public 
Library Online. Faber have joined it with a Poetry shelf and Quercus 
with a Crime shelf, including the international bestselling author 
Stieg Larsson. We are in discussion with other UK publishers with a 
view to expanding this initiative to provide a wide range of 
bestsellers digitally to UK public libraries enabling them to remain 
relevant to their local communities. Berlin Verlag has also launched a 
German language version and there is potential for further overseas 
development. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
16
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
US
The US turned in a good performance for the year. The Academic list 
was also launched. In 2010 the A&C Black list, which has previously 
been sold by a third-party agency, will become part of the new 
Bloomsbury Academic and Professional Division in the US. The 
Methuen and Arden lists are already being sold through the Division 
and are becoming a significant force in the US drama market. The 
benefits of this strategy are bearing fruit as it is enabling greater 
focus on growing the lists by means of a dedicated US marketing 
team, a presence at the major academic conferences and 
countrywide sales representation. Berg’s US list will join them in 2011.
Bloomsbury’s new relationship in Qatar agreed in December 2009 is 
to develop a global academic and research journals publishing 
business for Qatar Foundation in Doha using the Open Access 
publishing model via a digital online publishing portal. This venture 
is owned by Qatar Foundation and will be managed by Bloomsbury 
Information Limited. These long-term database and management 
contracts with leading organisations are part of our strategy to grow 
the specialist business.
My Horizontal Life was in the top 15 on The New York Times paperback 
non-fiction list every week during 2009. Logicomix was on The New 
York Times paperback graphic novel bestseller list for 18 weeks and 
Methland two weeks on the extended The New York Times hardcover 
non-fiction bestseller list. The Children’s list had a number of strong 
performing titles including Perfect Chemistry by Simone Elkeles, 
Freckleface Strawberry and The Dodgeball Bully by Julianne Moore 
which was on The New York Times bestseller list for six weeks. Disney 
released The Princess and the Frog which is based on ED Baker’s The 
Frog Princess published by Bloomsbury USA and this has provided 
the opportunity to re-promote her backlist.
Germany
The German market proved to be a difficult one for Berlin Verlag 
with its first operating loss since 2004. Some key titles did not meet 
expectations including the paperback of Jonathan Littell’s Die 
Wohlgesinnten, the hardcover of which had been a major bestseller 
in the previous year. The backlist continued to hold up well with 
ongoing sales from Khaled Hosseini’s The Kite Runner as well as 
Elizabeth Gilbert’s Eat, Pray, Love. The paperback publication of 
Khaled Hosseini’s A Thousand Splendid Suns quickly made its way to 
the top of the bestseller list and became one of the top selling titles 
of the year for Berlin.
Working closely with customers we have made reductions in the 
initial print runs for books which has reduced the risk of overstocks. 
The print contract for the paperback list was moved to the UK at the 
beginning of 2010 as UK prices are considerably lower.
Berlin Verlag sells and distributes Bloomsbury UK’s English language 
books and the underlying revenues have seen a consistent 
year-on-year increase. Building on the success of this we have 
moved A&C Black and Arden from their third-party sales agency 
arrangements to Berlin’s sales force in January 2010. This will give 
increased focus on the list and will also retain within the Group the 
commission paid on those sales. This revenue stream is also growing 
as Berlin now provides sales and distribution to other publishers. . 
Two publishers, Parthas and Blumenbar, are due to join in 2010.
Berlin is a trade publishing house and its performance is driven by 
the number of bestsellers it publishes each year. To provide greater 
earnings potential we will be starting an English and German 
language academic business in 2010 specialising in the Humanities 
and Social Sciences. The first titles will be published in 2011.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 3.65 pence per 
share (2008, 3.47 pence) making a total of 4.43 pence per share 
(2008, 4.22 pence) for the year. This represents a 5% increase in the 
full-year dividend. The final dividend will be payable on 1 July 2010 
to Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
21 May 2010.
Management and staff
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their tremendous 
contribution in a very busy year where we have seen major strategic 
as well as operational achievements. I would also like to thank 
Charles Black and Mike Mayer, who will retire as Non-Executive 
Directors during the year, for their profound contribution to the 
Board. They will be greatly missed.
Current trading, developments and prospects
We have a strong balance sheet with in excess of £35m on deposit, 
and, though investment income will be less than in 2009 due to the 
reduction in interest rates and lower average cash balances, we are 
in a good position to expand our Specialist operation in the UK, US 
and Germany as we make new acquisitions, and to pursue organic 
growth for our existing Divisions.
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
17
Stock Code: BMY
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Chief Executive’s Statement
‘
This is a strong set of results, achieved under difficult trading 
conditions, and demonstrates the strength of our increasingly 
diverse revenue streams. We have further strengthened our 
academic and professional division with the two new acquisitions.
’
Nigel Newton Chief Executive
For the 2010 financial period we will be moving the year-end to the 
end of February. The 2010 interim will be to 30 June and we will have 
an additional interim report as at 31 December with a full period-end 
reporting on 28 February 2011. With the sixty day reporting deadline 
for the interim accounts we are finding it increasingly difficult to see 
shareholders and get the maximum level of press coverage as many 
other companies announce their results at the same time. This 
change will enable us to identify returns of unsold copies we will 
receive from the book trade after the Christmas selling season.
This is a strong set of results, achieved under difficult trading 
conditions, and demonstrates the strength of our increasingly 
diverse revenue streams. We have further strengthened our 
academic and professional division with the two new acquisitions. 
Trading has been excellent in the first quarter of 2010 with a range of 
new bestsellers (including the No. 1 bestseller Operation Mincemeat) 
and a major six figure rights deal in January.
The two Qatar management services partnerships will have an 
important year in 2010. Three major movies, Nanny McPhee and the 
Big Bang; Eat, Pray, Love; and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
Part One, will drive further sales of these proven bestsellers in 2010. 
The success of Bloomsbury’s Public Library Online initiative and 
other Bloomsbury innovations will see us at the forefront of the 
digital opportunity. The marketplace will remain rocky in 2010 and 
will continue to throw the unexpected at all businesses but I am 
confident that Bloomsbury is as well positioned as it could be to 
prosper in this environment with our high hit rate in trade 
publishing, our expansion in academic and professional publishing, 
our strong balance sheet and our entrepreneurial mission.
Nigel Newton
Founder and Chief Executive
30 March 2010
E-book revenues are small but growing and there has been a considerable uplift in 
activity in the last twelve months including the Amazon Kindle released internationally. 
We are looking for opportunities to create new revenue streams from our digital files by 
content aggregation and innovative marketing.
Bloomsbury digital expansion Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
18
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Financial Review
Results
Revenue for the Group for 2009 was £87.22m (2008, £99.95m). The 
Group was working against a strong comparative year with the 
publication of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in paperback and 
The Tales of Beedle the Bard in 2008. Bloomsbury had a very good 
second half weighted publishing programme in 2009 with strong 
performances in both the UK and the US.
Bloomsbury’s segmental analysis is by geographic breakdown, 
which follows the Group’s international publishing strategy. 
Revenue in the UK was £58.89m (2008, £71.06m). Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows paperback and The Tales of Beedle the Bard were 
published in 2008. There were strong sales performances in 2009 
from River Cottage Every Day by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, The Fat 
Duck Cookbook by Heston Blumenthal, The Suspicions of Mr Whicher 
by Kate Summerscale and The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie 
Society by Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows. A number of backlist 
titles performed well with continued sales from A Thousand Splendid 
Suns and The Kite Runner; Eat, Pray, Love; and Harry Potter. Profit 
before investment income, finance costs and tax in the UK was 
£6.57m (2008, £8.15m). US revenue was £18.78m (2008, £17.32m) 
which was primarily due to the success of titles including My 
Horizontal Life by Chelsea Handler, The Nasty Bits by Anthony 
Bourdain and The Fat Duck Cookbook. Profit in the US before 
investment income, finance costs, tax and central costs recharged 
from the UK was £0.45m (2008, £0.38m). For Continental Europe, 
revenue, which was generated by Berlin Verlag, was £9.55m (2008, 
£11.57m). Berlin was operating in a difficult market which resulted in 
some key titles that did not meet expectations including the 
paperback of Jonathan Littell’s Die Wohlgesinnten which was a 
bestseller last year in hardback. The lower revenue contributed to a 
loss before investment income, finance costs, tax and central costs 
recharged from the UK of £0.57m (2008, profit £0.19m). A recovery 
is expected in 2010 and further reductions in the cost base are 
being made.
The Group’s divisional structure is split into three main operating 
areas: Children’s, Adult and Reference publishing. Under the current 
Group structure Children’s and Adult form the Trade Publishing 
Division, and Reference the Specialist Publishing Division. All three 
Divisions operate in the UK, US and Germany. For 2009 the 
breakdown of revenue between the three areas was: Children’s 26% 
(2008, 38%), Adult 44% (2008, 42%) and Reference 30% (2008, 20%).
Revenue in Children’s was £22.98m (2008, £38.33m). Harry Potter and 
the Deathly Hallows paperback and Beedle the Bard were published 
in 2008. Harry Potter continued to perform well as did The Graveyard 
Book by Neil Gaiman. Gross profit for Children’s for 2009 was £11.55m 
(2008, £17.10m). The reduction in gross profit was due to a strong 
2008 comparative along with a write-back in the returns provision in 
2008 of £5.1m which related to the provision brought forward in 
2007. Contribution before administrative expenses was £8.35m  
(2008, £13.65m).
Adult revenue was £37.89m (2008, £42.03m). 2008 benefited from the 
UK paperback publication of A Thousand Splendid Suns. Although 
revenue decreased, a number of titles continued to sell well 
including The Kite Runner (UK and Germany), A Thousand Splendid 
Suns (UK and Germany), Eat, Pray, Love (UK and Germany), The Fat 
Duck Cookbook (UK and USA), The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel 
Pie Society (UK), The Suspicions of Mr Whicher (UK) and River Cottage 
Every Day (UK). Gross profit for Adult for 2009 increased 16.4% to 
£17.84m (2008, £15.32m), with the contribution before 
administrative expenses up 38.3% to £11.02m (2008, £7.97m). The 
main reason for the increase in gross profit was lower provisions 
against unearned advances being charged in the year. In 2008 there 
was an additional advance provision made of £5.4m. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
19
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Financial Review
Reference revenue increased 34.5% to £26.35m (2008, £19.59m). The 
revenue growth was primarily due to the full year impact of the 2008 
acquisitions of Featherstone, Berg, Wisden and Arden Shakespeare 
and revenues from the acquisitions of Tottel Publishing, renamed 
Bloomsbury Professional, and Hodder Education’s Higher Education 
Humanities list in July. The gross profit for 2009 was up 29.2% to 
£13.99m (2008, £10.83m), with the contribution before 
administrative expenses up 24.2% to £8.57m (2008, £6.90m).
Rights revenue, which includes subsidiary rights, electronic database 
income, management contracts and income derived from 
third-party agencies, was £9.23m (2008, £9.30m). The contribution 
attributable to this revenue was £6.64m (2008, £5.84m). The increase 
in contribution was due to a combination of reasonable margin 
deals concluded along with profit being recognised on deliverables 
under existing contracts. £4.94m (2008, £4.50m) of the profit was 
generated in the Specialist Publishing Division and £1.70m (2008, 
£1.34m) was generated in the Trade Publishing Division.
Gross profit for the Group for the year was £43.38m (2008, £43.25m). 
Gross profit margin increased to 49.7% (2008, 43.3%). The increase in 
the gross profit margin was primarily due to lower royalty costs 
charged to the income statement than in 2008, lower provisions 
against unearned advances and the increased contribution from 
higher margin rights revenues. Royalty costs decreased to £10.03m 
(2008, £13.96m) and represented 11.5% of revenues (2008, 14.0% of 
revenues). Royalty rates vary according to the type of books 
published in the year. Provisions against unearned advances 
charged to the income statement were £3.44m (2008, £9.13m) and 
represented 3.9% of revenues (2008, 9.1% of revenues). Books 
returned by customers are credited to the returns provision. Within 
the overall returns provision charge for the year, there was a 
write-back in the returns provision relating to changes in 
assumptions made in respect of the provision brought forward from 
2008 which, as a result of the level of returns actually received during 
2009, is no longer required. The value of the write-back to the 
income statement is £0.58m (2008, £5.16m). Stock provisions 
charged to the income statement decreased to £2.21m (2008, 
£2.83m) and represented 2.5% of revenues (2008, 2.8% of revenues). Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
20
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Financial Review
Marketing and distribution costs increased by 4.7% to £15.44m 
(2008, £14.74m). £0.8m of the increase was due to adverse exchange 
rate movements on the euro and US dollar. In addition, in 2008 there 
was a number of high value revenue generating titles which 
incurred a lower distribution charge as a proportion of revenue. 
Administrative expenses before amortisation of intangible assets 
increased 5.9% to £21.19m (2008, £20.01m); £0.99m of the increase 
was due to adverse exchange rate movements on the euro and the 
US dollar and £0.60m related to overheads on the acquisition of 
Tottel Publishing. The IFRS 2 options charge for the year was £0.09m 
(2008, £0.19m).
Profit before investment income, finance costs and taxation was 
£6.17m (2008, £8.40m). Profit before investment income and 
amortisation of intangible assets and goodwill impairment was 
£6.85m (2008, £8.61m).
Investment income decreased to £1.11m (2008, £3.29m) as a result of 
lower average cash balances during the year and lower rates of 
interest earned on those balances.
The effective corporation tax rate for the year was 30.1% (2008, 
32.6%). The decrease in the rate from 2008 mainly reflects the 
write-back in an overprovision from prior years. The Group 
continues to recognise deferred tax assets in respect of brought 
forward tax losses of Bloomsbury USA and Berlin Verlag which we 
expect will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Basic earnings per share was 6.77 pence (2008, 10.67 pence). Diluted 
earnings per share was 6.74 pence (2008, 10.67 pence). Basic earnings 
per share before amortisation of intangible assets and goodwill 
impairment was 7.56 pence (2008, 10.96 pence). Diluted earnings per 
share before amortisation of intangible assets and goodwill 
impairment was 7.53 pence (2008, 10.96 pence).
BAl ANCe SHee T
Non-current assets
Intangible assets increased to £37.60m (2008, £27.54m) primarily due 
to the acquisition of two companies during the year, namely legal 
and tax publisher Tottel, now renamed Bloomsbury Professional, and 
the Hodder Education Humanities list.
Current assets
Inventories decreased 1.4% to £16.35m (2008, £16.59m). Underlying 
stock holding has remained relatively stable over the last twelve 
months. On a like-for-like basis with 2008 overseas stocks benefited 
with a positive exchange movement of £0.56m which was partially 
offset with new inventories on the acquisition of Tottel and the 
Hodder Education Humanities list.
Trade and other receivables decreased 3.0% to £47.51m (2008, 
£48.98m). Trade receivables decreased 5.8% to £21.60m (2008, 
£22.94m). The level of receivables at the end of the year reflects the 
lower revenues during the year and the stronger second half 
weighting of the publishing programme. Since books sold are 
generally returnable by customers, the Group makes a provision 
against books sold in the accounting period. The unused provision 
at the year-end is then carried forward as an offset to trade 
receivables in the balance sheet, in anticipation of further book 
returns subsequent to the year-end. A provision for the Group of 
£6.51m (2008, £7.78m) for future returns relating to 2009 and prior 
year sales has been carried forward in trade receivables at the 
balance sheet date. This provision at margin represents 7.5% (2008, 
7.8%) of revenues. Within trade and other receivables, prepayments 
and accrued income decreased 1.1% to £25.42m (2008, £25.71m). 
Net provisions of £3.44m (2008, £9.13m) against advances to authors 
on titles published (“advance provisions”) were made during the 
year. Within prepayments and accrued income there were 
provisions brought forward on titles of £1.61m (2008, £nil) that were 
no longer required. This amount has been used to provide against 
other titles where those amounts are considered not to be 
recoverable. There was also a reduction in the amount invested in 
future unpublished titles which is part of our strategy to give greater 
focus for each title published and increase the potential to create 
bestsellers. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
21
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Financial Review
Equity and liabilities
As at 31 December 2009 total equity stood at £112.68m (2008, 
£113.67m). The decrease was due to retained earnings of £1.87m 
(2008, £4.76m) offset by the translation loss on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries in other comprehensive 
income of £2.95m (2008, gain £8.45m), partially offset by the increase 
in the share-based payment reserve due to the share-based 
payment charge for the year of £0.09m (2008, £0.19m), which is also 
included in retained earnings.
Current liabilities decreased 26.6% to £24.16m (2008, £32.92m). 
Accruals and deferred income, which is included in trade and other 
payables, decreased to £15.39m (2008, £24.01m). Accruals and 
deferred income includes royalty payments to authors, which vary 
from year to year depending on revenue and the authors’ royalty 
rates which typically escalate on triggered thresholds as volume 
sales increase.
Cash flow
The Group had a net cash outflow from operating activities before 
tax of £2.56m for the year (2008, £16.34m cash inflow). This was 
mainly attributable to royalty payments on books sold in the second 
half of 2008 with the royalty due to authors at the end of March 2009. 
Corporation tax paid during the year was £1.73m (2008, £6.18m). 
During the year £1.41m (2008, £3.03m) of interest was received from 
deposits, and £3.13m (2008, £2.98m) of dividends were paid. 
£10.31m, net of cash acquired, was spent on the two businesses 
acquired during the year (2008, £7.43m). The Group’s cash on the 
balance sheet as at 31 December 2009 was £35.04m (2008, £51.91m).
Colin Adams ACA
Group Finance Director
30 March 2010 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
22
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Risk Management
The Group understands the important role Risk Management plays 
in underpinning the Group’s current performance and future 
success. The total avoidance of risk in a business environment is 
impossible. Actions were taken and processes were in place during 
the year, and up to the date of approval of this report, for 
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks. These 
processes were regularly reviewed by the Board and were in 
accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The Group, like all businesses, faces a number of risks and 
uncertainties as it conducts its operations. There are a number of 
factors that could impact the Group’s long-term performance and 
steps are taken to understand and evaluate these in order to 
achieve our objective of creating long-term, sustainable returns for 
shareholders.
Details on financial risk management are given in note 22.
Principal risks and uncertainties to the business fall into the following 
three categories:
Title Acquisition
Advances to authors have the potential to reduce margins when 
portions of those advances remain unearned. When considering a 
title acquisition, an initial purchase evaluation process is carried out 
and signed off at a senior level. There is also a system of continuous 
review, analysis and feedback on title performance to better inform 
future acquisitions.
Market
Consumers may not buy a book that has been sold to retailers, and 
unsold books are returned for credit. Also, customers seek to price 
promote many titles which can reduce margins. The steps taken to 
protect and grow revenues are as outlined in the Chief Executive’s 
Review.
Business Continuity
The security and robustness of our systems, in particular our IT 
systems, are important in all aspects of our business, whether in 
respect of the editorial and production processes, publicity, 
marketing and sales, or in respect of stock monitoring and order 
fulfilment. IT processes are continually updated and security 
improved, with daily offsite back-up of electronic files. The 
performance of our key print and distribution suppliers is regularly 
monitored. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
23
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Responsibility
Business Review:
Corporate Responsibility
Social and Environmental Responsibility 
and Health and Safety
The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, 
environmental and ethical issues and has identified and assessed 
significant risks and opportunities to the Group’s short-term and 
long-term value arising from these matters. Our commitment in this 
area is recognised by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good 
Index, FTSE’s responsible investment index.
Employees
Employee Involvement and Communication
Employees are encouraged through the Company’s share option 
schemes to own shares in the Company. Regular employee meetings 
are set up, aimed at consultation, so that employees’ views are taken 
into account. Information about the Group’s affairs, including 
financial and economic factors affecting the Group’s performance, 
is communicated to employees through regular management 
meetings, electronic noticeboards, intranet and social events.
Health and Safety
The Group takes reasonable and practicable steps to safeguard the 
health, safety and welfare of its employees, and recognises its 
responsibility for the health and safety of others who may be affected 
by its activities. Colin Adams has executive responsibilities for health 
and safety issues.
Diversity in the workplace
The Group is committed to providing a working environment in 
which its employees are able to realise their potential and to 
contribute to business success irrespective of gender, marital status, 
ethnic origin, nationality, religion, disability, sexual orientation 
or age.
Employment of disabled persons
It is the Group’s policy to offer equal opportunities to disabled 
persons in matters of recruitment, training, career development and 
promotion. Where people become disabled during the course of 
their employment, the Group seeks to retain their services and to 
provide retraining where necessary.
Social Responsibility
The Group recognises the importance of respecting and supporting 
the communities in which it operates, thus improving the positive 
impact of business in society.
During the year Bloomsbury continued its association with World 
Book Day. As a sponsor and partner, the Group was able to provide 
support for this global initiative, established in 1995 by the United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) 
with the objective of promoting and celebrating books and reading 
amongst children and adults.
The Group was also pleased to support the Puntland and Sri Lanka 
Tsunami reconstruction project through its continued partnership with 
Book Aid International, the registered charity working in developing 
countries to create reading and learning opportunities for people of all 
ages to help them realise their potential and alleviate poverty.
Ethical Behaviour
Bloomsbury is committed to, and expects its employees to exercise, 
high ethical and moral standards at all times whilst representing the 
Group. Bloomsbury also expects all relationships with customers, 
suppliers and other third parties to be conducted on a sound ethical 
footing. The Group has an Employee and Business Protection Policy 
which allows employees to raise, in confidence, concerns about 
possible improprieties in such matters.
Charitable and political donations
The Group is a supporter of, and participant in, various charities and 
initiatives. Charitable donations of £100 were made by the Group 
during the year (2008, £3,500). In addition, the Group was able to 
support numerous schools, libraries and other organisations, including 
charities such as Barnados, Oxfam and Shelter, with significant 
donations of books. The Group also did special printings of children’s 
books at very high discounts for The Book Trust for the national Booked 
Up programme which provides free books to school children.
No political donations were made during the year or in the 
previous year.
The Environment
The Group recognises that the wise use of resources delivers both 
environmental and financial benefits. As part of our overall 
approach to corporate social responsibility, we aim to promote the 
maintenance of a healthy environment through responsible and 
sustainable consumption and production.
Our direct operations are predominately office-based, and our 
activities have been assessed by environmental consultants Trucost 
as having a low impact on the environment. However, our policy is 
to seek to minimise our impacts both in areas where we have direct 
control and through our supply chain. In particular, we monitor 
waste and greenhouse gas emissions and in accordance with the 
2006 Government Guidelines, Environmental Key Performance 
Indicators, Reporting Guidelines for UK Businesses, these 
measurements, as carried out by Trucost, are set out below.
Greenhouse Gases
We report our consumption of natural gas, vehicle fuel and 
electricity in kWh, converted to CO
2
-e following the latest protocols 
provided by the Department for Environment Food, and Rural 
Affairs (Defra 2009). Emissions have been categorised against the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol scopes of reporting. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
24
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Corporate Responsibility
Scope 1 Direct Impacts
 Greenhouse Definition Data Source and Quantity 
 Gases  Calculation Methods Absolute Tonnes CO
2
-e Normalised Tonnes CO
2
-e
     Per £m Turnover
    2008 2009 2008 2009
 Building Emissions from Yearly consumption in kWh collected 98 55 0.98 0.63
` Operations natural gas from fuel bills, converted according to
  consumption Defra Guidelines for UK operations. Data 
  in utility boilers scaled up by number of employees to 
   estimate emissions for operations in the 
   US and German offices.    
 Company Emissions from petrol Yearly consumption in litres calculated 76 32 0.76 0.37
 Cars consumption from fuel bills. Converted according to
   Defra Guidelines.    
 Total Scope 1   174 87 1.74 1.00
Scope 2 Supply Chain Impacts (Purchased Electricity) 
 Greenhouse Definition Data Source and Quantity 
 Gases  Calculation Methods Absolute Tonnes CO
2
-e Normalised Tonnes CO
2
-e
     Per £m Turnover
    2008 2009 2008 2009
 Electricity Directly purchased Yearly consumption of directly 279 215 2.79 2.46
 Use electricity, which purchased electricity in kWh
  generates Greenhouse collected for UK and German offices 
  Gases including CO
2
-e Data scaled up by number of employees
  emissions to estimate emissions for operations in 
   the US. kWhs converted according to 
   Defra and national emission factor values.    
The Group has liaised with the Carbon Trust to seek advice on how to reduce carbon emissions in the short to medium term through energy 
efficiency, which we hope will at the same time deliver energy cost savings.
Waste
Below we report our waste disposal by method of disposal in metric tonnes per annum. Once again we have also normalised the data to 
turnover in order to show our proportionate performance.
    Quantity 
 Waste Definition Data Source and Absolute Tonnes Normalised Tonnes 
   Calculation Methods  Per £m Turnover
    2008 2009 2008 2009
 Landfill General office waste Volume of waste generated per annum 50.1 55.2 0.50 0.63
  (which includes a in the UK operations. Data scaled to 
  mixture of paper, card, estimate annual volume and volume 
  wood, plastics and for operations in the US and Germany 
  metals) sent to landfill offices. 
  sites     
 Recycled General office waste Volume of waste generated per annum 40.6 36.3 0.41 0.42
  sent to recycling as calculated by waste hauler in the UK 
  facilities operations. Data scaled to estimate annual 
   volume and volume for operations in the 
   US and German offices     www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
25
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Responsibility
There is systematic recycling of paper at all of our offices and we continue to make strenuous efforts to reduce our landfill waste by ensuring 
that waste both from our offices and remaindered books is recycled wherever possible. 
Water consumption
Indirect Impacts
    Quantity
 Water Definition Data Source and Absolute Cubic Metres Normalised Cubic Metres 
   Calculation Methods  Per £m Turnover
    2008 2009 2008 2009
 Water Directly purchased Yearly volume of water purchased, 5,235 2,848 52.38 32.7
 consumption water calculated from German bills. Data
   scaled up by number of employees to 
   estimate consumption for operations 
   in the US and UK offices.    
The Supply Chain
Our indirect impacts through our suppliers are clearly more significant than our direct impacts, which relate to our own office-based 
operations. We have analysed the impact of over 25 major suppliers, and we will monitor and engage with our key suppliers to reduce our 
environmental impact where possible.
We recognise that the use of paper has a significant impact on the environment. We therefore stipulate that the pulp used to produce the 
papers for our books must come from well-managed forests. We also encourage our suppliers to obtain *Forest Stewardship Council A.C. 
(FSC) accreditation and use FSC certified papers. The majority of our UK and European suppliers are now FSC Chain of Custody certified, along 
with several of our main Far Eastern colour printers.
Since December 2005 the majority of our mono hardback and trade format paperbacks manufactured in the UK have been printed on *FSC 
certified mixed sources papers. The use of FSC accredited papers was extended in 2008 to include our UK produced mass market paperbacks, 
and this continues to be the case to date. During 2009 we used FSC accredited stocks in the majority of our colour titles produced in the UK 
and Europe. Where possible, the Group seeks to use paper produced from 100% post-consumer waste recycled pulp (PCW).
* © 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
26
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Board of Directors
e xecutive Directors
Nigel Newton
Executive Directors
Nigel Newton is the founder and Chief Executive of Bloomsbury 
Publishing. He was born and raised in San Francisco and is a dual 
citizen of the US and UK. He read English at Cambridge. After 
working at Macmillan Publishers, he joined Sidgwick & Jackson. He 
left Sidgwick in 1986 to start Bloomsbury. Bloomsbury floated on The 
London Stock Exchange in 1994 and has grown organically and 
through strategic acquisitions and partnerships. Bloomsbury 
publishes over 1,000 books a year and employs 348 people in the UK, 
USA and Germany. Bloomsbury authors include JK Rowling, John 
Irving, David Guterson, Margaret Atwood, Michael Ondaatje, Daniel 
Goleman, Ben McIntyre, Kate Summerscale, Elizabeth Gilbert, Heston 
Blumenthal, Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall and Khaled Hosseini.
Nigel Newton serves as President of Book Aid International, Member of 
the Man Booker Prize Advisory Committee, Chairman of The Charleston 
Trust, Trustee of The Asham Literary Trust, Trustee of The Garrick 
Charitable Trust, past Chair of World Book Day (2006), past member of  
the Publishers Association Council, St Patrick’s Church, Soho Square 
Executive Committee member, and Chairman of Rescue The 
 Cuckmere Valley. 
Colin Adams ACA
Group Finance Director
Colin Adams ACA is Group Finance Director. He qualified as a 
chartered accountant with KPMG before joining CAM Galaxy Holdings 
Limited as financial controller in 1989. In 1991 he joined Larousse Plc, 
the UK subsidiary of Groupe de la Cite SA, a large French publisher, as 
financial controller, before joining Bloomsbury in April 1994 as Finance 
Director. In 2007 he was appointed to the Investment Committee of the 
Creative Capital Fund, an equity fund that provides seed capital 
investment to entrepreneurs and businesses in London’s creative 
industries. He is also Finance Director of A&C Black Publishers Limited, 
Bloomsbury Professional Limited and Berlin Verlag, as well as Executive 
Vice-President of Bloomsbury Publishing Inc.
Richard Charkin
Executive Director
Richard Charkin joined the Bloomsbury Board as an Executive 
Director in October 2007. He began his career in 1972 as Science 
Editor of Harrap & Co. He has since held senior roles at Pergamon 
Press, Oxford University Press, Reed International/Reed Elsevier, 
Current Science Group and has been Chief Executive Officer of 
Macmillan Publishers Limited and Executive Director of 
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck. Other publishing interests of 
Mr Charkin include being Non-Executive Director of Institute of 
Physics Publishing, Member of the Strategy Advisory Board of the 
British Library and he was President of the Publishers Association.
Non-e xecutive Directors
Jeremy Wilson
Non-Executive Chairman
Jeremy Wilson joined the Bloomsbury Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in November 2005 and was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman on 27 September 2007. He is Vice-Chairman, Barclays 
Corporate, Barclays Bank PLC. He joined Barclays in 1972. During his 
career at Barclays, Mr Wilson has held a variety of senior 
management positions, both in the UK and abroad, and has been 
responsible for major corporate and institutional client business. He 
is also responsible for a number of Financial Service and industry 
initiatives within the UK and globally.
Charles Black
Non-Executive Director
Charles Black was appointed Vice-Chairman and senior independent 
Non-Executive Director of Bloomsbury in June 2005, having 
originally joined the Bloomsbury Board in June 2004. He started 
working for A&C Black in 1960 and was appointed Chairman and 
Joint Managing Director of the Board in 1973. He subsequently 
stepped down following the acquisition of A&C Black by Bloomsbury 
in 2000. Mr Black has considerable knowledge of reference and 
practical non-fiction publishing and was involved with the strategic 
acquisitions A&C Black made during his time as Chairman. He is 
Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Michael Mayer
Non-Executive Director
Michael Mayer joined the Bloomsbury Board in January 2002. He is a 
partner in a San Francisco-based private equity firm. Mr Mayer was 
actively involved in the early development of AOL and has worked 
with a broad range of companies during his more than 20 years in 
venture capital and private equity firms. He also has a long history of 
involvement in strategic acquisition transactions, which should 
prove helpful as the Group seeks to grow through acquisition. Mr 
Mayer was previously a partner at Price Waterhouse. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
27
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Board of Directors
Board Committees 
and Finance Committee
Finance Committee
Nigel Newton - Chairman
Richard Charkin
Colin Adams
Jill Coleman
Jill Coleman is Managing Director of A&C Black. She joined the 
Bloomsbury Group in 2000. A wholly owned subsidiary of Bloomsbury, 
A&C Black is a reference and specialist publisher with particular 
strengths in drama, education, natural history, sport and nautical 
publishing. Since joining Bloomsbury, Mrs Coleman has played a key 
part in making specialist acquisitions and managing them for the 
Group: these include the imprints of Methuen Drama, Arden, 
Featherstone Education, Reeds Nautical, Poyser, Whitkaker’s Almanack 
and Andrew Brodie. She is also responsible for the Group’s leading 
reference titles:  Who’s Who, The Writers’ and Artists’ Yearbook, Reed’s 
Nautical Almanac, Whitaker’s Almanack and, more recently, Wisden 
Cricketers’ Almanac. As a member of the Group Finance Committee, 
she has a strategic role across the Group with particular emphasis on 
growth of specialist publishing in digital and print formats.
Jonathan Glasspool
Jonathan Glasspool is Managing Director of Bloomsbury Academic and 
Professional.  He is responsible for the Group’s academic and 
professional publishing including Bloomsbury Professional, 
Bloomsbury Academic and Berg Publishers, as well as A&C Black’s 
electronic & reference databases. He was formerly Product Director in 
Bloomsbury’s Electronic Media Division. Previous jobs include Publisher 
with Reed Elsevier in Singapore, Melbourne and Oxford. Mr Glasspool 
was also Head of Publishing at the Institute of Management, where he 
worked with Hodder Headline, Pearson and Butterworth-Heinemann. 
He started his career at Cambridge University Press.  Mr Glasspool is on 
the industry advisory board of Oxford Brookes Publishing Centre.
Kathy Rooney
Kathy Rooney is Managing Director of Bloomsbury Information Ltd, 
the subsidiary within Bloomsbury which is responsible delivering for 
the management services agreements with Qatar Foundation for 
Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing and Bloomsbury Qatar 
Foundation Journals, as well as for QFINANCE – The Ultimate Resource 
with Qatar Financial Centre. Dr Rooney has worked for Bloomsbury 
since 1987 when she started the Reference Division and was 
responsible for the Encarta World English Dictionary, Thesaurus and 
Quotations projects with Microsoft, the Macmillan English Dictionary 
and BUSINESS – The Ultimate Resource.  From 2005 to December 2008 
she was joint Managing Director of Berlin Verlag in which period the 
company became profitable and cash positive. She has a Ph.D. in 
German from the University of Warwick, and previously worked for 
Collins and Longman. In 2009 Dr Rooney received the Kim Scott 
Walwyn Prize for achievement by women in publishing.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
Charles Black - Chairman
Michael Mayer
Nomination Committee
Nigel Newton - Chairman
Michael Mayer
Charles Black
Jeremy Wilson
Remuneration Committee
Charles Black - Chairman
Michael Mayer
Jeremy Wilson
Ian Portal FCIS
Group Company Secretary Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
28
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Governance
Application of the Principles of Good Governance
The Board has reviewed the requirements of the Combined Code 
2008, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The ways in which 
the Company applies and complies with the principles of the Code 
are described below and, in respect of remuneration, on pages 35 
to 39.
The Board
At 31 December 2009, the Board consisted of three Executive 
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, including a Non-
Executive Chairman. The names of the six current Directors and their 
respective responsibilities are shown on page 26.
The Board considers each of the three Non-Executive Directors to be 
independent in character and judgement and does not consider 
that there are any relationships or circumstances which affect, or 
could appear to affect, their independent judgement.
The Board operates both formally, through Board and Committee 
meetings, and informally, through regular contact amongst Directors. 
High level decisions on such matters as strategy, financial 
performance and reporting, dividends, risk management, major 
capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals are reserved for the 
Board or Board Committees. For its regular formal meetings, the Board 
receives appropriate information in advance from the management. 
Other decisions outside of these areas are delegated to the 
Company’s management, which reports to the Executive Directors.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors to 
consider their views. They constructively challenge and help 
develop proposals on strategy at meetings specifically set up for the 
purpose, which are attended by all Board members.
The Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the 
Company’s own expense in the performance of their duties as 
Directors and have access to the Company Secretary.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new Directors 
on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee (see below). 
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at 
the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment 
and subsequent to this submit themselves for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting on a rotational basis, which ensures  
that each Director is submitted for re-election approximately 
every three years.
Proposals to re-elect Directors are set out on page 31 and in the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 94.
Board Committees
Remuneration Committee – The current composition of the 
Remuneration Committee is shown on page 27 and the statement of 
the remuneration policy developed by the Committee and details of 
each Director’s remuneration are given within the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report set out on pages 35 to 39. The terms of 
reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the 
Group’s website.
Audit Committee – The current composition of the Audit 
Committee is shown on page 27. The Audit Committee operates 
under terms of reference agreed by the whole Board and meets with 
the external auditors to consider the Group’s financial reporting in 
advance of its publication, and with the internal auditors to consider 
the internal audit programme, feedback and reports. The terms of 
reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Group’s 
website.
Nomination Committee – The current composition of the 
Nomination Committee is shown on page 27. The Committee meets 
as required and operates under terms of reference agreed by the 
whole Board, and which are available on the Group’s website.
Board and Committee Attendance
The following table sets out the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2009.
   Remuneration Audit Nomination 
  Board Committee Committee Committee
  Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings
Director  Max. 9 Max. 6 Max. 3 Max. 2
Jeremy Wilson  9 6 – 2
Nigel Newton  9 – – 2
Colin Adams  9 – – –
Richard Charkin  9 – – –
Charles Black  9 6 3 2
Michael Mayer  9 6 3 2 www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
29
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Governance
Board Evaluation
During the year the Board carried out a formal Board evaluation. 
Designed to provide a mechanism to assess individual Director and 
overall Board and Committee performance, the evaluation had two 
stages:
Stage One: Self Evaluation
A self assessment completed by each Director and reviewed by the 
Chairman (or in the case of the Chairman’s self evaluation, by the 
Senior Independent Director, the other Non-Executive Director and 
the Executive Directors), who involves the other Non-Executive 
Directors as necessary. The reviewer determines follow-up action 
required including face-to-face meetings, training and 
development or the implementation of new processes or 
procedures. This may also generate items for discussion in 
Stage Two.
Stage Two: Board/Committee Evaluation and Communication
Conducted within a Board forum environment and prompted by 
key pre-determined questions (including any items generated from 
Stage One of the process), the Board examines separately the 
performance of the Board, the Board Committees and Board 
Communication. The forum is minuted and action points noted.
Shareholder Communications
The Board’s assessment of the Group’s position and prospects are 
set out in the Chief Executive’s Statement on pages 8 to 17 and the 
Financial Review on pages 18 to 21.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with institutional 
shareholders to discuss the Group’s performance and future 
prospects. The views of institutional shareholders are canvassed and 
subsequently reported back to the Board.
In addition, the Chairman offers annually to meet with major 
shareholders to review with them the performance and governance 
of the Group and the Senior Independent Director and the 
Non-Executive Director are kept informed of shareholder views by 
regularly receiving reports from the Group’s brokers.
The Annual General Meeting is used as a forum for communication 
with private shareholders.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board considers that the Group has complied throughout the 
year ended 31 December 2009 with the Combined Code except in 
relation to the following matters:
● ● Provision A.4.1 – The Chief Executive was and still is the Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee, although the Committee did also 
consist of two Non-Executive Directors and the independent 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board. Furthermore, whilst 
Chairman of the Committee the appointments have been very 
successful.
● ● Provision D1.1 – The Senior Independent Director did not attend 
meetings with major shareholders but was and still is kept 
informed of shareholder views by regularly receiving reports 
from the Group’s brokers.
Internal Control
The Combined Code requires the Directors to review, on an ongoing 
basis, the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including 
financial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Board 
acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the two Non-Executive Directors, 
Charles Black (its Chairman), and Michael Mayer. Both members of 
the Committee have significant financial experience due to the 
senior positions they hold or have held in the past.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters on which 
it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken. In particular, the 
Committee is responsible for:
● ● ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is 
properly monitored and reported;
● ● monitoring the formal announcements relating to financial 
performance;
● ● meeting the external auditors and reviewing reports prepared 
by the external auditors and management relating to accounts 
and internal control systems;
● ● appointing internal auditors, agreeing the internal audit plan 
and meeting with them to review reports and consider future 
internal audit strategy; and
● ● making recommendations to the Board in respect of external 
auditor appointment and remuneration.
The effectiveness of the internal control systems for the period 
covered by the financial statements has been examined. The 
examination comprised a detailed review of internal controls with 
any significant findings or identified risks being closely examined so 
that appropriate action can be taken.
Since their appointment in December 2006, an experienced external 
provider of internal audit services, KPMG LLP, has worked with the 
Group to develop a risk-based internal audit programme for the 
Group. A representative of KPMG LLP regularly attended the Audit 
Committee meetings during the year and submitted their reports. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
30
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Governance
Key Controls and Procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate 
strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, and has 
put in place an organisational structure with defined lines of 
responsibility and delegations of authority.
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board prior to 
approval being given. This includes the identification and 
assessment of the business risks inherent in the Group and the 
publishing sector as a whole along with associated financial risks.
The system of internal financial control is designed to provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The key procedures include:
● ● detailed budgeting and forecasting programme with annual 
budget and forecast approved by the Board;
● ● regular review by the Board of actual results compared with 
budget and forecasts;
● ● regular review by the Board of year-end forecasts;
● ● established procedures for acquisition of books for future 
publication, capital expenditure and expenditure incurred in 
the ordinary course of business;
● ● detailed budgeting and monitoring of costs incurred on the 
development of reference databases;
● ● established procedures for credit evaluation of new and existing 
customers with credit insurance on material customer accounts;
● ● reporting to, and review by, the Board of changes in legislation 
and practices within the publishing sector and accounting and 
legal developments pertinent to the Group;
● ● appointing experienced and suitably qualified staff to take 
responsibility for key business functions to ensure maintenance 
of high standards of performance;
● ● preparation of monthly consolidated accounts by suitably 
qualified staff and review by senior management and the Board 
against budgets and forecast;
● ● an internal audit programme;
● ● qualified finance team, experienced Group Finance Director 
and senior finance managers, keeping up to date with 
International Financial Reporting requirements; and
● ● regular review of financial reporting and controls, and taking 
advice from internal audit.
Auditor Independence
The Audit Committee also undertakes a formal assessment of the 
external auditors’ independence each year which includes:
● ● confirmation of the external auditors’ objectivity and 
independence in the provision of non-audit services provided 
to the Group including the use of separate teams to provide 
such services;
● ● discussion with the external auditor of a written report detailing 
relationships with the Group and any other parties that could 
affect independence or the perception of independence;
● ● a review of the external auditors’ own procedures for ensuring 
independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved 
in the audit, including the regular rotation of the audit partner; 
and
● ● obtaining written confirmation from the external auditors that, 
in their professional judgement, they are independent.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of 
both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 2 
to the accounts. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
31
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance: 
Other Statutory Information
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated in England 
and quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s 
Registered number is 1984336.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the publication of books and 
the development of electronic reference databases.
Review of developments and the Business Review
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Statement and 
Financial Review (on pages 6 to 21) contain a review of the Group’s 
business and activities during the year, its financial position at the 
end of the year and the likely future developments. The elements 
covered in these reports, as well as in the sections dealing with 
Corporate Governance and Internal Control, which are covered by 
the Business Review, are incorporated into the Directors’ Report by 
reference.
Dividends
The income statement of the Group for the year is set out on page 
42. In November 2009 an interim dividend of 0.78 pence (net) per 
Ordinary Share was paid. The Directors recommend the payment of 
a final dividend of 3.65 pence (net) per Ordinary Share payable on 
1 July 2010 to Ordinary Shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 21 May 2010.
Directors
The Directors who held office at any time during the year were:
JJO’B Wilson – Non-Executive Chairman
JN Newton  – Chief Executive
CR Adams ACA – Group Finance Director
RDP Charkin  – Executive Director
CAA Black  –  Vice Chairman and Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
MJ Mayer  – Independent Non-Executive Director
Biographical details of current Board Directors are shown on page 26.
The Directors’ interests, including any changes in those interests 
occurring between 31 December 2009 and 20 April 2010, are set out 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 39.
At the Annual General Meeting, Charles Black and Richard Charkin 
will retire by rotation in accordance with the articles of association of 
the Company and, being eligible, Mr Charkin offers himself for 
re-election.
Details of the service contract of Mr Richard Charkin, the Director 
who is standing for re-election, are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 36. Mr Charkin’s service contract is 
terminable by either party on giving not less than 12 months’ notice.
Directors’ Remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 35 to 39.
Substantial Shareholdings
The Directors have been notified of the following holdings of Ordinary 
Shares in excess of 3% of the issued share capital at 5 April 2010:
 Number Percentage
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc 8,932,311 12.12
Capital Research Management Co 6,030,000 8.21
Schroders Investment Management 
Limited 4,911,385 6.69
JP Morgan Chase & Co 4,566,890 6.21
Black Rock, Inc 3,979,958 5.40
Ameriprise Financial, Inc and 
its group 3,618,000 4.93
Legal & General Group Plc 2,889,465 3.92
Standard Life Investments Limited 2,814,981 3.82
Black Rock UK Emerging 
Companies Hedge Fund 2,271,971 3.08
Norges Bank 2,228,549 3.02
Special Business – Annual General Meeting
Resolution 6 – On 29 May 2009, resolutions were passed by the 
Company’s shareholders whereby the Directors were given 
authority, under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, until the 
conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, to allot shares up to 
a maximum of the authorised but unissued share capital of the 
Company. The Directors recommend by Resolution 6 to be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that a similar authority 
under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 should be granted to 
the Directors until the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company. If Resolution 6 is approved by 
shareholders, the Directors will have the authority to allot up to 
18,080,281 Ordinary Shares, representing 24.46% of the Ordinary 
Shares currently in issue, of which 3,356,084 (4.54% of the Ordinary 
Shares currently in issue) are reserved for issue under the 
Company’s share option schemes and performance share plan. The 
balance available for allotment is therefore 14,724,197 Ordinary 
Shares, representing 19.92% of the Ordinary Shares currently in 
issue. The Company does not currently have any treasury shares in 
issue. The Directors have no present intention of exercising the 
authority except in connection with the issue of shares under the 
Company’s share and share option schemes. The authority, if 
granted, will expire on conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company after the passing of the proposed 
Resolution 6, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the 
Company in the general meeting.
Resolution 7 – In addition, the Directors were given authority under 
Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, until the conclusion of the 
2010 Annual General Meeting, to allot equity securities for cash, 
other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their holding, in 
connection with a rights issue, pursuant to the terms of employees’ 
share or share option schemes approved by the members in general 
meeting and, in addition, up to an aggregate nominal amount 
equal to 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital.  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
32
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The Directors recommend that a similar authority under section 570 
of the Companies Act 2006 should be granted until the conclusion of 
the next Annual General Meeting or fifteen months from the date of 
passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless previously 
varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 allows shares purchased by the Company 
to be held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for 
cash or used to meet the Company’s obligations under its share or 
share option schemes. The requirements to allot equity securities for 
cash to existing shareholders will also apply to the sale by the 
Company of any shares it holds as treasury shares. These 
requirements may be similarly disapplied by shareholders. The 
authority sought, and limits set, by Resolution 8 will then apply also 
to a sale of treasury shares. Apart from potentially acquiring shares 
to satisfy the vesting of options or awards under any of the 
Company’s share or share option schemes, the Directors have no 
present intention of holding shares in treasury pursuant to the 
Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 8 – This resolution renews the existing authority for the 
Company to make purchases of its own shares. The maximum number 
of Ordinary Shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority 
is 3,695,986 being equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at the date of this Directors’ Report. The total number of 
options to subscribe for equity shares currently outstanding is 981,440 
being equal to 1.32% of the issued share capital. The total number of 
share awards currently outstanding granted under the performance 
share plan and conditional award is 2,365,301 and 9,343, respectively, 
being equal to 3.2% of the issued share capital. If the full authority to 
buy back shares is used, the options and awards will represent 4.54% 
of the equity share capital. The minimum price which may be paid for 
an Ordinary Share (exclusive of expenses) shall be an amount equal to 
105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the 
Company’s ordinary shares for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date of purchase.
The authority sought to make market purchases of its own shares is 
intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as 
treasury shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. However, 
as mentioned above, the Directors have no present intention of 
holding shares in treasury pursuant to the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by 
Resolution 8 may be necessary in order to increase the earnings per 
share of the Group. They have no intention of exercising the 
authority at the present time but, if they do, the Directors will neither 
be encouraging nor recommending shareholders to buy or sell 
shares in the Company nor in any way suggesting that it is an 
appropriate time to deal in such shares. This authority, if conferred, 
will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the 
earnings per share and is in the best interests of shareholders 
generally.
Resolution 9 – This resolution is asking shareholders to approve a 
number of amendments to our articles of association primarily to 
reflect the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in the 
UK in August 2009 and the remaining provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006 and certain amendments to the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001 in October 2009.
An explanation of the main changes between the proposed and the 
existing articles of association is set out in the Appendix to the Notice 
of Meeting on pages 98 to 100 of this document.
Resolution 10 – Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the 
Shareholders’s Rights Regulations increase the notice period 
required  for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days 
unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot 
however be less than 14 clear days (AGMs will continue to be held on 
at least 21 clear days’ notice).
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations 
on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings 
other than an AGM on 14 clear days’ notice without obtaining such 
shareholder approval. In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 10 
seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until the 
Company’s next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a 
similar resolution will be proposed. The Directors intend that this 
shorter notice period will only be used when merited by the business 
of the meeting and thought to be to the advantage of shareholders 
generally.
In order for the Company to be able to call a general meeting on not 
less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must also provide 
electronic voting to all shareholders for that meeting, which it will do 
in advance of the first general meeting at which it wishes to use the 
shorter notice period.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of 
Resolutions 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 which are, in the opinion of the Directors, 
in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
Directors’ Indemnities
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors 
are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent 
permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their 
office.
Authority to buy back shares
The Company’s Articles of Association empower the Company to 
buy back its own shares. The Directors consider that the power to 
make purchases in the market of the Company’s own shares should 
be maintained and the necessary special resolution will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting. The power was not exercised in 2009.
Insurance of Company Officers
The Group has maintained insurance throughout the year for its 
Directors and officers against the consequences of actions brought 
against them in relation to their duties for the Group.
Corporate Governance: 
Other Statutory Information www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
33
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Governance
Policy on Supplier Payments
The Group does not follow a standard code for dealing with the 
payment of suppliers, but aims to pay all its suppliers within 
pre-agreed credit terms, provided that the supplier has performed 
in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions. At 
31 December 2009 the number of days’ credit taken for purchases 
by the Group was 50 days (2008, 51 days).
Going Concern
Having made enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group as a whole has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Further going concern disclosure is given in the financial statements 
as noted in the Basis of preparation section of the Accounting 
Policies on page 50. The Directors confirm that the business is a 
going concern and that their assessment of the going concern 
position has been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Company’s Shares
Under the Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be 
issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, 
voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time 
to time by ordinary resolution determine (or, in the absence of any 
such determination, as the Directors may determine).
At 31 December 2009, the Company’s issued share capital consists of 
a single class of ordinary shares with nominal value of 1.25p. At a 
general meeting of the Company every member has one vote on a 
show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held. The notice 
of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights 
either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be 
passed at a general meeting. Details of the issued share capital of the 
Company can be found in note 14 together with details of the shares 
issued during the year.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to 
attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or 
to exercise any other rights conferred by being a shareholder if he or 
she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice 
under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon 
public companies the power to require information with respect to 
interests in their voting shares) and he or she or any interested 
person failed to supply the Company with the information requested 
within 14 days after delivery of that notice. The Board may also 
decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares 
and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered. These 
restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice 
of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required 
by the relevant Section 793 notice, whichever is earlier. The Directors 
may refuse to register any transfer which is not a fully-paid share, 
although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the 
Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealing in the 
shares of that class from taking place on an open proper basis. The 
Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour of 
more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions in the transfer of 
ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that 
may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws); and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Group 
require approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of the securities or 
voting rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to 
authorise the Directors to exercise all powers to allot shares and 
approve a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights. 
Details are set out in the Notice of Meeting as contained on pages 
94 to 97.
Directors’ appointments and replacements
The procedure for the appointment of new Directors is given on 
page 28 under the heading ‘The Board’. A Director may be removed 
from office by the passing of an ordinary resolution at a general 
meeting of the Company for which special notice is given.
Amendments to the Articles of Association
The Articles of the Company may be amended by the passing of a 
special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
Share Schemes
The Bloomsbury Employee Benefit Trust 2005, as Trustee of the 
Bloomsbury Employee Benefit Trust, as at 19 April 2010 held 0.12% of 
the share capital of the Company for employee share schemes. The 
Trustee may vote on shares held by the trust at its discretion, but 
waives its right to a dividend.
Statement as to Disclosure of Information to the auditors
The Directors who were in office on the date of approval of these 
financial statements have confirmed that, as far as they are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware. Each of the Directors has confirmed that they have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that it has been communicated to the auditors.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as auditor will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
I Portal FCIS
Secretary
20 April 2010 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
34
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Corporate Governance:
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Company financial statements for each financial year. The Directors 
are required under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by 
the European Union (‘EU’) and have elected to prepare the 
Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS adopted by 
the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the 
Company and the financial performance of the Group. The 
Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements 
that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements 
giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
a. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
b. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
c. state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs adopted by the EU;
d. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Company and to enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the 
Directors’ Report ,confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
a. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
and
b. the Directors’ Report contained in the Annual Report includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the 
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
35
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Committee comprised at 31 December 2009 the 
three Non-Executive Directors, Charles Black (its Chairman), Michael 
Mayer and Jeremy Wilson.
The Remuneration Committee operates under Terms of Reference 
agreed by the whole Board.
Remuneration Report
The Board has had full regard to the requirements set out in the 
Companies Act 2006 s420 and SI 2008 no. 410 sch8 in preparing this 
report. A resolution will be put to the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 28 May 2010 inviting them to consider 
and approve this report.
Compliance
The constitution and operation of the Committee is in compliance 
with the principles and best practice provisions as set out in the 
Combined Code, and full consideration was given to these in 
determining the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors 
for 2009 and 2010.
Policy on Remuneration of Executive Directors
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of Executive 
Directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and 
the basis of their service agreements with due regard to the interests 
of shareholders. In determining that remuneration, the 
Remuneration Committee seeks to offer a competitive remuneration 
structure to maintain the high calibre of the Company’s Executive 
Board. The Committee believes that maintaining the Group’s 
business growth and profit record requires an overall compensation 
policy with a strong performance-related element, linked to the 
Company’s business objectives.
The main components of the Executive Directors’ remuneration are:
1) Basic salary
Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee taking into account external market data. 
The Committee’s policy is to review salaries annually. For 2010 only, 
the Directors have agreed to a voluntary cut in their base salaries 
of 10%.
2) Annual bonus
The Company operates an annual bonus scheme for its Executive 
Directors. For 2009 the bonus for Nigel Newton, Colin Adams and 
Richard Charkin, which is not pensionable, was limited to a maximum 
of 100% of basic salary at the end of the financial year. 80% of their 
bonus was based on a range of operating profit targets set by 
reference to the Group budget and 20% was based on the successful 
delivery of pre-set strategic and personal goals.
The 2010 bonuses for Nigel Newton, Richard Charkin and Colin 
Adams will remain a maximum of 100% of basic salary. 80% of their 
bonus will be based on a range of pre-tax profit targets set by 
reference to the Group budget and 20% will be based on the 
successful delivery of pre-set strategic and personal goals.
All annual bonuses are payable in cash.
3) Pension contributions
The Executive Directors receive a contribution to their private 
pension arrangements. Nigel Newton and Colin Adams each receive 
a contribution of 15% of their basic salary to their private pension 
schemes, and Richard Charkin receives an additional contribution of 
5% of his basic salary in lieu of pension.
4) Share options, the Performance Share Plan 
and Sharesave Plan
The Group believes that share ownership by Executive Directors 
strengthens the link between their personal interests and those of 
the shareholders in respect of shareholder value. Upon listing of the 
Company in 1994, Approved and Unapproved Executive Share 
Option Schemes (‘the Schemes’) were introduced. The ten year life 
of the Schemes has now expired and no new options have been 
granted under either of the Schemes since 2004.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 
27 September 2005 resolutions were passed approving the setting up 
of a Performance Share Plan (to incentivise the Executive Directors and 
other senior employees), a Sharesave Plan (to incentivise the 
Bloomsbury workforce as a whole) and an Employee Benefit Trust (to 
operate in conjunction with the new plans, as appropriate) – further 
detail on the Employee Benefit Trust is set out on page 84.
Performance Share Plan (“the PSP”) – The plan allows the 
Remuneration Committee to grant conditional allocations of 
Ordinary Shares to eligible employees with a maximum value 
(normally) of 150% of base salary per annum. Awards granted 
under the PSP will normally only vest after three years, provided the 
participant is still employed in the Group and that performance 
conditions have first been achieved (these conditions are set by the 
Remuneration Committee each year prior to award). The first awards 
under the PSP were made on 4 November 2005, since when there 
have been further awards on 26 October 2006, 8 May 2007, 12 May 
2008 and 25 September 2009 to Directors (and other eligible 
employees) and the conditions attached to those awards are set out 
on pages 81 and 82.
The Remuneration Committee has not granted and has no present 
intention of granting awards greater than 100% of base salary per 
annum, save for an initial grant to Richard Charkin on joining the 
Company of 150% of base salary which was awarded during 2008.  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
36
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The Remuneration Committee is conscious that it may be 
appropriate to apply even more demanding performance 
conditions if it is felt appropriate to make awards under the PSP in 
excess of 100% of salary in any year.
Sharesave Plan – This is an all-employee savings-related share option 
scheme under which options can be granted to acquire Ordinary 
Shares after a vesting period of three, five or seven years at an exercise 
price determined at the outset, on condition that they agree to make 
savings into a special savings account. This plan is approved by HM 
Revenue & Customs and gives participants tax and National Insurance 
benefits. The first grant of 115,671 options under this plan was made 
on 5 May 2006, a second grant of 100,118 options on 8 June 2007 and a 
third grant of 92,983 was made on 12 May 2008.
Contracts of Service
All the Executive Directors have service contracts which are 
terminable by either party giving to the other not less than twelve 
months’ written notice.
Nigel Newton’s contract, dated 24 June 2003, had an initial fixed 
term of two years. Under the terms of the contract, on 24 June 2005 
this agreement effectively became and continues to be 
determinable by either party giving to the other not less than twelve 
months’ written notice as recommended by the Combined Code.
Colin Adams’ and Richard Charkin’s contracts are dated 
24 September 2004 and 10 October 2007 respectively.
The Non-Executive Directors, Charles Black and Michael Mayer, 
do not have service contracts, but each has a letter of appointment. 
Each letter of appointment is dated 7 July 2006, and both 
confirmed that the term of appointment was until the 2007 
Annual General Meeting and thereafter subject to re-election  
every three years in accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association. The Chairman Jeremy Wilson’s letter of appointment 
is dated 31 October 2007 and is determinable by either party 
giving three months’ notice and is subject to re-election every 
three years.
There are no specific provisions for compensation on early 
termination of service contracts. Compensation on early termination 
may be payable by the Company by agreement between the 
Company and the Director and with the approval of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Policy on Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the 
Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Directors do not participate 
in the Company’s pension, annual bonus or equity plans and their 
fees are paid entirely in cash compensating them for their time and 
responsibilities.
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Emoluments (audited)
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Salaries    900 909
Fees    180 189
Profit related bonus    546 778
Other emoluments
 (1)
    26 37
    1,652 1,913
Pension contributions    89 64
Gain on exercise of share options    – –
    1,741 1, 977 www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
37
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Remuneration Report
Directors’ emoluments including benefits in kind and pension contributions paid by the Group during the financial year are as follows:
     Gain 
 Basic Profit   on share 
 salary related
 
Other  options  Pension 
 or fees bonus
(2)
 benefits
(1)
 Total exercised contributions Total
 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chief Executive
JN Newton 378 193 9 580 – 57 637
Executive Directors
CR Adams 214 170 12 396 – 32 428
RDP Charkin 308 183 5 496 – – 496
Non-Executive Directors
CAA Black 39 – – 39 – – 39
MJ Mayer 45 – – 45 – – 45
JJO’B Wilson 96 – – 96 – – 96
 1,080 546 26 1,652 – 89 1,741
(1)
 Benefits – the Company offers a motor vehicle and medical insurance cover for all Executive Directors.
(2)
  The bonuses earned for JN Newton, CR Adams and RDP Charkin were £375,134, £213,000 and £287,239 respectively. The bonuses earned were subject to 
restrictions under a bonus pool arrangement.
The comparative Directors’ emoluments including benefits in kind and pension contributions for the previous financial year are 
shown below:
     Gain 
 Basic Profit   on share 
 salary related
 
Other  options  Pension 
 or fees bonus benefits
(1)
 Total exercised contributions Total
 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chief Executive
JN Newton 372 375 15 762 – 37 799
Executive Directors
EN Calder 36 – 6 42 – 6 48
CR Adams 210 212 13 435 – 21 456
RDP Charkin 291 191 3 485 – – 485
Non-Executive Directors
CAA Black 39 – – 39 – – 39
MJ Mayer 55 – – 55 – – 55
JJO’B Wilson 95 – – 95 – – 95
 1,098 778 37 1,913 – 64 1,977
(1)
 Benefits – the Company offers a motor vehicle and medical insurance cover for all Executive Directors.
Colin Adams serves as an Executive Director of the Company’s subsidiary company, A&C Black Publishers Limited. Included above is a salary 
to Colin Adams of £34,322 (2008, £33,818) paid by A&C Black Publishers Limited.
Two Directors (2008, three) were accruing benefits under defined contribution pension arrangements during the year. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
38
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Directors’ Interests in Share Options (audited)
The following options have been granted to the Directors over ordinary shares in the Company:
  At 1 Granted Lapsed At 31  Date 
  January During during December  Exercise from which Expiry 
 Scheme 2009 the year the year 2009 Price exercisable Date
JN Newton Sharesave 8,131 – – 8,131 115.60p 1 July 2011 1 January 2012
CR Adams Sharesave 8,131 – – 8,131 115.60p 1 July 2011 1 January 2012
RD Charkin Sharesave 8,131 – – 8,131 115.60p 1 July 2011 1 January 2012
Directors’ Long-Term Incentive: the Performance Share Plan (audited)
The following awards have been made to the Directors over Ordinary Shares in the Company under the Bloomsbury Performance Share Plan 
2005 (‘the PSP’):
   At 1 Awarded  Vested Lapsed At 31 
   January  during during during December 
  Date of award 2009 the year the year the year 2009
JN Newton  26 October 2006 59,818 – – (59,818) –
  8 May 2007 120,466 – – – 120,466
  12 May 2008 194,706 – – – 194,706
  25 September 2009 – 235,820 – – 235,820
CR Adams  26 October 2006 25,336 – – (25,336) –
  8 May 2007 56,690 – – – 56,690
  12 May 2008 83,563 – – – 83,563
  25 September 2009 – 117,189 – – 117,189
RD Charkin   12 May 2008 295,848 – – – 295,848
  25 September 2009 – 169,510 – – 169,510
(1)
  For the purposes of determining the number of Ordinary Shares comprised in an award the market value of a share shall be equal to either the average 
middle-market price of a share during the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date or the middle-market price on the dealing day before 
the award date. The 2006 awards under the PSP were based on the average middle-market price of 315.25p. The 2007 award under the PSP were based on 
the average middle-market price of 181.4p. The 2008 awards under the PSP were based on the middle-market price of 144.5p. The 2009 awards under the PSP 
were based on the middle market price of 120.5p.
(2) 
All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Ordinary Shares of 1.25p.
(3)
   For awards made to the Directors from 2005 to 2008, there are two performance conditions which need to be satisfied if awards are to vest at the end of the 
three year performance period (the ‘Performance Period’):
 a.  In respect of 50% of the total award, the performance condition is growth in Bloomsbury’s normalised Earnings Per Share (EPS) over the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI) during the three full financial years immediately preceding the end of the relevant Performance Period. If EPS growth is between 5% and 
8% p.a. over RPI, the number of shares vesting will be pro rata to actual growth, with 17.5% of total award vesting at 5% p.a., and the full 50% vesting at 
8% p.a. None of this part of the award will vest if EPS growth over RPI is less than 5% p.a.
 b.  In respect of 50% of the total award, the performance condition is Bloomsbury’s rank over the relevant Performance Period in terms of its Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to companies constituting the FTSE Mid 250 (excluding investment trusts) at the date of grant. If the Company’s 
TSR ranking is between median and the upper quartile, the number of shares vesting will be pro rata to position, with 17.5% of total award vesting at 
median, and the full 50% vesting if the Company’s position is in the upper quartile. None of this part of the award will vest if the Company’s TSR ranking 
is below median.
(4)
   For awards made to Directors in 2009, there are two performance conditions which need to be satisfied if awards are to vest at the end of the three year 
performance period (the ‘Performance Period’):
 a.  In respect of 50% of the total award, 33% vests if the normalised Earnings Per Share (EPS) is 8.25p, 66% vests if the EPS is 8.75p and 100% vests if the EPS is 
9.25p. Between 8.25p, 8.75p and 9.25p vesting will be 33%, 66% and 100%, respectively, pro rata on a straight-line basis. None of this part of the award 
will vest if the EPS is less than 8.25p.
 b.  In respect of 50% of the total award, the performance condition is Bloomsbury’s rank over the relevant Performance Period in terms of its Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to companies constituting the FTSE Mid 250 (excluding investment trusts) at the date of grant. If the Company’s 
TSR is median ranking the number of shares vesting will be 35% and if the Company’s TSR is at the upper quartile ranking the number of shares vesting 
will be 100%. Between median and upper quartile vesting will be 35% and 100%, respectively, pro rata on a straight-line basis. None of this part of the 
award will vest if the Company’s TSR ranking is below median.
(5)
  For all awards, there will be no opportunity to retest performance if the performance conditions are not satisfied over the relevant Performance Period.
Remuneration Report www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
39
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Remuneration Report
Directors’ Interests
a) Interests in shares
The Directors who held office during the year had the following interests in the share capital of the Company. All shareholdings are beneficial 
and include the interests of spouses and minor children.
    Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
    of 1.25p each of 1.25p each
    31 December 31 December
    2009 2008
    Number Number
JN Newton    2,066,822 2,258,488
CR Adams    50,000 50,000
RDP Charkin    12,000 12,000
CAA Black    159,000 159,000
MJ Mayer    19,380 19,380
JJO’B Wilson    3,347 3,347
The market price of an Ordinary Share at 31 December 2009 was 126.5p (2008, 159.75p) and the range from 1 January 2009 to the end of the 
year was 113.3p to 160.5p (2008, 124.25p to 174.15p).
b) Other interests
No Director has or has had any interest, direct or indirect, in any transaction, contract or arrangement (excluding service agreements) 
which is or was unusual in its nature or conditions or significant to the business of the Group during the current or immediately preceding 
financial year.
The graph above shows the Group’s Total Shareholder Return from April 1999 to 31 December 2009 together with the FTSE Small Cap Media 
and Entertainment sector index. The index is considered to be the most appropriate comparative index for the Company.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board
Charles Black
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
20 April 2010
Total Shareholder Return - Performance Graph
2000
1800
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
— BMY Total Return Index — FTSE Small Cap Media and Entertainment sector Total Return Index Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
40
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Independent Auditor’s Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF  BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING Plc
We have audited the Group and parent Company financial 
statements (‘the financial statements’) on pages 42 to 90. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006
.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As more fully explained in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion
● ● the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and the parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2009 and of the Group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
● ● the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
● ● the parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
● ● the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
● ● the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
● ● the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
41
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Independent Auditor’s Report
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
● ● adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
● ● the parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
● ● certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
● ● we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
● ● the Directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going 
concern; and
● ● the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 
2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Mark Harwood (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of
BAKER TILLY UK AUDIT LLP, Statutory Auditor
Registered Auditor
Chartered Accountants
2 Bloomsbury Street
London WC1B 3ST
20 April 2010 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
42
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue   1 87,217 99,948
Cost of sales   2 (43,839) (56,698)
Gross profit    43,378 43,250
Marketing and distribution costs   2 (15,441) (14,742)
Administrative expenses – amortisation of intangible assets   2 (584) (102)
Administrative expenses – impairment of goodwill   2 – (111)
Administrative expenses – other   2 (21,186) (19,896)
Profit before investment income, finance costs and tax   2 6,167 8,399
Investment income   3a 1,105 3,285
Finance costs   3b (145) (51)
Profit before taxation    7,127 11,633
Income tax expense   5 (2,146) (3,793)
Profit for the year, attributable to owners of the parent   4,981 7,840
Basic earnings per share   7 6.77p 10.67p
Diluted earnings per share   7 6.74p 10.67p Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
43
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
     £’000 £’000
Profit for the year    4,981 7,840
Other comprehensive income:
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations    (2,950) 8,453
Deferred tax on share-based payments    21 34
Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax    (2,929) 8,487
Total comprehensive income for the year net of tax 
attributable to owners of the parent Company    2,052 16,327
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is 
disclosed in note 5. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
44
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
at 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment   8 1,061 1,443
Intangible assets   9 37,598 27,543
Deferred tax assets   11 1,965 2,152
Total non-current assets    40,624 31,138
Current assets
Inventories   12 16,350 16,589
Trade and other receivables   13 47,509 48,982
 Cash and cash equivalents   22 35,036 51,908
Total current assets    98,895 117,479
Total assets    139,519 148,617
Equity and liabilities     
Equity attributable to owners of the parent     
Ordinary shares   14 922 922
Share premium    39,388 39,388
Capital redemption reserve    20 20
Share-based payment reserve    2,393 2,305
Translation reserve    4,604 7,554
Retained earnings    65,357 63,483
Total equity    112,684 113,672
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities     
Deferred tax   11 2,234 1,451
Retirement benefit obligations   15 91 18
Other payables   15 353 558
Total non-current liabilities    2,678 2,027
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables    16 23,069 32,603
Current tax liabilities    1,088 315
Total current liabilities    24,157 32,918
Total liabilities    26,835 34,945
Total equity and liabilities    139,519 148,617
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 20 April 2010.
JN Newton CR Adams
Director Director Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
45
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Company Balance Sheet 
at 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
   Notes £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment   8 592 988
Investments in subsidiary companies   10 43,674 34,302
Deferred tax assets   11 366 309
 Trade and other receivables   13 10,979 2,210
Total non-current assets    55,611 37,809
Current assets
Inventories   12 2,212 2,335
Trade and other receivables   13 22,457 30,078
 Cash and cash equivalents   22 31,084 47,859
Total current assets    55,753 80,272
Total assets    111,364 118,081
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
Ordinary shares   14 922 922
Share premium    39,388 39,388
Capital redemption reserve    20 20
Share-based payment reserve    2,393 2,305
Retained earnings    51,915 52,350
Total equity    94,638 94,985
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Other payables   15 351 558
Total non-current liabilities    351 558
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables   16 15,620 22,538
Current tax liabilities    755 –
Total current liabilities    16,375 22,538
Total liabilities    16,726 23,096
Total equity and liabilities    111,364 118,081
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 20 April 2010.
JN Newton CR Adams
Director Director Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
46
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in e quity Attributable to the Owners 
of the Parent
   Capital Share-based 
 Ordinary Share redemption payment Translation Retained 
 shares premium reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000
Attributable to owners 
of the parent
Balances at 1 January 2008 920 39,191 20 2,114 (899) 58,723 100,069
Profit for the year – – – – – 7,840 7,840
Other comprehensive 
income:
Exchange differences on 
translating foreign operations – – – – 8,453 – 8,453
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments – – – – – 34 34
Total comprehensive  
income for the year 
ended 31 December 2008 – – – – 8,453 7,874 16,327
Transactions with owners 
in their capacity as owners:
Share-based payments – – – 191 – – 191
Dividends – – – – – (2,980) (2,980)
Purchase of shares by the 
Employee Benefit Trust – – – – – (134) (134)
Share issues 2 197 – – – – 199
Total transactions with 
owners for the year ended  
31 December 2008 2 197 – 191 – (3,114) (2,724)
Balances at 
31 December 2008 922 39,388 20 2,305 7,554 63,483 113,672
Profit for the year – – – – – 4,981 4,981
Other comprehensive income:
Exchange differences on 
translating foreign operations – – – – (2,950) – (2,950)
Deferred tax on share- 
based payments – – – – – 21 21
Total comprehensive 
income for the year 
ended 31 December 2009 – – – – (2,950) 5,002 2,052
Transactions with owners in 
their capacity as owners:
Share-based payments – – – 88 – – 88
Dividends – – – – – (3,128) (3,128)
Total transactions with  
owners for the year 
ended 31 December 2009 – – – 88 – (3,128) (3,040)
Balances at 
31 December 2009 922 39,388 20 2,393 4,604 65,357 112,684 Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
47
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Company Statement of Changes 
in e quity Attributable to the Owners 
of the Company
    Capital Share-based 
  Ordinary Share redemption payment Retained 
  shares premium reserve reserve earnings Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000
Attributable to owners of 
the Company
Balances at 1 January 2008  920 39,191 20 2,114 58,268 100,513
Loss for the year 
(after investment impairment)  – – – – (2,972) (2,972)
Other comprehensive income:
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – – 34 34
Total comprehensive 
income for the year 
ended 31 December 2008  – – – – (2,938) (2,938)
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Share-based payments  – – – 191 – 191
Dividends  – – – – (2,980) (2,980)
Share issues  2 197 – – – 199
Total transactions with 
owners for the year 
ended 31 December 2008  2 197 – 191 (2,980) (2,590)
Balances at 31 December 2008  922 39,388 20 2,305 52,350 94,985
Profit for the year  – – – – 2,672 2,672
Other comprehensive income:
Deferred tax on share-based payments – – – – 21 21
Total comprehensive 
income for the year 
ended 31 December 2009  – – – – 2,693 2,693
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Share-based payments  – – – 88 – 88
Dividends  – – – – (3,128) (3,128)
Share issues  – – – – – –
Total transactions with owners 
for the year ended 
31 December 2009  – – – 88 (3,128) (3,040)
Balances at 31 December 2009  922 39,388 20 2,393 51,915 94,638 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
48
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
     £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax    7,127 11,633
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    669 844
Amortisation of intangible assets    584 102
Impairment of goodwill    – 111
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment    (9) (12)
Share-based payment charges    88 191
Investment income    (1,105) (3,285)
Finance costs    145 51
    7,499 9,635
(Increase)/decrease in inventories    (76) 38
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables    (98) 33,350
Decrease in trade and other payables    (9,888) (26,686)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations    (2,563) 16,337
Income taxes paid    (1,734) (6,183)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities   (4,297) 10,154
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (304) (354)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    23 30
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired    (10,307) (7,433)
Interest received    1,409 3,026
Net cash used in investing activities    (9,179) (4,731)
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of shares by the Employee Benefit Trust    – (134)
Equity dividends paid    (3,128) (2,980)
Interest paid    (34) (51)
Net cash used in financing activities    (3,162) (3,165)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (16,638) 2,258
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year    51,908 47,558
Exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents    (234) 2,092
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    35,036 51,908 Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
49
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Company Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
     £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax    4,093 (475)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    474 681
Investment impairment    723 8,719
Share-based payment charges    88 191
Investment income    (1,204) (3,471)
Finance costs    1 –
    4,175 5,645
Decrease in inventories    123 812
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables    (1,713) 42,726
Decrease in trade and other payables    (6,880) (24,148)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations    (4,295) 25,035
Income taxes paid    (724) (5,633)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities   (5,019) 19,402
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (78) (125)
Purchase of subsidiaries    (10,095) –
Additional investment in subsidiaries    – (13,954)
Interest received    1,546 3,212
Net cash used in investing activities    (8,627) (10,867)
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of shares by the Employee Benefit Trust    – (134)
Equity dividends paid    (3,128) (2,980)
Interest paid    (1) –
Net cash used in financing activities    (3,129) (3,114)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (16,775) 5,421
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year    47,859 42,438
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    31,084 47,859 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
50
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Accounting Policies
(a) Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations endorsed by the European Union (‘EU’) and those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention.
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 
the Business Review on pages 8 to 21. The financial position of the Company, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Financial 
Review on pages 18 to 21. In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Company’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity 
risk.
Having made enquiries of senior management and reviewed cash flow forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The factors taken into account 
include the level of cash reserves, limited impact of economic downturn on book sales and continuing sources of revenue. Thus they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below, which have been consistently 
applied to all years. These accounting policies comply with applicable IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations issued, effective and endorsed by the EU 
at the time of preparing these statements.
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’, IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Amendment; 
Improving Disclosures About Financial Instruments’ are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2009. IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and requires segmental information reported to be based on that which the chief operating decision maker 
(‘CODM’) uses internally for evaluating performance of and allocating resources to operating segments. It also requires increased disclosure 
relating to reportable segments and some additional entity-wide disclosures. There has been no change to the reportable segments as a 
result of the adoption of IFRS 8. The 2009 annual improvements amendment to IFRS 8 has been adopted early. As a result, a measure of 
segment assets is only required to be disclosed when such information is provided to the CODM. IAS 1 resulted in some amendments to the 
structure of the financial statements. IFRS 7 requires enhanced disclosures about liquidity risk and fair value measurement.
Accounting policies
The following Standards and Interpretations, which were also effective for this financial period, have no material impact on the financial 
statements of the Group:
● ● IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’; changes to vesting conditions and cancellations in relation to share-based payments.
● ● IAS 23 (amended) ‘Capitalisation of Borrowing Cost’.
● ● IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
● ● IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’; this requires disclosure of estimates used to determine recoverable amount.
● ● IAS 1 (amended)/IAS 32 (amended); puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
● ● IFRS 1 (amended)/IAS 27 (amended); first time adoption of IFRS and cost of an investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or 
Associate.
● ● Annual Improvements and Amendments 2008.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in 
these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:
● ● IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009). The revised standard continues to apply 
the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes. For example, all payments to purchase a business are to 
be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the 
income statement. The Group will apply IFRS 3 (revised) prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010. Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
51
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
● ● IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009); amendments 
arising from IFRS 3. The revised standard requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in other 
comprehensive income if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses. The 
standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost. Any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or 
loss is recognised in profit or loss. It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group or Company’s financial statements.
● ● IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010) – Amendment; Unit of accounting for 
goodwill impairment testing. The amendment specifies that the required unit for goodwill impairment is not larger than the operating 
segment level as defined in paragraph 5 of IFRS 8 before the permitted aggregation.
● ● IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013). The standard applies a consistent 
approach to classifying financial assets and replaces the numerous categories of financial assets in IAS 39, each of which had its own 
classification criteria. It also results in one impairment method, replacing the numerous impairment methods in IAS 39 that arise from the 
different classification categories. It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group or Company’s financial statements.
There were no other Standards and Interpretations which were in issue but not effective at the date of authorisation of these financial 
statements that the Directors anticipate will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
(b) Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill, being the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of assets acquired, is recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is subject to annual impairment reviews. Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the 
income statement and are not subsequently reversed. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Negative goodwill is credited to the income statement in the period in which it arises.
Intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives by equal annual instalments at the following rates:
Publishing relationships – 5% – 14% per annum
Imprints – 3% – 5% per annum
Subscriber and customer relationships – 6% – 17% per annum
Order backlog – 33% per annum
The amortisation is included in administrative expenses.
The separately acquired trademark for the name Bloomsbury Publishing Plc in the US is shown at historical cost and is subject to annual 
impairment reviews. The trademark is deemed to have an indefinite life due to the underlying stability of the industry in which it operates.
(c) Revenue
Revenue represents the amount derived from the provision of goods, services and rights falling within the Group’s ordinary activities, after 
deduction of trade discounts, value added tax and anticipated returns. Revenue from book publishing is recognised on delivery. Revenue 
from the sale of publishing and distribution rights, including film, paperback, electronic, overseas publishing rights and sponsorship, is 
recognised on the delivery of the related content. Revenue from database contracts is recognised in accordance with the stages of 
completion of contractual services provided.
(d) Inventories
Inventories include paper, sheets and bound stock. The cost of work in progress and finished stock represents the amounts invoiced to the 
Group for paper, origination, printing and binding. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined 
using the weighted average cost method. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
52
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
(e) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated in order to write down their cost by equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives 
at the following rates:
Short leasehold improvements – over the remaining life of the lease
Furniture and fittings – 10% per annum
Computer equipment – 20% per annum
Other office equipment – 20% per annum
Motor vehicles – 25% per annum
Depreciation is pro-rated in the years of acquisition and disposal of an asset.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
(f) Royalty advances to authors
Advances to authors are included within prepayments and accrued income and are written off to the extent that they are not covered by 
anticipated future sales or firm contracts for subsidiary rights receivable.
(g) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated by using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other 
than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based 
upon tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt with in other comprehensive income.
(h) Foreign currencies
The presentational currency is sterling. The parent Company’s functional currency is sterling. The functional currencies of its overseas 
subsidiaries are Euros and US dollars.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions. Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. 
Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiary companies are translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the year. The 
closing rate of exchange is used to translate net assets.
Accounting Policies Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
53
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate. All other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets and income statements of overseas subsidiary companies are 
charged or credited to other comprehensive income.
(i) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group has become a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as below:
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and changes to debtor payment 
patterns are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank and other short-term deposits held by the Group, repayable on demand.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
(j) Operating leases
Operating leases are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the related asset are not transferred to the 
Group. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
(k) Pension costs
Pension costs relating to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement in the period for which contributions 
are payable.
Until 1997 a subsidiary company operated a defined benefit pension scheme. The liability in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is 
the present value of the defined benefit obligations, calculated using the projected unit credit method at each balance sheet date by the 
scheme actuary, less the fair value of the scheme’s assets.
The current service cost, interest on scheme liabilities and all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
54
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
(l) Share-based payment
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payment instruments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 
are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is charged 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Options granted under the Group’s share option schemes and Sharesave scheme are equity-settled, as are awards granted under the 
Group’s share appreciation rights scheme. The fair values of such options have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model or a modified 
version of the same, based on publicly available market data.
Awards granted under the Group’s performance share plan are equity-settled. Due to the Total Shareholder Return performance condition 
that applies to half of any award granted under the plan, the fair value of awards has been calculated using the Monte-Carlo style stochastic 
model.
Awards granted under the Group’s share appreciation rights scheme are equity-settled.
(m) Employee share ownership plans
The Company operates an employee benefit trust and has de facto control of shares held by the trust and bears their benefits and risks. The 
Group records certain assets and liabilities of the trust as its own. Finance costs and administrative expenses are charged as they accrue.
(n) Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries at the year end. The results of the 
subsidiaries are accounted for in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies to obtain economic benefit to the 
Group. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
(o) Segmental reporting
Segments are identified based on internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which has been identified as the Plc Board. A 
business segment is a group of assets and operations that provide a product or service and that is subject to risks and returns that are 
different from other business segments. A geographic segment is a group of assets and operations that provide a product or service within a 
particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from segments operating in different economic 
environments. There is no difference between the basis of measurement of segment amounts included in the management accounts and 
the basis of measurement of those amounts included in the financial statements. The Plc Board reviews the Group consolidated commentary. 
This reflects the geographic performance of the three operations in the UK, USA and Europe down to profit before tax and also the 
performance of the Trade and Specialist Divisions, down to the profit before investment income, finance costs and tax line.
(p) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in 
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Accounting Policies Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
55
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Recoverable amount is the higher value of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments and the risks specific to the asset 
for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
(q) Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including reasonable 
expectations of future events. The resultant estimates will, by definition, not necessarily equal the related actual results and may require 
adjustment in subsequent accounting periods. The estimates and assumptions that may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are:
Book returns
As books are returnable by customers, the Group makes a provision against books sold in the accounting period which is then carried 
forward and offset against trade receivables in the balance sheet in anticipation of book returns received subsequent to the year end. The 
provision is calculated by reference to historical returns rates and expected future returns.
Author advances
A provision is made by the Group against published title advances which may not be covered by anticipated future sales, paperback editions 
or contracts for subsidiary rights receivable. At the end of each financial year a review is carried out on all published titles advances. If it is 
unlikely that royalties from future sales, paperback sales or subsidiary rights will fully earn down the advance, a provision is made to the 
income statement for the difference between the carrying value and the anticipated recoverable amount from future earnings.
Inventory
At the end of each financial year a review is carried out on all published titles where inventory is held. A provision is made by the Group 
against unsold inventory on a title by title basis, with regard to historical net sales and expected future net sales, to value the inventories at the 
lower of cost and net realisable value.
Impairment reviews
IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite life assets and, for finite life assets, to test for impairment 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Group currently undertakes 
an annual impairment test covering goodwill and other indefinite life assets and also reviews finite life assets to consider whether a full 
impairment review is required.
Intangible assets recoverability is an area involving management judgement, requiring assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets 
can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using cash flow projections which have been 
discounted at an appropriate rate. In calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, certain assumptions are required to be made. 
Note 9 details the assumptions used. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
56
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
1. Segmental analysis
As the main thrust of the Group’s growth is to develop its international publishing strategy, the internal reporting to the chief operating 
decision maker is by geographical segments. Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports. All segments 
derive their revenue from book publishing, sale of publishing and distribution rights, sponsorship and database contracts. The analysis by 
geographical segment is shown below.
Year ended 31 December 2009
    Eliminations and 
 United North Continental unallocated  
 Kingdom America Europe costs Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 58,888 18,777 9,552 – 87,217
Inter-segment sales * 480 – 134 (614) –
Total revenue 59,368 18,777 9,686 (614) 87,217
Result
Segment result before central costs 6,284 450 (567) – 6,167
Central cost recharges 284 (152) (132) – –
Segment result 6,568 298 (699) – 6,167
Investment income 1,101 4 – – 1,105
Finance costs (145) – – – (145)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 7,524 302 (699) – 7,127
Income tax expense – – – (2,146) (2,146)
Profit/(loss) for the year 7,524 302 (699) (2,146) 4,981
Other information
Amortisation of intangible assets 548 36 – – 584
Actuarial losses 111 – – – 111
Share-based payment charges 88 – – – 88
* Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
57
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Year ended 31 December 2008
    Eliminations and 
 United North Continental unallocated 
 Kingdom America Europe costs Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External revenue 71,062 17,317 11,569 – 99,948
Inter-segment revenue * – – 213 (213) –
Total revenue 71,062 17,317 11,782 (213) 99,948
Result
Segment result before central costs 7,836 378 185 – 8,399
Central cost recharges 316 (130) (186) – –
Segment result 8,152 248 (1) – 8,399
Investment income 3,253 11 21 – 3,285
Finance costs (51) – – – (51)
Profit before taxation 11,354 259 20 – 11,633
Income tax expense – – – (3,793) (3,793)
Profit for the year 11,354 259 20 (3,793) 7,840
Other information
Amortisation of intangible assets 67 35 – – 102
Impairment of goodwill 111 – – – 111
Actuarial gains (44) – – – (44)
Share-based payment charges 191 – – – 191
* Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates.
External sales by destination
   Source
  United North Continental 
  Kingdom America Europe Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Destination
Year ended 31 December 2009
United Kingdom (country of domicile)  38,517 – – 38,517
North America  3,568 18,404 – 21,972
Continental Europe  5,550 – 9,552 15,102
Australasia  3,809 – – 3,809
Far and Middle East  5,427 373 – 5,800
Rest of the world  2,017 – – 2,017
Foreign Countries  20,371 18,777 9,552 48,700
Total external sales  58,888 18,777 9,552 87,217
Year ended 31 December 2008
United Kingdom (country of domicile)  48,585 – – 48,585
North America  2,038 16,729 – 18,767
Continental Europe  7,748 – 11,569 19,317
Australasia  5,947 – – 5,947
Far and Middle East  4,986 588 – 5,574
Rest of the world  1,758 – – 1,758
Foreign Countries  22,477 17,317 11,569 51,363
Total external sales  71,062 17,317 11,569 99,948 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
58
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Non-current assets
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
United Kingdom (country of domicile)    33,283 23,091
North America    3,679 4,095
Continental Europe    1,697 1,800
Foreign Countries    5,376 5,895
Total non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets)   38,659 28,986
Business Divisions
The Group’s business is organised in three operating areas: Trade Adult, Trade Children’s and Specialist. The following table provides the 
breakdown of revenue and divisional result for these areas.
Year ended 31 December 2009
 Trade Trade Total 
 (Adult) (Children’s) Trade Specialist Unallocated Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 37,892 22,977 60,869 26,348 – 87,217
Cost of sales (20,056) (11,427) (31,483) (12,356) – (43,839)
Gross profit 17,836 11,550 29,386 13,992 – 43,378
Marketing and distribution costs (6,814) (3,203) (10,017) (5,424) – (15,441)
Contribution before administrative 
expenses 11,022 8,347 19,369 8,568 – 27,937
Administrative expenses   (16,470) (5,013) (287) (21,770)
Divisional result   2,899 3,555 (287) 6,167
Investment income   – – 1,105 1,105
Finance costs   – – (145) (145)
Profit before taxation   2,899 3,555 673 7,127
Income tax expense   – – (2,146) (2,146)
Profit for the year   2,899 3,555 (1,473) 4,981
Year ended 31 December 2008
 Trade Trade Total 
 (Adult) (Children’s) Trade Specialist Unallocated Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 42,031 38,330 80,361 19,587 – 99,948
Cost of sales (26,713) (21,229) (47,942) (8,756) – (56,698)
Gross profit 15,318 17,101 32,419 10,831 – 43,250
Marketing and distribution costs (7,353) (3,454) (10,807) (3,935) – (14,742)
Contribution before administrative 
expenses 7,965 13,647 21,612 6,896 – 28,508
Administrative expenses   (17,248) (2,826) (35) (20,109)
Divisional result   4,364 4,070 (35) 8,399
Investment income   – – 3,285 3,285
Finance costs   – – (51) (51)
Profit before taxation   4,364 4,070 3,199 11,633
Income tax expense   – – (3,793) (3,793)
Profit for the year   4,364 4,070 (594) 7,840
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
59
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
2. Profit before investment income, finance costs and tax
Profit is stated after charging/(crediting) the following amounts:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Auditor’s remuneration (see below)    395 304
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    669 844
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment    (9) (12)
Amortisation of intangible assets    584 102
Impairment of goodwill    – 111
Advance provisions (see note 13)    3,438 9,127
Write back of returns provision (see note 13)    (581) (5,160)
Exchange gain    (88) (51)
Staff costs (see note 4)    16,897 14,951
The movements on the returns and advances provisions during the year are analysed in note 13.
Cost of sales, marketing and distribution costs and administrative expenses are analysed below:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Cost of sales:
Editorial staff costs    2,645 2,079
Cost of goods and rights sold    22,745 26,419
Inventory provision and write down    4,982 5,089
Royalty costs    13,467 23,111
    43,839 56,698
Marketing and distribution costs:
Staff costs    841 695
Depreciation    16 25
Marketing expenses    5,004 5,123
Distribution fees and commission    9,580 8,899
    15,441 14,742
Administrative expenses:
Staff costs    13,323 11,986
Other staff related expenses    651 798
Share-based payment charge    88 191
Depreciation    653 819
Premises costs    2,048 1,775
Professional fees    2,094 1,714
Editorial expenses    1,715 1,550
Insurance    419 408
Amortisation of intangible assets    584 102
Impairment of goodwill    – 111
Bad debt provision and write off    107 598
Exchange gain    (88) (51)
Other    176 108
    21,770 20,109 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
60
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Amounts payable to Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP and their associates in respect of both audit and non-audit services are as follows:
  2009 2009 2008 2008
  £’000 % £’000 %
Audit services
– statutory audit of parent company and consolidated 
financial statements  92 27 86 27
Other services
The auditing of accounts of associates of the Company 
pursuant to legislation
– audit of subsidiaries where such services are provided by 
  Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP or its associates  96 28 69 22
– work performed by associates of Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP 
  in respect of consolidation returns or local legislative requirements 10 3 11 3
– pension scheme audit   3 1 3 1
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation
– interim results  50 15 43 13
Tax services
– compliance services  50 15 60 19
– advisory services  16 5 20 6
Services relating to corporate finance transactions *  20 6 29 9
  337 100 321 100
*Costs in relation to the acquisitions of £20,000 (2008, £29,000), which have been included in the cost of acquisition.
3a. Investment income
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Interest on bank deposits    968 2,903
Other interest receivable    114 310
Expected return on pension plan assets    23 28
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plan    – 44
    1,105 3,285
3b. Finance costs
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Interest cost on pension obligations    28 32
Other interest payable    5 18
Bank overdraft    1 1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plan    111 –
    145 51
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
61
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
4. Directors and employees
Staff costs during the year were:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Salaries    14,501 12,630
Social security costs    1,747 1,618
Other pension costs    561 512
Share-based payment charge    88 191
    16,897 14,951
The monthly average number of employees during the year was:   Number Number
Editorial, production and selling    257 225
Finance and administration    91 70
    348 295
Full details concerning Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings, options and other interests are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 35 to 39.
Staff costs are charged to cost of sales, marketing and distribution costs and administrative expenses. The allocation is shown in note 2.
Pension costs
The pension costs summarised above of £561,000 (2008, £512,000) relate to the Group’s defined contribution and defined benefit pension 
arrangements.
Defined contribution plans
The Group operates defined contribution retirement benefit plans for all qualifying employees.
The total cost charged to income of £561,000 (2008, £512,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the schemes. As at 31 December 2009, contributions of £nil (2008, £18,000) due in respect of the current reporting 
period had not been paid over to the schemes and are accrued in the balance sheet.
Defined benefit plan
A subsidiary company operates a defined benefit scheme for some staff. Accrual of benefits ceased in 1997, with the scheme now operated as 
a closed fund. There is no obligation in respect of medical costs. A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 1 January 2007 and updated to 
31 December 2009 by a qualified independent actuary.
At the date of the last completed independent actuarial valuation, which was 1 January 2007, the market value of the assets of the scheme was 
£424,000. The actuary advised that at that date the actuarial valuation of the assets of the scheme was sufficient to cover 73% of the benefits 
that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in earnings. The scheme is actuarially valued every three years. The next 
valuation of the scheme will be as at 1 January 2010.
Contributions are paid by the employer as and when required to cover any expenses of the scheme. In addition, contributions paid to the 
scheme during the year were £19,000 (2008, £19,000). The Directors’ best estimate of the contribution to be paid in 2010 is £19,000.
The Group’s policy is to fund the deficit in the scheme by additional contributions to meet the scheme’s commitment to members. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
62
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The major assumptions used by the actuary for the update were as follows:
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Rate of increase in salaries Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (LPI) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Discount rate 5.7% 6.3% 5.9% 5.2% 4.8%
Inflation assumption 3.5% 2.9% 3.2% 3.3% 2.9%
Expected return on plan assets * 5.0% 5.0% 5.8% 5.1% 3.5%
* The expected return on plan assets has been determined by reference to the scheme’s current investment strategy.
The scheme is closed and there are no active paying members, therefore no increases in payments have been applied.
Mortality rate assumptions are based on publicly available data in the UK, such as mortality tables. The mortality assumptions adopted at the 
end of the reporting period imply the following remaining life expectancies at age 65:
    31 December 31 December
    2009 2008
    Life expectancy Life expectancy
    at age 65 at age 65
Male currently aged 45 (2008, 40)    23.1 23.1
Female currently aged 45 (2008, 40)    25.9 25.9
Male currently aged 65    22.0 22.0
Female currently aged 65    24.9 24.8
The amounts recognised in income in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Interest cost    28 32
Expected return on scheme assets    (23) (28)
Actuarial losses/(gains)    111 (44)
    116 (40)
The gross charge/(credit) for the year has been included in finance costs and investment income.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the income statement.
The actual loss on scheme assets was £5,000 (2008, return of £19,000).
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
63
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is as follows:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Total value of assets (with profit policy)    389 496
Present value of funded scheme liabilities    (480) (514)
Retirement benefit obligations (net liability)    (91) (18)
Deferred taxation    18 5
    (73) (13)
Analysis for reporting purposes:
Non-current liabilities    (91) (18)
Deferred tax assets    18 5
Movements in the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities in the year were as follows:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
At 1 January    (514) (548)
Interest cost    (28) (32)
Benefits paid    145 13
Actuarial (losses)/gains    (83) 53
At 31 December    (480) (514)
Movements in the present value of scheme assets in the year were as follows:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
At 1 January    496 471
Expected return on scheme assets    23 28
Actuarial losses    (28) (9)
Employer contributions    43 19
Benefits paid    (145) (13)
At 31 December    389 496
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (480) (514) (548) (574) (517)
Fair value of scheme assets 389 496 471 430 387
Deficit in scheme (91) (18) (77) (144) (130)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets:
Amount (£’000) (28) (9) 4 15 (3)
Percentage of scheme assets (7%) (2%) 1% 4% (1%)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£’000) – 21 21 34 34
Percentage of the present value of the  
scheme liabilities – (1%) 2% (10%) 2% Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
64
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
5. Taxation
(a) Tax charge for the year
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Based on the profit for the year:
UK corporation tax    2,159 3,195
Overprovision in respect of prior year    (246) –
Overseas taxation – current year    61 197
    1,974 3,392
Deferred tax (note 11)
– UK    172 109
– Overseas    – 292
    2,146 3,793
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (28%). The differences are explained below:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    7,127 11,633
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax 
in the UK of 28% (2008, 28.5%)    1,996 3,315
Effects of:
Non-deductible revenue expenditure    73 19
Income not taxable    – (12)
Non-qualifying depreciation    52 64
Share-based payments    – 95
Indexation allowance    – (28)
Different rates of tax on overseas results    6 79
Tax losses not utilised    116 266
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of previous periods
– current tax    (246) (3)
– deferred tax    149 (2)
Tax charge for the year    2,146 3,793
(c) Factors affecting tax charge for future years
Details of the Group’s deferred tax assets are shown in note 11.
(d) Tax effects of components of other comprehensive income
 2009 2008
 Before Tax After Before Tax After
 tax credit tax tax credit tax
 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations (2,950) – (2,950) 8,453 – 8,453
Deferred tax on share-based payments – 21 21 – 34 34
Other comprehensive income (2,950) 21 (2,929) 8,453 34 8,487
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
65
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
6. Dividends
For the prior year
A final dividend for 2008 of 3.47 pence per share (£2,554,000) was paid to the equity shareholders on 1 July 2009, being the amount proposed 
by the Directors, and subsequently approved by the shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting (2008, final dividend for 2007 paid in 
2008 of 3.30 pence per share, £2,428,000).
For the current year
On 20 November 2009 an interim dividend of 0.78 pence per share (£574,000) was paid to the equity shareholders (2008, 0.75 pence per share, 
£552,000).
The Directors propose that a final dividend of 3.65 pence per share will be paid to the equity shareholders on 1 July 2010. Based on the 
number of shares currently in issue, the final dividend will be £2,689,000. This dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
7. Earnings per share
The basic earnings per share has been calculated by reference to earnings of £4,981,000 (2008, £7,840,000) and a weighted average number 
of Ordinary Shares in issue after deducting 88,760 (2008, 88,760) shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust of 73,594,863 (2008, 73,503,495). The 
diluted earnings per share has been calculated by reference to earnings of £4,981,000 (2008, £7,840,000) and a weighted average number of 
Ordinary Shares of 73,920,795 (2008, 73,506,869) which takes account of share options and awards.
The reconciliation between the weighted average number of shares for the basic earnings per share and the diluted earnings per share is as 
follows:
    2009 2008
    Number Number
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share   73,594,863 73,503,495
Dilutive effect of share options and awards    325,932 3,374
Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share    73,920,795 73,506,869
The earnings per share are shown below:
    2009 2008
Basic earnings per share    6.77p 10.67p
Diluted earnings per share    6.74p 10.67p
The adjusted earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets of £584,000 (2008, £102,000) and impairment of goodwill of £nil 
(2008, £111,000) are shown below:
    2009 2008
Adjusted basic earnings per share    7.56p 10.96p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share    7.53p 10.96p Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
66
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
8. Property, plant and equipment
 Short  Computers and 
 leasehold Furniture other office Motor 
The Group improvements and fittings equipment vehicles Total
Year ended 31 December 2009 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2009 1,664 449 1,807 220 4,140
Additions 1 14 279 10 304
Disposals – – (50) (51) (101)
Subsidiaries acquired – 3 6 – 9
Exchange differences (1) – (24) – (25)
At 31 December 2009 1,664 466 2,018 179 4,327
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2009 1,052 278 1,237 130 2,697
Charge for the year 347 37 237 48 669
Disposals – – (50) (37) (87)
Exchange differences (2) – (11) – (13)
At 31 December 2009 1,397 315 1,413 141 3,266
Net book value:
At 31 December 2009 267 151 605 38 1,061
At 1 January 2009 612 171 570 90 1,443
Depreciation is charged to administrative expenses and marketing and distribution costs, as detailed in note 2.
 Short  Computers and 
 leasehold Furniture other office Motor 
The Group improvements and fittings equipment vehicles Total
Year ended 31 December 2008 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2008 2,030 403 1,699 232 4,364
Additions 21 45 210 78 354
Disposals (397) – (201) (90) (688)
Subsidiaries acquired 6 – 36 – 42
Exchange differences 4 1 63 – 68
At 31 December 2008 1,664 449 1,807 220 4,140
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2008 891 248 1,190 158 2,487
Charge for the year 554 30 216 44 844
Disposals (397) – (201) (72) (670)
Exchange differences 4 – 32 – 36
At 31 December 2008 1,052 278 1,237 130 2,697
Net book value:
At 31 December 2008 612 171 570 90 1,443
At 1 January 2008 1,139 155 509 74 1,877
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
67
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
  Short  Computers and 
  leasehold Furniture other office 
The Company  improvements and fittings equipment Total
Year ended 31 December 2009  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2009  1,633 442 1,048 3,123
Additions  1 10 67 78
At 31 December 2009  1,634 452 1,115 3,201
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2009  1,027 278 830 2,135
Charge for the year  345 34 95 474
At 31 December 2009  1,372 312 925 2,609
Net book value:
At 31 December 2009  262 140 190 592
At 1 January 2009  606 164 218 988
  Short  Computers and 
  leasehold Furniture other office 
The Company  improvements and fittings equipment Total
Year ended 31 December 2008  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2008  2,009 402 984 3,395
Additions  21 40 64 125
Disposals  (397) – – (397)
At 31 December 2008  1,633 442 1,048 3,123
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2008  870 248 733 1,851
Charge for the year  554 30 97 681
Disposals  (397) – – (397)
At 31 December 2008  1,027 278 830 2,135
Net book value:
At 31 December 2008  606 164 218 988
At 1 January 2008  1,139 154 251 1,544 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
68
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
9. Intangible assets
    2009 2008
The Group    £’000 £’000
Total carrying amount of intangible assets:
Goodwill    27,253 22,459
Publishing relationships    4,375 2,254
Trademarks    111 123
Imprints    2,303 2,394
Subscriber and customer relationships    3,474 184
Order backlog    82 129
At 31 December    37,598 27,543
Goodwill    22,459 17,479
Publishing relationships    2,254 237
Trademarks    123 –
Imprints    2,394 –
Subscriber and customer relationships    184 –
Order backlog    129 –
At 1 January    27,543 17,716
Goodwill
    The Group The Company 
Year ended 31 December 2009    £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2009    26,723 721
Additions    5,276 –
Exchange differences    (482) –
At 31 December 2009    31,517 721
Accumulated impairment losses:
At 1 January 2009    4,264 721
Impairment    – –
At 31 December 2009    4,264 721
Carrying amount:
At 31 December 2009    27,253 –
At 1 January 2009    22,459 –
    The Group The Company 
Year ended 31 December 2008    £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2008    21,632 721
Additions    3,674 –
Exchange differences    1,417 –
At 31 December 2008    26,723 721
Accumulated impairment losses:
At 1 January 2008    4,153 721
Impairment    111 –
At 31 December 2008    4,264 721
Carrying amount:
At 31 December 2008    22,459 –
At 1 January 2008    17,479 –
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
69
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
    Subscriber &  
 Publishing    customer Order 
The Group relationships Trademarks Imprints relationships backlog Total
Year ended 31 December 2009 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2009 2,428 123 2,413 187 141 5,292
Subsidiaries acquired 2,445 – – 3,439 – 5,884
Exchange differences (27) (12) – – – (39)
At 31 December 2009 4,846 111 2,413 3,626 141 11,137
Amortisation:
At 1 January 2009 174 – 19 3 12 208
Charge for the year 297 – 91 149 47 584
At 31 December 2009 471 – 110 152 59 792
Net book value:
At 31 December 2009 4,375 111 2,303 3,474 82 10,345
At 1 January 2009 2,254 123 2,394 184 129 5,084
    Subscriber &  
 Publishing    customer Order 
The Group relationships Trademarks Imprints relationships backlog Total
Year ended 31 December 2008 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2008 343 – – – – 343
Additions – 123 – – – 123
Subsidiaries acquired 2,008 – 2,413 187 141 4,749
Exchange differences 77 – – – – 77
At 31 December 2008 2,428 123 2,413 187 141 5,292
Amortisation:
At 1 January 2008 106 – – – – 106
Charge for the year 68 – 19 3 12 102
At 31 December 2008 174 – 19 3 12 208
Net book value:
At 31 December 2008 2,254 123 2,394 184 129 5,084
At 1 January 2008 237 – – – – 237
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is subject to annual impairment reviews. Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the 
income statement. The carrying value is determined on the basis of value in use.
On 1 July 2009 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Tottel Publishing Limited for a cash consideration 
of £9,962,000. Tottel Publishing Limited is an independent professional and academic publisher in the UK and Ireland. The acquisition has 
been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill of £5,579,000 arising on this acquisition has been capitalised on the 
Group balance sheet.
On 9 July 2009 A&C Black acquired the business and net assets of Hodder Humanities for a cash consideration of £462,000. It will be managed 
under the Bloomsbury Academic imprint. The acquisition has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill of 
£146,000 arising on the acquisition has been capitalised in the Group balance sheet. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
70
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Additions represent the goodwill on the acquisitions during the year and an adjustment in respect of Arden, as shown below:
     The Group 
     £’000
Acquisition of Tottel Publishing Limited     5,579
Acquisition of Hodder Humanities     146
Adjustment to initial goodwill on Arden*     (449)
Additions in the year     5,276
*The adjustment to Arden’s goodwill of £(449,000) is to reflect the non recognition of deferred tax liability recognised on its acquisition in 
2008.
The table below summarises the book values of the major categories of assets and liabilities of Tottel Publishing Limited at the date of 
acquisition by the Group and their fair values included in the consolidated financial statements at that date.
    Fair Total 
   Book value fair value to 
   value adjustments the Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Identifiable intangible assets   1,326 4,285 5,611
Property, plant and equipment   9 – 9
Inventories   – 252 252
Trade and other receivables   642 (125) 517
Cash and cash equivalents   260 – 260
Deferred tax asset   86 – 86
Deferred tax liability   – (1,200) (1,200)
Payables and provisions   (955) (64) (1,019)
   1,368 3,148 4,516
Goodwill     5,579
Consideration     10,095
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash     9,962
Costs     133
     10,095
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration including costs     10,095
Cash acquired     (260)
     9,835
Identifiable intangible assets of £5,611,000 consist of customer and subscriber relationships of £3,439,000 and publishing rights of £2,172,000. The 
customer and subscriber relationships have useful lives between six to thirteen years and publishing rights between seven to thirteen years.
A deferred tax liability of £1,200,000 has been provided against these intangible assets. Although this liability has been recognised in 
accordance with IAS 12 and a proportion will be amortised to the income statement as the related intangible asset is amortised, this liability is 
only payable if the intangible asset is sold separately and this is not expected to happen. A deferred tax asset of £86,000 has also been 
recognised for pre acquisition losses of Tottel Publishing Limited.
The goodwill on the acquisition of Tottel Publishing Limited arises from the expected profitability of the acquired business and the significant 
cost and revenue synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. It also comprises benefits that cannot be separately recognised such as its 
existing workforce, customer base and relationships with writers. The results of the acquired entity have been consolidated in the income 
statement from the date of acquisition. From the date of acquisition, the acquired entity contributed a £626,000 profit to the profit 
attributable to owners of the Company.
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
71
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The table below summarises the book values of the major categories of assets and liabilities of Hodder Humanities at the date of acquisition by 
the Group and their fair values included in the consolidated financial statements at that date.
    Fair Total 
   Book value fair value to 
   value adjustments the Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Identifiable intangible assets   – 273 273
Inventories   48 (21) 27
Trade and other receivables   26 – 26
   74 252 326
Goodwill     146
Consideration     472
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash     462
Costs     10
     472
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration including costs     472
Cash acquired     –
     472
Identifiable intangible assets of £273,000 consist entirely of publishing rights which have a useful life of eight years. The goodwill is attributable 
to the expected profitability of the acquired business and the synergies expected to arise after the acquisition.
The table below summarises the book values of the major categories of assets and liabilities of all acquisitions by the Group and their fair 
values included in the consolidated financial statements at that date.
    Fair Total 
   Book value fair value to 
   value adjustments the Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Net assets acquired:
Identifiable intangible assets   1,326 4,558 5,884
Property, plant and equipment   9 – 9
Inventories   48 231 279
Trade and other receivables   668 (125) 543
Cash and cash equivalents   260 – 260
Deferred tax liability   – (1,200) (1,200)
Deferred tax asset   86 – 86
Payables and provisions   (955) (64) (1,019)
   1,442 3,400 4,842
Goodwill     5,725
Consideration     10,567
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash     10,424
Costs     143
     10,567
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration including costs     10,567
Cash acquired     (260)
     10,307 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
72
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The following pro forma summary presents the Group as if Tottel Publishing Limited and Hodder Humanities were acquired on 1 January 2009.
The pro forma amounts do not include any possible synergies from these acquisitions. The pro forma information is provided for 
comparative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of 
future results of operations of the combined companies.
     2009
     £’000
Revenue     89,986
Profit attributable to equity shareholders     5,313
The carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill relates to the following geographical segments:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
United Kingdom    22,385 17,109
North America    3,290 3,651
Continental Europe    1,578 1,699
At 31 December    27,253 22,459
In testing goodwill for impairment, the recoverable amount of each geographical segment’s assets is calculated on the basis of future cash 
flows, whilst also taking into account past performance for well established operations, such as in the United Kingdom. The operating 
performance of each segment is based on the Board’s approved budgets for the year ending 31 December 2010 for all segments and 
extrapolated forecasts for subsequent years up to 2018 for Continental Europe and up to 2028 for North America and the United Kingdom.
Forecasts greater than five years can be justified on the basis that the remaining carrying value of goodwill largely relates to acquired 
business units which have been established for over one hundred years. This is further supported by the valuations which were required to be 
undertaken as a result of the acquisitions made, and useful lives of some of the separately identifiable intangibles acquired on recent 
acquisitions, such as imprints and certain publishing relationships, which were assessed in the valuations as twenty years or greater.
The following key assumptions in the value in use calculations were applied to each geographical segment:
● ● The discount rates used were 8.5% – 9.5% for the United Kingdom, 10.5% for North America and 11% for Continental Europe. These are 
justified, as although current interest rates have fallen, the recessionary environment has increased commercial risk.
● ● Gross margins have been based on historic performance and have been applied on a consistent basis to future projections, other than 
for Continental Europe where projected cost savings at gross margin level have been taken into account.
● ● The budgeted revenue and cost increases in 2010 were based on the Group’s approved budgets.
● ● Forecast revenue and cost increases for subsequent years were based on growth rates applied to approved budgets of one year and 
other factors which management consider should be taken into account, such as growth in the backlist revenues, development of new 
revenue streams within each geographical segment and cost savings following ongoing operational reviews, as follows:
   United North Continental 
   Kingdom America Europe
Revenue growth after 2010   3.5% – 17% 5.0% 2.0% – 10.0%
Overhead growth after 2010   3.0% – 15% 4.0% 2.0% – 10.0%
The Directors feel the growth rates, although higher than industry averages, are justifiable on the basis of past performance and history of 
growth in the Group.
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to a change in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and growth rates. Based 
on the Group’s sensitivity analysis a reasonably possible change in the growth rate of its US Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) could cause an 
impairment. The fair value of this CGU is 11.5% or £0.7m above its carrying value, but a decrease of 1% on the growth rates of sales and 
variable direct costs of the business would cause the value in use to fall below the carrying value. Likewise a 1.5% increase in the discount rate 
would cause the value in use to fall below the carrying value.
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
73
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
10. Investments in subsidiary companies
    2009 2008
The Company    £’000 £’000
Cost
Investments in share capital of wholly owned subsidiaries at cost:
At 1 January    43,021 29,067
Additions    10,095 13,954
At 31 December    53,116 43,021
Impairment
At 1 January    8,719 –
Charge for the year    723 8,719
At 31 December    9,442 8,719
Carrying amount:
At 31 December    43,674 34,302
At 1 January    34,302 29,067
The additions during the year represent the investment in Tottel Publishing Limited. The additions in 2008 represented additional investment 
of £13,954,000 in Bloomsbury Publishing Inc as inter-company loan capitalisation.
An impairment review assessing the carrying value of the investments was carried out in December 2009 and the investment in Bloomsbury 
Publishing Inc was written down by £723,000 (2008, £8,683,000). In testing impairment of investments, the recoverable amount is calculated 
on the basis of future cash flows. Operating performance is based on the Board’s approved budgets for the year ending 31 December 2010 
and extrapolated forecasts for subsequent years up to 2023 using a growth rate of 3% – 5.5% and a discount rate of 10.25%. In addition a 
£36,000 investment in Writer’s Cafe, Inc. was written off in 2008. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
74
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The subsidiary companies at 31 December 2009 are as follows:
   Proportion 
  Country of of equity Nature 
  incorporation capital held of business 
   during the year
Subsidiary undertakings held directly:
A.& C. Black Plc  England 100% Intermediate holding company
Bloomsbury Publishing Inc (formerly Diana Publishing Inc)  USA 100% Publishing
BV Berlin Verlag GmbH  Germany 100% Publishing
Peter Collin Publishing Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Bloomsbury Book Publishing Company Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Bloomsbury Information Limited  England 100% Publishing
Bloomsbury Professional Limited (formerly Tottel Publishing Limited) England 100% Publishing
Writer’s Cafe, Inc.  USA 51% Non-trading
Subsidiary undertakings held through a subsidiary company:
BvT Berliner Taschenbuch Verlag GmbH  Germany 100% Non-trading
A&C Black Publishers Limited  England 100% Publishing
A.& C. Black (Storage) Limited  England 100% Non-trading
A.& C. Black (Distribution) Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Christopher Helm (Publishers) Limited  England 100% Publishing
Reed’s Almanac Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Herbert Press Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Alphabooks Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Nautical Publishing Company Limited  England 100% Non-trading
F. Lewis, (Publishers), Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Adlard Coles Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Methuen Drama Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Featherstone Education Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Oxford International Publishers Limited t/a Berg Publishers  England 100% Publishing
Berg Fashion Library Limited  England 100% Publishing
John Wisden (Holdings) Limited  England 100% Non-trading
John Wisden & Co Limited  England 100% Non-trading
Walker Publishing Company, Inc.  USA 100% Publishing
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
75
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
11. Deferred tax
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are included at current tax rates and comprise the following:
The Group
  Property, plant 
  and equipment Retirement 
 Tax losses temporary benefit Share  
 carried forward differences obligation options Acquisitions Other Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 613 38 36 297 – 729 1,713
Credit/(charge) to the 
income statement (32) 30 3 (39) – (431) (469)
Credit to other comprehensive  
income – – – 34 – – 34
Exchange differences 210 – – – – 312 522
Subsidiaries acquired 229 – – – (1,328) – (1,099)
At 31 December 2008 1,020 68 39 292 (1,328) 610 701
Adjustment to b/f – – – – 449 – 449
Credit/(charge) to the 
income statement (172) 5 (21) 22 146 (152) (172)
Credit to other comprehensive 
 income – – – 21 – – 21
Exchange differences (53) – – – – (101) (154)
Subsidiaries acquired 86 – – – (1,200) – (1,114)
At 31 December 2009 881 73 18 335 (1,933) 357 (269)
The Company
  Property, plant 
  and equipment Retirement 
 Tax losses temporary benefit Share  
 carried forward differences obligation options Acquisitions Other Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 – (25) – 286 – – 261
Credit to the income 
statement – 33 – 15 – – 48
At 31 December 2008 – 8 – 301 – – 309
Credit to the income 
 statement – 14 – – – 22 36
Credit to other comprehensive 
income – – – 21 – – 21
At 31 December 2009 – 22 – 322 – 22 366 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
76
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the amount of the tax losses and other short-term temporary differences of BV Berlin 
Verlag GmbH and Bloomsbury Publishing Inc that the Group’s projections indicate will be recovered within three years of the balance sheet date.
The analysis for financial reporting purposes is as follows:
 The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Deferred tax assets  1,965 2,152 366 309
Deferred tax liabilities  (2,234) (1,451) – –
  (269) 701 366 309
The Group and the Company had deferred tax assets not recognised in the accounts as follows:
 The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Tax losses carried forward  1,275 1,031 – –
  1,275 1,031 – –
These deferred tax assets are recoverable against available taxable profits of the same type or from the same trades in future years. They have 
not been recognised in the accounts as recovery is not sufficiently certain.
The gross tax losses on which no deferred asset has been recognised were £3,555,000 (2008, £2,580,000). This relates to tax losses for certain 
subsidiaries in the US, Germany and UK. The losses in the US can be carried forward for twenty years, whilst the losses in Germany and the UK 
can be carried forward indefinitely.
12. Inventories
 The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Raw materials  132 258 5 19
Work in progress  4,029 3,347 824 620
Finished goods for resale  12,189 12,984 1,383 1,696
  16,350 16,589 2,212 2,335
The amount included in cost of sales relating to the inventory provision and write down recognised as an expense is £4,982,000 (2008, 
£5,089,000) for the Group and £1,275,000 (2008, £1,913,000) for the Company. The amount included in cost of sales relating to the cost of 
inventories sold is £17,820,000 (2008, £16,825,000) for the Group and for the Company £7,101,000 (2008, £7,588,000).
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
77
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
13. Trade and other receivables
 The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Amounts owed by Group undertakings  – – 10,979 2,210
Current assets
Recoverable within 12 months:
Trade receivables  21,601 22,939 9,034 11,671
Amounts owed by Group undertakings  – – 3,109 7,735
Income tax recoverable  56 – – 223
Other receivables  429 334 271 165
Prepayments and accrued income  22,576 23,212 7,196 7,787
  44,662 46,485 19,610 27,581
Recoverable after 12 months:
Prepayments and accrued income  2,847 2,497 2,847 2,497
  47,509 48,982 22,457 30,078
The non-current amounts owed by Group undertakings represent loan balances due from subsidiary companies. These loans are technically 
repayable on demand, however there is no intention to demand repayment of the loans within the next twelve months. During 2008 
£13,954,000 of the US loan was capitalised as the Company’s cost of investment before investment impairment, as set out in note 10.
Trade receivables comprise amounts receivable from the sale of books. Payments are received on the basis of contracted payment terms with 
the distributors and for co-editions according to contractual agreements. At 31 December 2009 the average number of days’ credit taken for 
sales of books by the Group was 107 days (2008, 106 days), and the average number of days’ credit taken by the Company was 119 days (2008, 
112 days). The majority of trade receivables are secured by credit insurance, third party distributors and letters of credit. At the year end an 
allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods of £1,044,000 (2008, £807,000) by the Group and of 
£388,000 (2008, £476,000) by the Company. This allowance has been made by reference to specific debts, past default experience, trading 
history and the current economic environment. The increase in the year-end provision on trade receivables since 31 December 2008 was 
£237,000 (2008, £520,000) for the Group and there was a reduction of £88,000 (2008, increase £387,000) for the Company. The impairment loss 
was £107,000 (2008, £598,000) for the Group and there was a credit of £28,000 (2008, loss £476,000) for the Company. The £130,000 difference 
between the provision movement and the income statement charge for the Group is due in the main to existing provisions on acquisitions 
made during the year, partly offset by usage of the provision during the year. The £60,000 difference for the Company is due to usage of the 
provision during the year.
As books are returnable by customers, the Group makes a provision against books sold in the accounting period which is then carried 
forward in trade receivables in the balance sheet in anticipation of book returns received subsequent to the year end. At the end of 2008 
there were outstanding receivables relating to the sale of Tales of Beedle the Bard, which was published during that year and cash was 
received during 2009. A provision for the Group of £6.51m (2008, £7.78m), at margin, for future returns relating to the current year and prior 
year sales has been included in trade receivables in the balance sheet at 31 December 2009. This included a provision for the Company of 
£2.14m (2008, £3.04m). A 1% change in the closing returns provision rates would have an impact of £0.26m for the Group. In addition to 
books returned by customers during 2009, there was a write-back in the returns provision relating to changes in assumptions made in respect 
of the provision brought forward from the prior year which, as a result of the level of returns actually received during the year, is no longer 
required. The value of the write-back to the income statement is £0.58m (year to 31 December 2008, £5.16m). Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
78
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The reconciliation of the Group’s returns provision balance is shown below:
     £’000
At 1 January 2009     7,783
Exchange difference     (431)
Change in basis of calculation     (581)
Subsidiaries acquired     186
Provision made in the year     8,340
Provision utilised in the year     (8,792)
At 31 December 2009     6,505
The change in the basis of the calculation takes account of the reassessment of likely returns rates based on the level of actual returns in the 
period.
The Group makes a provision against published titles advances which may not be covered by anticipated future sales, paperback editions or 
contracts for subsidiary rights receivable. At the end of each financial year a review is carried out on all published titles advances. If
it is unlikely that royalties from future sales, paperback sales or subsidiary rights will fully earn down the advance, a provision is charged to the 
income statement for the difference between the carrying value and the anticipated recoverable amount from future earnings (‘advance 
provision’). The advance provision for the Group has been increased by £3.44m since 31 December 2009 (year to 31 December 2008, £9.13m). 
The provision for the Company has been increased by £1.03m (year to 31 December 2008, £6.28m). The net advance is included within 
prepayments and accrued income.
Within the increased provision for advances made during 2008 was an additional amount taken on the basis that in the light of the current 
economic climate management did not consider those amounts to be recoverable. The value of the additional write off in 2008 was £5.40m.
The movement on the advances provision for the Group during the year is shown below:
     £’000
Reallocation of provision no longer required     (1,624)
Provisions made in the year     5,062
Total cost to income statement     3,438
Provisions used to write off advances     (1,960)
Exchange difference     (474)
Net movement in provision     1,004
14. Equity share capital
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Authorised:
92,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each 
(2008, 92,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each)    1,150 1,150
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
73,683,623 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each 
(2008, 73,683,623 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each)    922 922
Movements in the allotted share capital during the year are:
  2009  2008
  Number £’000 Number £’000
At 1 January  73,683,623 922 73,561,799 920
Shares allotted  – – 121,824 2
At 31 December  73,683,623 922 73,683,623 922
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
79
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
As at 31 December 2009, 659,398 options had been granted and were still outstanding in respect of Ordinary Shares under the following 
Approved and Unapproved Share Option Schemes:
   No. of Subscription 
   Shares price Exercisable
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   17,354 173.75p 2003 – 2010
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   84,240 220.25p 2003 – 2010
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   46,116 175.50p 2004 – 2011
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   48,688 179.75p 2004 – 2011
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   22,000 143.50p 2005 – 2012
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   58,276 178.75p 2006 – 2013
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   20,000 246.00p 2006 – 2013
1994 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme   58,000 249.50p 2007 – 2014
1994 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme   149,724 178.75p 2006 – 2010
1994 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme   80,000 246.00p 2006 – 2010
1994 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme   75,000 249.50p 2007 – 2011
At 31 December 2009, 2,365,301 shares had been awarded and were still outstanding under the Group’s Performance Share Plans. Subject to 
the satisfaction of the performance criteria set by the Remuneration Committee, the awards will vest in whole or in part three years after 
the award.
 No. of  Strike price 
 Shares  at award  Date of award
2005 Performance Share Plan 651,863  181.40p  8 May 2007
2005 Performance Share Plan 817,136  144.50p  12 May 2008
2005 Performance Share Plan 896,302  120.50p  25 Sep 2009
At 31 December 2009, 113,282 options had been granted and were still outstanding under the 2005 Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan.
 No. of 
 Shares  Exercise price  Exercisable
2005 Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan 679  275.20p  Oct 2009 – April 2010
2005 Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan 29,377  148.20p  June 2010 – Dec 2010
2005 Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan 83,226  115.60p  June 2011 – Dec 2011
At 31 December 2009, 120,000 Share Appreciation rights had been awarded and were still outstanding under the 2006 Share Appreciation 
Rights Scheme. 26,792 appreciation rights had been awarded and were still outstanding under the 2007 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme. 
Subject to the satisfaction of an Earnings per Share target pre-condition, these awards will be exercisable for a period of four years following 
the vesting date.
 No. of 
 appreciation  Base price 
 rights  of award  Exercisable
2006 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme 40,000  249.50p  Mar 2007 – Mar 2011
2006 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme 40,000  337.90p  Nov 2008 – Nov 2012
2006 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme 40,000  315.25p  Oct 2009 – Oct 2013
2007 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme 26,792  173.75p  June 2010 – June 2014 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
80
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
At 31 December 2009, 88,760 Unapproved Employee Share Options had been awarded and were still outstanding under the 2007 
Unapproved Employee Share Option Scheme. Subject to the achievement of satisfaction of performance conditions set by the Remuneration 
Committee the awards are generally exercisable over a three year period.
   No. of Subscription 
   Shares price Exercisable
2007 Unapproved Employee Share Option Scheme   72,760 220.25p 2007 – 2010
2007 Unapproved Employee Share Option Scheme   16,000 175.50p 2007 – 2011
At 31 December 2009, 9,343 conditional award shares had been awarded and were still outstanding. The awards are exercisable based on a 
three year performance period.
   No. of Strike price 
   Shares at award Date of award
2009 conditional award   9,343 126.5p 18 Dec 2009
15. Non-current liabilities
The retirement benefit obligations liability represents the deficit on the defined benefit pension scheme of a subsidiary company. Further 
details of the scheme are shown in note 4.
The other payables represent the authors’ share of rights receivable falling due after more than one year.
16. Trade and other payables
 The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade payables  5,913 6,619 2,264 2,996
Amounts owed to Group undertakings  – – 4,208 512
Taxation and social security  350 312 196 194
Other payables  1,414 1,666 940 1,110
Accruals  13,271 22,657 8,012 17,726
Deferred income  2,121 1,349 – –
  23,069 32,603 15,620 22,538
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. At 31 December 2009 the average number 
of days’ credit taken for purchases by the Group was 50 days (2008, 51 days).
17. Lease obligations
The Group as a lessee:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Payments under operating leases recognised as expense for the period   1,159 1,328
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
81
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
At 31 December 2009 the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Within one year    880 977
Between one and five years    200 831
    1,080 1,808
The operating leases represent rentals payable by the Group for certain office properties, vehicles and equipment. The lease terms over 
properties are for an average of three years. The operating leases over vehicles are in respect of company cars driven by certain employees. 
The lease terms are for an average of two years. The operating leases over equipment are in respect of office equipment. The lease terms are 
for an average of two years.
The Group as a lessor:
Property rental income earned during the year was £nil (2008, £43,000).
18. Share-based payments
The Company operates five equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the two executive share option schemes, the 
performance share plan, the sharesave scheme and a share appreciation rights scheme. For the year ended 31 December 2009 the Group 
recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions since 7 November 2002 of £88,000 (2008, £191,000).
The 1994 Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes (‘the Schemes’)
Under the rules of the Schemes the exercise price on the date of grant of options has not been less than the higher of the nominal value of an 
Ordinary Share and the average middle market quotation of an Ordinary Share for the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer of 
options under the Schemes. The vesting period has generally been three years and subject to the achievement of Earnings Per Share 
performance conditions (see Remuneration Report on page 38) set by the Remuneration Committee. If an option remains unexercised after a 
period of ten years (Approved) or seven years (Unapproved) from the date of grant, the options will expire. Furthermore, except in certain 
circumstances, options lapse if the employee leaves the Group. No options have been granted under the Schemes since 2004.
   Weighted  Weighted
  Options average Options average
  2009 exercise price 2008 exercise price
  Number 2009 (Pence) Number 2008 (Pence)
Outstanding at 1 January  707,398 204.70 824,518 201.59
Exercised during the year  – – – –
Expired during the year  (48,000) 164.06 (117,120) 178.70
Outstanding at 31 December  659,398 207.06 707,398 204.70
Exercisable at 31 December  659,398 207.06 42,000 143.50
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average contractual life of one year and six months (2008, two years and nine 
months). The range of exercise prices at 31 December 2009 can be found in note 14 above.
The Bloomsbury Performance Share Plan 2005 (‘the PSP Plan’)
Under the rules of the PSP Plan, awards of fully paid Ordinary Shares are granted for nil consideration by the Remuneration Committee. For 
the purposes of determining the number of Ordinary Shares comprised in an award, the value of a share shall be equal to either the average 
middle-market price of the Ordinary Share for the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date or the middle-market price on 
the dealing day before the award date. The vesting period is generally three years and the level of vesting is subject to the achievement of 
Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) and Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance conditions (see Remuneration Report on page 38) set by the 
Remuneration Committee. Except in certain circumstances, awards lapse if the employee leaves the Group.
No awards were made under the PSP Plan prior to 4 November 2005. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
82
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
    Conditional Conditional
    Awards Awards
    2009 2008
    Number Number
Outstanding at 1 January    1,804,820 1,557,406
Granted during the year    896,302 829,000
Lapsed or forfeited during the year    (335,821) (581,586)
Outstanding at 31 December    2,365,301 1,804,820
Exercisable at 31 December    – –
The inputs into the Monte-Carlo style stochastic model used by our remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street Consultants, are as follows:
Date of grant 25 September 2009
    Total 
    Increase in Shareholder 
Performance condition    EPS over RPI Return
Share price    122p 122p
Volatility    n/a 40.8%
Performance condition discount    n/a n/a
Risk Free Interest Rate    n/a 2.0%
Fair Value charge per award    £1.22 £0.767
For all awards made under the PSP Plan to date, vesting is on the third anniversary of grant and a three year expected life has been assumed. 
The expected volatility was based on Bloomsbury’s share price volatility over the period prior to grant equal in length to the expected three 
year life. Half of any award is subject to an EPS performance condition (which is not factored into the valuation) and the other half is subject to 
a Total Shareholder Return condition whereby performance is compared to the FTSE Mid 250 companies (excluding Investment Trusts) over a 
three year period from the date of grant, with 35% of shares subject to this performance condition vesting for a median ranking rising to 
100% for an upper quartile ranking. The discount for this TSR condition is calculated at the date of grant using the ‘Monte-Carlo’ model.
Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan 2005
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved savings related share option scheme under which employees are granted 
options to purchase Ordinary Shares in the Company in three, five or seven years’ time, dependent upon their entering into a contract to 
make monthly contributions to a savings account over the period of the savings term. The Sharesave Plan is open to employees based in the 
UK. No awards were made under the Sharesave Plan prior to 5 May 2006.
   Weighted   Weighted
  Sharesave average Sharesave average
  options exercise price options exercise price
  2009 2009 2008 2008
  Number Pence Number Pence
Outstanding at 1 January  147,043 148.53 136,098 192.32
Granted during the year  – – 92,983 144.50
Lapsed or forfeited during the year  (33,761) 227.44 (82,038) 183.85
Outstanding at 31 December  113,282 125.01 147,043 148.53
Exercisable at 31 December  679 275.2 – –
The outstanding Sharesave options at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of one year and eight months 
(2008, two years and four months). The range of exercise prices at 31 December 2009 can be found in note 14 above.
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
83
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
2006 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme (‘The SAR Scheme’)
During 2006 the Company introduced an equity-settled share appreciation rights scheme. Under the rules of the SAR Scheme, a participant, 
in respect of the number of shares set out in an award, will be granted the right to acquire for nominal value a number of ordinary shares in 
the Company with a value equal to the gain in excess of the exercise price of the award up to the market value of Bloomsbury’s ordinary 
shares on the date of exercise. An award becomes exercisable for a period of up to four years after the vesting date but only if at the date of 
exercise the Earnings per Share pre-condition is satisfied. Any right not exercised at the end of the relevant exercise period will lapse.
No awards were made under the SAR Scheme prior to 17 November 2006.
  SAR Weighted SAR Weighted
  Scheme average Scheme average
  Awards exercise price Awards exercise price
  2009 2009 2008 2008
  Number Pence Number Pence
Outstanding at 1 January  146,792 277.68 146,792 277.68
Outstanding at 31 December  146,792 277.68 146,792 277.68
Exercisable at 31 December  120,000 300.88 – –
The SAR Scheme awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average contractual life of three years (2008, three years and two 
months). The range of exercise prices at 31 December 2009 can be found in note 14 above.
2007 Unapproved Employee Share Option Scheme (‘the 2007 ESOS’)
During the year the Company introduced an unapproved employee share option scheme to be funded from shares purchased by the 
Company in the market. Under the rules of the 2007 ESOS, a participant will be able to exercise the options at an option price agreed at the 
grant date. The awards have generally been exercisable up to 3 years from the date of grant and subject to the achievement of performance 
conditions set by the Remuneration Committee. No Awards were made prior to 18 December 2007.
  2007 ESOS Weighted 2007 ESOS Weighted
  Scheme average Scheme average
  Awards exercise price Awards exercise price
  2009 2009 2008 2008
  Number Pence Number Pence
Outstanding at 1 January  88,760 212.18 88,760 212.18
Outstanding at 31 December  88,760 212.18 88,760 212.18
Exercisable at 31 December  88,760 212.18 88,760 212.18
The 2007 ESOS Scheme awards outstanding at 31 December 2008 had a weighted average contractual life of ten months (2008, one year and 
ten months). The range of exercise prices at 31 December 2009 can be found in note 14 above.
2009 Conditional Share award
During 2009 the Company made a grant of 9,343 shares for nil consideration (the ‘Award’). The Award will be exercisable in 2011 subject to 
the achievement of performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee. The Award is to be funded by market purchased shares.
The inputs into the Monte-Carlo style stochastic model used by our remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street Consultants, are as follows: Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
84
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Date of grant 18 December 2009
    Increase Total 
    in EPS Shareholder 
Performance condition    over RPI  Return
Share price    125p 125p
Volatility    n/a 40.8%
Performance condition discount    n/a n/a
Risk Free Interest Rate    n/a 2.0%
Fair Value charge per award    £1.25 £0.786
For the conditional share award, vesting is on 12 May 2011, a two years and five months expected life has been assumed. The expected 
volatility was based on Bloomsbury’s share price volatility over the period prior to grant equal in length to the expected two years and five 
months life. Half of any award is subject to an EPS performance condition (which is not factored into the valuation) and the other half is 
subject to a Total Shareholder Return condition whereby performance is compared to the FTSE Mid 250 companies (excluding Investment 
Trusts) over a three year period ending on 12 May 2011, with 35% of shares subject to this performance condition vesting for a median 
ranking rising to 100% for an upper quartile ranking. The discount for this TSR condition is calculated at the date of grant using the 
‘Monte-Carlo’ model.
The Bloomsbury Employee Benefit Trust 2005 (‘the EBT’)
Set up in 2005, the EBT is a discretionary trust of which all employees of the Group are potential beneficiaries. The trustee is independent of the 
Company. Its main purpose is to operate with the Company’s share schemes, in particular with the PSP Plan. While the trustee has power to 
subscribe for Ordinary Shares and acquire Ordinary Shares in the market or from treasury, it is not permitted to hold more than five per cent 
of the Company’s issued share capital without prior approval of the shareholders. At 31 December 2009 the trust held £116 in cash and 88,760 
ordinary shares of 1.25p each, purchased during 2008 for £134,000. The results and net assets of the EBT are included in the financial 
statements of the Group. The market value of the 88,760 shares at 31 December 2009 was £112,281.
19. Commitments and contingent liabilities
The Group is committed to paying royalty advances to authors under publishing contracts during subsequent financial years. At 31 
December 2009 this commitment amounted to £14,902,000 (2008, £17,102,000).
There is a contingent consideration for the 2008 acquisition of Oxford International Publishers Limited t/a Berg Publishers. It is based on the 
average revenues for the Berg Fashion Library element of the business payable in 2014 and 2015 up to a maximum of £1,000,000. None of the 
contingent consideration has been recognised as a reliable measurement cannot be ascertained due to the timescales the contingent 
consideration is based on.
20. Post balance sheet events
The Directors propose that a final dividend of 3.65 pence per share (2008, 3.47 pence per share) will be paid to the equity shareholders on 1 
July 2010 to Ordinary Shareholders on the register at close of business on 22 May 2010. Based on the number of shares currently in issue, the 
final dividend will be £2,689,000 (2008, £2,554,000). This dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
21. Parent Company result
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Company 
income statement. The Company’s profit for the year was £2,672,000 (2008, loss £2,972,000). This is after impairment of the investment in 
Bloomsbury Publishing Inc of £723,000 (2008, £8,683,000) as a result of the impairment review (note 10). The Company’s total comprehensive 
income for the year is £2,693,000 (2008, £(2,938,000)).
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
85
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
22. Financial instruments and risk summary
Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
1. Capital risk management
2. Market risk
3. Credit risk
4. Liquidity risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s management of capital and the Group’s 
objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.
The Board has approved the Group Treasury policies and procedures by which the Group Treasury function is to be managed, headed by the 
Group Finance Director and part of Bloomsbury’s Finance Department, it operates under a delegated authority from the Board.
As the Company is responsible for managing the Group’s Treasury function, the same policies and procedures are also adhered to in the 
managing of its own function.
The treasury management policies and procedures focus on the investment of surplus operating cash likely to be needed in order to support 
Bloomsbury’s ongoing operations, foreign currency requirements and interest rate risk management. The policies are reviewed at least on 
an annual basis by the Group Finance Director and any amendments approved by the Board. The Board is assisted in its oversight role by 
Internal Audit, who undertake regular reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit 
Committee.
1. Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to 
shareholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may 
adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders and issue new shares. The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from 2008.
The capital structure of the Group comprises equity attributable to owners of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained 
earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and note 14. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
86
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Categories of financial instruments
Details of the significant policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on 
which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in 
the accounting policies.
  The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables 13 21,601 22,939 9,034 11,671
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 13 – – 14,088 9,945
Rights income receivable  1,430 1,631 1,037 1,260
Cash and cash equivalents  35,036 51,908 31,084 47,859
Total financial assets  58,067 76,478 55,243 70,735
Trade payables 16 5,913 6,619 2,264 2,996
Other payables 16 1,414 1,666 940 1,110
Accruals 16 13,271 22,657 8,012 17,726
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 16 – – 4,208 512
Other payables due after one year 15 353 558 351 558
Total financial liabilities, measured 
at amortised cost*  20,951 31,500 15,775 22,902
Net financial instruments  37,116 44,978 39,468 47,833
* These amounts also represent the contractual cash payments due.
2. Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income or the 
value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within 
acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group’s activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. The 
Group incurs costs in the same currencies as it earns revenue creating some degree of natural hedging.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential 
adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury under policies approved by the 
Board of Directors. Group Treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any 
particular territory, currency or institution.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk managements, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as funding, foreign 
exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
87
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
(i) Interest rate risk
The Group has significant interest bearing assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents, as such cash flows are dependent on changes in 
market interest rates.
The Group maintains a low risk stance to investing surplus cash balances and does not allow speculative trading or investment and invests 
surplus funds only in investments that meet certain criteria which includes the following:
● ● Meet the permitted rating requirements issued by a recognised rating agency
● ● Invest utilising permitted instruments as authorised by the Board
● ● Are held at a permitted institution
● ● Have a defined maximum maturity date which is no longer than twelve months unless a UK Government bond
● ● Are denominated in sterling, euro or US dollars
● ● Pay interest at a fixed, floating or discount rate
● ● Are within preferred concentration limits
The Group has financial assets comprising cash and short-term bank deposits of £35,036,000 at 31 December 2009 (2008, £51,908,000). The 
Company has financial assets comprising cash and short-term bank deposits of £31,084,000 at 31 December 2009 (2008, £47,859,000). 
Short-term bank deposits are at fixed rates, and the maturity terms range between four days and three months. Cash at bank is at variable 
rates. The average rate of interest on cash deposits for the Group and the Company during the year ended 31 December 2009 was 2.6% 
(2008, 5.5%).
  The Group The Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and on hand  6,946 7,895 2,994 3,846
Short-term bank deposits  28,090 44,013 28,090 44,013
Cash and cash equivalents  35,036 51,908 31,084 47,859
The Group had no borrowings at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The Group derived the following sensitivities to assess the impact of changes in interest rates, based on the effect of the market volatility in the 
current climate and the previous 12 months:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Impact on equity
3% increase in base rate of interest (2008, 2%)    1,051 1,038
3% decrease in base rate of interest (2008, 2%)    (1,051) (1,038)
Impact on profit or loss
3% increase in base rate of interest (2008, 2%)    1,051 1,038
3% decrease in base rate of interest (2008, 2%)    (1,051) (1,038)
(ii) Currency risk
The Company believes in its current circumstances that the Group’s risk from foreign currency exposure is limited and no active currency risk 
management by hedging is considered necessary, as a significant proportion of revenues are matched by expenditure in the same local 
currency creating some degree of natural hedging. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
88
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Of the Group’s total financial assets of £58,067,000 (2008, £76,478,000), comprising certain receivables as above and cash and cash 
equivalents, £5,705,000 is denominated in US dollars (2008, £5,770,000) and £3,736,000 is denominated in euros (2008, £4,074,000). Of the 
Group’s total financial liabilities of £20,951,000 (2008, £31,500,000), £1,851,000 is denominated in US dollars (2008, £1,786,000) and £2,110,000 is 
denominated in euros (2008, £2,562,000).
Of the Company’s total financial assets of £55,243,000 (2008, £70,735,000), comprising certain receivables as above and cash and cash 
equivalents, £1,010,000 is denominated in US dollars (2008, £688,000) and £432,000 is denominated in euros (2008, £452,000). Of the 
Company’s total financial liabilities of £15,775,000 (2008, £22,902,000), £94,000 is denominated in US dollars (2008, £265,000) and £108,000 is 
denominated in euros (2008, £109,000).
The foreign exchange gain on receivables was £174,000 (2008, loss £75,000) for the Group and the Company.
No financial assets or liabilities are denominated in currencies other than sterling, US dollars and euros.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group derived the following sensitivities based on the foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities at the year end. The 
percentage has been determined based on the effect of the market volatility in exchange rates between the current and previous year end.
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Impact on equity
10% increase in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   (346) (922)
10% decrease in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   422 1,718
10% increase in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   (144) (353)
10% decrease in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   175 633
Impact on profit or loss
10% increase in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   (82) (98)
10% decrease in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   100 182
10% increase in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   (29) (80)
10% decrease in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2008, 30%)   35 144
3. Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables of £21,601,000 (2008, £22,939,000) and rights income receivable of 
£1,430,000 (2008, £1,631,000), the majority of which is secured by credit insurance, third party distributors and letters of credit. The Company’s 
credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables of £9,034,000 (2008, £11,671,000) and rights income receivable of £1,037,000 (2008, 
£1,260,000), the majority of which is secured by credit insurance, third party distributor and letters of credit. The amounts presented in the 
balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on the trading experience and 
the current economic environment. The movement in the allowance during the year is shown in note 13.
The majority of trade receivables is due on the basis of set contracted payment terms with the distributors and co-edition contractual 
agreements and therefore falls within due dates.
Although the Group holds the majority of its deposits with two financial institutions, the credit risk is limited because these are banks with high 
credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group determines its concentration of credit risk based on the individual characteristics of its customers and publicly available 
knowledge of specific circumstances affecting those customers.
Notes to the Accounts Financial Statements
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
89
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
The Group has limited concentration of credit risk, as exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. The Group 
uses third party distributors, and significant amounts outstanding through the UK distributors are secured by credit insurance and letters of 
credit. Credit risk for significant amounts outstanding through the distributors in Europe and USA of £2,115,000 and £3,675,000 respectively at 
the year end rests with the distributors. Credit limits are set by the distributors for customers based on a combination of payment history and 
third party credit references. Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis in conjunction with debt ageing and collection history. The 
distributors belong to established international groups whose business includes a number of publishing interests and clients.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk, including trade receivables, rights income receivable and cash and cash equivalents, is 
£58,067,000 (2008, £76,478,000). The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk, including trade receivables, amounts owed by Group 
undertakings, rights income receivable and cash and cash equivalents, is £55,243,000 (2008, £70,735,000).
4. Liquidity risk
The Directors do not consider that the Group currently has an exposure to liquidity risk, as the Group has no borrowing and has sufficient 
cash deposits to meet its debts as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
Cash flow budgets and forecasts are prepared by the operating entities of the Group, aggregated for the Group and regularly reviewed by 
the Board, and the actual cash position of the Group and each entity is compared monthly against budget. This allows management to 
ensure that each operating entity and the Group have sufficient cash to meet operational needs.
Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the balance required for working capital management is invested in interest 
bearing accounts and money market deposits.
The Group’s financial liabilities are trade payables, accruals and other payables, as shown above in this note in the table under Categories of 
financial instruments. Apart from other payables due after one year, as shown in that table, the other financial liabilities shown in the table are 
due within one year.
Fair value of financial instruments
There is no material difference between the fair value and book value of financial assets and liabilities.
23. Related party transactions
Trading transactions
During the year the Company entered into the following transactions and had the following balances with its subsidiaries:
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Commission payable    159 213
Interest receivable    233 440
Amounts owed by subsidiaries at year end    14,088 9,945
Amounts owed to subsidiaries at year end    4,208 512
Inter-company loan capitalisation    – 13,954
Commission payable were based on the Group’s usual list prices. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No 
guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by subsidiaries. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
90
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel, which comprises the Board and other Directors of subsidiary companies who are 
actively involved in strategic decision making, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party 
Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the auditable part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 38.
    2009 2008
    £’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits    3,278 3,712
Post-employment benefits    181 137
Share-based payments    74 122
    3,533 3,971
Notes to the Accounts www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
91
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Directors, Secretary and Advisers
Directors, Secretary and Advisers
Directors
JJ O’B Wilson – Non-Executive Chairman
JN Newton - Founder and Chief Executive
CR Adams ACA
RDP Charkin
CAA Black - Senior Non-Executive and Vice Chairman
MJ Mayer – Non-executive
Secretary
IJ Portal FCIS
Registered Office
36 Soho Square
London
W1D 3QY
020 7494 2111
Registered number
1984336 (England & Wales)
Auditor
Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP
2 Bloomsbury Street
London
WC1B 3ST
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
280 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4RB
Stockbrokers and Financial Advisers
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Solicitors
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP
Tower Bridge House
St Katherine’s Way
London
E1W 1AA
Registrars
Capita Registrars Limited
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
92
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Annual General Meeting  28 May 2010
Results
Announcement of half year results to 30 June 2009 August 2010
Announcement of annual results to 31 December 2009  March/April 2011
Dividend
Final dividend – 2009 1 July 2010
Interim dividend – 2010 November 2010
Final dividend – 2010 July 2011
Share Price and Investor Information
Bloomsbury’s share price is quoted in the Financial Times, the Times, the Daily Telegraph and the Evening Standard, and is also available on 
the Financial Times Cityline telephone service (0906 843 4444) charged at premium call rates. Investor information is also available on the 
web at www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk.
Managing your shareholding online
Capita Registrars provides a wide range of online shareholder services through their Share Portal.
Through the Share Portal you will be able to access and maintain your holding at your own convenience, including the ability to:
● ● View your holdings and indicative share price and valuation;
● ● View a full transaction audit trail;
● ● View your dividend history including payment dates;
● ● Change your address;
● ● Register and change bank mandate instructions; and
● ● Contact Capita’s specialised shareholder help-line, or submit email enquiries.
Registering to use the Share Portal is easy: simply visit Capita’s website at www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholder. Either log-in or register as a 
new user and follow the instructions. To register for the service you will need your Investor Code which is found on your share certificate or 
dividend voucher.
If you have any queries contact Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras) or email them at 
shareportal@capita.co.uk
Financial Calendar www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
93
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information
Analysis of Registered Shareholdings at 6 April 2010
   Percentage   
   of total Number of Percentage of 
  Number of number of Ordinary Ordinary 
Size of shareholding  shareholders shareholders Shares Shares
5,000,001 +  2 0.17 11,640337 15.7
 1,000,001 – 5,000,000  21 1.75 38,028,088 51.4
  500,001 – 1,000,000  12 1.0 9,296,090 12.6
  100,001 – 500,000  40 3.32 9,066,401 12.3
  50,001 – 100,000  24 1.99 1,750,374 2.4
  10,001 – 50,000  105 8.73 2,510,615 3.4
  1 – 10,000  999 83.04 1,627,814 0.2 
  1,203 100 73,919,719 100
Analysis by number of registered shareholders
   Percentage   
   of total  Number of Percentage of 
  Number of number of Ordinary Ordinary 
Shareholder  shareholders shareholders Shares Shares
Institutional shareholders/nominee companies  371 30.84 70,235,419 95.02
Private shareholders  832 69.16 3,684,300 4.98
  1,203 100 73,919,719 100 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
94
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 36 Soho Square, London, W1D 3QY on 28 May 
2010 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes:-
Routine Business
1. To receive the report of the Directors and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
2. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
3. To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009.
4. To re-elect Mr Richard Charkin as a Director of the Company.
5. To reappoint Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Special Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 6 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 
7, 8, 9 and 10 will be proposed as special resolutions.
6. THAT:
(a) the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to exercise 
all the powers of the Company to allot any shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into 
shares in the Company to such persons and on such terms as they think proper up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 
£226,004 provided that:
(i) this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this 
resolution unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting; and
(ii) the Company shall be entitled to make, before the expiry of such authority, any offer or agreement which would or might 
require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company to be granted after 
the expiry of such authority and the Directors may allot any shares pursuant to such offer or agreement as if such authority had 
not expired; and
(b) all prior authorities to allot relevant securities (as defined in section 80(2) of the Companies Act 1985) or other authorities to allot any 
shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company given to the Directors 
by resolution of the Company be revoked but without prejudice to the allotment of any shares already made or to be made 
pursuant to such authorities.
7. THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 6 referred to in the notice of the Annual General Meeting (‘the Notice’) at which this resolution 
is being proposed:-
(a) the Directors be granted power pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to allot equity securities (within the 
meaning of section 560 of the Act) wholly for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by resolution 6 in the Notice as if 
section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity 
securities:-
(i) in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of holders of Ordinary Shares in the Company 
(‘Ordinary Shares’) where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all such holders of Ordinary Shares 
are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of and/or rights attaching to Ordinary Shares held by them, 
subject to such exceptions, exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with 
fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory 
body or any stock exchange or otherwise in any territory;
Notice of Annual General Meeting www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
95
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(ii) pursuant to the terms of the Company’s existing employees’ share or share option schemes or any other employees’ share 
scheme approved by the members of the Company in general meeting;
(iii) (other than pursuant to paragraphs (i) or (ii) above) up to a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate £46,200;
 and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of 
passing of this resolution unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, and provided that the 
Company may, before such expiry, make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after 
such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power hereby conferred 
had not expired; and
(b) all prior powers granted under section 89(1) of the Companies Act 1985 or section 571 of the Act be revoked provided that such 
revocation shall not have retrospective effect.
8. THAT the Company is authorised, pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) , to make market purchases (as defined 
in section 693 (4) of the Act) of any of its Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each (‘Ordinary Shares’) in such manner and on such terms as the 
Directors may from time to time determine provided that:-
(a) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 3,695,986;
(b) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average 
of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 
days immediately preceding the date on which such share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price (exclusive of 
expenses) which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 1.25 pence;
(c) the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 or 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever shall be the 
earlier; and
(d) the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any time before its expiry or termination any contract to purchase its 
own shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry or termination of such authority and may purchase its 
own shares pursuant to such contract.
9. THAT:
(a) the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Company’s Memorandum of 
Association which, by virtue of section 28 Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Company’s Articles of 
Association; and
(b) the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification 
be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of 
Association.
10. That a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Dated 20 April 2010 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
Registered Office: 
36 Soho Square 
London Ian Portal FCIS
W1D 3QY Company Secretary
 
  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
96
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notes:
1. THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to the action you 
should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, 
accountant, fund manager or other appropriate independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000.
2. If you sell or have sold or otherwise transferred all of your Units, you should send this document together with the accompanying Form 
of Proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer 
was effected for delivery to the purchaser or the transferee.
3. Explanatory statements relating to the Special Business of the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Directors’ Report (under the 
heading Annual General Meeting – Special Business) and in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting.
4. Only the holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the meeting and vote. A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint one 
or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on his behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A form of proxy is enclosed for 
your use. Further copies of the form of proxy may be obtained from the registered office of the Company.
5. If a member wishes his proxy to speak on his behalf at the Meeting, he or she will need to appoint his own choice of proxy (who is not the 
Chairman) and give instructions directly to the proxy. The completion and return of a form of proxy will enable a shareholder to vote at 
the General Meeting without having to be present at the General Meeting, but will not preclude him or her from attending the General 
Meeting and voting in person if he or she should subsequently decide to do so.
6. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A 
member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share. To appoint more than one proxy, please 
sign and date the form of proxy and attach a schedule listing the names and addresses (in block letters) of all your proxies, the number 
of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed (which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you) and 
indicating how you wish each proxy to vote or abstain from voting. If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, 
insert ‘Chairman of the Meeting’ in the box which is used to identify the name of the proxy on the relevant proxy card.
7. To be valid, the enclosed form of proxy must be lodged with the Company’s Registrars, Capita Registrars, not later than 48 hours before 
the time appointed for the holding of the Annual General Meeting.
8. Shareholders included on the register of members (in relation to ordinary shares held in CREST, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001) at 6pm on 26 May 2010 will be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in 
respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time. Changes to the register of members after that time will be 
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
9. Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have a 
right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no 
such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she, under any such agreement, has a right to give instructions to the 
shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
10. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons. The rights 
described in this regard can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
97
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Notice of Annual General Meeting
11. Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of 
the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the Annual General 
Meeting; or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the 
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 
2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the 
statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which 
may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website
12. In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that (i) if a 
corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with 
the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate 
representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in 
accordance with those directions; and (ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the 
meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated 
corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other 
corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred 
to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives (www.icsa.
org.uk) for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the chairman is being 
appointed as described in (i) above.
13. In the case of joint registered holders, the signature of one holder will be accepted and the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, 
whether in person or proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders. For this purpose, seniority shall be 
determined by the order in which the names stand on the register of members in respect of the relevant joint holding.
14. Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office, 36 Soho Square, W1D 3QY, during 
usual business hours on any weekday, Saturdays and public holidays excepted, from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual 
General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting:
● ● Copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries
● ● Copies of letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors
● ● A copy of the existing and the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
98
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Appendix to the Notice of Meeting
EXPLANATORY NOTES
SPECIAL BUSINESS
Resolution 9: Adoption of new articles of association
It is proposed in resolution 9 to adopt new articles of association in order to update the Company’s current articles of association (primarily to 
take account of the coming into force of the Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 (the “Shareholders’ Rights Regulations”) 
and the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the new articles of association are summarised below. Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or 
clarifying nature and also some more minor changes have not been noted below. The new articles of association showing all the changes to 
the current articles of association are available for inspection, as noted in note 14 of this Notice of Meeting.
Resolution 10: Notice of general meetings
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings 
of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days. (AGMs will 
continue to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice.)
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other 
than an AGM on 14 clear days’ notice without obtaining such shareholder approval. In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 10 seeks such 
approval. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be 
proposed.
PRINCIPAL PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE COMPANY’S ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
1. The Company’s objects
The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Company’s memorandum and articles of association. 
The Company’s memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is 
authorised to undertake. This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a company’s memorandum. The Companies Act 2006 
provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the 
company. Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a company’s memorandum, for 
existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the company’s articles of association but the Company can remove 
these provisions by special resolution.
Furthermore the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a company’s articles provide otherwise, a company’s objects are unrestricted. This 
abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses. For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together 
with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Company’s 
articles of association as of 1 October 2009. Resolution 9 (a) confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company. As the effect of this 
resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Company’s memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the New 
Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
2. Change of name
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution. Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will 
be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles. To take advantage of this provision, the new articles of association 
enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Company’s name. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
99
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Appendix to the Notice of Meeting
3. Authorised share capital and unissued shares
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the new articles of association 
reflect this. Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be 
required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
4. Redeemable shares
Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of 
redemption. The Companies Act 2006 enables Directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles. 
The New Articles contain such an authorisation. The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the Directors would 
need shareholders’ authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
5. Provision for employees on cessation of business
The Companies Act 2006 provides that the powers of the Directors of a company to make provision for a person employed or formerly 
employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer to any person of the whole or part of the 
undertaking of the Company or that subsidiary, may only be exercised by the Directors if they are so authorised by the Company’s articles or 
by the Company in general meeting. The new articles of association provide that the Directors may exercise this power.
6. Use of seals
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad. Under the Companies Act 
2006, such authority will no longer be required. Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the new articles of association.
The new articles of association provide an alternative option for execution of documents (other than share certificates). Under the new 
articles of association , when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas 
previously the requirement was for signature by either a Director and the secretary or two Directors or such other person or persons as the 
Directors may approve.
7. Uncertificated securities
The current articles are being updated to permit and deal with the holding of shares in the Company in uncertificated form, such as through 
CREST, in line with market practice.
8. Suspension of registration of share transfers
The current articles permit the Directors to suspend the registration of transfers. Under the Companies Act 2006 share transfers must be 
registered as soon as practicable. The power in the current articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this 
requirement and therefore is being removed.
9. Vacation of office by Directors
The Current Articles specify the circumstances in which a Director must vacate office. The New Articles update these provisions to treat 
physical illness in the same manner as mental illness
.
10. Voting by proxies on a show of hands
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a 
member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for 
and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to 
vote against the resolution The current articles have been amended to reflect these changes.
11. Voting by corporate representatives
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the 
same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll. The new articles contain provisions which reflect these 
amendments. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
100
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
12. Electronic conduct of meetings
Amendments made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting 
of electronic meetings. The current articles have been amended to reflect more closely the relevant provisions.
13. Chairman’s casting vote
The new articles of association remove the provision giving the chairman an additional or casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as 
this is no longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
14. Notice of general meetings
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations amend the Companies Act 2006 to require the Company to give 21 clear days’ notice of general 
meetings unless the Company offers members an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less 
than 14 days has been passed. Annual general meetings must be held on 21 clear days’ notice. The new articles of association amend the 
provisions of the current articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
15. Adjournments for lack of quorum
Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must 
be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting. The current articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
16. Voting record date
Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations the Company must determine the right of members to 
vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking 
account of days which are not working days. The current articles have been amended to reflect this requirement.
17. General
Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new articles of association and in some areas to update the 
language of the current articles of association and for other changes which do not have a material impact..
Appendix to the Notice of Meeting 17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	8 17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	8
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc   	 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
36 Soho Square
London W1D 3QY
England
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7494 2111
Fax +44 (0) 20 7494 0151
www.bloomsbury.com
corporate: www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
