 Clarkson PLC
Annual Report 2016
WeGoBeyond
Clarkson PLC   Annual Report 2016 Clarksons is the world’s  
leading provider of integrated shipping 
services
Through our ‘best in class’ service offer  
we bring unique industry connections and expertise to our 
ever-wider and increasingly diverse client base across all 
sectors of the shipping and offshore industries, providing 
unrivalled professionalism and support  
in the markets in which they operate.
Strategic report
1  Overview
4  Group at a glance
6  Economics of maritime markets
9  Chairman’s review
11  What sets us apart
12  Our business model
16  Chief Executive Officer’s review
18  Our strategy
21  Business review
36  Financial review
38  Risk management
42  Corporate social responsibility
Governance
49 Introduction
50 Board of Directors
52 Corporate governance statement
55 Board committees
57 Directors’ remuneration report
72 Audit committee report
74 Directors’ report
75 Directors’ responsibilities statement
76 Independent Auditors’ report (consolidated)
Financial statements
82 Consolidated income statement
82 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
83 Consolidated balance sheet
84 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
85 Consolidated cash flow statement
86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
117 Independent Auditors’ report (Parent Company)
119 Parent Company balance sheet
120 Parent Company statement of changes in equity
121 Parent Company cash flow statement
122 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements
Other information
137 Glossary
140 Five year financial summary
IBC Principal trading offices
Contents
Please visit  
www.clarksons.com  
for more information www.clarksons.com 1
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Going beyond is more than a strap line.
It’s our ethos.
It’s our culture.
It’s the way we do things at Clarksons.
From 49 offices, every one of our 1,398 employees 
making up Team Clarksons goes beyond  
for our clients every hour of every day.
Never standing still, always pushing boundaries and 
challenging ourselves to add value.
We share understanding, culture and ideas to deliver  
a truly local service worldwide to all our clients.
GoingBeyond
Revenue 
£306.1m
2015: £301.8m
Reported profit before 
taxation
£47.3m
2015: £31.8m
Dividend per share
65p
2015: 62p
Underlying profit before 
taxation
£44.8m
2015: £50.5m
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
15
18
25
32
36
40
42
43
47
50
51
56
60
62
65
Final
Interim
14 consecutive 
years of dividend 
increases
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
Clarksons uses APMs as key financial indicators to assess the underlying performance of the Group. 
Management considers the APMs used by the Group to better reflect business performance and 
provide useful information. Our APMs include underlying profit before taxation and underlying earnings 
per share. Explanations of the term ‘underlying’ and related calculations are included within the 
financial review on page 36. We gave five exceptional 
photographers access 
to our business in 
January 2017, and in 
this report you can see 
the result; a 24/7 
business that never 
stops ‘going beyond’  
for our clients, our 
colleagues and the 
diverse communities  
in which we work.
WeGoBeyond  4 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Group at a glance
Clarksons’ broking services are 
unrivalled – in terms of the number and 
calibre of our brokers, our breadth of 
market coverage, geographical spread 
and depth of intelligence resources.
Dry cargo
Containers
Tankers
Specialised products
Gas Our services Revenue
What we do
Our global presence
Broking
76%  
of 2016 
revenue
As the world’s leading provider of integrated 
shipping services, we work with our clients to 
achieve their business objectives across all 
aspects of this complex and dynamic industry.
World’s leading provider of 
integrated shipping services
LNG
Sale and purchase
Offshore
Futures
Financial highlights
US$314.4m
(£233.6m)
259.4
2013 2014 2015 2016
313.2
365.3
314.4
Revenue
£306.1m
198.0
2013 2014 2015 2016
237.9
301.8
306.1
£44.8m
25.1
2013 2014 2015 2016
33.8
50.5
44.8
Underlying proﬁt 
before taxation
£47.3m
22.0
2013 2014 2015 2016
25.2
31.8
47.3
Reported proﬁt 
before taxation www.clarksons.com 5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Securities
Project finance
Structured  
asset finance 
Port and agency 
services
Tools and supplies
Stevedoring
Freight forwarding 
and logistics
Digital
Consultancy
Valuations
Reports
 
From full investment banking services 
to project finance and the arrangement 
of dedicated finance solutions for the 
shipping, offshore and natural 
resources markets, we help our clients 
fund transactions and conclude deals 
that would often be impossible via 
other, more traditional routes.
Our teams provide the highest levels of 
support with 24/7 attendance at a wide 
range of strategically located ports in 
the UK and Egypt, offering port 
services support, agency, freight 
forwarding, supplies and tools for the 
marine and offshore industries.
13%  
of 2016 
revenue
6%  
of 2016 
revenue
5%  
of 2016 
revenue
Financial Support Research
Clarksons Research is the market 
leader in providing timely and 
authoritative information on all aspects 
of shipping. We provide data on over 
135,000 vessels, 6,000 offshore fields, 
40,000 companies and 600 shipyards 
as well as extensive trade and 
commercial data and over 100,000 
time series.
6
Continents
49
Offices
21
Countries
1 ,398
Employees
US$55.2m
(£41.0m)
9.7
2013 2014 2015 2016
14.3
43.8
55.2
£17.8m
16.4
2013 2014 2015 2016
28.6
22.5
17.8
£13.7m
9.7
2013 2014 2015 2016
10.4
11.1
13.7
Dividend per share
65p
2014 2013 2015 2016
60
56
62
65
105.2p  
98.0
2013 2014 2015 2016
134.2
121.9
105.2
Underlying earnings 
per share
119.7p  
82.2
2013 2014 2015 2016
91.9
68.2
119.7
Reported earnings 
per share
For more information about 
our services see the business 
review on pages 21 to 35.
The strategic report on pages 1 to 48 was approved by the Board and signed on its 
behalf by:
Jeff Woyda
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer
10 March 2017 6 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Economics of maritime markets
Supply
CONSTRUCTION
Subsea
Pipe layers
Heavy lift
 
PRODUCTION
FPSO
FSO
Shuttle tankers
 
SUPPORT
AHTS
PSV
Crew/FSV
 
SURVEY
Seismic
Geophysics
 
DRILLING
Jackups
Semi submersibles
Drillships
 
RENEWABLES
Wind
Tide
 
OFFSHORE SECTORS
SUPPLY PROCESS
– VESSELS
+ VESSELS
SECONDHAND SALE & PURCHASE
RECYCLING & DEMOLITION
NEWBUILDINGS
SUPPLY SIDE 
MARKET DRIVERS:
FREIGHT RATES
ASSET VALUES
AVAILABILITY OF FINANCE
CHANGING TECHNOLOGY
REGULATORY  
CONSTRAINTS
CHANGING CARGO  
FLOWS
SPEED UP SLOW STEAM RECOMMISSION LAY UP DELIVERY SLIPPAGE
FAMILY  
OFFICES
GOVERNMENT 
BODIES
PRIVATE  
COMPANIES
FINANCIAL  
INSTITUTIONS
PUBLIC  
COMPANIES
PROVIDERS  
OF CAPITAL
PROVIDERS  
OF CAPITAL
Broking
SALE 
AND 
PURCHASE
SHIP 
RECYCLING
NEWBUILDING
Financial
SECURITIES PROJECT  
FINANCE
STRUCTURED ASSET 
FINANCE
Research
SHIPYARDS RECYCLERS
WORLD FLEET 
MONITOR
SHIPPING 
INTELLIGENCE  
NETWORK
OFFSHORE 
INTELLIGENCE 
NETWORK
Public & private equity
Debt markets
Restructuring
Mergers & acquisitions
Funds & corporate management
Lease structures
Tax structures
Bank advisory
Leasing
Sale & leaseback
Bareboats
CLARKSONS ACTIVITIES
MARKET PARTICIPANTS www.clarksons.com 7
Clarksons enables global trade
Clarksons is the world’s leading provider of integrated shipping services, bringing 
relationships, expertise, experience and information to a global client base. 
The complex dynamics and multi-cyclical nature of the shipping and offshore 
markets means that Clarksons’ leadership position across each and every sector, 
and its integrated model of consultancy and execution, linked to financing and 
analytics, provides a unique resilience throughout the economic cycles…
Asset prices
Freight rates
CLARKSONS SERVICES
Seaborne trade 2016
85%
of global trade
135,000
Vessels and offshore assets
1.5mt
of cargo per person  
globally
US$1.2tn
Value of shipping and 
offshore assets
1 1.1bn
Metric tonnes  
of trade Demand
CLARKSONS ACTIVITIES
SHIPPING SECTORS
SPECIALISED  
PRODUCTS
Chemicals
Fertilisers
Edible oils 
 
GAS
LPG
Ammonia
PCG
LNG 
 
CONTAINERS
Components
Finished goods
Commodities
 
TANKERS
Crude oil
Refined products 
 
DRY CARGO
Iron ore
Coal
Steel
Agricultural
 
SPECIALIST
Ro-Ro
Ferries
Car carriers
Cruise
 
CONTRACT TYPES
CONTRACT  
OF AFFREIGHTMENT
TIME 
CHARTER
VOYAGE 
CHARTER
DEMAND SIDE 
MARKET DRIVERS:
SEABORNE TRADE
COMMODITY PRICES
CONSUMPTION
GDP GROWTH
POPULATION GROWTH
 INFRASTRUCTURE SPEND
Broking
Support
Research
AGENCY  
SERVICES
TOOLS  
& SUPPLIES
FORWARDING  
& LOGISTICS
STEVEDORING  
& WAREHOUSING
MARKET PARTICIPANTS
TRADING 
e.g. Hedge funds 
Proprietary traders
DISTRIBUTION 
e.g. Freight forwarders 
Wholesalers
MANUFACTURING 
e.g. Fabricators 
Assembly 
Consumer goods
PRODUCTION 
e.g. Steel mills 
Refineries
AGRICULTURAL 
e.g. Farmers 
Lumber 
Grain houses
EXTRACTION 
e.g. Oil companies 
Miners
EXPLORATION 
e.g. Drilling/minerals 
Renewables
LOGISTICS 
e.g. Ferry  
Ro-Ro 
Cruise operators
SHIPPING 
INTELLIGENCE  
NETWORK
OFFSHORE 
INTELLIGENCE 
NETWORK
SHIPPING COMMODITIES OFFSHORE Economics  
of maritime markets
Clarksons is the world’s leading provider 
of integrated shipping services, bringing 
relationships, expertise, experience and 
information to a global client base. 
The complex dynamics and multi-
cyclical nature of the shipping and 
offshore markets means that Clarksons’ 
leadership position across each and 
every sector, and its integrated model of 
consultancy and execution, linked to 
financing and analytics, provides a 
unique resilience throughout the 
economic cycles… London www.clarksons.com 9
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Strategic report Chairman’s review
Overview
2016 has been another challenging year for shipping markets, 
characterised by continued difficult trading conditions and tonnage 
oversupply. Freight rates have seen historic lows in some sectors 
during the year whilst in the second half volatility has been added, 
on the upside, by the strengthening of the US dollar (the currency 
of the great majority of our revenues) and, less positively, by the 
weakness of the pound sterling against several of the currencies  
in which our overhead costs are incurred. Against this uncertain 
backdrop, we are pleased Clarksons has delivered a robust 
performance and, once again, value for our shareholders. We have 
remained focused on our core strategy of delivering continuous 
service enhancement, thus offering Clarksons’ clients the unique 
breadth of product and global reach that has enabled us to 
maintain, and in many cases extend, our leading position in our 
markets. One significant and virtuous outcome of this has been 
the actual growth of our broking transaction volumes in 2016, as 
has the healthy cash generation underlying our profit performance.
We have continued to invest in the technology to drive innovation 
across our business and we regard our focus in this area to be a 
key differentiator and source of even greater competitive 
advantage for the future; our research capability already underpins 
our full client service offering, and in 2017 we intend to offer further 
knowledge and data based initiatives to our clients. Our position at 
the heart of the shipping and offshore markets has ensured that in 
these difficult times, clients have turned to Clarksons for our deep 
sector knowledge and tailored ability to service their requirements; 
our capacity to offer both broking and a range of financial market 
solutions creates synergies and outcomes that are not 
available elsewhere.
Integration of the Platou business is now complete, with 
anticipated synergies realised and the complementary expertise of 
the combined businesses proven. The acquisition has broadened 
our service offering to clients and puts us in a strong position for 
when markets recover.
Our ability to continue to grow and gain share in more difficult 
markets has given us considerable confidence in the business. 
Clarksons is significantly more diverse in terms of product offering, 
reach and balance sheet strength than we were before the last 
upturn in the sector; we are well placed to continue the solid 
performance delivered in 2016 and are leveraged to benefit 
strongly from growth when the shipping cycle turns.
Results
Underlying profit before taxation was £44.8m (2015: £50.5m). 
Reported profit before taxation was £47.3m (2015: £31.8m).
Underlying earnings per share was 105.2p (2015: 121.9p). 
Reported earnings per share was 119.7p (2015: 68.2p).
Dividend
Clarksons continues to maintain its remarkable dividend record, 
having increased the dividend paid every year since 2002. In line 
with this progressive dividend policy, Clarksons again intends to 
raise the dividend paid to its shareholders. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 43p (2015: 40p). The interim 
dividend was 22p (2015: 22p), resulting in a 5% increase in the 
total dividend for the year to 65p (2015: 62p).
The dividend will be payable on 2 June 2017 to shareholders on 
the register at 19 May 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
People
Our people are the heart of our business and are the key to our 
success. This year we have continued to hire and invest across  
our business divisions to ensure we always have the best people 
delivering the best advice and the best transactional execution.  
We have a position to protect as the leading employer and operator  
in the sector and remain determined to do so. 
Board
As previously announced, James Morley will be retiring from the 
Board following the AGM on 12 May 2017. I would like to thank 
James for the always wise guidance he has given Clarksons over 
the last nine years as a Board member and Chair of the audit 
committee.
I am delighted to have welcomed Marie-Louise Clayton to the 
Board at the beginning of 2017. Marie-Louise brings a wealth of 
board experience to the role and we look forward to her taking 
over as Chair of the audit committee.
Outlook
In the short-term at least, shipping markets seem most likely to 
remain challenging whilst current difficult market conditions and an 
unusually opaque global macro-economic environment persist, but 
there are now a number of indicators of improvement in the industry 
via measurable, if as yet relatively modest, demand growth and a 
slowing in the new capacity reaching the market.
James Hughes-Hallett
Chairman
10 March 2017
James Hughes-Hallett
Chairman
In these difficult market conditions, we are 
pleased Clarksons has delivered a strong 
performance and once again delivered 
significant value for our shareholders.
Looking beyond the horizon 10
Oslo www.clarksons.com 11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Strategic report What sets us apart
We are constantly looking at how we can increase shareholder 
value by re-investing in our business – whether this is in 
broadening our range of services, growing our global reach, 
attracting and retaining the best staff or the unique range of 
technological solutions we offer. All of this is a direct benefit to 
our clients, who know that Clarksons will always go beyond what 
is expected to ensure that they have access to the highest 
quality information and bespoke service available in the markets 
and locations where they operate.
Please see our business model  
on pages 12 and 13.
Clarksons continually 
invests in people, data, 
technology and tools for 
trade, professionalising 
the shipbroking industry 
and thus improving the 
service to our clients
Clarksons is the global 
market leader and is 
‘best in class’ in every 
market segment
Clarksons’ 
management teams, in 
each market sector and 
geography, are widely 
regarded as the best in 
the industry, and have a 
track record of delivering 
a proven growth 
strategy
Clarksons’ diversified 
offering allows business 
expansion and market 
share growth, despite 
the cyclicality of the 
shipping industry
Clarksons has a clear 
strategy to grow its 
business profitably 
through innovation, 
consolidation, data & 
technology and further 
expansion of our 
integrated business 
model
Clarksons is asset 
light, has a strong 
balance sheet and a 
history of significant free 
cash flow generation
Clarksons’ expansion 
into investment banking 
and oil services will 
provide significant 
growth opportunities as 
the cycle improves
Value beyond today
Clarksons has a track 
record of increasing 
dividends every year for 
the last 14 years 12 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Research
Strategic report Our business model
Creating value at the heart of world trade
Freight
Cargo
Research
Financial 
We are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
We have a strong balance sheet, no bank 
borrowings and net cash available to fund the 
growth of the business.
Market insight 
Our research and analysis teams produce  
and validate data, analysis, key insights and 
valuations across all sectors of shipping  
and offshore and are acknowledged as  
market leaders.
People 
Our people are our most important asset 
across all parts of the business and we aim  
to recruit and retain the best in the industry.
Technology 
Our in-house developed technology assists 
our clients to make informed and timely 
commercial decisions and allows them to 
interact better with our broking teams, whilst 
improving operational efficiencies. Our teams’ 
access to the most up-to-date information 
shared seamlessly with our clients and 
extensive toolkit and information platforms 
ensure that they remain ‘best in class’.
Clients
We work ethically and build strong client 
relationships where our knowledge  
builds trust.
Resources and relationships What we do
Underpinned by our values, our integrated business model 
provides the platform for an unrivalled level of service and 
information that enables trade and creates long-term value.
Our values
We aim always to act with integrity, excellence, fairness 
and transparency – key values for our clients, our staff and 
the market as a whole.
Global trade
Global trade
Technology
Technology
Research
Support
Broking 
offshore  www.clarksons.com 13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Assets
Owners
Financial
Research
Shareholders
We continue to provide shareholders with 
increasing dividends whilst maintaining a good 
financial standing and strong balance sheet.
65p
dividend per share
People 
Our skills and knowledge ensure that world trade 
continues to flow in the most effective manner,  
that countries receive the raw materials to build 
and develop and people have the food and  
goods they need.
1,398
employees
Clients
By ensuring that our clients receive the best 
information through a range of innovative 
technological solutions, we provide them  
with the tools they need to make key  
business decisions.
We encourage a responsible approach to 
business and foster close, long-term, mutually 
beneficial relationships with our customers.
15,000
vessel positions updated every minute
Stakeholder value
Commodity/service providers and 
their end users 
We enable global trade, benefiting both 
commodity providers and companies who 
provide goods and services. 
An essential part of the global supply chain, we 
have the necessary skills and information at our 
fingertips to ensure we know what commodities 
need moving to where and when and the best 
solutions for this.
135,000+
vessels in the world fleet
For more information see economics of maritime markets on pages 6 and 7.
Research
Global trade
Global trade
Technology
Technology
Research
Broking 
shipping  Dubai  16 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Shipping markets are multi-cyclical, and our strategy  
of diversifying within our core markets has given us a 
unique product breadth and global reach and an ability 
to grow consistently, even in downturns. In these difficult 
times, we have continued to benefit from a ‘flight to 
quality’, in which clients are choosing Clarksons as  
their service provider.
Overall our broking teams have performed well, even 
though in offshore the operators continue to focus on 
cost cutting, with limited sanctioning of new field 
developments and moderated maintenance activities. 
The dry cargo market, which started the year with the 
weakest rates in recorded history, was also depressed, 
though there were some more encouraging signs 
towards the end of the year. However, the tankers, 
specialised products, gas and sale and purchase 
markets performed particularly well. Clarksons’  
teams have again increased broking volumes.
Our research offering has grown significantly this year, 
particularly in digital and valuations income, as our 
clients continued to value the importance of  
authoritative intelligence.
The port services teams remained profitable in some of 
the toughest markets ever seen for this type of business; 
the reduced spending by the oil and gas sector in the 
North Sea affected our supplies activities.
We are also particularly encouraged with the 
performance of our financial division, in its first 12 
months as a fully-integrated division. The solutions and 
expertise of the financial team has greatly enhanced our 
client offering, uniquely positioned our business amongst 
its peers and places us well to deliver a service, with 
deep industrial understanding, to debt and equity 
providers alike. The team has achieved a leading 
position in the market, participating as sole or joint  
lead on a number of capital-raising transactions 
throughout shipping and offshore, whilst also leading 
restructuring mandates and generating a strong  
pipeline for future business.
Clarksons is a highly cash generative business and our 
strong balance sheet ensures that we have been able to 
invest strategically and react quickly to take advantage 
of opportunities as they arise. Our cash position gives  
us great comfort that, regardless of market conditions,  
we can position the Group for upturns in each of our 
markets when they come, invest in growth (tools for 
trade) and deliver shareholders a growing cash return. 
We have also looked hard at the structure of the 
business and focused on efficiencies where necessary  
to ensure our model is fit for purpose and best placed 
for the current market conditions.
Strategic report Chief Executive Officer’s review 
Andi Case
Chief Executive Officer
At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus 
on developing ‘best in class’ client service, 
coupled with our unique product breadth and 
global reach, has allowed us to face these 
headwinds again and continue to invest in  
our business, ensuring we are positioned for 
future opportunity.
Investing beyond the cycle
2016 has been a year of growth, consolidation and 
delivery for Clarksons, despite the shipping market 
undergoing one of the most challenging periods in  
living memory, as highlighted by the lowest level for the 
ClarkSea Index since 1990, and the offshore market 
facing challenges as a result of the depressed oil price. 
To have once again increased market share shows we 
have a stronger, more diverse business that remains 
cash generative and highly profitable and has enabled  
us to deliver a 14th consecutive year of dividend growth 
for investors.
We had anticipated that 2016 would be another tough 
year, with oversupply, volatile commodity prices and 
global macro-economic uncertainty creating significant 
challenges for the sector as a whole. It is testament to 
the calibre of our teams and the breadth and depth of 
our client offering that, even in the most difficult of times, 
we have maintained or improved upon our market 
leading position across all of our divisions.
Despite the headwinds, we have focused on our 
long-term strategy for growth, delivering ‘best in class’ 
client service, investing in tools for trade and positioning 
the business to capitalise when the upturn in our 
markets comes. www.clarksons.com 17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
We are seeing significant benefits from our investment  
in our market-leading technology platform, which is 
changing the way our brokers are able to access and 
use information, increasing knowledge and improving  
the communication of vast amounts of data across the 
business. The sheer scale of the market activity in which 
Clarksons is involved means that we are able to leverage 
our deep understanding of activity across the market by 
interpreting this data, and thus delivering the best advice 
to our clients.
We constantly strive to deliver ‘best in class’ client 
service, and the quality, knowledge and experience  
of our employees are central to Clarksons’ continued 
outperformance across all sectors and geographies. We 
are a truly international and culturally diverse business, 
employing the best people from 65 nationalities across 
21 countries to deliver first rate advice and expertise to 
our clients. The security of a robust balance sheet gives 
us the ability to hire and retain the best candidates and 
we have also made a number of extremely experienced 
hires across all of our divisions this year. As a team, we 
share the same goals and ambitions and I would like  
to thank all of our employees for their hard work and 
dedication over the course of the year.
Whilst we anticipate that the market will remain 
challenging in the near-term, we believe the medium-
term outlook for the sector is more positive. Demand 
continues to progress and the recalibration of the 
demand/supply balance is improving following lower 
levels of ordering and continued scrapping assisted by 
the impact of environmental regulation. Seaborne trade 
continues to increase and further positives for growth 
include the prospect of higher infrastructure spending 
from the world’s two largest economies. We have also 
seen a change in investor appetite from the fourth 
quarter. All of this gives us encouragement that the 
shipping and offshore markets are recalibrating. 
Accordingly, we are well positioned to benefit from  
any improvement.
The diverse nature of our business has enabled 
Clarksons to deliver healthy profits and continued 
dividend growth despite challenging shipping markets. 
As the markets progress, we believe we are well 
positioned to capitalise on the opportunities that 2017 
will provide and look forward to the year ahead. We 
remain focused on executing our proven strategy of 
delivering ‘best in class’ service and offering a unique 
product breadth across our globally connected business.
Andi Case
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2017
Our market context
With seaborne transportation accounting for around 
85% of the world’s international trade, shipping is an 
essential part of the global economy. The increasing 
industrialisation and liberalisation of economies  
has fuelled free trade and a growing demand for 
consumer products, positively impacting a myriad  
of cargo sectors. 
To put this in context, world seaborne trade by volume across all sectors 
was estimated at 11.1bn tonnes in 2016, almost twice the size than at 
the turn of the millennium, and over three times the size than the 
mid-1980s. At the same time, the world’s population has continued to 
expand at a phenomenal rate, caused predominantly by increasing life 
expectancy and major improvements in fertility rates. This, combined 
with human aspiration, has led to rapid urbanisation and accelerating 
migration which in itself also fuels further population growth.
In addition to these underlying mega-trends, seaborne trade per capita is 
also on the rise and essentially compounds the upward shifts. To put this 
in perspective, in 1990 every person on the planet required 0.7 tonnes of 
cargo to be shipped; in 2016 this figure stands at more than double at  
1.5 tonnes of cargo shipped per person.
With population growth momentum expected to continue for decades 
and emerging economies likely increasing their requirements for goods 
and raw materials that shipping transports so safely and efficiently, 
Clarksons are well placed to take advantage of these underlying 
long-term market fundamentals.
Seaborne trade as a 
% of global trade
85%
Cargo transported 
per person globally
1.5mt
World seaborne trade
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016 (e)
2017 (f)
Major dry cargo 
Minor dry cargo 
Crude oil 
Oil products 
Chemicals
Liqueed gas 
Containers 
Other dry cargo 
World population
Billion people / billion tonnes 18 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Focusing on our strengths
Our purpose  
is to maintain and extend  
our industry leadership.
Our mission  
is to grow value for  
our shareholders,  
building on our strong 
financial performance  
and supporting our  
progressive dividend  
policy by maintaining  
and developing our  
position as the world’s 
leading shipping  
services Group.
Extending  
our Reach  
to support 
clients 
globally 
Ours is a global presence, 
enabling us to meet client 
needs wherever and 
whenever they arise. With 
49 offices in 21 countries, 
we share understanding, 
culture, IT platforms  
and high standards  
of corporate governance 
across our business –  
a fine example of how 
joined-up thinking can 
deliver a truly local  
service, worldwide.
Expanding  
our Breadth  
to better tailor 
our integrated 
offer 
With an industry-leading 
range of products and 
services that span the 
maritime and financial 
markets, we are uniquely 
placed to deliver the best, 
bespoke commercial 
solutions to all our clients 
– large or small.
We are the ‘best in class’ 
intermediary across every 
sector of maritime trade 
– and no single company  
is our lead competitor in 
more than one market.
 – Key hires in banking and 
broking have expanded 
the product set and 
verticals we offer to  
our clients.
 – We have expanded  
the sources of finance 
serviced within the  
Group as availability  
of capital from traditional 
maritime banks has 
significantly changed.
 – Our continued focus on 
the importance of Asia 
has resulted in the hire of 
key staff and the opening 
of a Tokyo office during 
the year.
 – We have enhanced our 
services to the Middle 
East in agency and 
broking, bringing together 
and growing our 
presence across Dubai, 
Egypt and Morocco.
 – We have strengthened 
our securities team in 
New York.
Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016
Strategic report Our strategy www.clarksons.com 19
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Empowering 
People  
to fulfil their 
potential 
 
We want Clarksons to be 
recognised as the place 
where the best people are 
empowered to do their 
best work. We hire the 
brightest talents and give 
them the tools to shine – 
including leading-edge IT 
systems, high quality 
training and development 
as well as financial reward.
Better 
Understanding  
clients’ needs 
 
 
From oil majors, raw 
material producers and 
other multinationals to 
long-established 
shipowning families, our 
client base is second to 
none. We have worked 
with many of these clients 
for generations, building a 
deep understanding of their 
businesses and providing 
the services that have 
helped them to prosper.
Maintaining 
Trust  
in shipping 
intelligence 
 
As the industry’s leading 
provider of data and 
market intelligence on  
the shipping and offshore 
industries, our research 
team is the largest 
commercially-led unit in  
the maritime world. Our 
databases track over 
135,000 ships and 6,000 
offshore fields and our 
Shipping Intelligence 
Network is viewed more 
than four million times  
per year.
Growing  
our business  
to improve 
performance 
 
Consistently profitable  
and cash generative,  
our financial performance 
bears comparison with  
any business, not only in 
the shipping sector but 
across the FTSE. Our total 
shareholder return has 
been consistently strong 
and includes a progressive 
dividend policy that has 
been maintained for the 
last 14 years.
 – Once again we have 
expanded the number  
of clients serviced in all 
regions around the world.
 – Following requests from 
clients and extensive 
interaction through the 
development process, 
new products covering 
market information, 
decision-making tools 
and operational 
efficiencies have been 
delivered to the market.
 – Despite the ClarkSea 
index being on average 
the lowest recorded in 
the last 20 years, the 
Group remains both  
cash generative and 
highly profitable.
 – Net funds of £74.8m, 
being 64% higher  
than in 2015, enables 
increased focus on  
taking opportunities  
as they arise.
 – Our industry-leading  
AIS platform, SeaNet, 
together with other 
support tools, are now 
used daily by 850 staff 
throughout all activities 
within the Group.
 – 2016 has seen more 
internal training seminars 
and attendees at training 
weeks than in any 
previous year.
Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 Our progress in 2016 20 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Singapore www.clarksons.com 21
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Strategic report Business review
The breadth of our products and services, 
supported by our people and our ‘can-do’ culture, 
means we are sector leaders in both performance 
and service. Our aim is to continuously work with  
our clients to navigate challenges and identify 
opportunities together.
Broking
For more  
details please see
pages 22 to 28
Financial
For more  
details please see
pages 29 to 31
Support
For more  
details please see
pages 32 to 33
Research
For more  
details please see
pages 34 to 35
Delivering beyond expectation 22 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Broking
The breadth of our fully integrated 
client offer combined with our 
geographic reach has enabled  
us to grow significantly volumes  
in our broking division during  
the year.
Growing  
volumes 
Strategic report Business review / continued
Dry cargo
2016 was an extraordinary year in the dry cargo sector, 
which started with the weakest rates in recorded history 
as the Baltic Dry Index (BDI) bottomed out at 290 in 
February. Vessels moved into various stages of idleness 
and lay-up and older tonnage rushed to demolition 
yards, witnessing the third highest level of demolition on 
record. Cash flow pressures led many owners to cancel 
or defer newbuilds, resulting in less than half of the  
2016 order book being delivered on time.
After two years of lacklustre industrial production  
and a decline in new housing starts, China eased 
monetary policy which resulted in higher public 
investments and a recovery in the property market.  
New housing starts grew for the first time in two years, 
driving the demand for construction and thereby 
steelmaking raw materials. Thermal power demand  
has also surged and, together with Chinese coal mining 
cuts, created a rise in imports in what had previously 
been thought of as a defunct trade.
Commodity prices reached multi-year lows in February, 
before rebounding to significantly higher rates by the end 
of the year. The new record high rates were reinforced by 
the newly elected US President’s infrastructure 
investment promises and the continuation of the 
multi-billion dollar infrastructure investment in the 
Chinese “One-Belt, One-Road” initiative. The positivity 
sent the BDI above 1,000 in November to a year high of 
1,257 on 18 November, followed by the unwinding 
towards the traditional weaker first quarter.
Although the demand outlook remains positive for 2017, 
there is still more to contend with. Relatively firmer rates 
are likely to slow down demolition activity, whilst the still 
2016 global trade in iron ore  
1.55bn mt
Revenue (£ equivalent)
£233.6m
2015: £239.5m
Revenue (US$)
US$314.4m
2015: US$365.3m
Segment underlying profit
£40.2m
2015: £49.1m
Forward order book for 2017
US$112m
*
At 31 December 2015 
for 2016: US$151m
*
*Directors’ best estimate of deliverable forward order book (FOB) www.clarksons.com 23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
substantial amounts of newbuilds yet to deliver will likely 
push net fleet growth higher and therefore likely result in 
uninspiring earnings.
However, due to the market weakness in 2016, newbuild 
contracting slipped to the lowest levels since 2001. A 
more positive rates scenario could act as a catalyst for 
additional ordering, however, for this to happen the 
newbuild price premium over the secondhand market 
will need to narrow considerably.
Looking ahead, our base case is for seaborne trade to 
increase by 3.4% and fleet growth to be slightly lower 
than this at 3.1% in 2017. As a result, freight rates could 
improve depending on the promptness of the fleet to 
adjust to the seasonal demand increases. Sudden 
acceleration in new deliveries will be less responsive than 
in demolition and thereby should act as a catalyst to 
volatility which should favour a more positive rate 
environment in 2017.
We have increased transaction volumes across all 
continents in the world and have continued to strengthen 
our presence by recruiting and relocating key staff as 
appropriate. In the final quarter we also benefited from 
the opening of a new office in Japan.
Containers
2016 saw the container shipping sector remain, as many 
expected, under severe pressure. Box freight rates in 
general remained weak, although by late in the year it did 
appear that they might be bottoming out on some trade 
lanes. Against this backdrop, charter market vessel 
earnings remained extremely challenged, at bottom of 
the cycle levels. The one year rate for a 2,750 TEU ship 
averaged US$6,000 per day in 2016, 27% lower than 
the average since the start of 2009. Old panamax types 
fared even worse, averaging US$4,979 per day in 2016, 
56% down on the same basis, with the opening of the 
new locks at the Panama Canal impacting vessel 
deployment patterns.
Demand conditions did however improve in 2016, with 
global volumes projected to expand by around 3% in the 
full year to 181m TEU. Volumes on the key Far East-
Europe trade returned to positive growth and the rate of 
growth on the intra-Asian trades accelerated back to 
more robust levels. However, North-South volumes and 
trade into the Middle East remained under severe 
pressure from the impact of diminished commodity 
prices, though volumes into the Indian Sub-Continent 
grew strongly.
Containership capacity growth did slow significantly in 
2016, reaching not much more than 1% in the full year. 
Deliveries slowed dramatically to 0.9m TEU and 
demolition accelerated rapidly to a new annual record of 
0.7m TEU. However, given the level of surplus built up in 
the sector in recent years, and in particular the impact of 
the delivery of substantial capacity, much of it in the form 
of new ‘megaships’, the improved fundamental balance 
seen in 2016 was not enough to generate an 
improvement in conditions. At the end of the year, 7% of 
total fleet capacity stood idle. The financial collapse of a 
major Korean operator was a further illustration of the 
acute distress facing the sector.
Looking ahead, further improvements in fundamentals 
still appear necessary to generate improved market 
conditions. However, pressurised earnings, financial 
distress and regulatory requirements are all expected to 
drive further recycling, and the ordering of newbuild 
capacity dropped to just 0.2m TEU in 2016, a dramatic 
slowdown compared to recent years; the order book fell 
to 16% of fleet capacity. Moreover, further significant 
steps in the consolidation of the sector have been taken 
in the form of merger and acquisition activity involving 
major operators.
We have made considerable progress in the last 12 
months with a number of key clients and, as a result of 
the consolidation within the sector, significantly increased 
volumes.
Tankers
As expected, the tanker market was somewhat weaker 
in 2016 after the very strong market seen in 2015, as 
fleet growth took its toll. Earnings for VLCCs, suezmaxes 
and aframaxes were each down by some 40% on 
2015’s levels, however VLCC spot market earnings 
nevertheless averaged a relatively healthy US$41,000 
per day, in line with long-run averages. Earnings in the 
products tanker sector were also lower in 2016, with 
returns on key routes down by between 35% and 50% 
on average from the high levels seen in 2015.
Rising Middle Eastern crude oil exports, coupled with very 
strong growth in Chinese and Indian crude imports, led to 
further increases in crude tanker demand. However the 
market suffered from disrupted Nigerian exports in the 
third quarter, leading to a deeper than anticipated 
seasonal downturn. In the products tanker sector trade 
growth continued, albeit at a slower pace, as an overhang 
of products inventory weighed on the market.
Global container trade growth in 
2016, reaching 181m TEU
3.4%
Seaborne crude oil and oil products 
trade in 2016
3bn mt 24 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Business review / continued
Both the crude and products tanker fleets grew by some 
6% in 2016. The crude tanker fleet is expected to grow 
by a further 5.1% in 2017, maintaining supply side 
pressure on earnings. Products tanker fleet growth is 
expected to fall to 3.7% in 2017. However, following 
strong fleet growth in 2015 and 2016, supply side 
pressure will likely remain in this sector. Extremely low 
levels of tanker ordering in 2016 point to reduced 
deliveries from 2018 and recent regulatory developments 
may accelerate removals of older tonnage.
Oil production cuts from both OPEC and non-OPEC 
countries seem likely to compound the strong crude 
tanker fleet growth in 2017. The cuts may be partially 
offset by additional cargo from Nigeria and Libya, which 
are exempt from OPEC’s agreement, and Brazil may also 
raise exports. Uncertainty over compliance with 
production cuts and instability in some producing 
countries means there is potential for unexpected 
increases or decreases in crude tanker demand through 
2017. In the US, higher oil prices resulting from the 
production cuts and potentially less stringent regulation, 
following the presidential election, point to a possible 
rebound in production. The derestriction of US crude 
exports now means that exports will likely increase as 
output grows and reductions in imports may be more 
muted. New refining capacity and strategic stock 
building should drive further growth in Chinese and 
Indian crude imports.
Re-balancing of the global oil market resulting  
from production cuts may eventually assist products’ 
tanker demand, as inventories become depleted and 
trading opportunities re-emerge. Above average oil 
demand growth is still projected for 2017 by the major 
forecasting agencies, despite an expectation of 
somewhat higher prices.
We continue to increase volumes with the addition  
of new clients.
Specialised products
Despite limited signs of an increase on certain arterial 
trade lanes towards the end of 2016, the chemical 
tanker spot markets have softened considerably. The 
Clarksons Platou Spot Chemical Index has seen a 6.9% 
decline year-on-year whilst the Edible Oils Index is 
20.7% lower year-on-year. Earnings continue to remain 
under pressure and are significantly lower than seen in 
2015. The delta between owners’ and charterers’ ideas 
has grown considerably into the second half of 2016, 
and, as such, deal volume on the period charter and 
asset markets has been lacklustre for the latter part of 
the year.
Overall trade volume growth in specialised products has 
been robust throughout 2016. That said, sentiment has 
been weak for the second half due primarily to petroleum 
products’ market dynamics and also the hangover from 
the El Nino weather phenomenon and its impact on 
palm oil trade. Overall seaborne trade is estimated to 
have gained 2.3% year-on-year in 2016, to 283m mts.
China’s imports of specialised products drove the market 
in 2015 with a gain of 8%, but during the first 11 months 
of 2016 Chinese import growth slowed to 3.2% 
year-on-year. India, now the world’s fastest growing 
major economy, saw seaborne specialised products 
import growth of 16% for the first half of 2016 compared 
to the first half of 2015. 
We estimate that the other part of the tonne-mile factor, 
distance growth, continued its increase in 2016 with 
chemical tankers on average travelling 1.8% further per 
voyage. US-China seaborne trade of specialised 
products gained 67% for January-August 2016 when 
compared to the same period in 2015.
Average annual growth for the total chemical tanker fleet 
accelerated in 2016 due to a number of stainless steel 
vessels being delivered throughout the year. From 2017 
onward, we believe deliveries will slow down at a faster 
rate, with net fleet growth reducing from high 4% in 2016 
to high 3% in 2017.
Our base case points to expected volumes at 
approximately 1.1x world GDP growth or around  
3.5% per year, for the next few years. With average 
annual fleet growth in 2016 above these levels, we 
believe that steady utilisation continues to depend on 
both economic growth and longer trading distances 
contributing as expected.
Despite the persistence of weak market sentiment in the 
second half of 2016, and for the most part a lack of 
seasonality, based purely on fundamentals the medium-
long term outlook for the sector remains encouraging.
Increase in Indian imports of 
specialised products in 2016
16%
Vessels in the deep sea oil tanker 
fleet in 2016
4,500 www.clarksons.com 25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Gas
As expected, the LPG carrier market has succumbed to 
a softer freight environment during 2016 as fleet supply 
continued to expand, most notably in the VLGC sector. 
VLGC freight rates continued to be placed under 
downward pressure with time charter earnings for an 
84,000 cbm unit averaging 74% lower compared to 
2015 levels. Spot freights have fallen by a similar 
magnitude, though the reduction has been slightly less 
marked with a 67% reduction.
Seaborne trade growth of LPG has continued during 
2016, though export volumes from the US were dealt a 
blow over the summer months as price margins with 
Asia narrowed. This adversely impacted tonne-mile 
demand and an increase in export volumes from the 
Middle East placed additional downward pressure on 
average voyage time. The prospects for ammonia trade 
growth offer minimal respite in the near term, although 
growth in tonne-mile demand is expected to improve as 
Caribbean volumes are displaced into the North African 
and Asian markets. If US oil and gas production is 
encouraged by the new Trump administration, this 
should only prove positive for NGL availability.
There has been a significant volume of newbuilding 
tonnage delivered, with still more vessels to be absorbed 
in 2017 as an additional 27 units look set to hit the 
water. The order book begins to thin out from 2018 
onwards, slowing the pace of fleet growth, which 
suggests that we may then start to see some tightening 
of the supply/demand balances.
Following a weak start to the year, the market for  
the smaller LPG carriers improved in the final months  
of 2016.
This uptick helped to slow the scale of the decline in 
freight rates year-on-year. Benchmark 12 month time 
charter levels for the small 3,500 cbm pressure vessels 
ended the year 6% down on 2015 at around 
US$170,000 pcm whilst the rates for the 3,200 cbm 
semi-refs fell by a more modest 2%.
Sluggish coastal LPG trade combined with reduced 
propylene import demand into China were the key 
factors behind the softer freight sentiment, as in the 
smaller segments there has been minimal change in  
fleet supply.
With no newbuildings currently on the order book, any 
increase in demand may shift the fundamental balance in 
the market.
The general feeling in the smaller sizes is that we may 
have reached the bottom of the market. That said, the 
size sector 8,000 cbm and above remains long, due to 
upsizing, plus newbuildings have still to deliver in the 
larger pressure segment.
Time charter levels for the 8,250 cbm ethylene units 
have fallen by 5% year-on-year whilst the assessed rates 
for the 12,000 cbm ethylene units dropped almost 9% 
on the back of fleet growth through 2015/16. Within the 
size segment 5-14,999 cbm there is still 7% of the fleet 
left to deliver in the pressure sector and 6% in the 
ethylene capable sector. Therefore, this diverging trend 
amongst the smaller and larger units is expected to 
continue through 2017.
The Clarksons Platou gas teams in London, Oslo, 
Singapore and Houston have all increased volumes  
in 2016.
LNG
The LNG shipping market fundamentals improved from 
June onward, after going through a challenging first half. 
The freight rate assessment for modern dual fuelled 
ships was at US$45,000 per day in late December, 
whilst averaging US$33,500 per day for the full year, 
around US$3,000 less than a year earlier. Shipping 
demand is estimated to have grown by 2% while the  
net fleet expanded by 7% during the year. The spot 
chartering activity continued to grow as over 210 fixtures 
were concluded in 2016, compared with circa 180  
in 2015.
The ‘wave’ of new LNG production capacity started to 
reach the markets and after four stagnant years the 
seaborne trade increased by 7%, reaching circa 265m 
tonnes. Australia was the main contributor with five new 
liquefaction trains commissioned, lifting the nation’s 
exports by 50% to 43m tonnes. Qatar, the world’s 
biggest LNG exporter, also increased its exports by 3m 
tonnes and for the first time utilised its entire production 
capacity. The long-awaited LNG from US shale also 
started to reach the markets with the commissioning of 
two trains in the Sabine Pass.
Asian markets absorbed most of the incremental 
volumes in 2016. Flows into the world’s two largest 
markets, Japan and Korea, remained relatively flat whilst 
China’s appetite for LNG increased significantly with a 
30% hike in imports. India experienced encouraging 
import growth on the back of lower gas prices, 
government subsidies and high economic activity.
Bulk seaborne LPG trade in 2016, 
55% higher than 10 years ago
85m mt
2017 new LNG production capacity 
expected to be commissioned
43m mt 26 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Middle East LNG imports were also strong, up by 50%, 
and the region formed a new significant market for spot 
trading and shipping. Low gas prices combined with an 
uptick in coal prices also proved an important factor for 
a 10% increase in European LNG imports.
The relatively low increase in shipping demand was 
attributed to the decline in average LNG transport 
distance as trade has become increasingly intra-basin. 
29 new vessels entered the fleet in 2016, adding 4.9m 
cbm of carrying capacity, of which two ships were 
FSRUs. Meanwhile, two vessels were sold for scrapping 
and six carriers, one FSRU and one LNG bunkering 
vessel were ordered.
The tightening in the shipping market witnessed through 
the second half of 2016 is expected to carry through 
2017 as significant new volumes from new plants 
commissioned through 2016 and 2017 will be lifted. 
These cargoes, coupled with an increase in short-term 
trading, will result in an alteration of the shipping balance 
as the growth in fleet supply, despite remaining strong, 
will still be below the growth in demand for required 
LNG tonnage.
On the LNG projects side, we could finally see an FID in 
Mozambique as well as potentially more decisions taken 
on US brownfield terminals where the new administration 
may provide favourable conditions for oil and gas 
industry and LNG export growth.
Sale and purchase
Secondhand
As mentioned in our half year commentary, 2016 
continued to be an extremely challenging year across all 
sectors so it is with some degree of pride that we can 
report an increase in the number of second hand sale and 
purchase transactions we concluded year-on-year against 
2015. Of course, with values under the pressures they 
were then, it was not possible to maintain the same levels 
of income but considering that we had the Baltic Indices 
at all-time lows in the early part of the year, the difference 
is not too negative, and when combined with our 
newbuilding desk overall we were up when compared  
to last year.
Looking forward into 2017, we have reason to be 
confident that for dry cargo the worst may well be 
behind us and that the oversupply of tonnage that the 
sector as a whole has been suffering for the past few 
years has started to work its way through, resulting in a 
level of confidence which we have not seen for some 
time. Sub-opex level charter rates are a thing of the past 
and the period time charter markets have even started to 
return, allowing asset values at least to stabilise if not yet 
start to rise. We are by no means out of the woods but 
with newbuilding business remaining very quiet, it is 
reasonable to assume that negative fleet growth might 
even start to happen come 2018 as the new ballast 
water treatment regulations accelerate demolition of 
the older vessels.
On the tanker side, having generally enjoyed a better 
than expected 2016 as far as earnings are concerned, 
there is a rather more pessimistic view, at least in the 
short-term, and this continues to hamper the volume of 
business we are able to conclude. In general, values 
have yet to fall to the levels that buyers feel they need to 
be at in order for them to invest whilst sellers remain 
under little pressure to reduce their price expectations, 
having enjoyed the good earnings of 2016. For those 
who need to transact, the buying market is quite thin 
and as brokers we are not sure that this will change in 
the near term.
Having said that, our ability to continue to act for more 
corporate clients with their own ongoing requirements 
regardless of market cycles should shelter us somewhat 
from this. Additionally, we would hope to be able to 
continue to replicate some high value project type 
transactions in conjunction with our project finance and 
structured asset finance teams as some clients look to 
re-finance away from traditional bank debt more towards 
sale and leaseback type structures.
Newbuilding
In 2016 the shipping industry saw significant supply side 
adjustments in reaction to continued market pressures. 
Historically low levels of newbuild demand, higher levels 
of delivery slippage and strong demolition saw fleet 
growth fall to its lowest level in over a decade.
Strategic report Business review / continued
Bulk carrier tonnage sold in 2016 – 
an all-time record
44m dwt
Total containership demolition 
in 2016
736,000 teu www.clarksons.com 27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
2016 was an extremely challenging year for the 
shipbuilding industry. Contracting activity fell to its lowest 
level in over 20 years with just 480 orders reported, 
down 71% year-on-year. Domestic ordering proved 
important for many builder nations and 68% of orders in 
dwt terms reported at the top three shipbuilding nations 
were placed by domestic owners last year. Despite a 6% 
decline in newbuild price levels over 2016, few owners 
were tempted to order new ships, especially with the 
secondhand market offering ‘attractive’ opportunities. 
Only 48 bulkers and 46 offshore units were reported 
contracted globally last year, both record lows, and 
tanker and boxship ordering was limited. As a result, just 
126 yards were reported to have won an order (1,000+ 
GT) in 2016, more than 100 yards fewer than in 2015.
However, a record level of cruise ship and ferry ordering 
provided some positivity in 2016. Combined, these ship 
sectors accounted for 52% of last year’s US$33.5bn 
estimated contract investment and, whilst such 
segments had not been a traditional focus for the Group, 
the addition of the newbuilding team in Oslo enabled us 
to take advantage of these more industrially routed 
opportunities, with contracting in these segments 
accounting for a significant proportion of Clarksons 
Platou newbuilding contracting activity in 2016.
European shipyards were clear beneficiaries, taking 3.4m 
CGT of orders in 2016, the second largest volume of 
orders behind Chinese shipbuilders’ 4.0m CGT. 
Year-on-year, contracting at European yards increased 
31% in 2016 in terms of CGT while yards in China, 
Korea and Japan saw contract volumes fall by up to 
90% year-on-year.
In light of such weak ordering activity, the global order 
book declined by 29% over the course of 2016, reaching 
a 12 year low of 223.3m dwt at the start of January 2017. 
This is equivalent to 12% of the current world fleet. The 
number of yards reported to have a vessel of 1,000 GT or 
above on order has fallen from 931 yards back at the start 
of 2009 to a current total of 372 shipbuilders.
Looking forward, 2017 will continue to be a challenging 
proposition for shipbuilders and volumes are likely to 
remain tempered against the backdrop of prevailing 
fragility in the freight markets and a continued 
disconnect between secondhand values and 
newbuilding prices. Nevertheless, with the shipbuilding 
market having now endured a substantial period of 
inactivity, there is the potential for builders to consider 
making some strategic decisions in order to incentivise 
buyers and maintain levels of production and this in turn 
may deliver a little more activity into 2017.
Offshore
General
In spite of continued oil price strengthening in the last 
quarter of 2016, market conditions in general in the 
offshore segment remain highly challenging. Operators 
continue to focus on cost cutting, implying limited 
sanctioning of new field developments and moderated 
maintenance activities. This, combined with continued 
substantial overcapacity in the asset-heavy segments of 
offshore oil services, supported persistent low utilisation 
and rates. Looking to 2017, we expect activity to 
increase somewhat in certain offshore segments, but it 
will generally take time to work through overcapacity, 
suggesting adverse market conditions for most 
contractors. Operators have also signalled further 
investment reductions in 2017. Previous downturns have 
demonstrated that rebasing supply-chain costs usually 
takes 12-24 months. Even though costs have already 
come down significantly, we believe operators will seek 
further expenditure reductions and also require higher oil 
prices and visibility on the anticipated sustainability of 
prices before increasing investments again.
The Clarksons Platou offshore team continued to build 
market share in chartering, sale and purchase and 
restructuring, strengthening the team in anticipation of 
the recovery.
Drilling market
Reduced spending by operators has put severe 
downwards pressure on rig fixing activity which has 
declined by more than 65% since 2012-13. At the same 
time, legacy contracts have expired rapidly, and as a 
result active rig utilisation has dropped to 66% and 63% 
for jackups and floaters respectively. Day rates have 
followed and are close to operating expenses on both 
categories in all regions of the world. Rig owners are 
naturally aware of the situation and, due to the age of 
the existing fleet, scrapping/removals have started to 
come to fruition, especially on the floater side. There has 
also been considerable movement in the order book, 
where units have been delayed and cancelled. In spite of 
this, a rebalancing of the MODU-market is likely to take 
some time, mainly due to the overhang of supply.
The subsea market
For the subsea industry low sanctioning activity will have 
a great impact on demand for construction/installation 
and SURF subsea services. 2015 represented the lowest 
level of subsea tree awards since 2000, reflecting 
operators’ reduced E&P spending and re-bidding of 
contracts to obtain the lowest possible pricing. The end 
Newbuilding deliveries 
in 2016
100m dwt
Barrels per day of oil produced 
offshore
25m 28 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Supramax/handymax futures 
volumes increase in 2016
18%
result for 2016 was an even lower level of subsea 
equipment awards. On the back of the oil price 
strengthening, sanctioning of new projects could increase 
with more subsea equipment awards during 2017. This is 
important for SURF work, which is largely driven by new 
field developments. Subsea maintenance activity has also 
now largely been deferred for about two years, implying 
potential demand could be pent up. We are starting to 
see increasing tendering activity within the subsea 
maintenance sector, and we expect awards in this 
segment to increase through 2017. This should lead  
to a gradual improvement of subsea fleet utilisation, which 
was around 50% on a global basis in December 2016, 
naturally with significant variations per sub-segment.
PSV
The North Sea PSV market has remained challenging for 
owners in 2016, with spot rates ranging between £2,740 
and £14,826 per day for 499-900m² deck PSVs and 
between £2,410 and £13,994 per day for 900m² PSVs. 
Term rates have bottomed out between £4,750-£6,000 
per day for the different categories and year to date 
numbers are down 21-22% vs last year. Utilisation has 
been falling steadily since the middle of 2014, and the 
900m² PSVs have obtained an average utilisation of 75% 
in the first 11 months of the year, compared to 88% for the 
same period last year. The current utilisation for the largest 
vessel category is 68%. Approximately 130 PSVs have 
been laid up in the North Sea, compared to 97 at the 
beginning of the year. As term contracts are at operating 
expense levels, and laid up vessels are still being bid for 
longer-term contracts, we expect rates to remain steady 
through 2017. Globally, rates have still decreased further 
both year-on-year and versus the second quarter of 2016. 
PSV rates across the vessel categories declined by an 
average of 13%, 20% and 1% versus the second quarter 
of 2016 in GoM, Brazil and West Africa. Figures for the first 
11 months are down 35%, 28% and 32% versus the 
same period from 2015. Vessel lay ups have also 
increased in all regions of the world and around  
30% of the global fleet is currently laid up.
AHTS
As for the PSVs, the North Sea AHTS market has 
remained challenging in 2016 with spot rates ranging 
between £4,750 and £52,920 per day for 16-20,000 
BHP AHTS and between £5,997 and £62,705 per day 
for the largest class of AHTSs. The market for long-term 
AHTS contracts, historically a very small market, is 
almost non-existent. Around 56 vessels are currently  
laid up in the North Sea, representing 62% of the fleet. 
Utilisation has been falling steadily since mid-2014,  
and the 20,000 BHP category has obtained an average 
utilisation of 35% in the first 11 months of the year, 
compared to 51% for the same period last year. The 
current utilisation for the largest vessels is 29%. At the 
same time, we are seeing reduced demand for large 
AHTS vessels in certain regions. Globally, rates have  
still decreased further both year-on-year and versus the 
second quarter of 2015. Term rates across the AHTS 
vessel categories declined by an average of 7%, 10% 
and 1% versus the second quarter of 2016 in GoM, 
Brazil and West Africa, and year to date figures are down 
26%, 23% and 26% versus year to date 2015 for the 
same regions.
With more vessels coming off contracts internationally 
(especially in Brazil), an increasing number of vessels will 
likely find their way to the North Sea spot market. 
Owners have few other places to trade large AHTS units, 
but many of these units will likely go straight into lay-up.
Futures
The first quarter of 2016 produced new lows for the  
Cape 4TC 172 with a record index of US$485 posted  
on 17 March. Panamax and supramax markets fared  
little better with first quarter averages of US$3,067  
and US$3,800 respectively. By late April the same index 
had risen to US$8,374, proving once again the intrinsic 
volatility in the dry freight market. Despite a lacklustre 
summer, September saw a further rise and a period  
of increased volatility from a higher base, with capes  
peaking at US$20,063 on 17 November. The cape  
index for the year averaged US$6,373 (2015: US$6,996) 
whilst panamax averaged US$5,562 (2015: US$5,560) 
and supramax US$6,268 (2015: US$6,965). Market 
volumes on cape futures fell 14.3%, whilst the smaller 
panamax and supramax sectors showed minor  
volume improvements.
The promising start in freight options volumes witnessed 
in the first quarter was not sustained and the market 
volume ultimately shrank 10% year-on-year. Despite  
this we performed well.
The iron ore growth story continues with a 56% rise  
in market volumes to 1.34bn tonnes. Once again, we 
have increased our market share in this growing sector.
Reflecting the diminished volume in freight swaps,  
our team has reduced in size but renewed vigour has 
resulted in improved performance. At the same time, we 
have increased our staffing in the growing iron ore sector 
both in London and Singapore, where our volumes 
remain on a growth trajectory.
The adoption of the cape 180,000 5TC contract seems 
likely to take place early in 2017, removing some of the 
trader uncertainty and immediately providing an uplift in 
values of approximately US$1,000.
Strategic report Business review / continued www.clarksons.com 29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial
The solutions and expertise 
provided by the financial team 
have greatly enhanced our client 
offering and uniquely positions our 
business amongst its peers and 
places us well, as some of the 
major banks step back from 
lending to the shipping market.
Uniquely 
positioned
Securities
2016 will be remembered as the year the UK voted to 
leave the European Union and the year Donald Trump 
was elected the incoming US President. Although these 
issues were predicted to impact the financial markets 
significantly, the capital markets have been relatively 
stable and resilient and have throughout the year 
survived relatively untroubled as a whole.
2016 started as 2015 left off; namely with a continuing 
downward spiral in the stock markets whereby major 
indices took a 10% haircut the first few weeks into 2016. 
The downward spiral was fuelled by concerns of China’s 
slowing economy and the ever-falling oil prices. At the 
worst the oil price was below US$30 but at the end of 
the year was back above US$50. Our corporate finance 
revenues, however, increased approximately 40% 
compared to the same period in 2015. Similar to 2015, 
the first quarter of 2016 saw very strong secondary 
trading in bonds, mainly relating to trading in distressed 
offshore bonds, however activity came down in March 
and continued into April. Corporate finance revenues in 
the first quarter of 2016 were driven by equity capital 
markets transactions which kicked off in February with 
Golden Ocean (raising US$200m) followed by Scorpio 
Bulkers (raising US$63m) in March.
In the second quarter of 2016, the markets again  
took a hit as the UK voted to leave the EU, causing 
mass confusion about the future of European financial 
markets and the value of the British pound. Despite the 
difficult markets, we led a US$192m equity offering for 
Scorpio Bulkers Inc. in June, and advised Golar LNG  
in the establishment and private placement of  
US$500m of Golar Power in July, in addition to  
being retained as advisor for several Norwegian  
and international companies. 
In the third quarter of 2016, markets were somewhat 
shut down within our core sectors despite our strong 
pipeline. Despite the still difficult market conditions we 
led the US$51.5m equity issue in Star Bulk Carriers 
Corp. completed in September 2016. In addition, we 
were retained for performing valuations and submitting 
fairness opinions to two US listed companies, one of 
which was a new client. 
Equity capital raised for our clients  
in 2016
US$1.5bn
Revenue (£ equivalent)
£41.0m
2015: £28.7m
Revenue (US$)
US$55.2m
2015: US$43.8m
Segment underlying profit
£6.8m
2015: £1.2m 30 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
In the fourth quarter of 2016 markets recovered from the 
initial shocks following the Brexit vote and the soothing 
of China’s stimulus that stabilised the global economy. 
The election of Donald Trump as the new President of 
the United States shook the markets in the minutes that 
followed, but ultimately resulted in a rally. Major indices 
added between 6% and 12% through the end of the 
year as investors bid up stocks in anticipation of 
deregulation, lower taxes, inflation and infrastructure 
spending. For Clarksons Platou Securities (CPS), 
markets opened up, and we completed six equity 
offerings raising in total approximately US$545m for, 
amongst others, Golar LNG, Maritime & Merchant Bank, 
Songa Bulk and Standard Drilling, in addition to being  
a part of the syndicate raising US$150m in senior notes 
for Rowan Industries, a new client of CPS, and a 
US$225m offering of convertible senior notes for  
Ship Finance International.
Looking into 2017, we believe it will likely be a more 
positive capital markets environment as we see 
improvement in both commodity prices and increasing 
investor risk appetite. Hence we remain cautiously 
optimistic for the year to come.
Project finance
Shipping
At the beginning of the year and until the end of  
the second quarter of 2016, we experienced lower 
transaction activity and fewer projects being placed  
in the Norwegian project finance market compared to 
earlier years. One major reason for this is clearly the  
lack of finance, due to the fact that banks have enough 
shipping exposure, and earnings in most segments are 
not sufficient to provide a cash flow that covers interest, 
amortisation and a return on equity. Another reason has 
been that the low charter levels and decline in ship 
values have had a negative effect on liquidity and 
balance sheets of shipowners, which has affected their 
creditworthiness and hence their access to finance.
In 2016, we have seen that the project finance market 
has been split into two categories: opportunistic asset 
play projects and long-term leasing deals. The asset  
play segments have been mostly dry cargo, offshore  
and containers, while we have seen leasing activity on 
the tanker side being quite active. The investors in the 
asset play deals have been mostly European investors 
with the deals arranged and syndicated in the Norwegian 
project finance market. On the leasing side, the Chinese 
leasing banks have been very active, and a few other 
private equity funds specifically targeting the offshore 
industry have also concluded a couple of transactions. 
In the second half of the year we focused on financing 
projects with 100% equity. The activity picked up 
significantly after the summer, and in the second half  
of the year, we structured and placed three PSV  
projects (seven vessels), one handysize bulker project 
(one vessel) and one feeder containership project (two 
vessels). The total equity raised in these transactions 
amounted to close to US$65m.
In addition to this, our project sales team has 
successfully worked together with Clarksons  
Platou Securities on the placement of three private 
placement transactions. 
The outlook for 2017 is positive, as we have several 
projects in the pipeline and the momentum going 
forward is strong.
Debt capital raised for our clients 
in 2016
US$0.9bn
Total KS market transaction volumes 
in 2016
US$2.1bn
Strategic report Business review / continued www.clarksons.com 31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Real estate
The Nordic real estate market continued the strong  
path in 2016 with strong growth in Sweden, Finland and 
Denmark compared to 2015. The Norwegian market 
however dropped from NOK118bn to an estimate of 
NOK70bn in 2016 mainly due to fewer large transactions 
than we experienced in 2015. Across the entire Nordic 
market, yields on prime assets and long leases 
compressed as institutional funds and family offices 
sought yielding assets with stable dividends in stable 
macro-economies like the Nordic. Foreign investors have 
had an increasing appetite for the Norwegian market 
over recent years but this was significantly down in 
2016. The major reason is the continuous drop in CBD 
Oslo Yields with 3.75% as a new all-time-low record. 
This makes Oslo one of the most expensive commercial 
real estate markets in Europe. Domestic property 
companies and property funds (listed and unlisted) 
accounted for 63% of the volume. Even though yields  
on prime assets have declined, the yield gap (difference 
between real estate yield and interest rate level) is still 
attractive. The vacancy rate in the Oslo office market is 
expected to decline over the next two years as a result 
of conversion and demolition of older office buildings  
to residential properties combined with few new  
office buildings. 
Whilst total transaction values have declined in 2016 
compared to 2015 we still see strong demand from the 
equity side and expect this to continue.
12 real estate transactions 
concluded by Clarksons in 2016 
NOK 3.5bn
Total global syndicated marine 
finance loan volume in 2016
US$50.3bn
Structured asset finance
During the course of 2016, it was evident that traditional 
shipping finance (particularly from financial institutions in 
Europe) had become much harder to obtain. This was 
largely driven by more stringent capital regulations, 
ongoing legacy portfolio losses and a more cautious 
approach to credit risk towards the sector. Whilst a 
number of smaller banks began to increase exposure  
to the sector, this in no way made up for the flight to 
quality and reduced syndicated lending from the major 
shipping banks. 
The continuing emergence of global leasing companies 
(notably in China and Japan) has provided some of the 
much needed additional financing support for the sector 
but again, whilst these leasing companies are in 
expansionary mode and are actively looking for sound 
business opportunities beyond their national borders, 
they alone do not fill the void. Insurance companies, 
pension and wealth funds, incentivised by regulation  
to match medium-term liabilities with assets, remain 
hungry for volume and yield but continue to have limited 
risk appetite for the sector and this pool of capital, aside 
from a few notable recent US Private Placement 
transactions, remains largely untapped by the industry.
In summary, shipping financing is still available for the 
right transactions but liquidity is very tight and unlikely  
to improve in the next 12 months. 32 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Support
It has been a very strong year  
for most areas of our business 
handling dry cargoes, but, as 
expected, 2016 was a struggle  
for those areas in the oil and gas 
sector. We have concentrated, 
therefore, on controlling overheads 
whilst providing a market-leading 
level of service.
Challenging 
conditions
Agency – dry cargo
Grain
As far as grain exports are concerned, 2016 has  
been an excellent year for the agency business. Ipswich, 
Tilbury and Southampton have seen high shipping 
volumes, and the smaller coastal ports such as Poole 
and Boston have remained busy too. 
Additional grain export business has been won which 
has not only increased our activity in our traditional grain 
ports, but also has seen us handling grain in Sheerness 
and on the Tyne. 
The indications from the trade are that volumes will  
fall off in the early part of 2017 as much of the UK 
exportable surplus has already been shipped, but levels 
should pick up again after July’s harvest.
Animal feed
After a steady start to 2016, animal feed imports picked 
up significantly in the last few months of the year, with 
Liverpool and Avonmouth seeing much increased 
volumes.
Coal / biomass
Coal imports have now largely been replaced by 
biomass as power stations are either converted  
or closed.
The switch of fuel type alone has not affected  
Clarkson Port Services (CPS) but we have seen an 
overall reduction in activity as customers reduce  
volumes due to both planned maintenance on their 
burners and teething problems with new port side 
handling facilities. In 2017 we expect to return to more 
normal import volumes.
Agency – liquids
Although in 2016 CPS handled a small number of liquid 
calls, mainly based around Harwich, Fawley, Thames 
and the Mersey, the agency fees offered by the tanker 
owners remain very low.
Agency – offshore
Oil and gas
This has been much the hardest part of our business in 
2016. We have seen volumes more than halved because 
of the downturn, forcing us to restructure our offices and 
decrease overheads, whilst ensuring we remain in a 
strong position to react to our customers’ requirements 
both now and in the future. 
A slight upturn was seen in the lower fee-earning PSV 
market towards the end of 2016, and we are starting to 
receive enquiries for a number of projects scheduled for 
early 2017. We hope that this is a sign of a slow market 
improvement, although it will be some time until it returns 
to previous levels. 
Strategic report Business review / continued
Revenue
£17.8m
2015: £22.5m
Segment underlying profit
£2.1m
2015: £3.3m www.clarksons.com 33
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Offshore renewables
Much of 2016 was spent laying the groundwork to 
ensure that CPS is involved in the various offshore wind 
projects commencing around the UK.
In the third quarter of 2016, we began handling  
projects in Belfast and East Coast UK, which will 
continue well into 2017. During the coming year we 
expect this activity to increase significantly and currently 
have sight of projects that we should be involved with  
at least until 2020.
Gibb Industrial Supplies
As with our other businesses involved in the oil and  
gas sector, 2016 was a tough year. Orders from the 
sector reduced significantly as clients reined in their 
spending and, consequently, we cut overhead in order 
to ensure we remain in a healthy position when the 
market improves.
The second half of the year showed signs of 
improvement but we continue to focus on promoting  
our supply business in other sectors. In addition, in 2016 
we completed the implementation of an electronic stock 
system that will not only improve the service we are  
able to offer our clients, but should also help us  
control overheads.
Total tonnage handled at Ipswich 
stevedoring operation in 2016
801,000 mt
Stevedoring
Our stevedoring operation in Ipswich has perhaps  
been the most successful area of our business in 2016, 
benefiting from an increased client base, a good harvest 
year and a widening of products handled. We continue 
to benefit from being one of the few facilities in the UK 
not directly connected to just a single major grain house.
With the cooperation of Associated British Ports we 
have been able to increase our storage facilities in the 
port, and are in discussions to take on additional space 
in 2017.
Although the prediction is that grain volumes will 
decrease in the first half of 2017, we are already seeing 
our customers switching their attention away from grain 
export and focusing on imported products such as 
animal feed and rice.
We continue to look for other stevedoring opportunities 
outside Ipswich.
Freight forwarding and logistics
In 2016, we concentrated on expanding our focus  
to new sectors including renewables, but the market 
remains challenging.  34 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Research
Our 2016 performance builds on  
a consistent long-term growth 
profile, supported by ongoing 
investment into this important area 
of our business.
Significant  
growth
Research revenues and results grew strongly in 2016, 
with sales reaching £13.7m (2015: £11.1m). Despite  
the challenging markets, underlying sales grew by an 
encouraging 19% during the year, as our clients 
continued to value the importance of authoritative 
intelligence. This performance builds on a consistent 
long-term growth profile, supported by ongoing 
investment into this important area of our business.
Clarksons Research is respected and trusted worldwide 
as the market-leading provider of authoritative 
intelligence and data across shipping, trade, offshore 
and energy. We continue to invest heavily to expand  
our wide ranging proprietary database, to develop and 
enhance our digital product offering and to promote  
the Clarksons’ profile across the global shipping and 
offshore industries. Research also continues to be a core 
data provider to the broking, financial and support teams 
of Clarksons.
The research focus on the collection, validation, 
management, processing and analysis of integrated  
data about the shipping and offshore markets continues. 
Our fully integrated and relational database continues  
to expand in breadth and depth, with our shipping and 
trade database now providing coverage on over 135,000 
vessels totalling 1.9bn dwt, over 40,000 companies, 
over 25,000 machinery models, over 600 active 
shipyards and fabricators, over 600,000 fixtures  
and over 100,000 commercial and trade time series, 
including coverage of 11bn tonnes of seaborne  
trade. The offshore and energy database provides 
comprehensive coverage of all offshore fields, projects, 
production platforms, subsea infrastructure, rigs, support 
vessels and construction vessels, all integrated within  
a Geographical Information System (GIS). The 
development of new proprietary data remains important, 
including the utilisation of AIS data, trade and 
commodity flows, the tracking of capital market activity 
and shipping loan data, machinery and environmental 
packages on board ships, offshore renewables, ports 
and terminals, ship repair yards and other shore side 
infrastructure relating to trade and energy. 
Over 75% of research sales are annuity based and there 
is excellent customer retention. A broad and diversified 
client base includes good market penetration across the 
financial, shipowning, insurance, supplier, governmental, 
private equity, energy, commodity, shipyard, fabrication 
and oil service sectors. There is also broad global client 
spread, including across Asia Pacific. Total research 
headcount is now over 100, with a continued 
broadening of geographic footprint, involving expansion 
of operations in both Shanghai and Singapore  
during 2016.
Strategic report Business review / continued
Revenue
£13.7m
2015: £11.1m
Segment underlying profit
£4.9m
2015: £3.4m
Shipping Intelligence Weekly has 
been produced for
25 years www.clarksons.com 35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Research derived its income from the following  
principal areas:
Digital
Sales from digital products performed very well in 2016, 
growing by 19%. We continue to invest heavily in our 
digital product offering, utilising our growing proprietary 
database, IT and data analytics to remain both market 
leading and to develop new digital products to add to 
our offer. 
Sales from our flagship maritime commercial database, 
Shipping Intelligence Network, continue to grow, while  
a major upgrade to our online vessel register, World Fleet 
Register, during the year was very well received by 
clients and helped support robust sales growth of  
27%. Our relaunched register offers a range of new and 
powerful functionality including owner and yard profiles, 
alert functions and expanded data on equipment, 
incidents and additional fleet sectors. Sales of our digital 
offering across offshore continue to expand and a further 
product enhancement to World Offshore Register is 
planned for early 2017. 
Our launch of a new ship tracking system in late  
2016, Clarksons SeaNet, blends satellite and land  
based AIS data with our proprietary database of vessel 
characteristics and infrastructure. It tracks global vessel 
movements for over 60,000 ships, with a combined  
fleet tonnage of 1.2bn gt, across over 5,000 ports  
and zones. This is a very positive development and is  
fully complementary to both the research digital offer  
and broader technology strategy across broking  
and financial. Further new digital products and product 
enhancement are expected to come on line in 2017. 
Services
Clarksons Research continues to expand its provision of 
bespoke service contracts to a range of large corporate 
and institutional clients in both the shipping and offshore 
industries. A specialist team concentrates on managing 
retainers and providing bespoke data, consultancy and 
valuations for banks, shipyards, fabricators, engineering 
companies, insurers, governments, asset owners and 
other corporates. These bespoke services often become 
embedded within our clients’ workflows, supporting 
client retention.
Clarksons Valuations performed particularly strongly  
in 2016, growing its position as the leading provider  
of valuation services to the ship finance sector. The 
valuations team work closely with all major ship finance 
banks and leading owners, as the value our clients place 
on authoritative and comprehensive support increases 
with the challenging market conditions. The valuation 
team headcount has been expanded in 2016, along  
with investment in their operating support tools. 
Reports
Market intelligence reports remain an important aspect 
of the Clarksons Research overall offering, generating 
provenance and profile. Research publishes weekly, 
monthly, quarterly and annual reports, publications, 
registers and maps, available both in print and within  
our digital offering, continuing a 50 year heritage. Our 
flagship shipping report, Shipping Intelligence Weekly, 
remains market-leading while our comprehensive 
offshore offering, including Offshore Drilling Rig  
Monthly and Offshore Support Vessel Monthly,  
continues to gain traction.
Viewings of Shipping Intelligence 
Network each year
>4,000,000
Number of valuations provided by 
Clarksons Valuations in 2016
>30,000 36 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Underlying proﬁt before taxation
£44.8m
£25.1m
2013 2014 2015 2016
£33.8m
£50.5m
£44.8m
Strategic report Financial review
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Underlying profit before taxation 44.8 50.5
Exceptional items 11.1 (2.5)
Acquisition related costs (8.6) (16.2)
Reported profit before taxation 47.3 31.8
Exceptional items
Exceptional items include the gain on the sale of shares 
in The Baltic Exchange to SGX. A special final dividend 
from The Baltic Exchange, which was closely linked  
to the sale, was also treated as an exceptional item in 
2016, although the £1.4m special dividend received  
in 2015 was included in underlying income in keeping  
with the treatment in previous years.
Acquisition related costs
Acquisition related costs includes £6.6m of  
amortisation of intangibles, £1.1m of cash and share-
based payments spread over employee service periods 
and £0.9m of interest on loan notes, half of which were 
repaid in June 2016 and the last of which will be repaid 
in June 2017. Estimated acquisition related costs for 
2017, assuming no other acquisitions are made,  
would be £4.9m.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate, before exceptional 
items and acquisition related costs, was 25.0%  
(2015: 24.9%), reflecting the broad international 
operations of the Group and the disallowable nature  
of many incurred costs, particularly entertaining. After 
exceptional items and acquisition related costs, the rate 
was 19.8% (2015: 29.8%).
Earnings per share (EPS)
Underlying basic EPS was 105.2p (2015: 121.9p), 
calculated as underlying profit after taxation divided by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year. The reported basic EPS was 119.7p 
(2015: 68.2p).
Forward order book (FOB)
The Group earns some of its commissions on contracts 
where the duration extends beyond the current year. 
Jeff Woyda
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer
The proposed total dividend for the 
year is 65p, representing the 14th 
consecutive year of increased 
dividends.
Delivering shareholder value 
65p 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
15
18
25
32
36
40
42
43
47
50
51
56
60
62
65
Final
Interim
Dividend per share
Results
The Group made revenue of £306.1m (2015: £301.8m) 
and incurred administrative expenses of £253.0m (2015: 
£242.0m). The majority of revenue, and a significant 
proportion of expenses, are earned in foreign currency. 
Following the Brexit vote in 2016, sterling has fallen 
against most currencies.
Underlying profit before taxation was £44.8m (2015: 
£50.5m). The term ‘underlying’ excludes the impact  
of exceptional items and acquisition related costs,  
which are shown separately on the face of the income 
statement. Management separates these items due  
to their nature and size and believe this provides further 
useful information, in addition to statutory measures,  
to assist users of the annual report to understand the 
results for the year.
Reported profit before taxation was £47.3m www.clarksons.com 37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Where this is the case, amounts that are able to be 
invoiced and collected during the current financial year 
are recognised as revenue accordingly. However, those 
amounts which are not yet invoiced and recognised as 
revenue are held in the FOB. In challenging markets, 
such amounts may be cancelled or deferred into later 
periods. Consequently, the Directors review the FOB at 
the end of the year, and only publish the total of those 
items that are in the FOB which will, in their view, be 
invoiced in the following 12 months. At 31 December 
2016, this estimate was US$112m (at 31 December 
2015: US$151m). The reduction in forward visibility  
of earnings reflects the low levels of newbuilding 
contracting and the prevalence of spot business  
arising from the highly challenged rate environment,  
as highlighted in the interim statement.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 43p 
(2015: 40p), which will be paid on 2 June 2017 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
19 May 2017. The interim dividend was 22p (2015: 22p) 
which, subject to shareholder approval, would give a 
total dividend of 65p (2015: 62p). In taking its decision, 
the Board took into consideration the 2016 performance, 
the strength of the Group’s balance sheet and its  
ability to generate cash and the FOB. The dividend is 
covered 1.8 times by basic EPS (2015: 1.1 times). This 
increased dividend represents the 14th consecutive year 
that the Board has raised the dividend.
Foreign exchange
The average sterling exchange rate during 2016 was 
US$1.35 (2015: US$1.53). At 31 December 2016 the 
spot rate was US$1.24 (2015: US$1.47).
Cash and borrowings
The Group continues to be cash generative, ending the 
year with cash balances of £154.0m (2015: £168.4m), 
after the repayment of the first tranche of loan notes 
amounting to £23.3m in June 2016. A further £29.4m 
(2015: £5.4m) was held in short-term deposit accounts, 
classified as current investments on the balance sheet. 
The Board believes that deducting accrued bonuses 
before striking a total of net cash and available funds  
is a better representation of the net cash available to  
the business, as bonuses are typically only paid once  
a year after the year-end, and thus an element of the  
cash held at the year-end is earmarked for this purpose. 
Consequently, after deducting all outstanding loan  
notes and amounts accrued for performance-related 
bonuses, net cash and available funds amounted to 
£74.8m (2015: £45.5m). This significant increase arises 
as a result of profits, the proceeds from the sale of The 
Baltic Exchange, currency gains from holding non-
sterling denominated funds and improved working 
capital management.
Balance sheet
Net assets at 31 December 2016 were £406.7m (2015: 
£340.9m). The balance sheet remains strong, with net 
current assets and investments exceeding non-current 
liabilities (excluding pension provisions) by £58.1m 
(2015: £36.2m). The overall provision for impairment of 
trade receivables was £15.5m (2015: £12.3m) and the 
underlying US dollar balance increased by US$1.0m, 
reflecting the continued challenging trading conditions  
in the shipping and offshore markets. The Group’s 
pension schemes have a combined surplus before 
deferred tax of £2.3m (2015: £4.1m deficit). This 
improvement is a result of positive investment 
performances and updated actuarial assumptions  
more than offsetting the impact of the significantly  
lower year-end discount rate.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
1.  Financial KPIs used in the management of the 
business are included on pages 4, 5 and 22. These 
include revenue, profit before taxation, earnings per 
share and the FOB.
2.  The business also aims to generate long-term 
shareholder value, as reflected by a review of total 
shareholder return.
Jeff Woyda
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer
10 March 2017
Clarkson PLC FTSE 250 FTSE SmallCap
Total shareholder return
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Dec 16 Dec 15 Dec 14 Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of £100 invested in Clarkson PLC on 
31 December 2008, compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 and FTSE 
SmallCap Indices on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening nancial year-ends.
Value (£) (rebased) 38 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Risk management
Managing our risks effectively
As with all businesses, Clarksons faces a number of 
risks and uncertainties in the course of its day-to-day 
operations. The balance of identifying and managing 
risks and embracing opportunities enables us to deliver 
our strategic objective: enhancing shareholder value by 
maintaining and extending our industry leadership.
As the world’s leading provider of integrated shipping 
services, Clarksons’ brand underpins the successful 
delivery of our strategy. It is imperative that the integrity 
and reputation of the Clarksons brand is preserved 
through effective risk management. The breadth of 
products and services that we offer to our global clients 
span the shipping, offshore, broking, banking, research 
and support markets and has the potential to expose us 
to a number of business specific risks.
Risk governance
The principle of individual accountability and 
responsibility for risk awareness, monitoring and 
management is a key feature of our culture. Overall 
responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed 
across the Group lies with the Board. The audit 
committee reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s  
risk management process on behalf of the Board.
The Board is responsible for:
 – Managing risk to deliver opportunities as a key 
element of the Company’s business activities, which  
is undertaken using a practical and flexible framework, 
providing a consistent approach to risk evaluation;
 – Establishing risk management policies, key 
controls and procedures, which are reviewed in 
accordance with applicable regulations and best 
practice guidelines, to ensure that they protect  
the Company’s stakeholders and continue to  
be effective; and
 – Carrying out an annual review of the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control and risk 
management and confirming that the ongoing 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
Group’s principal risks has operated throughout the 
year. The Board performs this role with advice from 
the audit committee.
The audit committee is responsible for:
 – Undertaking an annual review of the Group’s 
internal controls, including financial, operational, 
compliance and risk management controls and 
procedures and reviewing the external Auditors’ report 
in relation to internal control observations;
 – Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management systems and processes;
 – Overseeing the development of internal control 
procedures which provide assurance that the controls 
which are operating in the Group are effective and 
sufficient to counteract the risks to which the 
Company is exposed; and
 – Reviewing the need for an internal audit function.
Risk appetite
The Board is responsible for the amount and type of risk 
the Group is willing to accept to achieve our strategic 
and operational objectives. It performs this function by 
setting the business strategy and approving the Group’s 
policies and procedures, enabling, where possible,  
a reduction in risks to the tolerance levels set by the 
Board. The Board further considers the inherent risk 
attributes of our business when identifying its appetite 
and tolerances for risk and opportunities.
Board
Operational management
Audit committee
Overall responsibility for the 
Group’s risk management 
and internal control 
systems
Risk management process and 
internal controls embedded across 
divisions and functional areas
Risk identification, assessment and 
mitigation performed across the 
business
Risk awareness and safety culture 
embedded across the business
Top-down
Bottom-up
Identification, 
assessment and 
mitigation of risk 
at entity and 
divisional level
Reviews the effectiveness  
of our risk management and internal controls systems
Sets strategic objectives 
and defines risk appetite
Monitors the nature and 
extent of risk exposure 
against risk appetite for our 
principal risks
Provides direction on the 
importance of risk 
management
Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure  
against risk appetite
Oversight, 
identification, 
assessment and 
mitigation of risk 
at corporate level www.clarksons.com 39
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Inherent risk attributes of Clarksons’ business include 
the following principles:
 – We act as agents in the provision of services for  
and on behalf of our clients;
 – We do not own physical assets of material value;
 – We do not hold principal positions, other than in 
exceptional circumstances with the financial division, 
should there be a failure of a client to meet its 
obligations during the settlement period;
 – Aside from cash held in regulated entities, we are not 
required to commit material amounts of capital in the 
conduct of our day-to-day business; and
 – We have no external debt.
Risk appetite is at the heart of our risk management 
processes, since it is integral both to our consideration 
of strategy and to our medium-term planning process. 
Risk appetite is a key consideration in decision-making 
across the Group and helps us define the criteria  
for assessing the potential impact of risks and  
their mitigation.
The Group’s risk appetite is formally reviewed and 
approved by the Board annually.
Risk management framework
Our risk management and internal control framework 
defines the procedures that manage and mitigate risks 
facing the business. This framework cannot eliminate 
risk entirely, and can only provide reasonable, not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement  
or loss.
Our risk assessment is formed in stages:
 – Identify the risks facing the Group by business sector;
 – Document risks on a centrally-managed risk register;
 – Assess the likelihood of occurrence of each risk;
 – Evaluate the potential impact of each risk on the Group;
 – Determine the strength and adequacy of the controls 
operating over each risk;
 – Assess the effect of any mitigating procedures or 
processes;
 – Plot the above factors on a risk matrix; and
 – Monitor the above on a regular basis.
The Board recognises that whilst it has limited control 
over many of the external risks it faces, including,  
for example, the macro-economic environment,  
it nevertheless reviews the potential impact of such  
risks on the business and actively considers them in  
its decision-making. The Board also actively monitors 
internal risks and ensures that appropriate controls  
are in place to manage them.
Every year, through an integration of culture and 
compliance, we make further progress embedding  
our risk management approach with all employees.  
Our objectives and values are clearly communicated and 
our training, systems, processes and internal controls 
are developed in accordance with our risk management 
model. This is, of course, an ongoing process and we 
continue to work hard to improve risk awareness and 
embed controls and procedures to mitigate risks.
The Board and senior management take a forward-
looking approach to risk to ensure early identification, 
timely assessment and, where necessary, mitigation of 
new and emerging risks, such that they can be 
evaluated alongside known and continuing risks.
In addition to our regular risk management activities, the 
priority for 2017 is to continue promoting a ‘monitoring 
environment’ which consists of validating, monitoring 
and reviewing the effectiveness of our current controls in 
order to support the Board in its responsibilities.
In November 2016, the audit committee carried out its 
annual formal assessment of risk which was 
communicated in full to the Board, which subsequently 
agreed the key risks, risk appetite, controls and risk 
management processes in place within the Group.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the revised 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board 
has assessed the prospects of the Group over a 
longer period than the 12 months required by the 
‘going concern’ provision.
In carrying out their assessment, the Directors  
have considered the resilience of the Group (with 
reference to its current position, prospects and 
strategy), the Board’s risk appetite, the Group’s 
principal risks and the effectiveness of mitigating 
actions. This robust assessment considers the 
potential impact of the Group’s principal risks on its 
strategy, business model, future operational and 
financial performance, solvency and liquidity over  
the period.
In determining the period over which to provide its 
viability statement, the Board took into consideration 
revenues, cash flows, funding requirements, profits, 
long-term time charters, the average construction 
period of newbuilding contracts, triennial valuations 
of pension schemes and the duration of the majority 
of the forward order book. The Board concluded that 
a period of three years was appropriate.
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, 
the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue  
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the three year period ending 31 December 
2019. In doing so, it is recognised that such future 
assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that 
increases with time and, therefore, future outcomes 
cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Going concern statement
The Directors also considered it appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis, as explained in note 2.1. 40 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Risk management / continued
Risk description Mitigation Progress in 2016
Strategic – our priority is to ensure that strategic decisions achieve or exceed our objectives
Failure to achieve strategic objectives
Due to the size and international coverage of the 
Group, there is a risk that our objectives are not 
communicated effectively. There is also the risk 
that our strategy does not deliver the required and 
expected outcomes for stakeholders.
  
S
 
Growth
   
 See our strategy on pages 
18 and 19
 – Frequent communication between Executive Directors, 
global Managing Directors and staff.
 – The Chief Executive Officer hosts an annual meeting of 
all global Managing Directors which lasts a week and 
considers controls, strategy and general management.
 – Quarterly reviews of risks, operating and financial 
performance of each division with divisional Managing 
Directors.
 – Daily review of real-time financial information.
 – We continue to focus on delivery  
of our strategy through ‘best in 
class’ service in extremely 
challenged markets.
 – We closely and continuously monitor 
developments in our industry.
 – We continuously engage with our 
clients to ensure we understand their 
needs and priorities and deliver 
beyond their expectations.
Reputational – we remain focused on constantly strengthening our relationships with stakeholders
Negative perception of the Group as a result 
of employee misuse of confidential 
information
Accidental or deliberate disclosure of confidential 
information could have a significant reputational 
and financial impact.
  
S
 
People
 – Strict procedures over leavers to ensure no  
data is removed.
 – Employment contracts include confidentiality and 
non-compete clauses.
 – Investment in compliance, quality assurance and legal 
functions to ensure best practices are applied 
throughout the Group.
 – We continue our commitment  
to training and an ethical work 
environment to promote high 
standards, consistency and a  
unified approach.
Operational – we are a value-added service provider aiming to go beyond client expectations
Cyber and data security
Financial loss, reputational damage or operational 
disruption from a major breach in cyber, system or 
information security.
External threat of hackers or viruses and sensitive 
data being intercepted without authorisation.
 
S
 
Trust
 
 – IT processes include penetration testing, use of 
anti-virus and firewall software, regular password 
changes, installation of email authentication and strict 
procedures on granting and removing access.
 – Operational processes include segregation of duties, 
business continuity planning and regular training.
 – We have had a number of  
instances of unsuccessful  
attempted cyber attacks.
 – Continued investment in physical 
and IT controls and increased 
awareness through regular internal 
communications has enabled us  
to identify and avoid actual  
cyber events.
Economic factors
World trade, global GDP and other general 
economic fluctuations impact the demand for 
ships. The actions of owners and financiers also 
have a direct impact on the supply side.
A supply/demand imbalance causes fluctuations in 
freight rates, specifically an over-supply causes 
lower freight rates and asset values. A reduction in 
freight rates, volumes or asset prices results in a 
fall in the commission that the Group receives.
  
S
 
Growth
   
See economics of maritime 
markets on pages 6 and 7
 – Our operations and clients are located in all major 
maritime and trade centres globally and consequently 
we are not dependent on any one economy. 
 – Our business model is built on the ability to deal with 
downturns and remain profitable. Our variable 
remuneration schemes, being profit-related, mean  
that overheads react to swings in asset values and 
freight rates.
 – Our activities are diversified across many product-
offering verticals. Consequently, as shipping and 
offshore are multi-cyclical markets, we benefit from any 
market recovery, irrespective of sector, to find 
opportunities in volatile market conditions and are also 
able to take advantage of market turnarounds.
 – We review the performance of each office and product 
line on a monthly basis.
 – Our results show the effectiveness  
of our strategy and business model 
against a backdrop of volatility in our 
markets, particularly those affected 
by falling commodity prices.
Slight increase in risk 
factor since 2015
No change in risk 
factor since 2015
Change in risk level
Principal risks
The principal risks which may impact the Group’s ability to execute its business strategy have not fundamentally changed since 2015, 
however, the likelihood of the risk occurring and mitigation in place have evolved.
The following risks, whilst not exhaustive, are a summary of the principal risks which we believe could have the greatest impact on our 
business. These risks have been the subject of debate at Board and audit committee meetings. The Board regularly reviews these risks 
in the knowledge that currently unknown, non-existent or immaterial risks could turn out to be significant in the future.
Relevance to strategy
S www.clarksons.com 41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Risk description Mitigation Progress in 2016
People – our people are the assets of our business and are essential to our success
Loss of key personnel
Our success depends on the experience and 
performance of our specialist teams, which in  
turn maintains our excellent reputation.
Losing key personnel may impair our coverage  
of a particular line of business.
 
S
 
People
 – We offer competitive remuneration and an excellent 
working environment to help us to retain staff.
 – Our employment contracts include restrictive 
covenants, appropriate notice periods and gardening 
leave provisions to prevent the loss of key information.
 – We encourage teamwork across the Group, which is 
also reflected in our remuneration schemes.
 – We invest in our teams through training and  
promote further learning through lectures and 
encouraging personal study.
 – Succession-planning and documentation of  
key procedures help to minimise any impact of  
losing personnel.
 – We provide career development throughout the Group, 
irrespective of geography.
 – We have not lost a key team  
during 2016.
 – We continue to make  
significant hires.
 – We monitor staff turnover and 
absenteeism and strive to 
understand the reasons behind  
such activity.
 – A number of employees have 
transferred locations within the 
Clarksons Group; accommodating 
both the employees and the  
Group’s needs.
 – We have hired a dedicated 
recruitment resource in London.
Financial – we target the strengthening of our balance sheet and improvement of our results
Adverse movements in foreign exchange
The Group’s revenue is mainly denominated in  
US dollars and the majority of expenses are 
denominated in local currencies.
The Group can therefore be exposed to adverse 
movements in foreign exchange.
 
S
 
Growth
   
See note 26 for financial risk 
management
 – The Group hedges currency exposure through  
forward sales of US dollar revenues. We also sell US 
dollars on the spot market to meet local currency 
expenditure requirements.
 – We continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling 
balances and asset exposures by currency.
 – We continue to apply our hedging 
policy consistently and we have 
forward sold a proportion of US 
dollar anticipated revenues into 
2019.
 – Following the Brexit vote, sterling 
declined significantly. If sustained, 
the fair value of existing hedges will 
decline, although sterling weakness 
would still be a net favourable 
movement for the Group.
Adverse financial commitments relating  
to pensions
The Group operates three defined benefit schemes 
which are funded by the payment of contributions 
to separately administered funds. There are 
circumstances under which a pension obligation 
can crystallise and a principal employer be forced 
to settle the scheme, thereby creating a substantial 
financial obligation.
 
S
 
Growth
   
See note 22 for employee 
benefits
 – All defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
 – We have in-house and outsourced global pension 
experts to manage the schemes in place, including 
monitoring fund manager performance.
 – Diversification of the investment funds which hold our 
schemes’ assets reduces the impact of fund 
performance volatility and investment risk.
 – Regular review of pension fund liabilities ensures future 
funding requirements can be planned.
 – Triennial valuations carried out in 
2015/2016 and recently finalised by 
independent actuaries show one 
scheme had a surplus of £3.6m and 
the other two schemes had deficits 
of £1.2m and £2.1m. Contributions 
into the three schemes have 
reduced from £2.2m per annum to 
£1.2m per annum.
Financial loss arising from failure of a client 
to meet its obligations
 
S
 
Understanding
   
See note 14 for trade and other 
receivables
 – We regularly monitor both local and global client debt 
levels using information from a range of sources.
 – Provisions are based on ageing of balances, disputes 
or doubts over recoverability.
 – Two major far eastern operations 
have filed for court protection  
during the year.
 – We continue to provide for doubtful 
debts on a prudent basis.
 – There were no unexpected losses 
arising from a client failure during  
the year. 42 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Corporate social responsibility
It is with great pride that I write to you as Chairman  
of the corporate social responsibility committee (CSR 
committee). Since taking over this role in 2013, Team 
Clarksons has continued to go BEYOND expectations, 
generously contributing to charities and working with the 
community to promote the maritime industry and provide 
work experience, employment and training opportunities 
to so many people, of all ages, wishing to find a way into 
the world of shipping and offshore.
Since 2013, members of Team Clarksons have  
gone BEYOND their safe zone – they have climbed 
mountains, conquered the North Pole, cycled hills  
and roads, completed marathons, triathlons and tough 
mudders, shaved off their hair and grown moustaches, 
tackled the 3 peaks and much, much more… all for 
charity. I am delighted to be able to say that Team 
Clarksons, during this time, has consequently 
contributed to over 90 charities, and raised around £1m 
for good causes around the world. As a committee, we 
support most charitable endeavours and also highlight 
each year up to four charities for larger donations and 
exploits. We also recognise needs in times of major 
disaster, such as the Philippines typhoon and the 
Japanese nuclear disaster.
In addition to raising money, we have looked 
beyond today and helped the community gain 
experience, expertise and a vision for the future.
Beyond Clarksons into the community
Corporate social responsibility activities timeline
Clarksons 
in the 
Serengeti
At the finish for the 
Alzheimer’s Society
Victorious 
Clarksons 
Olympians
Abseiling 
West Ham 
for Marie 
Curie 
Cancer
At the peak of 
Mount Elbrus
2011
Since the formation of the CSR committee, Clarksons staff globally have supported an incredible 
94 worthwhile causes, across maritime, health and childrens’ charities. The timeline below shows 
just a few examples of how our staff have GONE BEYOND.
Jeff Woyda
Corporate social responsibility committee Chairman www.clarksons.com 43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
In addition to raising money, we have looked BEYOND today and 
helped the community gain experience, expertise and a vision for 
the future. Students from the UK and overseas have undergone 
work experience, we have run 48 seminars for over 2,500 trainees, 
staff, clients and other market professionals and the John Marshall 
Lectures, one week of training in each of dry cargo and tankers, 
have taken place every year, training in excess of 200 people 
– from Clarksons’ and the wider industry. We also have close 
relationships with many universities and business schools around 
the world specialising in maritime.
We have a dedicated training officer, and have run lectures in a 
broad range of topics from ‘Life at sea’ and ‘Insights on India’s 
impact on global trade and shipping’ to ‘Ballast water 
management’ and ‘Marine salvage’. We have worked and hosted 
lectures with the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers, London 
Shipping Law Centre and UK Chamber of Shipping to name but a 
few, and have ensured all staff undergo ABC training on a regular 
basis. Staff are also supported in their career development, 
whether that involves qualifications with ICS, CIMA, ACCA or 
CIPD, MBA study or more practical first aid, health & safety and 
compliance training.
Over the past year, we are BEYOND proud that ‘our Jeff’ – the 
Lord Mountevans has been Lord Mayor of London. Clarksons 
were prominent in supporting Jeffrey wherever possible, including 
the Lord Mayor’s parade and appeal during this historic milestone 
in Clarksons’ 164 year history. During his year, he has promoted 
extensively the maritime theme, and a high point was the bringing 
together of all Managing Directors, Directors and Divisional 
Directors in the Egyptian hall of the Mansion House to celebrate 
Clarksons’ unique talent and Jeffrey’s appointment.
As a Group, we also go BEYOND the internal and reach out into 
the industry, with members of Team Clarksons also serving as 
Directors of the Baltic Exchange, ITIC, the London Tanker Brokers 
Panel, Dubai Maritime Advisory Council and Emirates Maritime 
Arbitration Centre.
So we at Clarksons go BEYOND in our social responsibilities in  
so many ways… in giving back to our staff, society at large, the 
markets in which we work and those less fortunate than ourselves. 
We will continue this approach BEYOND the now and into  
the future.
Jeff Woyda
Corporate social responsibility committee Chairman
10 March 2017
Corporate social responsibility activities timeline
Launching 
the new 
safety boat 
in London’s 
Docklands
Poppy planters 
volunteering at  
the Tower of London
Clarksons’ spinning 
for Charity Giving 
Day
Dragon 
boating 
for the 
GOSH 
OSCAR 
appeal
Rebuilding after 
Typhoon Haiyan
Almost at 
the finish 
line of the 
Three 
Peaks 
challenge
Charity 
beach 
rugby at 
Canary 
Wharf
2017 44 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Corporate responsibility
Supporting the local community and the wider world has 
always formed an important part of Clarksons’ attitude 
to corporate responsibility, whether in terms of direct 
donations or supporting our employees as they strive  
to make a difference to society.
In 2013, as part of this continuing commitment, 
Clarksons formalised these activities by establishing  
a new CSR committee, chaired by the Chief Financial 
Officer and Chief Operating Officer and comprising 
representatives from different parts of the business.  
The CSR committee identified three potential areas 
towards which support should be focused: maritime 
causes, children’s charities and health issues – the latter 
choice would be influenced by circumstances where a 
member of staff had been directly affected by a condition 
or situation requiring help. In the past four years 
Clarksons globally has supported an incredible 94 
worthwhile causes.
Clarksons staff are encouraged to nominate charities 
that fall under these broad categories and these are 
regularly reviewed throughout the year by the CSR 
committee. From time to time, recognising that world 
events can produce situations of urgent need, the CSR 
committee has made specific one-off donations.
In 2016 significant donations were made to the 
Alzheimer’s Society to help fund critical research,  
provide education and resources and raise awareness 
for a solution to the global Alzheimer’s epidemic; the 
Children’s Cancer Hospital Foundation in Egypt which  
is the largest paediatric oncology hospital in the world  
in terms of capacity; and the English Speaking Cancer 
Association in Switzerland which provides emotional 
support and practical help to those affected by cancer.
Our activities reached a peak on 27 September with  
the first Clarksons Charity Giving Day when teams of  
six from Clarksons’ Houston, London, Oslo, Dubai and 
Singapore offices competed to cycle 120km in less than 
four hours. The aim was to raise as much money as 
possible for two very worthwhile charities: the Juvenile 
Diabetes Research Foundation (one of the Lord Mayor’s 
selected charities) and the London Sports Trust, which  
is dedicated to helping young Londoners through sport 
and works with disadvantaged children to fulfil their 
potential. In total Clarksons raised more than £50,000 
for these two incredible causes.
Our people
Our people are our business. Without enthusiastic  
and engaged employees we simply could not do our  
job delivering the highest quality service to our clients. 
Employees are expected to use good judgement and  
act in the best interests of Clarksons and our clients at 
all times and each and every member of the team shares 
our common values and aspirations to conduct our 
business in an ethical, honest and professional manner 
wherever we operate.
The Chain Gang team keeping up the pace at the 2016 
Clarksons Charity Giving Day
Strategic report Corporate social responsibility / continued
One of the 26 teams taking part in the 2016 Clarksons Charity Giving Day www.clarksons.com 45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Clarksons is an equal opportunities employer which 
entrusts its reputation and market lead to more than 
1,393 highly motivated employees globally. Our business 
is meritocratic. We seek to appoint the best candidate 
for each and every vacancy. Candidates are considered 
against fair and objective criteria which enable all 
employees, irrespective of gender, race or disability,  
to advance in their career. 
Shipping is an industry that people enter into because 
they are enthusiastic about world trade. This industry is 
increasingly becoming an attractive employment option 
as it offers career opportunities, flexibility and incentives 
for those who commit themselves.
Of the 1,393 staff within the Group at 31 December 
2016, 371 or 27% were female (26% in 2015). There 
were 251 managers within the Group, of which 44 or 
18% were female, which is an increase of 15 or 7% year 
on year from 2015. From total new hires made in 2016, 
27% were female.
Clarksons has undergone significant growth over the last 
decade, including the acquisition of Platou in 2015, 
which means that many employees have been employed 
for less than ten years. Nevertheless, we are proud 
that 22% of Clarksons employees have been with the 
organisation for more than ten years as commitment 
to the Company and its values ensures that there is 
continuity of practice throughout the organisation and 
a sophisticated understanding of how the Clarksons 
business model is maintained.
Participation in the Company’s LTIP and other share 
schemes gives employees the opportunity to become 
shareholders in the Company and share in its continued 
growth and success.
Communicating with employees is an important  
priority. Our flat management structure means that any 
employee has direct access to the senior management 
team, with divisional managing directors working side by 
side with the trainees they recruit. All employees have 
access to the employee intranet which contains current 
news, details of employee policies and other relevant 
information. Employees have opportunities to attend 
briefings about the Company’s business and Clarkson 
News, the Company’s periodic in-house magazine, 
provides current and former employees with information 
about the Company’s operations and colleagues around 
the world. Employees also have access to the 
Company’s financial and regulatory publications,  
which are available on the corporate website.
We are a global business with an international workforce 
and the combination of languages, cultures and ideas 
brings a level of diversity and cultural richness that is the 
envy of our competitors. Clarksons’ employees 
represent 65 nationalities globally and in a reflection of 
this cultural diversity, our management team represents 
23 of those nationalities. Our global presence also 
means that we can offer our employees the opportunity 
for international mobility and development throughout 
the Clarksons Group.
Our investment in our people
At Clarksons people are empowered to do their best 
work. We hire the brightest talents, give them the tools 
to shine including IT systems and high quality training 
and ensure they are suitably rewarded. Clarksons is 
committed to investing in talent retention and staff 
development, ensuring that as we grow (both organically 
and through acquisition) the right people are identified 
and developed.
Employees are encouraged to broaden their knowledge 
of the business where possible. For example, employees 
in our Commodity Quay office are able to attend regular 
lunchtime seminars on different topics. These seminars 
are led by in-house experts and/or external speakers, 
covering a wide range of topics on either an area of 
Clarksons’ business or an area of personal development. 
Employees, regardless of department, are encouraged 
to attend these seminars, which provide a forum  
for interested individuals to further their knowledge  
of a subject.
Our training schemes remain unique in our industry, 
blending the collective skilled counsel and guidance  
of our staff with the tutelage of external experts from all 
areas of the shipping, trading and commodity markets.
Our Trainee Broker Scheme is open to school, college 
and university graduates as Clarksons believes that the 
qualities of commitment, talent and passion we seek in  
a trainee require a more diverse approach to recruitment. 
Trainees can expect a fully rounded education where 
their individual talents are nurtured and developed into 
what we hope will enable them to become the future 
leaders of our business.
Successful development of future leaders requires  
a talent pool from which to select the best individuals. 
Clarksons operates a prominent recruitment process 
which attracts in excess of 2,500 applications annually. 
Our own analysis has determined that the ratio of male 
to female applications is circa 70:30. This is almost 
identical to the gender diversity statistics recorded by 
Cass Business School at the City University London  
for shipping-related degrees.
In addition to the Trainee Broker Scheme, we offer  
a small number of paid internships to students each  
year and through long-standing relationships with 
schools and academies we are able to offer regular  
work experience opportunities in our broking and 
research divisions. 46 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Health and safety
Clarksons endeavours to create a working culture that is 
inclusive for all and to maintain our high standards 
across all sites. We believe that it is vital to look after the 
health, safety and well-being of our staff. This includes 
providing a safe and secure workplace. Our policies and 
procedures are designed to minimise the risk of injury 
and ill health of all employees as well as any other parties 
involved in the conduct of our business operations.
The conclusion of the Platou acquisition in 2015 brought 
new locations and new teams into the Group. In light of 
this recent growth and following the integration of the 
new teams, we conducted a review of the health and 
safety policy statement for Clarksons Group in 2016. 
Our objective was to establish whether the policy 
statement remained fit-for-purpose. Following this 
review, it was determined appropriate to issue a new 
Group Health and Safety Policy Statement. This new 
policy statement was approved by the Board in February 
2017. Health and safety committees, operating under 
written terms of reference, will oversee the 
implementation of the new statement and ongoing 
management of the underlying policies in the UK. 
To support the implementation of these new policies, 
Clarksons has established a training plan for employees 
who are responsible for the day-to-day management of 
health and safety in the UK. In 2017, employees with 
new responsibilities for health and safety management 
will be trained to Institute of Occupational Safety and 
Health (IOSH) Managing Safely certification. This is an 
internationally recognised certification for those who 
manage health and safety, accredited by IOSH who are 
the chartered body for health and safety professionals. It 
is anticipated that this training will be refreshed in line 
with recommended best practice. Refresher training is 
being undertaken in 2017 for existing health and safety 
personnel whose certification is over three years old. The 
health and safety committees review training needs on a 
regular basis for all employees as well as those directly 
responsible for health and safety. For example, 
upcoming training includes first aid qualifications.
Clarkson Port Services Limited (CPSL) sites cover a wide 
variety of activities from office-based support to port 
agents working alongside vessels at quayside. A 
well-established schedule of external and internal health 
and safety audits takes place at CPSL sites, targeting all 
aspects of the activities. Actions from audits are tracked 
to completion and reported to the CPSL health and 
safety committee. In line with the Clarkson approach for 
continual improvement, the health and safety team at 
CPSL is working towards achieving Occupational Health 
and Safety Standard 18001. Audit for this certification is 
expected to take place during August 2017.
Environment 
Clarksons is committed to managing its environmental 
impact and seeks to improve its performance and 
reduce emissions wherever possible. This is our fourth 
year of reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 
we are pleased that significant progress has been made 
in disclosing the full impacts of our global offices. 
In addition to reporting all material emission sources for 
which we have operational control, in 2016 we have 
greatly expanded our disclosure of Scope 3 to include 
emissions associated with business travel, water, waste 
and paper. Increasing the emissions sources reported 
has increased our total footprint compared with previous 
years but we believe this provides a more accurate 
representation of our environmental impact.
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions measured in tonnes CO
2 
 
equivalent (tCO
2
e) have decreased by 10% to 2,944 
tCO
2
e in 2016, from 3,271 tCO
2
e reported in 2015. This 
decrease is primarily attributable to significant 
improvements in data quality and coverage across our 
office portfolio. We are pleased to report substantial 
progress has been made this year in obtaining accurate 
emissions data from our global offices, following the 
addition of Platou in 2015. This includes enhanced 
coverage for our London head office, Commodity Quay, 
which was highly estimated last year. 
Strategic report Corporate social responsibility / continued
Modern Slavery Act 2015
Clarksons recognises that slavery, servitude, forced 
labour and human trafficking (modern slavery) is a 
global issue. 
We are committed to ensuring that there is no 
modern slavery in our operations or supply chains. 
The Clarkson Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 
Statement for the financial year ended 31 December 
2016 is available on our website at http://www.
clarksons.com/modern-slavery-act/. Excluding the additional Scope 3 emissions introduced 
in 2016, UK offices are responsible for 59% of 
Clarksons’ total footprint, with our largest office, 
Commodity Quay, responsible for 40%. 
Emissions intensity
Clarksons’ business has expanded through a 
combination of acquisition and organic growth, creating 
fluctuations in our reported emissions on an annual 
basis. Increased data quality in 2016 has created a slight 
decrease in emissions intensity to 2.37 tCO
2
e/FTE. By 
disclosing additional Scope 3 emissions, this intensity 
increases to 4.86 tCO
2
e/FTE largely due to the impact  
of flights.
Methodology
Clarksons’ GHG emissions were calculated in 
accordance with the requirements of the World 
Resources Institute ‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol (revised 
version)’, ‘Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including 
mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting 
guidance’ (Defra, 2013) and ISO 14064 – part 1.
Additional notes on methodology: 
1 Clarksons’ Scope 2 emissions calculated using location-based 
emissions factors. In line with WRI best practice, our Scope 2 
market-based emissions for 2016 are 2,084 tCO
2
e and calculated 
using residual mix factors by country and location-based factors. 
Clarksons will continue engagement with landlords to improve 
disclosure of market-based emissions and encourage a transition 
to more environmentally friendly suppliers and tariffs in subsequent 
reporting years. 
2 Clarksons’ new Tokyo office, opened in November 2016, is 
excluded from this year’s reporting but will be included in future 
years.
3 This work is partially based on the country-specific CO
2
 emission 
factors developed by the International Energy Agency,© OECD/
IEA 2016 but the resulting work has been prepared by Carbon 
Smart and Clarksons and does not necessarily reflect the views of 
the International Energy Agency.
www.clarksons.com 47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Global emissions by scope
tCO
2
e
2016 2015
Scope 1 – Direct control 
Natural gas, company cars, 
refrigerants 860 922
Scope 2 – Indirect control 
Purchased electricity, heat, steam 
and cooling 2,084 2,349
Scope 3 – Clarksons influence 
Transmission and distribution only 179 195
Sub-total 3,123 3,466
Emissions intensity 
tCO
2
e per full time employee (FTE) 2.37 2.51
UK offices account for over half our Scope 2 emissions, 
and the 11% reduction in the UK electricity conversion 
factor in 2016 contributes to a 265 tCO
2
e reduction in 
reported Scope 2 emissions. 
Additional Scope 3 emissions
In line with best practice, we have for the first time 
included Scope 3 emissions reporting on business travel 
(flights, rail, company cars and taxis) and additional 
buildings-related emissions (water, waste and paper) for 
our global offices. This increases our total emissions 
across all scopes, however, given the nature of our 
business, emissions arising from flights are responsible 
for 46% of our carbon footprint and other business travel 
accounts for a further 6%. Water, waste and paper 
usage contribute to less than 3% of our total emissions.
tCO
2
e
2016 2015
Additional Scope 3  
Business travel, water, waste, paper 3,273
Not 
reported
Total all Scopes 6,396 3,466
Emissions intensity  
(tCO
2
e per FTE) 4.86 2.51
Emissions breakdown by region (tCO
2
e)
2,481
1,830
176
504
282
247
300
339
166 150
61 53
Australasia Europe Middle East
& Africa
Asia Americas UK
2015 2016
Comparison of emissions by region (tCO
2
e) Scopes 1, 2 and part of 
Scope 3 (including transmission and distribution).
Electricity Natural gas Flights Other travel Other
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Emissions breakdown by resource (tCO
2
e) New York www.clarksons.com 49
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Governance Introduction
Governance activity during the year
As part of our insurance renewal process in 2016, we 
instructed our insurance brokers to conduct a 
benchmarking exercise to compare our directors’ and 
officers’ liability coverage against that purchased by 
other companies in the FTSE 250 to ensure that it 
remained at a level comparable with that purchased by 
our peers. Following the review, the Board is comfortable 
that the level of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
cover is appropriate for a company of our size and our 
risk base, and comparable to that of our peer group.
The well-being of our employees is paramount. 
Integration from the Platou acquisition in February 2015 
brought new employees and new locations into the 
Group. These changes warranted a review of our health 
and safety policies and procedures during 2016. The 
outcome of this review is a revised Group Health and 
Safety Policy Statement which was approved by the 
Board on 3 February 2017 along with refreshed 
procedures and committees. For more information about 
this review and the new policy, please see page 46.
Shareholder engagement
The Board believes that a key aspect of good corporate 
governance is engagement with shareholders and being 
aware of their views. We welcome meaningful 
communication with shareholders. For more details on 
how we stay in touch with shareholders, please see 
page 54.
External Board evaluation
An external Board evaluation was undertaken this year 
by Boardroom Review Limited. The review included 
individual interviews with Board members and the 
Company Secretary as well as observation at a Board 
meeting. For more information on the Board evaluation, 
please go to page 53.
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
As the financial year began before 17 June 2016, the 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) was 
effective for the Company’s current reporting period. We 
discuss how we comply with the Code in more detail on 
page 52.
I look forward to meeting you at our AGM on 12 May 
2017 and addressing any questions you may have.
Yours faithfully
James Hughes-Hallett
Chairman
10 March 2017
We are focused on delivering 
our strategy and strengthening 
our position as a modern, 
profitable business, underpinned 
by high standards of corporate 
governance.
James Hughes-Hallett
Chairman
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present to you the Board’s corporate 
governance report. In this section you will find our  
review of corporate governance at Clarkson PLC 
together with reports from the audit, nomination and 
remuneration committees.
Board and committee changes
We welcomed Marie-Louise Clayton as an independent 
Non-Executive Director to the Board in January 2017. 
Marie-Louise has a wealth of financial and strategic 
experience gained in a wide range of businesses, from 
technology to manufacturing, sugar processing to power 
and energy. Marie-Louise will be appointed as Chair of 
the audit committee at the AGM in May 2017. Marie-
Louise’s extensive experience will bring a fresh insight to 
the Board as we continue to deliver against our strategy.
James Morley will be retiring from the Board at the 2017 
AGM. James has served on the Board of Clarkson PLC 
and as Chair of the audit committee for nearly nine 
years. His guidance, knowledge and active participation 
in the Board have been invaluable and I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank James for his dedication 
and his service to Clarkson PLC and wish him the very 
best for the future. 50 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
James Hughes-Hallett, CMG
Chairman
(Non-Executive)
Andi Case was appointed to the Board as 
Chief Executive Officer on 17 June 2008, 
having previously been Clarksons’ Chief 
Operating Officer. Andi joined Clarksons in 
2006 as Managing Director of the Group’s 
shipbroking arm, H Clarkson & Company 
Limited. He began his shipbroking career with 
C W Kellock and later Eggar Forrester. Prior to 
joining Clarksons he was with Braemar 
Seascope for 17 years, latterly as head of sale 
and purchase and newbuildings.
Andi Case
Chief Executive Officer
Jeff Woyda
Chief Financial Officer  
and Chief Operating Officer
Jeff Woyda was appointed to the Board on  
1 November 2006. Jeff qualified as a chartered 
accountant with KPMG and before joining 
Clarksons was a member of the executive 
committee of Gerrard Group PLC. He also 
spent 13 years at GNI where he was Chief 
Operating Officer. Jeff serves as a Non-
Executive Director of the International 
Transport Intermediaries Club (ITIC).
Peter M. Anker
President of Broking and  
Investment Banking
Peter M. Anker joined the Board on 2 February 
2015.
Peter started his career in RS Platou’s Houston 
office in 1982 as an offshore broker.
After returning to Norway in 1986, Peter 
became Chief Executive Officer and Managing 
Partner of the RS Platou Group in 1987, a 
position he held until joining the Board of 
Clarkson PLC in February 2015.
James Hughes-Hallett was appointed as a 
Director on 20 August 2014 and became 
Chairman on 1 January 2015. James is a 
Non-Executive Director of John Swire & Sons 
Limited. He is also Chairman of the Courtauld 
Institute of Art and of the Esmée Fairbairn 
Foundation. James was Chairman of John 
Swire & Sons Limited in London from 2005 to 
2014 and before that Chairman of Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific 
Limited in Hong Kong. Earlier in his career he 
was also the Managing Director and Chairman 
of The China Navigation Company and of 
Swire Pacific Offshore and chairman of the 
Hong Kong Shipowners Association. He 
served as a Non-Executive Director of HSBC 
Holdings PLC from 2005 to 2014.
James is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales and an 
honorary fellow of the University of Hong Kong 
and of Merton College, Oxford. He was made 
a CMG in the 2012 Queen’s Birthday Honours.
James is Chair of the nomination committee 
and a member of the remuneration committee.
Peter Backhouse
Senior Independent Director
(Non-Executive)
Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Board 
on 16 September 2013 and became Senior 
Independent Director on 5 November 2013. 
Peter is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of 
HES International B.V ., a leading provider of 
port services in dry and liquid bulk handling 
and a member of the Advisory Board of US 
private equity firm Riverstone Energy Partners. 
He has over 40 years’ experience in the 
international energy business. At British 
Petroleum he was Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of BP Europe, Executive 
Vice-President of global refining and marketing, 
and head of both North Sea oil development 
and global mergers and acquisitions. He 
served as a Non-Executive Director of BG 
Group PLC, the international energy company, 
between 2000 and 2014.
Peter is a member of the audit, remuneration 
and nomination committees.
Remuneration committee
Nomination committee
Audit committee
Chairman
A
A
N
N
R
R
Committee membership
A N R
Governance Board of Directors www.clarksons.com 51
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Birger Nergaard
Director
(Non-Executive)
Birger Nergaard joined the Board on 2 
February 2015 and has been Deputy Chairman 
of the Board of Clarksons Platou AS (formerly 
RS Platou ASA) since 2008. He is a Board 
member at Clarksons Platou Securities AS  
and  Maritime & Merchant Bank AS. Birger 
established Four Seasons Venture (today 
Verdane Capital) in 1985 and was the 
company’s Chief Executive Officer until 2006. 
He is currently a Director of Verdane Capital’s 
funds V , VI, VII and VIII, Nergaard Investment 
Partners AS and an advisor to the P/E fund 
Advent International in Norway. 
Birger was awarded King Harald’s gold medal 
in 2006 for pioneering the Norwegian venture 
capital industry. He holds a law degree from 
the University of Oslo.
Birger is a member of the remuneration 
committee.
R
Ed Warner, OBE
Director
(Non-Executive)
Ed Warner was appointed to the Board on  
27 June 2008. Ed is Chairman of derivatives 
exchange LMAX, the Standard Life Private 
Equity Trust PLC and the Blackrock 
Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC. 
He is also Chairman of Grant Thornton UK 
LLP , a leading accountancy and advisory 
practice. He was previously Chairman of 
investment bank Panmure Gordon and Chief 
Executive of IFX Group PLC and Old Mutual 
Financial Services UK, head of Pan European 
Equities at BT Alex Brown, and head of global 
research at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. Ed is 
Chairman of UK Athletics and the Crystal 
Palace Football Club Foundation.
Ed is Chair of the remuneration committee  
and a member of the audit and  
nomination committees.
R A N
James Morley
Director
(Non-Executive)
James Morley was appointed to the Board  
on 5 November 2008. James is Senior 
Independent Director of Costain Group PLC 
and a Director of Minova Insurance Holdings 
Limited. He has served as Chief Operating 
Officer of Primary Insurance Group, Group 
Finance Director of Cox Insurance Holdings 
and Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC, Group 
Executive Director (finance) at Guardian Royal 
Exchange, Deputy Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director at AVIS Europe PLC and was 
a Non-Executive Director of The Bankers 
Investment Trust PLC, W S Atkins PLC, Trade 
Indemnity Group PLC, The Innovation Group 
PLC and Speedy Hire PLC. James is a 
chartered accountant.
James is Chair of the audit committee and  
a member of the remuneration and nomination 
committees.
A R N
Marie-Louise Clayton
Director
(Non-Executive)
Marie-Louise Clayton was appointed to the 
Board on 1 January 2017. Marie-Louise is a 
chartered accountant and currently Chair of  
the audit committee of Zotefoams PLC, a 
Non-Executive Director of GCHO Holdings Ltd 
and trustee of Street League, a youth 
employment charity. Marie-Louise has served  
as Finance Director of Venture Production PLC, 
Chief Financial Officer & IT Director of the Primary 
Food Group division of Associated British Foods 
plc and Chief Financial Officer of Lincoln Gas 
Turbines at GEC Alstom. She also held roles at 
Advent Venture Capital, Exxon Chemicals, Inland 
Revenue and Guest, Keen and Nettlefold.
Marie-Louise’ s past non-executive appointments 
have included audit committee Chair of Diploma 
PLC and Forth Ports PLC and Non-Executive 
Director of Independent Oil & Gas Ltd and  
Ocean Rig ASA.
Marie-Louise is a member of the audit committee 
and remuneration committee.
A R 52 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Corporate governance statement 
52  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Principles statement 
Good corporate governance underpins the Company’s 
objectives, strategy and business model, as set out in the 
strategic report on pages 1 to 47. The Board is committed 
to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance, 
which is critical to retaining investor trust in the Company 
and in the Board as custodian of the Company’s assets 
and values. 
Statement of compliance 
The statement of corporate governance practices set 
out on pages 49 to 81, and information incorporated by 
reference, constitutes the Clarkson PLC corporate 
governance report setting out how the Company has 
applied the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), which was applicable to 
the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 
2016. We are compliant with the Code.  
It is noted that the UK Corporate Governance Code was 
revised in April 2016 (the Revised Code) and that the 
Revised Code will apply to the Company for the financial 
year beginning 1 January 2017.  
The September 2014 and April 2016 editions of the 
Code can be viewed on the Financial Reporting Council 
website at https://frc.org.uk/Our-Work/Corporate-
Governance-Reporting/Corporate-governance.aspx. 
Leadership 
The Board comprises James Hughes-Hallett (Chairman), 
Andi Case, Peter M. Anker, Jeff Woyda, Peter Backhouse 
(Senior Independent Director), Birger Nergaard, James 
Morley, Ed Warner and Marie-Louise Clayton. Marie-Louise 
Clayton joined the Board on 1 January 2017. James 
Morley, who has been a Non-Executive Director for nine 
years, will retire at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) to be 
held on 12 May 2017. James will be replaced as Chair of 
the audit committee by Marie-Louise Clayton. Biographies 
of the Directors in office at the date of signing the financial 
statements are set out on pages 50 to 51. 
Ed Warner will reach his nine year tenure in 2017. Whilst 
taking into account the need to progressively refresh its 
members through new appointments, the Board 
recognises the importance of continuity and the value that 
Directors who serve for many years are able to bring. Given 
the changes that are currently taking place due to James 
Morley’s retirement and the appointment of Marie-Louise 
Clayton, the Board recognises the need for stability and 
acknowledges the contribution, continuity and experience 
that Ed, as a long-serving Director, brings to the Board 
overall and the support he can provide. The nomination 
committee has recommended to the Board that it would be 
appropriate for Ed Warner to remain on the Board and as 
Chair of the remuneration committee and the Board has 
determined that Ed continues to demonstrate qualities of 
independence and judgement in carrying out his role. Ed’s 
continued tenure will be subject to shareholder approval 
and rigorous review by the nomination committee and 
Board for each year of continued service.  
The Board, supported by its committees, is responsible for 
ensuring leadership and setting strategic direction with the 
aim of delivering sustainable shareholder value. It is 
imperative that the combined experience and knowledge 
represented by the Board is appropriate to lead the 
Company in maintaining its market-leading position and 
achieving its strategic objectives. On appointment, the 
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met the 
independence criteria set out under the Code and 
confirmed that they have sufficient time available to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively. Non-Executive 
Directors are appointed for an initial three year term, subject 
to re-election by shareholders at each AGM, after which 
their appointment may be extended, subject to mutual 
agreement. All members of the Board will retire and seek 
re-election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, with the 
exception of James Morley. Marie-Louise Clayton will seek 
election by shareholders having joined the Board at the 
beginning of the year. 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which is set out in 
writing and has been approved by the Board: 
Chairman Chief Executive Officer 
– Leading the Board – Running day-to-day 
business  
– Ensuring Board 
effectiveness 
– Implementing Board 
strategy  
– Promoting high standards 
of corporate governance 
 
The Non-Executive Directors have a vital role in ensuring  
that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are 
appropriately discussed and constructively challenged. They 
help scrutinise the performance of management against the 
agreed goals and strategic objectives of the Board and 
monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial information 
and systems of risk control and management. In addition, 
they are responsible for considering and approving  
executive remuneration. The Chairman maintains direct 
communication with each of the Non-Executive Directors 
without the Executive Directors present where necessary. 
Powers of the Board 
The Board meets regularly with at least four scheduled 
meetings each year plus additional meetings where 
required to address matters arising outside the normal 
course of business. The Non-Executive Directors serve on a 
number of committees established by the Board. More 
information regarding Board and committee meetings can 
be found on pages 55 and 56. 
The Board has powers and duties as set out in all relevant 
laws and the Company’s articles of association (the 
Articles). Amendments to the Articles may be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters 
it reserves for its own decision-making, such as decisions 
relating to:  
– strategy and management 
– financial reporting and controls 
– shareholder communications 
– executive remuneration 
  www.clarksons.com 53
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
www.clarksons.com  53 
– the Group’s corporate and capital structure 
– material contracts 
– Board and other senior management appointments  
and membership of Board committees 
– corporate governance procedures and other  
Group policies 
Procedure to deal with Directors’ conflicts of interest 
A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she 
has a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. The Board may 
authorise any potential conflicts, where appropriate, in 
accordance with the Articles. The Company has 
established comprehensive procedures for the disclosure  
of any such conflicts by Directors, and for the consideration 
and authorisation of these by the Board. The Board 
considers each conflict on its particular facts and in the 
context of the other duties owed by the Director to the 
Company. The Board regularly reviews and monitors 
potential conflicts of interest.  
Jeff Woyda, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating 
Officer, is a Non-Executive Director of the International 
Transport Intermediaries Club (ITIC). During the year, Jeff 
Woyda received £16,600 remuneration for serving as a 
Non-Executive Director of ITIC. 
Where a potential or possible conflict of interest arises, a 
Director will declare their interest and not participate in the 
decision-making process in respect of the relevant business. 
Effectiveness 
Succession planning 
There are currently nine Directors on the Board of Clarkson 
PLC. The structure of the Board is regularly reviewed and 
we seek to appoint the best candidate for each vacancy. 
The Board oversees the Group’s senior management 
succession plan to ensure that there are appropriate skills 
and experience within the Company and on the Board. 
The process for Board appointments is led by the 
nomination committee which, in accordance with its terms 
of reference, evaluates the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge on the Board and makes 
recommendations for appointments to the Board. 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term. 
Details of their service contracts can be found on page 63.  
A report on the work carried out by the nomination 
committee during the year is set out on page 56. 
Director induction, training and support 
A careful assessment is made of the time commitment 
required from the Chairman and the Non-Executive 
Directors to discharge their roles properly and, on 
appointment, new Directors are provided with a tailored 
induction programme relating to the Company’s business. 
All Directors are encouraged to regularly update and refresh 
their skills and knowledge by attending seminars and 
training sessions. During the annual Board evaluation 
process, the Directors have the opportunity to highlight any 
areas in which they feel professional development would be 
beneficial, either individually or as a unit. The Board has 
access to the Company Secretary who provides advice on 
corporate governance matters. 
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the 
Board has access to the information it requires and that 
such information is supplied in a timely manner and is of 
appropriate quality to enable Directors to discharge their 
duties effectively. In addition, Directors may take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s  
expense in the course of discharging their duties. 
The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding 
board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for 
other Directors when required. 
The Company purchased and maintained directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance throughout 2016 and it will be 
maintained throughout 2017. 
Performance evaluation 
An external Board evaluation was conducted by 
Boardroom Review Limited for the year ended 31 
December 2016.  
In preparation for the exercise, the Chairman and Company 
Secretary considered a number of Board evaluation 
consultancies and the range of services which they provide. 
Boardroom Review Limited was deemed to be the most 
suitable to conduct the review. 
Following the evaluation review, the Board, its committees 
and individual Directors, were considered to be well-
functioning and effective. In terms of the evaluation process, 
this focused on the following areas: basics (use of time, 
quality of information, operation, support); contribution 
(culture, dynamics, composition); and areas and depth  
of engagement (strategy, risk and control, performance 
management, stakeholder communications).  
The review noted that there were particular strengths in the 
Board’s positive culture, relevant composition and size, 
shared perspective on strategy, oversight of risk and 
control, approach to remuneration and talent management 
and communication with shareholders. Areas identified for 
further consideration include the Board’s longer-term 
engagement with strategy, composition and succession 
planning and the use of time. 
It should be noted that there are no connections between 
the Company and Boardroom Review Limited other than 
the services provided in relation to the evaluation review. 
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director, Peter Backhouse, have also 
conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman, 
taking into account the views of the Executive Directors. 
The review concluded that the Chairman continues to be 
effective in his role. 
Appointment of Directors 
Following amendment at the 2015 AGM, the Articles now 
provide that all Directors shall retire from office and, subject 
to satisfactory performance, are put forward for re-election 
at each AGM. Shareholders are provided with 
comprehensive information about the Directors subject to 
election and re-election, including their commitment to the 
role, in the notice of AGM.  
James Morley will retire from the Board at the 2017  
AGM when he reaches nine years’ service as a Non-
Executive Director. 
  54 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Corporate governance statement / continued 
54  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Accountability 
The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term 
success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders, 
assessing the Company’s position and prospects, and for 
ensuring that the information presented to shareholders is 
fair, balanced and understandable. Further details of 
Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Company’s 
financial statements are set out in the Directors’ 
responsibilities statement on page 75. 
The Board is responsible for: 
– determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing 
to take in achieving its strategic objectives; 
– maintaining the Company’s system of internal controls 
and risk management; and  
– reviewing the effectiveness of these systems annually. 
The audit committee is responsible for the independent 
review and challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of 
the risk management approach and for reporting its findings 
to the Board. 
Risk management and internal control 
Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of 
the Company’s business activities, which is undertaken 
using a practical and flexible framework, providing a 
consistent and sustained approach to risk evaluation. 
The Board has established policies and risk management 
procedures together with key controls, which are reviewed 
in accordance with applicable regulations and best practice 
guidelines, to ensure that they continue to be effective and 
protect the Company’s stakeholders. 
The Company’s internal control system encompasses 
controls over areas including financial reporting, operations, 
compliance and risk management procedures. Such a 
system is designed to evaluate and manage rather than 
eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with 
both annual and regular forecasts being considered and 
approved by the Board and monthly monitoring of trading 
results taking place in order to mitigate risks associated 
with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements. An established compliance, legal and 
governance process is in place to monitor regulatory 
developments and to ensure that all existing and 
forthcoming regulations are complied with. 
In addition to compliance with the Code, as required for all 
listed entities, the regulated entities in the Group are all 
governed by the respective regulators in their jurisdictions. 
Regulated entities include Clarksons Platou Securities AS 
(CPSA) and Clarksons Platou Project Sales AS (CPPSA), 
both of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Supervisory Authority of Norway. Through its affiliation with 
the US entity Clarksons Platou Securities Inc., a Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulated entity, CPSA 
adheres to best practice in respect of the SEC rules. Each 
of these regulatory bodies incorporates rules and practices 
which require all registered firms to adhere to high 
standards of corporate governance. 
The Company issues a Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics, to which all staff are expected to adhere, in order 
to maintain Clarksons’ status as a responsible and 
trustworthy business. 
All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with 
Group policies and for identifying risks within their business 
areas and to ensure that these risks are controlled and 
monitored in the appropriate way. 
The Board has established arrangements by which 
employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing in 
financial reporting or other matters. The audit committee 
regularly reviews this arrangement.  
The Board, with advice from the audit committee, has 
carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control and risk management and 
confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the Group’s principal risks has operated 
throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of 
this annual report. Please refer to pages 40 to 41 for more 
details on the principal risks facing the business and the 
mitigation in place. 
Board engagement with investors and 
relations with shareholders 
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to 
communicate directly with the Board and encourages  
their participation. The Company’s AGM will be held on  
12 May 2017 at the Company’s office in Commodity 
Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF. Further 
details of the business to be addressed at the meeting 
can be found in the notice of meeting. 
The Executive Directors meet regularly with the 
Company’s major shareholders and make presentations 
to analysts, institutional investors and investment 
managers following the announcement of the interim 
and full year results.  
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet 
with shareholders and institutional investors as required. 
We primarily communicate with shareholders via the 
Company’s annual and interim reports and the 
Company’s website on which the Company publishes 
its trading updates and other news released to the 
London Stock Exchange. 
For shareholder information see page 74 or visit 
www.clarksons.com/investors.  www.clarksons.com 55
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Governance Board committees  
www.clarksons.com   55 
Board committees 
The Board is supported by the audit, nomination and 
remuneration committees. The responsibilities of each 
committee are set out in their respective terms of 
reference, which are approved by the Board  
and available on the Company’s website at 
http://www.clarksons.com/investors/financial-calendar/. 
The attendance of the Directors at Board and committee meetings during the 
year was as follows: 
 Board 
Audit 
committee 
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee
Total number of meetings 
held in the year 8 3 3 3
James Hughes-Hallett 8 3* 3 3
Peter Backhouse 8 3 3 3
Andi Case 8 1* 2* 1*
Marie-Louise Clayton – 
1
 – ² – 
3
–
Peter M. Anker 7 – – –
Birger Nergaard 6 – 3 –
James Morley 8 3 3 3
Ed Warner 7 3 3 3
Jeff Woyda 8 3* 2* 1*
* Attends by invitation only. 
1 Appointed 1 January 2017. 
2 Appointed 2 March 2017. 
3 Appointed 7 March 2017. 
 
 
 
 
Audit committee 
 
James Morley (Chair) 
Peter Backhouse 
Marie-Louise Clayton (appointed 2 March 2017) 
Ed Warner 
 
The audit committee is chaired by James Morley. James 
has been a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the audit 
committee for the last nine years and will retire from the 
Board at the AGM which will take place on 12 May 2017. 
Marie-Louise Clayton, who joined the Board on  
1 January 2017 and the committee on 2 March 2017, 
will succeed him as Chair of the committee. Both James 
and Marie-Louise have been deemed by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience. 
The committee assists the Board by: 
– monitoring the integrity of the Group’s  
financial statements; 
– reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of 
internal control and risk management; 
– monitoring the objectivity, effectiveness and 
performance of the external Auditors; 
– examining the adequacy and security of the 
Company’s arrangements for employees to raise 
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing  
in financial reporting;  
– reviewing the Company’s systems and controls for the 
prevention of bribery; and 
– assessing reports from the Compliance and Money 
Laundering Officer. 
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and 
other senior managers may be invited to attend meetings 
when appropriate. The external Auditors are invited to 
attend on a regular basis. The committee meets  
privately with the external Auditors in the absence  
of management.  
Further details on the work of the audit committee are 
shown in the report on pages 72 and 73. 
Clarkson PLC Board 
James Hughes-Hallett (Chairman)
Peter Backhouse (Senior Independent Director)
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee
Audit  
committee
James Morley (Chair)
Peter Backhouse
Marie-Louise Clayton
1
Ed Warner
1 Appointed 2 March 2017.
2 Appointed 7 March 2017.
James Hughes-Hallett 
(Chair)
Peter Backhouse
James Morley
Ed Warner
Ed Warner (Chair)
Peter Backhouse
Marie-Louise Clayton
2
James Hughes-Hallett
James Morley
Birger Nergaard 56 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Board committees / continued 
56  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Nomination committee 
 
James Hughes-Hallett (Chair)  
Peter Backhouse 
James Morley  
Ed Warner  
 
 
The committee is chaired by James Hughes-Hallett, 
except when the committee is dealing with the matter of 
succession to the chairmanship.  
Responsibilities and activities of the committee include: 
– regular reviews of the structure, size and  
composition of the Board (including the skills, 
knowledge and experience); 
– leading the process for Board and committee 
appointments; and 
– recommending appointments to the Board based on 
the balance of skills and experience.  
The committee gives full consideration to planning for 
future succession to the Board, in particular for the key 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other 
senior executives. 
Clarksons recognises and embraces the benefits of a 
diverse Board. The committee will consider suitable 
candidates for Board appointments on the basis of  
a wide range of criteria including personal merit, ability, 
knowledge, experience and independence. This is to 
ensure that we are appointing the best possible candidate 
for each vacancy and to ensure a well-balanced Board. 
Spencer Stewart & Associates Limited, an executive 
search and recruitment specialist, were engaged to 
assist with the appointment of a new Non-Executive 
Director. After a rigorous search and interview process, 
the committee recommended the appointment of Marie-
Louise Clayton to the Board. There are no other 
connections between Spencer Stewart and Clarksons. 
Remuneration committee 
 
Ed Warner (Chair) 
Peter Backhouse 
Marie-Louise Clayton (appointed 7 March 2017) 
James Hughes-Hallett 
James Morley 
Birger Nergaard 
 
The committee is chaired by Ed Warner and is 
responsible for determining, in conjunction with the 
Board, the framework or broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, 
Executive Directors, Company Secretary and such other 
members of the executive management that it is 
designated to consider.  
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is reviewed 
by the Chairman and the executive members of the 
Board. No Director or manager is involved in any 
decisions regarding their own remuneration. 
James Morley will step down from the committee when 
he retires from the Board at the AGM which will take 
place on 12 May 2017. Marie-Louise Clayton joined the 
Board on 1 January 2017 and the committee on 7 
March 2017. 
Further details regarding the work of the remuneration 
committee are contained within the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 57 to 71.  
  www.clarksons.com 57
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Governance Directors’ remuneration report 
www.clarksons.com   57 
 
Ed Warner 
Remuneration committee Chairman 
Annual statement 
I am pleased to introduce, on beha lf of the Board, the Directors’ 
remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2016, 
which summarises the Company’s performance and the 
resulting remuneration for the year. 
This report will be subject to two shareholder votes at the 
forthcoming AGM: 
– the current Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by 
shareholders at our AGM in 2014 and, therefore, we are 
required to put a resolution to shareholders at the AGM in 
2017 to approve a new policy. In 2016 the remuneration 
committee carried out a review of executive remuneration 
and concluded that the current policy remains fit for purpose 
and therefore, except for a strengthening of the share 
ownership guidelines, no material changes are proposed. 
This report sets out the proposed remuneration policy for the 
Company, which will be subject to shareholder approval. 
Following approval, it would operate from 1 January 2017 
and become formally effective from the 2017 AGM. 
– the annual report on remuneration will be subject to an 
advisory vote; this provides details of how the policy for 
2017 will be operated and the remuneration earned by 
Directors in the year ended 31 December 2016. 
We hope that you will be able to support both resolutions at the 
AGM on 12 May 2017. 
Performance and reward for 2016 
The performance bonuses are lower than last year reflecting the 
slight reduction in profit.  
The challenging EPS targets set under the LTIP granted in 2014 
have not been achieved, and consequently, all conditional 
shares awarded against this target will lapse. TSR performance 
has however exceeded the base target, and therefore a 
proportion of conditional shares, awarded against the TSR 
targets will vest. Overall, 15% of the conditional shares awarded 
will vest. 
The Executive Directors have again made a sacrifice of a 
proportion of the bonuses they were eligible to receive, to 
enable the Company to reward other senior members of staff. 
The amount sacrificed has fluctuated over the past five years, 
and amounted to 5% of the enti tlement in 2016. There were no 
changes in base salaries during the year.  
Remuneration policy 2017 
As mentioned above, the committee undertook a 
comprehensive review of senior executive remuneration at the 
Company and found that the curre nt structure comprising base 
salary, benefits, a profit-related annual bonus and annual 
awards of performance shares remains appropriate. The 
committee has, however, strengthened the alignment between 
executives and shareholders by increasing the share ownership 
guideline for all Executive Directors. 
The remuneration policy at Clarksons has been designed to 
attract and retain the best talent in our markets, while at the 
same time ensuring a close alignment between the interests  
of shareholders and management. There is a consistent 
approach to the application of the remuneration policy across 
the whole Company. 
The overarching objectives of the remuneration policy are to 
ensure rewards are performance-based and encourage long-
term shareholder value creation. Therefore, the policy for senior 
executives is directly linked to the achievement of the 
Company’s business strategy; it drives long-term growth, 
encourages share ownership and secures high calibre leaders.  
The major elements of the Executive Directors’ reward 
structures are as follows:- 
– Fixed pay comprising base salary, benefits and pension with 
increases expected to be in line with the general workforce 
but with flexibility to increase beyond this in certain 
circumstances:  
– An annual bonus closely linked to the Company’s adjusted 
pre-tax profits for the year, in li ne with typical practice in the 
industry. The bonus is structured whereby a lower threshold 
is set below which no bonuses are earned, with higher 
hurdles which trigger increased bonus rates; 
– For 2017, consistent with previous years, the Directors have 
agreed that 10% of annual bo nuses are paid in Clarkson 
PLC shares that are deferred for four years. There will be no 
change in Executive Director salaries; and 
– Annual awards of performance shares subject to stretching 
EPS growth targets and a relative total shareholder return 
measure, as will apply in 2017. 
All Executive Directors are shareholders in Clarksons and 
accordingly understand the imperative to deliver long-term 
returns for the Company’s owners. Their short-term rewards 
are directly aligned to the profitability of the Company. 
Shareholder views 
The remuneration committee takes shareholder engagement 
seriously and actively seeks shareholder views on all 
remuneration matters. 
We believe the principles underlying our new policy continue  
to be correct ones for a business such as Clarksons and  
I commend this remuneration policy to you. Should you  
have any questions, please contact me through the  
Company Secretary. 
 
Ed Warner 
Remuneration committee Chairman 
10 March 2017   58 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
58  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Directors’ remuneration policy 
The remuneration policy (the policy) will be put to a binding 
shareholder vote at the AGM on 12 May 2017 and, subject to 
approval, the new policy will take formal effect from that date 
(replacing the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 
2014 AGM). It is intended that th e policy will be in force for a 
period of three years from the date of approval.  
There are no substantial changes proposed to the current 
executive remuneration structure, other than to increase the 
share ownership guidelines from 100% of salary to 200% of 
salary for the Chief Executive Officer and from 100% to 150% 
of salary for other Executive Directors. The increases are in  
line with current investor sentiment and provide even  
closer alignment between the interests of the executives  
and shareholders. 
How the remuneration committee operates 
to set the remuneration policy 
The remuneration committee is responsible, on behalf of the 
Board, for: 
– setting the senior executives’ remuneration policy and  
actual remuneration; 
– reviewing the design of all shar e incentive plans for approval 
by the Board and shareholders; and 
– approving the design of, and recommending targets for, any 
performance-related pay schemes the Company operates 
for senior executives. 
The remuneration committee encourages dialogue with 
shareholders and takes into account their views when setting 
the policy. 
Summary of overall remuneration policy 
The objectives of the policy are to ensure that executive 
rewards are linked to performance, to provide an incentive to 
achieve the key business aims, deliver an appropriate link 
between reward and performance and to maintain a reasonable 
relationship of rewards to those offered in other competitor 
companies in order to attract, retain and motivate executives 
within a framework of what is acceptable to shareholders.  
We maintain a strong focus on ensuring that executives are 
incentivised to drive economic profit as well as being rewarded 
for creating sustainable value.
There are few comparable UK public companies involved solely 
in the business of providing shipping and related wholesale 
financial services. Comparisons are therefore made with City-
based companies and private companies in the shipping 
sector, many of which are headquartered overseas. In the 
highly competitive global labour market which operates within 
the shipping services sector where business is based around 
personal client relationships, the retention of key talent is critical 
to continued business success. Remuneration levels are set to 
attract and retain the best tale nt and to ensure that market 
competitive rewards are available for the delivery of strong 
business and personal performance within an appropriate  
risk framework. 
It is recognised by the remune ration committee that the current 
management team is highly regarded and would be attractive 
to Clarksons’ competitors in the shipping industry and, 
increasingly, wholesale brokerage and agency businesses. 
Retention of key talent in this context is critical, whilst 
recognising the need for appropriate succession planning. 
The proportionate breakdown of the total remuneration is such 
that, in line with most other wholesale brokerage and agency 
companies, a very high proportion of the package is 
performance-related. Where an Executive Director’s role 
includes revenue generating broking responsibilities, the bonus 
may recognise this, in addition to the duties and responsibilities 
incumbent with the role of an Executive Director. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Company is committed to maintaining good 
communications with investors. The remuneration committee 
takes on board investors’ views and maintains open dialogue, 
giving shareholders the opportunity to raise any issues or 
concerns they may have. In addition, the remuneration 
committee would engage directly with major shareholders 
should any material changes be made to the Directors’ 
remuneration policy or in the way in which it is being 
implemented. 
Details of the votes cast in respect of the resolutions to approve 
last year’s remuneration report and any matters discussed with 
shareholders during 2016 are set out in the annual report on 
remuneration on page 71. 
   www.clarksons.com 59
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   59 
Remuneration policy report 
Key elements of remuneration policy are set out below: 
 
Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework 
Base salary – To attract and 
retain high 
performing 
Executive 
Directors who are 
critical for the 
business 
– Set at a level to 
provide a core 
reward for the role 
and cover 
essential living 
costs 
– Normally reviewed annually 
– Paid monthly 
– Salaries are determined taking 
into account: 
– the experience, 
responsibility, effectiveness 
and market value of the 
executive 
– the pay and conditions in 
the workforce 
– There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase. The committee 
is guided by the general increase 
for the broader workforce but on 
occasion may recognise an 
increase in certain circumstances, 
such as assumed additional 
responsibility or an increase in the 
scale or scope of the role or in the 
case of a new executive, a move 
towards the desired rate over a 
period of time where salary was 
initially set below the intended 
positioning 
n/a 
Benefits  – To provide a 
market standard 
suite of basic 
benefits in kind to 
ensure the 
Executive 
Directors’ well-
being 
– Taxable benefits may include: 
– car allowance 
– healthcare insurance 
– club membership 
– Participation in HMRC 
approved (or equivalent) 
schemes 
– Other benefits may be 
payable where appropriate 
– Any reasonable business- 
related expenses (including 
tax thereon) may be 
reimbursed if determined to 
be a taxable benefit 
– A car allowance in line with 
market norm. The value of other 
benefits is based on the cost to 
the Company and is not 
predetermined 
– HMRC (or equivalent) scheme 
participation up to prevailing 
scheme limits 
n/a 
Annual bonus  
(including 
deferred 
shares) 
– To reward 
significant annual 
profit 
performance 
– To ensure that the 
bonus plan is 
competitive with 
our peers. As a 
result, bonus 
forms a significant 
proportion of the 
remuneration 
package 
– To ensure that if 
there is a 
reduction in 
profitability, the 
level of bonus 
payable falls away 
sharply 
– 90% of the bonus is paid in 
cash and, although they have 
no contractual obligation, the 
Directors have agreed that 
10% of annual bonus payable 
is deferred in shares, vesting 
after four years 
– Directors have voting rights 
and receive dividends on 
deferred shares 
– Performance criteria are 
reviewed and re-calibrated 
carefully each year to ensure 
they are linked to strategic 
business goals, take full 
account of economic 
conditions and are sufficiently 
demanding to control the total 
bonus pool and individual 
allocations 
– Clawback provision operates 
for overpayments due to 
misstatement or error 
– In line with Clarksons’ peers, the 
annual bonus is not subject to a 
formal individual cap. This policy, 
which is contractual for the 
current Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Operating Officer 
encourages the maximisation of 
profit, and ensures that Executive 
Directors are aligned with all 
stakeholders in the business 
– Bonus is determined by Group 
performance measured over one year 
on the following basis: 
– below a ‘profit floor’ set by the 
committee each year no bonus  
is triggered 
– above the floor, an escalating 
percentage of profits is payable into 
a bonus pool for progressively 
higher profit before tax performance 
– profit for bonus calculations may be 
adjusted by the remuneration 
committee where appropriate and 
does not include mark-to-market 
valuations or business that has  
not been invoiced  
– for Executive Directors with revenue 
generating broking responsibilities, 
a further key determinant of the 
annual bonus is the significance of 
personally generated broking 
revenues 
– a proportion of an individual’s share 
of the bonus pool may be based on 
the achievement of personal 
objectives set by the remuneration 
committee at the start of the year 
  60 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
60  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Remuneration policy report continued 
 
Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework 
Long-term 
incentives  
– To incentivise and 
reward significant long-
term financial 
performance and share 
price performance 
relative to the stock 
market 
– To encourage share 
ownership and provide 
further alignment with 
shareholders 
– Awards are performance-related 
and are normally structured as nil 
cost options 
– Awards are granted each year 
following the publication of annual 
results 
– Clawback provision operates for 
overpayments due to 
misstatement or error 
– Annual maximum limit of 
150% of basic salary for 
awards subject to long-term 
performance targets (200% of 
basic salary in exceptional 
circumstances) 
– Dividend equivalents (in cash 
or shares) may accrue 
between grant and vesting, to 
the extent that shares under 
award ultimately vest 
– Currently, the awards are 
subject to performance 
conditions measured on a 
combination of three year EPS 
growth and relative TSR 
– The committee may introduce 
new measures or reweight the 
current EPS and TSR 
performance measures so 
that they are directly aligned 
with the Company’s strategic 
objectives for each 
performance period 
– Normally measured over a 
three year performance period
– 25% of an award will vest for 
achieving threshold 
performance, increasing pro-
rata to full vesting for the 
achievement of stretch 
performance targets 
Pension – To provide a market 
competitive pension 
arrangement 
– Executive Directors participate in a 
Company defined contribution 
pension scheme and/or receive a 
cash allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions 
– Employer contributions are  
up to 15% of basic salary or 
an equivalent cash allowance 
net of employer’s NI 
n/a 
Non-Executive 
Directors’  
fees 
– To attract and retain high 
calibre Non-Executive 
Directors through the 
provision of market 
competitive fees 
– Reviewed annually 
– Paid monthly 
– Fees are determined taking into 
account: 
– the experience, responsibility, 
effectiveness and time 
commitments of the Non-
Executive Directors 
– the pay and conditions in the 
workforce 
– Additional fees may be payable in 
relation to extra responsibilities 
undertaken such as chairing a 
Board committee and/or a Senior 
Independent Director role or being 
a member of a committee 
– Any reasonable business-related 
expenses (including tax thereon) 
can be reimbursed if determined 
to be a taxable benefit 
– As for the Executive Directors 
there is no prescribed 
maximum annual increase. 
Fee increases are guided by 
the general increase for 
the broader workforce but on 
occasion may recognise 
an increase in certain 
circumstances, such 
as assumed additional 
responsibility or an increase in 
the scale or scope of the role 
n/a 
Share 
ownership 
guidelines 
– To provide alignment 
between the longer-term 
interests of Directors and 
shareholders 
– Executive Directors are expected 
to build up and maintain 
shareholdings in the Company 
– Executives are required to retain at 
least half of the net of tax vested 
number of shares awarded and 
received until the guideline has 
been achieved 
– Chief Executive Officer: 200% 
of salary 
– Other Executive Directors: 
150% of salary 
n/a 
1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the above policy for 2017 is set out in the annual report on remunerati on on page 64.  
2 The 2017 annual bonus is focused on profit before taxation (PBT) performance. PBT is a key financial metric and is used to re flect how successful the Company has been in 
managing its operations. 
 The long-term incentive plan (LTIP) performance measures, earnings per share (EPS) and total shareholder return (TSR), reward significant long-term returns to shareholders 
and long-term financial growth. EPS growth is derived from the audited financial statements while TSR performance is monitored on the remuneration committee’s behalf by 
New Bridge Street.  www.clarksons.com 61
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   61 
 Targets are set on a sliding scale that takes account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company. Only modest rewards are available for 
achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring su bstantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans appro ved at the start of each year. 
3 The committee operates the annual bonus and LTIPs according to their respective rules, and in accordance with the Listing Rul es and HMRC rules where relevant. 
 Consistent with market practice, the committee retains flexibility and discretions in a number of key areas. 
4 The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole and is consistent between the 
Executive Directors and the remainder of the workforce. The annual bonus plan operates on a similar profit-driven basis across the Group and there is a relatively high level 
of employee share ownership. The key differences in policy for Executive Directors relate to participating in the LTIP awards, which have strict vesting conditions. This is 
considered appropriate to provide a link for a proportion of performance pay with the longer-term strategy thereby creating str onger alignment of interest with shareholders. 
The committee does not formally consult with employees in respec t of the design of the Company’s Executive Director remuneratio n policy, although the committee will 
keep this under review. 
5 For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ remuneration policy, authority was given to the Company to honour an y commitments entered into in the previous 
remuneration policy or with current or former Directors (such as, the payment of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past s hare awards) that have been disclosed in 
previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise. 
Directors’ remuneration scenarios 
The Company’s remuneration policy results in a proportionate breakdown of total remunera tion such that, in line with most other wholesale brokerage 
and agency companies, a very high proporti on of the package is performance-related. 
The charts below show an estimate of the potential remuneration payable for the Executive Directors in office on 1 January 2017 at different levels of 
performance. The charts highlight that the performance-related elements of the package comprise a highly significant portion of the Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration at target and maximum performance. 
 
1 Basic salary levels applying on 1 January 2017. 
2 The value of taxable benefits is estimated at 2016 values. 
3 The value of the pension receivable is up to 15% of basic salary. 
4 - Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP;  
 - on-target performance assumes an annual bonus calculated by reference to market expectations at the start of 2017 and 50% be ing achieved under the LTIP; and 
 - maximum performance assumes profit before taxation outperforms consensus and full vesting under the LTIP. It should, however , be noted that there is in fact no upper 
limit as explained on page 59 and the above charts are purely for illustrative purposes. 
5 Share price movement has been excluded from the above analysis. 
  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Minimum
On target
Maximum
408
1,408
1,727
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
100%
29%
24%
52%
46%
19%
30%
£000
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Minimum
On target
Maximum
640
4,474
5,152
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
100%
15%
13%
76%
71%
9%
16%
£000
President of Broking and 
Investment Banking 
Minimum
On target
Maximum
385
1,385
2,254
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
100%
29%
18%
52%
59% 23%
£000
19% 62 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
62  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Directors’ recruitment and promotions  
The remuneration committee has the objective to attract and retain the best talent in our market s, while at the same time ensur ing executive pay is 
aligned to the corporate plan and business goals as well as supporting the interests of shareholders. 
If a new Executive Director was appointed, the Company would seek to align the remuneration pack age with the remuneration policy approved by 
shareholders, including the maximum limit for the LTIP and an a nnual bonus pool entitlement in line with the existing policy. A n LTIP award could be 
made shortly following an appointment (assumi ng the Company is not in a close period). 
Flexibility is retained to offer remuneration on appointment in respect of remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a pre vious employer. The 
committee will look to replicate the arrang ements being forfeited as closely as possible and, in doing so, will take account of relevant factors including the 
nature of the deferred remuneration, perfor mance conditions and the time over which they would have vested or been paid.  
The initial notice period for a service contr act may be longer than the policy of one year, provided it reduces to one year wit hin a short space of time. 
For an internal appointment, any ongo ing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue. 
The remuneration committee may also agree th at the Company will meet certain relocatio n and incidental expenses as appropriate. 
Directors’ service contracts and payments for loss of office 
The remuneration committee reviews the cont ractual terms for Executive Directors in light of developments in best practice and trends in our sector. The 
remuneration-related elements of the current contracts for Executive Directors are shown in the table below: 
Provision Detailed terms 
Notice period One year by the Company or the Director. 
Termination payment Chief Executive Officer: 
The Company may elect to pay in lieu of notice: 
– an amount equivalent to 12 months’ base salary plus the cost of contractual benefits; plus 
– an amount equivalent to 50% of the last bonus received. 
In addition: 
– if not already paid, any bonus in respect of the prior year is payable (if not agreed, an amount equal to the last bonus 
received); and 
– a pro-rated bonus for the period of the year worked is payable. 
 Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer: 
The Company may elect to pay in lieu of notice: 
– an amount equivalent to base salary, benefits and bonus for the relevant period of notice. 
 President of Broking and Investment Banking: 
The Company may elect to pay in lieu of notice: 
– an amount equivalent to base salary and contractua l benefits for the relevant period of notice only. 
 The remuneration committee recognises that it is unusual in the context of list ed PLCs to pay an amount in lieu of annual 
bonus for the notice period for the Chief Executive Officer an d the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer but 
considers that the policy is appropriate for the following reasons: 
– salary forms a lower proportion of remuneration than in most other UK companies; 
– typically, in the shipbroking industry, income from business conducted is received over a number of years in arrears; 
– bonuses are only payable if profit thresholds and targets are achieved i.e. there is no automatic entitlement to a bonus; and 
– unvested awards under the LTIP are capable of vesting subject to performance. 
For unvested entitlements to share awards under the 2004 Clarkson LTIP which reached the end of its ten year life in May 
2014, the rules contain discretionary provisio ns setting out the treatment of awards wh ere a participant ceases to be employed 
by the Group for designated reasons. In th e case of the participant’s injury, disability, statutory redundancy, retirement, a sale 
of their employing company or business in which they were employed or for any other reason at the discretion of the 
committee, the participant’s awards will no t be forfeited but will vest on the date of cessation of employment, subject to the 
satisfaction of the relevant performance cond itions. In the case of a participant’s death, any unvested awards will vest in full on 
the date of cessation. 
For unvested entitlements to share awards under the 2014 Clarkson LTIP, where a participant ceases to be employed by  
the Group due to ill-health, injury, disabili ty, redundancy, retirement, a sale of his employing company or business or for any 
other reason at the discretion of the committee (good leaver ci rcumstance), then he will be en titled to keep his award as 
described below: 
– performance-related awards will normally vest at the normal vesting dates (unless the remuneration committee determines 
that they should vest upon ce ssation) subject to the satisfaction of the releva nt performance conditions and time pro-rating 
(unless the remuneration committee decides to disapply time pro-rating). In the case of, death or ill-health, awards will vest 
at cessation subject to the rele vant performance conditions; and 
– deferred bonus awards will vest in full.  www.clarksons.com 63
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   63 
 
Provision Detailed terms 
Change of control Chief Executive Officer: 
If, within 18 months of a change of co ntrol, the Company gives the Chief Executi ve Officer notice (except for reasons of 
gross misconduct or material breach of contract) or the Chief Executive Officer gives notice as a result of a material breach 
of his contract or the Company limits his ability to earn futu re bonuses, the Chief Executive Officer will, within 30 days of 
termination, receive an amount equivalent to one year’s basic salary, 150% of the last annual bonus received and the gross 
annual value of contractual benefits (pro-r ated). In these circumstances, the Chief Ex ecutive Officer’s notice period is reduce d 
to four weeks. 
 
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer: 
Within one year of a change of control the executive or the Co mpany may give notice (of not less than four weeks in the case 
of the former) whereupon the executive will receive immediately an amount equivalent to one year’s basic salary, contractual 
benefits, employer pension contributions and annual bonus. 
 
President of Broking and Investment Banking: 
No change of control provisions exist. 
 
All unvested awards under the 2004 Clarkson LTIP would vest, to the extent that any performance conditions attaching to the 
relevant award have been achieved. 
All unvested awards under the 2014 Clarkson LTIP would vest, in respect of perf ormance–related awards, the extent of 
vesting would be subject to any performance conditions attach ing to the relevant award have been achieved and any time 
pro-rating applied at the discretion of the remuneration committee. 
In August 2008 it was contractually agreed with the current Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Jeff Woyda, 
that no time pro-rating will be applied to his LTIP awards. 
The remuneration committee recognises that it is now unusual, in the context of listed PLCs, for service contracts to contain 
change of control provisions and will therefore seek to avoid su ch provisions for future executive appointments to the Board. 
 
Details of the current Executive Directors’ service contracts  
are as follows: Date of contract Unexpired term  Notice period 
Andi Case 17 June 2008 12 months 12 months
Jeff Woyda 3 October 2006 12 months 12 months
Peter M. Anker 27 November 2014 12 months 12 months
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.  
Details of the Non-Executive Directors’ appointment terms  
are as follows: Date of appointment
Unexpired term at  
31 December 2016  Notice period
James Hughes-Hallett 20 August 2014 8 months 3 months
Peter Backhouse 16 September 2013 33 months 3 months
Ed Warner 27 June 2008 6 months 3 months
James Morley 5 November 2008 11 months 3 months
Birger Nergaard 2 February 2015 14 months 3 months
Marie-Louise Clayton  1 January 2017 N/A 3 months
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letter of appointment fo r a fixed term not exceeding three years, renewable on the agr eement of both the 
Company and the Director and are subject to re-election at each AGM. Each appointment ca n be terminated before the end of the t hree-year period with 
three months’ notice due. 
Fees payable for a new Non-Executive Director appointment will take into account the experience of the individual and the curre nt fee structure.  64 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
64  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Annual report on remuneration 
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2017 
Base salary  
1 January 2017
1 January 2016 
(or appointment if later) % change
Andi Case GBP 550,000 GBP 550,000 0%
Jeff Woyda GBP 350,000 GBP 350,000 0%
Peter M. Anker* NOK 4,015,000 NOK 4,015,000 0%
* Fixed in NOK as £350,000 at NOK/GBP 11.4723 at 2 February 2015 being the date Peter M. Anker joined the Board. 
In particular there has been a widespread salary freeze for empl oyees earning salaries of £100,0 00 p.a. or more. In contrast, s alaries for lower paid employees have generally 
increased (on average across the population) each year. 
Annual bonus for 2017 
For 2017, the annual bonus opportunity will remain on the same ba sis as previous years and will continue to be based on a bonus pool derived from 
Group profit before tax as follows: 
– below a ‘profit floor’ set by the committee no bonus is triggered; and 
– above the floor, an escalating percentage of profits is payable into a bonus pool for progressively higher profit before tax pe rformance. 
Profit for bonus calculations may be adjusted by the remuneration committee where appropriate and do not include mark-to-market valuations or 
business that has not been invoiced. 
The profit floor and challenges for 2017 have not been disclosed on a prospective basis as these are considered to be commercia lly sensitive although 
disclosure will be provided retrospectively. The threshold and maximum targets are higher than those that applied for 2016. 
Consistent with the policy applied to the majority of senior em ployees, 90% of the bonus payable will be paid in cash with 10% deferred into restricted 
shares vesting four years after grant. Execu tive Directors have agreed to this deferr al, although they have no contractual obli gation to defer bonuses. 
Clawback provisions will continue to apply as previously highlighted, in circumstances of misstatement or error. 
Long-term incentive awards to be granted in 2017 
Consistent with past practice, it is envisaged that: 
– Executive Directors will receive LTIP awards over shares worth up to 150% of salary in 2017. 
– the vesting of 50% of the awards will be determined by the Company’s EPS for 31 Dece mber 2019, as shown in chart (i) below. The EPS for 2016 is 
shown (black line) for reference; and 
– the vesting of the remaining 50% will be determined by the Company’s TSR performa nce from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019 ag ainst the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excludi ng investment trusts), as shown in chart (ii) below. The level of total shareholder return achieved against 
the FTSE 250 Index over the last three year cycle is shown (black line) for reference. 
EPS and relative TSR are considered to be the most appropriate m easures of long-term performance for the Group, in that they en sure executives are 
incentivised and rewarded for the earnings performance of the Group as well as returning value to shareholders. 
The awards will be subject to clawback provisions.  
 
The committee has carefully considered the EPS range for the 2017 award and believes the 140p to 190p range is stretching again st market consensus 
and the actual 2016 EPS delivered.  
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
Vesting schedule for 2017 awards 2016 EPS 
EPS target range for 2017 award (50% of award) 
EPS target (pence) for FY ended 31 December 2019 for the  2017 award 
% of EPS award vesting 
(50% of award) 
105.2p 140p 190p
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
TSR performance range Actual result in last three year TSR cycle
TSR target range for 2017 award (50% of award)
TSR ranking at end of 3 year performance period 
% of TSR award vesting 
(50% of award)
Median Upper Quartile 1st Place www.clarksons.com 65
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   65 
Directors’ remuneration (audited) 
Details of emoluments and compensation payable in their capacity as Directors during the year are set out below: 
2016 
Basic salary 
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
1
£000 
Pension
2
£000 
Performance-  
related 
bonus
6
£000 
Total 
remuneration 
before LTIP 
£000 
Long-term 
 incentives
7
£000 
Total 
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors          
Andi Case 550 16 74 2,938 3,578 100 3,678
Jeff Woyda 350 12 46 633 1,041 45 1,086
Peter M. Anker 356
3
 22 7 633 1,018 – 1,018
Non-Executive Directors      
James Hughes-Hallett 160 – – – 160 – 160
Peter Backhouse 73 – – – 73 – 73
Ed Warner 73 – – – 73 – 73
James Morley 73 – – – 73 – 73
Birger Nergaard 55 – – – 55 – 55
  1,690 50 127 4,204 6,071 145 6,216
 
2015 
Basic salary 
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
1
£000
Pension
2
£000
Performance- 
related
bonus
£000
Total  
remuneration 
before LTIP 
£000 
Long-term 
incentives
£000
Total 
remuneration
£000
Executive Directors          
Andi Case 550 26 74 3,495 4,145 813
4
4,958
Jeff Woyda 308 12 40 753 1,113 370
4
1,483
Peter M. Anker
5
 309 22 5 655 991 – 991
Non-Executive Directors          
James Hughes-Hallett 140 – – – 140 – 140
Peter Backhouse 73 – – – 73 – 73
Ed Warner 73 – – – 73 – 73
James Morley 73 – – – 73 – 73
Birger Nergaard
5
 50 – – – 50 – 50
  1,576 60 119 4,903 6,658 1,183 7,841
We consider key management personnel to be Clarkson PLC Directors. 
1 Benefits include cash allowances in lieu of company cars, healthcare insurance and club memberships. 
2 Pension includes pension contributions and cash supplements where relevant. 
3 Fixed salary of NOK 4,015,000. 
4 The 2015 LTIP values have been restated to reflect the share price on the actual date of vesting.  
5 Peter M. Anker and Birger Nergaard joined the Board on 2 February 2015 and therefore the salary numbers shown are pro-rated. 
6 Annual bonus for 2016 was based on the allocation of the following pool: 
Underlying profit before taxation and bonus % of pre-bonus profit
If profit < £26.46m 0%
If profit > £26.47m then £0m - £52.92m  11%
If profit > £52.93m then £52.93m - £61.70m 16%
If profit > £61.71m then on profits > £61.71m 18%
Actual underlying profit before taxation 
Actual underlying profit before taxation for bo nus calculation after deducting the minority 
interest of pre-tax profit and adding back the cost of bonus 
£44.8m
£48.5m
Actual bonus pool £5.3m
% of pool allocated to Executive Directors (this is after 5% vol untary sacrifice by Directors) 79%
The bonus is paid 90% in cash and, although they have no contractual obligation, the Directors have agreed that 10% of the bonu s will be deferred in shares, vesting after four 
years. Both the cash and share element of the bonus are subject to clawback where overpayments may be reclaimed in the event of misstatement or error.  66 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
66  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Directors’ remuneration (audited) continued 
7 Long-term incentives relate to awards granted on 5 June 2014 which vest in June 2017 based on performance for the year ended 31 December 2016. The performance 
conditions attached to this award and actual performance against these conditions are as follows: 
Performance measure Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual % vesting
Earnings per share  
(out of 50%) 
25% of award vesting at 
threshold up to 100% of 
award vesting at stretch 
on straight-line basis 120p 160p 105.2p 0%
Total shareholder return  
(out of 50%) 
25% vesting of award at 
threshold up to 100% of 
award vesting at stretch 
on straight-line basis Median Upper quartile 5.9% 30%
Total vesting (out of 100%)       15%
The award details for the Executive Directors are as follows:  
Executive Directors 
 
Number of 
shares granted 
Number of
shares to vest
Number of 
shares to lapse 
Estimated value of
vested shares*
£000
Andi Case 31,682 4,801 26,881 100
Jeff Woyda 14,400 2,182 12,218 45
Peter M. Anker n/a n/a n/a n/a
* The estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three month period from 1 October to 31 December 2016 of £20.81. These shares 
will vest on the third anniversary of grant, 4 June 2017, subject to continued employment. 
Comparative LTIP values were based on the 2013 awards which vested in 2016 based on performance to 31 December 2015 and were ba sed on a 
three month price to 31 December 2015 of £22.96. The actual share price at vesting was £22.59. 2015 LTIP amounts in the single figure table have 
been restated. 
   www.clarksons.com 67
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   67 
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors  
Non-Executive Director fee levels for 2017 are as follows: 
 
2017 
£000 
2016
£000 % change
Chairman 163 160 2%
Non-Executive Director 56 55 2%
Chair of committee* 18 18 0%
Senior Independent Director* 18 18 0%
* Incremental fees above base Non-Executive Director fee.  
Directors’ outstanding share incentives (audited) 
The table below sets out details of outstand ing share awards held by the Executive Di rectors. The share awards have been grante d as nil cost options 
under the LTIP, subject to the EPS and TSR performance criteria ( 50% of the award each) detailed in the LTIP section of this re port on page 60. 
 
Interests 
under  
plan at  
1 January 
2016 
Awards 
granted  
in the year 
Awards 
exercised 
in the year 
Awards 
lapsed 
in the year
Interests 
under 
plan at 31 
December
2016
Face   
value at 31  
December  
 2016
10
£  
% vesting at 
threshold 
performance 
Grant  
date 
End of 
performance 
period 
Vesting 
date
Date 
exercisable 
until
Andi Case 99,388
1
 – 99,388 – – – 25% 16 Dec 09 Dec 11 15 Dec 12 15 Dec 19
  36,581
2
 – 36,581 – – – 25% 24 Dec 10 Dec 12 23 Dec 13 23 Dec 20
  33,618
3
 – 33,618 – – – 25% 25 May 11 Dec 13 24 May 14 24 May 21
  42,719
4
 – 42,719 – – – 25% 11 May 12 Dec 14 10 May 15 10 May 22
  36,004
5
 – 36,004* – – – 25% 10 May 13 Dec 15 9 May 16 9 May 23
  31,682
6
 – – 26,881 4,801
9
104,326 25% 5 Jun 14 Dec 16 4 Jun 17 –
 36,748
7
 – – – 36,748 798,534 25% 17 Apr 15 Dec 17 16 Apr 18 –
 – 36,601
8
 – – 36,601 795,340 25% 15 Apr 16 Dec 18 14 Apr 19 –
Jeff Woyda 15,281
3
 – 15,281 – – – 25% 25 May 11 Dec 13 24 May 14 24 May 21
  19,418
4
 – 19,418 – – – 25% 11 May 12 Dec 14 10 May 15 10 May 22
  16,365
5
 – 16,365* – – – 25% 10 May 13 Dec 15 9 May 16 9 May 23
  14,400
6
 – – 12,218 2,182
9
47,415 25% 5 Jun 14 Dec 16 4 Jun 17 –
 16,703
7
 – – – 16,703 362,956 25% 17 Apr 15 Dec 17 16 Apr 18 –
 – 23,291
8
 – – 23,291 506,113 25% 15 Apr 16 Dec 18 14 Apr 19 –
Peter M. 
Anker – 23,291
8
 – – 23,291 506,113 25% 15 Apr 16 Dec 18 14 Apr 19 –
* Vested during the year. 
The share price on the date of the award was 1. £8.06, 2. £11.22 , 3. £12.05, 4. £13.50, 5. £16.50, 6. £24.99, 7. £22.16, 8. £22 .12. 
9 Although the performance period for these awards ended on 31 December 2016, the awards will vest on 4 June 2017. 
10 Values calculated using the closing share price at 31 December 2016 of £21.73. 
Directors who exercised share options during the year are contained in note 21.   68 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
68  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Directors’ interests in share options over ordinary shares are as follows: 
Executive Directors 
Options 
 held at  
1 January 
2016 
Options 
granted  
during  
the year  
Options 
exercised 
during 
the year
Options 
lapsed 
during 
the year 
Options 
held at 
31 December 
2016
Exercise 
price 
£
Date from which 
exercisable Expiry date
Andi Case Other options 25,000¹ – 25,000 – – 9.91 26 October 2010 25 October 2017
 ShareSave 993 – – – 993 18.12 1 July 2018 31 December 2018
Jeff Woyda ShareSave 993 – – – 993 18.12 1 July 2018 31 December 2018
1 These options are fully vested and were exercised on 18 October 2016 at £19.50. 
Directors’ interests in shares 
The Company requires Executive Directors to build a shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer a nd 150% of salary for the 
other Executive Directors. Until this is attained they are required to retain 50% of any share award that vests. 
The beneficial interests of the direct ors in the share capital of the Compan y at 31 December 2016 were as follows: 
 Number of ordinary shares 
% of salary required  
to be held in shares under  
the shareholding guidelines Guideline met?
 31 December 2016   31 December 2015    
James Hughes-Hallett* 2,163   – n/a n/a
Andi Case 785,548
4
  645,910
4
200% Yes
Jeff Woyda 120,516
4
   93,149
4
150% Yes
Peter M. Anker 363,048
1,2,4
 529,144
4
150% Yes
Peter Backhouse 6,000   3,500 n/a n/a
Ed Warner 15,000   15,000 n/a n/a
James Morley 4,500   4,500 n/a n/a
Birger Nergaard 205,869
3
   205,869 n/a n/a
Marie-Louise Clayton* 1,100   n/a n/a n/a
* Shares held in part or in full by connected persons.  
 There was no change in the beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company between 31 December 2016 and 9 March 2017, being the last 
practicable date before the signing of this report. 
1 This figure includes restricted stock units. 
2 This figure includes 357,477 shares held by Langebru AS on behalf of Peter M. Anker and his connected persons.  
3 This figure includes 205,869 shares held by Acane AS on behalf of Birger Nergaard and his connected persons. 
4 These figures include restricted shares and restricted stock units granted as part of annual bonus as follows: 
 Number of shares 
  Type of award
Bonus year
Vesting date
2012
April 2017
2013 
June 2018 
2014 
June 2019 
2015
June 2020
Andi Case 
Restricted 
shares 13,103 9,924 
 
15,233 15,506
Jeff Woyda 
Restricted 
shares 2,795 2,117 
 
3,249 3,341
Peter M. Anker 
Restricted 
stock units n/a n/a 
 
2,667 2,904
Further restricted share and restricted st ock unit awards will be made in 2017 in respect of 10% of the Directors’ 2016 bonus. 
   www.clarksons.com 69
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   69 
Pensions (audited)  
Pension contributions were £nil (2015: £nil) for Andi Case and £nil (2015: £nil) for Jeff Woyda, with the balance for both Andi Case and Jeff Woyda (up to 
15% of salary) paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension (net of employer’s NI) and included in the table on page 65 as pens ion. Peter M. Anker’s 
pension contribution was NOK 77,430 (2015: NOK 66,000). 
Payment to former Directors (audited) 
No payments were made to past Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2016. 
Payments for loss of office (audited) 
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2016. 
Performance graph 
This graph shows total shareholder return (t hat is, share price growth assuming re-investment of any divide nds) of the Company over the last eight 
financial years compared to the FTSE SmallCap Index, which the committee considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes, and compared to 
the total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer. 
Total shareholder return 
The LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive Officer for each of the last ei ght years is as follows: 
  2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
LTIP vesting % 15% 70% 69% 50% 47% 98% 44% 50%
 
  
Clarkson PLC
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of £100 invested in Clarkson PLC on 31 December 2008, compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 and 
FTSE SmallCap Indices on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening nancial year-ends.
FTSE 250 FTSE SmallCap CEO Remuneration
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Dec 16 Dec 15 Dec 14 Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
Value (£) (rebased) 70 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ remuneration report / continued 
 
70  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Percentage change in remuneration levels  
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and a nnual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the 2015 and 20 16 financial years, 
compared to the average for all employees: 
 % change
Chief Executive Officer 
Salary and benefits -1.7%
Bonus -15.9%
All employees 
Salary and benefits +4.4%
Bonus +1.2%
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overal l spend on pay in 2016 compared to 2015: 
2016  
£m 
2015  
£m % change
Underlying profit for the year 33.6 37.9 -11.3%
Dividends 18.5 18.2 +1.6%
Employee remuneration costs, of which: 191.3 186.1 +2.8%
Executive Directors’ total pay excluding LTIP (continuing) 5.6 6.2 -9.7%
Executive Directors’ annual bonus (continuing) 4.2 4.9 -14.3%
Remuneration committee 
During the year the remuneration committee comprised the follow ing Non-Executive Directors: Peter Backhouse, James Hughes-Hallett, James Morley, 
Birger Nergaard and Ed Warner. Marie-Louise Clayton joined the co mmittee on 7 March 2017. The committee continues to be chaired by Ed Warner. 
None of the committee members have day-to-d ay involvement with the business nor do they have any personal financial interest in the matters to be 
recommended. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the comm ittee. The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each member 
is shown in the table below. The committee al so held informal discussions as required. 
Number of meetings attended out of potential maximum
James Hughes-Hallett 3 out of 3
Peter Backhouse 3 out of 3
Ed Warner 3 out of 3
James Morley 3 out of 3
Birger Nergaard 3 out of 3
In particular, the Board is satisfied that the committee has th e range of skills and relevant business experience to reach an i ndependent judgement on the 
suitability of the remuneration policy. The committee’s remit already covers remuneration arrangements for all employees (where the committee reviews 
bonus payments for all employees in the business) and consider ation of risk is foremost in the committee’s deliberations. 
   www.clarksons.com 71
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
 
www.clarksons.com   71 
External advisors 
Following a tender process in 2016, New Bridge Street (NBS), part of Aon PLC, were retained by the committee to provide independent advice and 
services that materially assist the committ ee. The committee is satisfied that the qua lity of advice received during the year w as sufficient and that NBS 
remain objective and independent.  
The fees paid by the Company to NBS during the financial year fo r advice on share plans and to the remuneration committee were £39,069  
(2015: £55,121).  
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Cons ultants’ Code of Conduct which requires its advice to be objective and impartial. 
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM 
At the 2016 AGM, the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: 
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 17,975,477 87.60%
Against 2,090,580 10.19%
Discretion 454,624 2.21%
Total 20,520,681 100%
Withheld 3,334,664 –
At the AGM to be held on 12 May 2017 a re solution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution. 
This report to shareholders provides information on the remuneration and share intere sts of all Clarkson PLC Directors and the criteria by which that 
remuneration has been determined. It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the applicable Listing Rules. 
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 
 
Ed Warner 
Remuneration committee Chairman 
10 March 2017  72 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Audit committee report 
72  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
 
James Morley 
Audit committee Chairman 
 
 
During the year, the audit committee (t he Committee) as further described 
on page 55 has continued to devote significant time to reviewing  
the following: 
– the robustness and integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, including 
accounting issues and judgements; 
– monitoring the Group’s internal control and risk management systems, 
including internal financial reporting controls, and identifying any 
significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in their operation; and 
– monitoring the activities and performance of the external Auditors,  
and notifying the Board of any signif icant concerns arising from their 
audit work. 
In addition to the above responsibili ties, the Committee has reviewed the 
processes for the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed on regular basis to 
ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code and are also 
published on the Company’s website. For more information on evaluation 
of the Board and its Committees du ring the year, please see page 53. 
The Committee met three times during 2016 and addressed four main 
areas in the year: 
(1) financial reporting and significant issues; 
(2) internal control, risk management and internal audit;  
(3) viability statement; and 
(4) external Auditors. 
1 Financial reporting and significant issues 
The Committee reviewed and considered the fo llowing areas in respect of financial repo rting and preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: 
– the appropriateness of accounting policies used; 
– compliance with internal and external fi nancial reporting standards and policies; 
– principal judgemental accounting matters, based on reports from management and external Auditors; and 
– whether or not the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and pr ovides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
The Committee also reviews reports by the ex ternal Auditors on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues w ith respect to the work 
undertaken on the audit. The issues and how they we re addressed by the Committee are set out below: 
Issue Area of focus  How the issue was addressed by the Committee 
Recoverability 
of trade 
receivables 
A number of judgements are made in the 
calculation of the provision, primarily the age of 
the invoice, the existence of any disputes, 
recent historical payment patterns and the 
debtor’s financial position. 
 
The Committee discussed with management the results of its review, the internal 
controls and the composition of the related financial information. The Committee 
also discussed with the external auditors their review of the provision.  
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are 
reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial 
statements. 
Revenue 
recognition 
In the broking and financial segments, the 
Group’s entitlement to commission revenue 
usually depends on third party obligations 
being fulfilled. Since the Group has no control 
over this, it is important to recognise revenue at 
the appropriate time.  
The Committee considered the revenue recognition processes in place for all four 
business segments with management and cut-off procedures with the external 
Auditors. 
The Committee is satisfied with the contro l environment and that revenue has been 
recognised in the correct periods. 
Carrying value 
of goodwill and 
intangible 
assets 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired 
requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the 
cash-generating units to which these assets 
have been allocated. The value-in-use 
calculation requires estimation of future cash 
flows expected to arise for each cash-
generating unit, the selection of suitable 
discount rates and the estimation of future 
growth rates. 
 
The Committee discussed with management and reviewed the results of its testing 
and evaluated the appropriateness of the assumptions used within its impairment 
models. The Committee also discussed with the external Auditors their review of 
management’s testing. The Committee then discussed with both management and 
the external Auditors the headroom in each of the cash-generating units and the 
impact of sensitivity analysis from changes in key assumptions. 
The Committee is satisfied with management’s assumptions, judgement and the 
conclusion not to record impairment in any of the cash-generating units and that 
appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial statements.  www.clarksons.com 73
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
www.clarksons.com   73 
Issue Area of focus  How the issue was addressed by the Committee 
Classification 
and recognition 
of adjusting 
items 
Exceptional items are those which are non-
recurring in nature and considered to be 
material in size. In 2016, this column in the 
consolidated income statement represents the 
gain and special dividend arising on the sale of 
The Baltic Exchange shares. 
The ‘acquisition related costs’ column includes 
the amortisation of intangible assets, the 
expensing of the cash and share-based 
elements of consideration linked to ongoing 
employment obligations on acquisitions, 
acquisition related professional fees and 
interest on loan notes issued as part of the 
Platou acquisition.  
The Committee considered the reasons be hind showing these items separately 
and therefore excluding the costs from the ‘underlying’ earnings measures.  
The Committee agreed that the use of alternative performance measures, which 
exclude these items, can provide the users of the financial statements with a better 
understanding of the Group’s underlying financial performance.  
The Committee is satisfied that the existing format is consistent with the Group’s 
accounting policy. 
The work described above, together with a review of the conten t of the strategic report, provided the assurance to the Committe e and to the Board that 
the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Group’s and the Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.  
2 Internal control, risk management and  
internal audit 
The Company continually seeks to improve and update existing 
procedures and to introduce new co ntrols where necessary. The risk 
management system is designed to id entify principal risks and to provide 
assurance that these risks are full y understood and managed. As an 
ongoing process, the Committee oversees the development of the internal 
control procedures which provide assurance to the Committee that 
the controls which are operating in th e Group are effective and sufficient to 
counteract the risks to which the Co mpany is exposed. No significant 
control deficiencies were identified during the year. Further details of risk 
management are shown on pages 38-41. 
The need for an internal audit function is reviewed regularly by the Board 
and the Committee. Given the changes in structure of the Group following 
the completion of the Platou acqui sition in 2015 and the scale and 
regulatory nature of the Platou operat ions, it was considered necessary to 
establish an internal audit function for the banking and finance operations 
headquartered in Norway. Ernst & Young were appointed to carry out this 
function on an outsourced basis. The Committee will continue to review 
the possible need for an internal audi t function in respect of the Group’s 
other activities but to date has conc luded that there is no immediate 
requirement for such a function. 
The Committee, in conjunction with the Board, has established 
arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing. 
3 Viability statement 
The Committee considered the form of th e viability statement. In particular, 
there was a debate over the period of time that it was appropriate to 
consider and it was decided that it was appropriate to limit the statement 
to three years. The Committee reviewed the analysis supporting the viability 
statement and the processes underpinning the assessment of the Group’s 
longer-term prospects were also reviewed. Further assessment of viability 
and the viability statement is set out on page 39. 
4 External Auditors 
The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board 
regarding the re-appointment and remuneration of the external Auditors. 
The Committee considered the following: 
– quality and effectiveness of the audit for the prior year; 
– external audit strategy for the current year; 
– overall work plan; 
– terms of engagement; 
– external Auditors’ overall performance and independence;  
– effectiveness of the overall audit process;  
– length of appointment as external Au ditors (current length: eight years); 
and 
– level of non-audit and audit fees. 
To ensure that the Auditors maintain their independence and objectivity, 
the Committee has implemented a policy which is designed to ensure that 
the provision of non-audit services does not have an impact on the external 
Auditors’ independence and objectivity. It restricts the engagement of the 
Auditors in relation to non-audit serv ices, whilst recognising that there are 
some types of work, such as account ing and tax advice, where a detailed 
understanding of the Company’s business is advantageous.  
It also requires that individual en gagements above a certain fee level may 
only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee or the 
Committee Chair. 
The Committee agreed in November 2016 that the Auditors would no 
longer be used for any non-audit services other than those either required 
or permitted by statute. 
The fees for services provided by the Auditors during the year are shown in 
note 3. 
The Committee meets privately on a regular basis with the external 
Auditors in the absence of management. 
The Committee has discussed the requir ements of the Code and the final 
order published by the Competition an d Markets Authority in respect of 
tendering the Group’s external audit and has recommended to the Board 
that it does not carry out a tender process for 2017; the next tender 
process is due in 2019. In making this assessment, the Committee has 
considered the performance of the current external Auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), who have served since 2009. The 
current audit partner, John Waters, has served since 2014.  
The Committee does not consider that PwC’s independence or 
effectiveness are impaired. Accordingly, the Committee has recommended 
to the Board that PwC be re-appointed as Auditors and that a resolution 
be put to shareholders at the AGM. 
 
James Morley 
Audit committee Chairman 
10 March 2017  74 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Directors’ report 
74  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
The Directors’ report required under the Companies Act 2006, together 
with the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, 
comprises sections of the annual report incorporated by reference as set 
out below which, taken together, contain the information to be included in 
the annual report, where applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.4. 
Going concern Page 39
Board membership Pages 50 - 51
Dividend Page 37
Directors’ long-term incentives Pages 57- 71
Waiver of Directors’ emoluments Page 57
Corporate governance report Pages 52 - 56
Future developments of the business of the Group Pages 16 - 35
Employee equality, diversity and involvement Pages 44 - 45
Carbon emissions Pages 46 - 47
Information to the Independent Auditors Page 75
Dividend waiver Page 111
Financial risk management Pages 113 - 115 
Subsidiaries Pages 132 - 136
Indemnity provision Page 113
Shareholder information 
Share capital and control 
Details of the Company’s share capital are shown in note 23 to the financial 
statements. The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are 
set out in the Company’s articles of a ssociation (the Articles), copies of 
which can be obtained free of charge from the Registrar of Companies at 
http://www.gov.uk/get-information-about-a-company. 
The Chief Executive Officer is exp ected to maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to 200% of salary and ot her Executive Directors equivalent to 
150% of salary. 
A transfer of shares is only permitte d for shares which are fully paid up. A 
transfer form must be duly stamped (i f required) and made out in favour of 
a single transferee or no more than four joint transferees. The transfer form 
must be delivered to the Compan y’s registrars, Computershare, 
accompanied by the share certificate to which it relates or such other 
evidence that proves the title of the transferor. Please contact 
Computershare on +44 (0) 370 707 1055 or online at 
http://www.clarksons.com/investors/. 
The holders of ordinary shares have the right to: 
– receive dividends when declared; 
– receive the Company’s report and financial statements; 
– attend and speak at general m eetings of the Company; and 
– appoint proxies and exercise voting rights at general meetings. 
There are no restrictions or special conditions regarding voting rights and 
control of the Company. Major shareholders have the same voting rights 
per share as all other shareholders. Shareholders who wish to appoint a 
proxy to exercise their voting rights at the AGM are required to submit a 
proxy voting form to the Company no later than 48 hours prior to the time 
of the meeting online at http:// www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy. 
Shares acquired through Clarksons’ share schemes and plans rank equally 
with other shares in issue and have no special rights. 
Restrictions on transfer of shares 
There are no restrictions on transfer s of ordinary shares in the Company 
other than: 
– certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law or 
regulations such as those relating to insider dealing; 
– pursuant to the Company’s share de aling rules where the Directors and 
designated employees require approval to deal in the Company’s shares;  
– certain restrictions on securities arising from company acquisitions; and 
– under the Company’s employee long-term incentive plans. 
Change of control 
The Company is not party to any sign ificant agreements that would take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid. 
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts, including contractual 
arrangements in connection with a change of control of the Company, are 
set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 57 and 71. 
Upon a change of control, all unve sted awards under the 2004 Clarkson 
PLC LTIP would vest to the extent th at, where applicable, any performance 
conditions attaching to awards have been achieved. 
All unvested awards under the 2014 Clar kson PLC LTIP shall vest on the 
date of such event. In the case of performance awards, the number of 
shares to vest will be determined by the remuneration committee subject 
to the performance or any other conditions and/or pro rata reduction in the 
case of leavers. 
Notifiable interests in share capital 
The following interests have been disclosed to the Company by major 
shareholders under Rule 5 of the Disc losure and Transparency Rules (DTR) 
as at the end of the financial year and at 9 March 2017 (being the latest 
practicable date of this report):  
 31-Dec-16 9-Mar-17
Franklin Templeton Investment  
Management Limited 14.39% 14.39%
RS Platou Holdings AS 7.10% 7.10%
Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5.01% 5.01%
Legal & General Investment  
Management Limited < 5% <5%
Information provided to the Company pu rsuant to the DTR is published on 
a Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website at: 
www.clarksons.com/news. 
In addition, as at 9 March 2017, em ployees directly held 19.36% of the 
Company’s share capital and 4.64% was held by employee share trusts 
for use under the Company’s various incentive schemes. 
Interests in the shares of the Company, or derivatives or any other financial 
instrument relating to those shares, conducted by the Directors of the 
Company on their own account, notified to the Company pursuant to 
Article 19 of the Market Abuse Regula tion, are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 57 and 71. 
At the 2016 AGM the Comp any’s shareholders authorised the Company, 
for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make 
market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum aggregate amount 
of 3,023,260 shares (representing 10% of the Company’s share capital as 
at 30 March 2016). This authority is due to expire at the end of the 2017 
AGM and a resolution will be put to sh areholders at that meeting to extend 
the authority for a further period . The Company has not acquired or 
disposed of any interests in its own shares.  
By order of the Board 
 
Penny Watson  
Company Secretary 
10 March 2017  www.clarksons.com 75
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Governance Directors’ responsibilities statement 
www.clarksons.com   75 
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the 
Auditors’ statement of their responsibilities set out in their reports on pages 
76 to 81 and 117 to 118, is made to distinguish the respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the 
financial statements.  
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the 
Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law th e Directors have prepared the Group 
and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the Group and th e Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period. In prep aring these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to: 
– select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently; 
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;  
– state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Co mpany will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for ke eping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and expl ain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at an y time the financial position of the 
Company and the Group and enable th em to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regard s the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for  
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence  
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud  
and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for th e maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each 
Director at the time of approval of this report confirms that so far as they 
are aware, there is no relevant audi t information of which the Company’s 
Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
Auditors are aware of that information. 
The Group’s business activities, together wi th the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic 
report on pages 1 to 47. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows 
and liquidity position are described in the financial review. The risk 
management section of the strategic report and note 26 to the financial 
statements include a description of the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its 
exposures to credit and liquidity risks.  
The Group has considerable financial resources available and a strong 
balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 36 to 37. As a 
result of this, the Directors believe th at the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully despite the challenging market backdrop. 
The Directors have a reasonable exp ectation that the Group has sufficient 
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. 
Each of the Directors, whose names an d functions are listed on pages 50 
to 51 of this annual report, confirm that: 
– to the best of their knowledge, th e consolidated financial statements, 
which have been prepared in accord ance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group;  
– to the best of their knowledge, the st rategic report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a de scription of principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces; and 
– they consider the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. 
 
On behalf of the Board 
 
James Hughes-Hallett 
Chairman 
10 March 2017  76 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC 
76  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Report on the consolidated financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Clarkson PLC’s consolidated fi nancial statements (the financial statements): 
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the y ear then ended; 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; and 
– have been prepared in accordance with th e requirements of the Companies Act 20 06 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: 
– the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016; 
– the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended; 
– the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;  
– the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and 
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Certain share-based payment and Directors’ remuneration disclosu res which are required by the financial reporting framework hav e been presented 
elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements in notes 21 
and 28 respectively and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has b een applied in the preparation of the fina ncial statements is applicable law and IF RSs as adopted by the 
European Union. 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
 
 
Materiality 
– Overall Group materiality: £2.2m which represents 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional 
items and acquisition related costs. 
Audit scope 
– We performed audit work over the complete financia l information for reporting units which accounted for 
approximately 89% (2015: 91%) of the Group’s revenue and 84% (2015: 93%) of the Group’s profit before 
taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisiti on related costs. These reporting units comprised 
certain operating businesses and centralised functions. 
– Identified 70 reporting units, three of which were significant due to their size. These comprised  
certain operating business and centralised function s which required an audit of their complete  
financial information. 
– Conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other 
reporting units. 
Areas of focus 
– Recoverability of trade receivables; 
– Revenue recognition; 
– Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets; and 
– Classification and recognition of the adjusting items (exceptional items and acquisition related costs). 
 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at 
where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in re spect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherent ly uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management over ride of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that repr esented a risk of material misstatement due t o fraud.  
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as ‘areas of 
focus’ in the following table. We have al so set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provi de an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 
  
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus www.clarksons.com 77
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
www.clarksons.com   77 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Recoverability of trade receivables 
Refer to page 72 (Audit committee report), note 14 of the financial 
statements and note 2.3 for the Directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.  
At the year-end the Group had trade receivables of £58.2m before 
provisions for impairment of £15.5m. As set out in the business review 
section of the strategic report, the shipping industry has faced a challenging 
year and the global shipping market continues to be impacted by certain 
macro-economic factors such as oil pr ices and freight rates. Accordingly,  
the Group experienced uncertainty over the collectability of trade receivables 
from specific customers.  
The determination as to whether a trade receivable is collectable involves 
management judgement. Specific factors management considers include 
the age of the balance, location and known financial condition of certain 
customers, existence of disputes, recent historical payment patterns  
and any other available information concerning the creditworthiness  
of the counterparty.  
Management uses this information to determine whether a provision for 
impairment is required either for a sp ecific transaction or for a customer’s 
balance overall. We focused on this ar ea because it requires a high level of 
management judgement and the materiality of the amounts involved. 
 
 
We tested aged balances where no provision was recognised to check 
that there were no indicators of impairment. This included verifying if 
payments had been received since the year-end, reviewing historical 
payment patterns and any correspondence with customers on 
expected settlement dates.  
We selected a sample of the larger trade receivable balances where a 
provision for impairment of trade receivables was recognised and 
understood the rationale behind management’s judgement for a 
provision being required. In order to evaluate the appropriateness of 
these judgements, we verified whether balances were overdue, the 
customer’s location and historical payment patterns and whether any 
post year-end payments had been received up to the date of 
completing our audit procedures.  
We also obtained corroborative evidence including correspondence 
supporting any disputes between the parties involved, attempts by 
management to recover the amounts outstanding and on the credit 
status of significant counterparties where available.  
By performing the procedures set out above we also challenged 
management’s rationale where provisions were recognised on 
transactions that were not overdue as at the balance sheet date and 
verified these were appropriately supported. In assessing the 
appropriateness of the overall provision for impairment, we considered 
the consistency of management’s application of policy for recognising 
provisions with the prior year and in the context of the current macro-
economic challenges. Specifically we considered:  
i) how much of prior years’ provisio ns had been utilised for bad debt 
write-offs during the year; and 
ii) prior year provision amounts released where a customer had paid.  
Releases of the provision during the year are disclosed in note 14.  
This included some infrequent payments of overdue amounts from 
customers where a provision continues to be recognised for new 
invoices raised. Despite these payments, management continues to 
provide for such customers on the basis there still remains ongoing 
uncertainty over their underlying financial condition as indicated by  
the ad hoc timing of payments beyond dates due.  
From the work we have performed we consider the level of provisioning 
to be consistent with the evidence obtained. 
Revenue recognition 
Refer to page 72 (Audit committee report), notes 3 and 4 of the financial 
statements and note 2.3 for the Directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information. 
The Group’s entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and financial 
segments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain obligations, for 
example stage completion of a vessel buil d in broking or formal approval of a 
debt or equity transaction in financial between two or more third parties over 
which the Group has no control.  
Consideration is therefore required as to whether the parties’ obligations 
have been fulfilled and the commis sion revenue can be recognised.  
Some of these transactions, such as wi thin the sale and purchase, offshore 
or financial revenue streams, are individually significant in value. Consistent 
with the prior year, we therefore focused on these revenue streams, 
particularly transactions surrounding the year-end, where there is a risk that 
large transactions may be recorded in the incorrect period.  
The other revenue streams, such as su pport and research, were relatively 
less significant. Revenue in respect of these streams is recognised when the 
service is completed or when the pr oducts are despatched, as explained 
further in note 2.21 of the financia l statements. There is therefore less 
judgement and risk of a material cut-off error in these streams.  
 
For the sale and purchase, offshore and financial transactions near the 
year-end, we tested that revenue cut-off was appropriately determined. 
We selected a sample of transactio ns and agreed the details of these 
transactions to underlying contractual information or other supporting 
documents which demonstrated the timing of when obligations had 
been fulfilled by the parties to the transaction. 
From the evidence obtained we found no material instances of revenue 
being recognised in the incorrect period.  78 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC / continued 
 
78  Clarkson plc Annual Report 2016 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets 
Refer to page 72 (Audit committee report), note 13 of the financial 
statements and note 2.3 for the Directors’ disclosures of the related 
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.  
The goodwill balance of £294.2m is allocated across multiple cash-
generating units (CGUs), and is subj ect to an annual impairment review. 
Management used a value-in-use model to compute the present value of 
forecast future cash flows for each CG U which was then compared with the 
carrying value of the net assets of each CGU (including goodwill and 
intangible assets) to determine if there was an impairment.  
Determining if an impairment charge is required for goodwill and intangible 
assets involves significant judgements about forecast future performance 
and cash flows of the business, includin g growth in revenues and operating 
profit margins, as well as determining an appropriate discount factor and 
long-term growth rate.  
No charge for impairment of goodwill has been recognised in the current 
financial year.  
The risk that we focused on during th e audit was that the goodwill and other 
acquired intangible assets may be overst ated and that an impairment charge 
may be required. In particular, we fo cused on the goodwill and intangible 
assets in the offshore broking and se curities CGUs which have been most 
affected by the economic conditions, described in the business review 
section of this annual report.   
 
 
We evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow projections for all CGUs 
with a particular focus on the offsho re broking and securities CGUs and 
the process by which they were dr awn up, including comparing them 
with the latest Board approved budget and forecasts, and testing the 
accuracy of the underlying calculations in the model. We concluded 
that the cash flow projections we re consistent with the Board  
approved budgets and forecasts. 
For the Directors’ key assumptions we: 
– Compared the timing and quantum of short and long-term growth 
rates in the forecasts against economic and industry forecasts and 
with the actual historical results of the enlarged Group;  
– Assessed the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for the 
Group with comparable organisations as well as using our own 
experts; and 
– Considered the cyclical nature of each CGU and that this had been 
appropriately factored into the long-term forecasts. 
We found the Directors’ assumptions to be in line with the information 
we compared them against and the discount rate to be within our 
expected range. 
We also performed sensitivity analyses on the key drivers of the cash 
flow projections including assumed profits, short and long-term growth 
rates and the discount rate. In pe rforming these sensitivities we 
considered the level of historical budgeting inaccuracies and how the 
assumptions compared with the actual values achieved in prior years.  
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that 
either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill or 
intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a 
movement in those key assumptions arising. 
We determined that the disclosures made in note 13 regarding the 
related assumptions appropriately draw attention to the significant 
areas of judgement.  
Classification and recognition of adjusting items (exceptional items  
and acquisition related costs) 
Refer to page 73 (Audit committee report), note 2.1 (basis of preparation)  
of the financial statements and note 2.3 for the Directors’ disclosures  
of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates for  
further information. 
The Group excludes adjusting items (exceptional items and acquisition 
related costs) from its ‘underlying’ earnings measure. The Directors believe 
that alternative or additional performance measures can provide the users  
of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Group’s 
underlying financial performance and strategy, if properly used. If improperly 
used and presented, these measures could mislead the users of the  
financial statements by obscuring the real profitability and financial position  
of the Group.  
Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this 
classification. There can also be judg ement as to the point at which costs 
should be recognised and the amount to record.  
Included in adjusting items were: 
– Exceptional items: Exceptional items are explained further in note 5.  
– Acquisition related costs: Acquisition related costs are explained further in 
note 6.  
We also focused on the accuracy of ot her charges included in acquisition 
related costs due to their financial si gnificance, such as ongoing earn-out 
charges and the amortisation of acq uired intangible assets, which are 
presented as adjusting items consistently with prior periods.  
 
 
We tested whether the exceptional it ems were non-recurring in nature 
and recognised and presented in accordance with the Group’s 
disclosed accounting policy. In relation to the gain on sale of shares in 
The Baltic Exchange we examined disposal proceeds and agreements 
and verified the accuracy of mana gement’s computation of the amount 
of the gain recognised. 
In respect of other adjusting items we verified that management’s 
computations of the costs were accurate. 
We have also assessed the extent to which ‘underlying’ financial 
information is given prominence in the annual report, whether 
it is clearly, accurately and cons istently applied and whether the 
‘underlying’ financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form 
and context in which it appears in the annual report.  
From the evidence obtained, we concurred with management’s 
assessment to classify and disclose these items as adjusting items, in 
line with the disclosed accounting policy. 
 
   www.clarksons.com 79
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
www.clarksons.com   79 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial state ments as a whole, taking 
into account the geographic structure of th e Group, the accounting processes and contro ls, and the industry in which the Group operates.  
The financial statements are a consolidation of reporting unit s, comprising the Group's operating businesses and centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determ ined the type of work that need ed to be performed at the repo rting units by us, as the 
Group engagement team, or by component Audi tors of other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction. Where the work was 
performed by component Auditors, we determined the level of involv ement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
We identified 70 reporting units, three of which were significant due to their size. These comprised certain operating business and centralised functions 
which required an audit of their complete financial information. We also conducted specific audit procedures on certain balance s and transactions in 
respect of a number of other reporting units. This gave us covera ge of 84% of the Group's profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and 
acquisition related costs, and 89% of revenue. This, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the 
consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by ou r application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with 
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the natu re, timing and extent of our audit proced ures on the individual 
financial statement line items and disclosure s and in evaluating the effect of missta tements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materi ality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall Group materiality £2.2m (2015: £2.5m). 
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition related costs. 
Rationale for benchmark 
applied 
In arriving at this judgement we have ha d regard to profit before taxation, adju sted for exceptional items and acquisition 
related costs, because, in our view, this represents the most appropriate measure of underlying performance. 
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £112,000 (2015: £125,000) as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our vi ew, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ report, set out by cro ss-reference on page 74, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.  
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relat ion to the Directors’ report 
about whether they considered it appropriat e to adopt the going concern basis in prep aring the financial statements. We have no thing material to add or 
to draw attention to.  
As noted in the Directors’ report, the Directors have concluded th at it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in prep aring the financial 
statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to re main in operation, and that the Directo rs intend it to do so, 
for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the Direc tors’ use of the going 
concern basis is appropriate.  
As not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to cont inue as a going concern. 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion: 
– the information given in the strategic report and the Directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statemen ts are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and 
– the information given in the corporate governa nce statement set out on pages 52 to 56 with respect to internal control and risk management systems 
is consistent with the financial statements. 
   80 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Governance Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC / continued 
 
80  Clarkson plc Annual Report 2016 
Other required reporting continued 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
– information in the annual report is: 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsis tent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
– otherwise misleading. 
 We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 
– the explanation given by the Directors on page 75, in accord ance with provision C.1.1 of th e UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code), as to why the annual report do es not include a statement that they consid er the annual report taken as a whole to be 
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for memb ers to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit. 
 We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 
– the section of the annual report on page 72, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the audit 
committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee. 
 We have no 
exceptions  
to report. 
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the Group 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relat ion to: 
– the Directors’ confirmation on page 39 of the annual repo rt, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that 
they have carried out a robust assess ment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
 We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to. 
– the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks an d explain how they are being managed or mitigated.  We have no thing material to 
add or to draw attention to. 
– the Directors’ explanation on page 39 of the annual report , in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to 
how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider 
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the pe riod of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
 We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to. 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if , in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if , in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneratio n specified by law are not 
made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governan ce statement relating to ten further provis ions of the Code. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they ha ve carried out a robust assessment of th e principal risks facing 
the Group and the Directors’ report in rela tion to the longer-term viability of the Gr oup, set out on page 39. Our review was s ubstantially less in scope 
than an audit and only consisted of maki ng inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the 
statements are in alignment with the releva nt provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent wit h the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  www.clarksons.com 81
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
 
www.clarksons.com   81 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (U K & Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has b een prepared for and only for the Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance wi th Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or 
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior conse nt in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financia l statements sufficient to give reasonabl e assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whethe r caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s ci rcumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;  
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
– the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Dir ectors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own j udgements and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using samp ling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for 
us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the ef fectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial informat ion in the annual report to iden tify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any in formation that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, t he knowledge acquired by  
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consi der the implications  
for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial st atements of Clarkson PLC for th e year ended 31 December 2016 and on the 
information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
 
John Waters 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
10 March 2017 
  82 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 
82  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
 Notes 
Before 
exceptional 
items and 
acquisition 
related 
costs 
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 5)
£m
Acquisition 
related
costs
(note 6)
£m
2016
After
exceptional
items and
acquisition 
related
costs
£m
Before
exceptional
items and
acquisition 
related
costs
£m
Exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
£m 
Acquisition 
related
costs
(note 6)
£m
2015
After
exceptional
items and
acquisition 
related
costs
£m
Revenue 3, 4 306.1 – – 306.1 301.8 – – 301.8
Cost of sales  (8.9) – – (8.9) (10.3) – – (10.3)
Trading profit  297.2 – – 297.2 291.5 – – 291.5
Other income  – 9.7 – 9.7 – 1.3 – 1.3
Administrative expenses  (253.0) – (7.7) (260.7) (242.0) (3.8) (15.1) (260.9)
Operating profit 3, 4 44.2 9.7 (7.7) 46.2 49.5 (2.5) (15.1) 31.9
Finance revenue 3 0.8 1.4 – 2.2 2.5 – – 2.5
Finance costs 3 (0.1) – (0.9) (1.0) (1.1) – (1.1) (2.2)
Other finance costs – pensions 3, 22 (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.4) – – (0.4)
Profit before taxation  44.8 11.1 (8.6) 47.3 50.5 (2.5) (16.2) 31.8
Taxation 7 (11.2) – 1.8 (9.4) (12.6) 0.6 2.5 (9.5)
Profit for the year  33.6 11.1 (6.8) 37.9 37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the Parent 
Company  31.4 11.1 (6.8) 35.7 35.3 (1.9) (13.7) 19.7
Non-controlling interests  2.2 – – 2.2 2.6 – – 2.6
Profit for the year  33.6 11.1 (6.8) 37.9 37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3
    
Earnings per share    
Basic 8 105.2p 119.7p 121.9p 68.2p
Diluted 8 104.2p 118.6p 120.5p 67.4p
 
for the year ended 31 December 
 Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year  37.9 22.3
Other comprehensive income/(loss):   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax  22 4.0 7.2
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:   
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations   50.5 (20.4)
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax  24 (3.9) (1.1)
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  50.6 (14.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year   88.5 8.0
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the Parent Company  85.8 6.3
Non-controlling interests  2.7 1.7
Total comprehensive income for the year  88.5 8.0
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income www.clarksons.com 83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 
82  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
 Notes 
Before 
exceptional 
items and 
acquisition 
related 
costs 
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 5)
£m
Acquisition 
related
costs
(note 6)
£m
2016
After
exceptional
items and
acquisition 
related
costs
£m
Before
exceptional
items and
acquisition 
related
costs
£m
Exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
£m 
Acquisition 
related
costs
(note 6)
£m
2015
After
exceptional
items and
acquisition 
related
costs
£m
Revenue 3, 4 306.1 – – 306.1 301.8 – – 301.8
Cost of sales  (8.9) – – (8.9) (10.3) – – (10.3)
Trading profit  297.2 – – 297.2 291.5 – – 291.5
Other income  – 9.7 – 9.7 – 1.3 – 1.3
Administrative expenses  (253.0) – (7.7) (260.7) (242.0) (3.8) (15.1) (260.9)
Operating profit 3, 4 44.2 9.7 (7.7) 46.2 49.5 (2.5) (15.1) 31.9
Finance revenue 3 0.8 1.4 – 2.2 2.5 – – 2.5
Finance costs 3 (0.1) – (0.9) (1.0) (1.1) – (1.1) (2.2)
Other finance costs – pensions 3, 22 (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.4) – – (0.4)
Profit before taxation  44.8 11.1 (8.6) 47.3 50.5 (2.5) (16.2) 31.8
Taxation 7 (11.2) – 1.8 (9.4) (12.6) 0.6 2.5 (9.5)
Profit for the year  33.6 11.1 (6.8) 37.9 37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the Parent 
Company  31.4 11.1 (6.8) 35.7 35.3 (1.9) (13.7) 19.7
Non-controlling interests  2.2 – – 2.2 2.6 – – 2.6
Profit for the year  33.6 11.1 (6.8) 37.9 37.9 (1.9) (13.7) 22.3
    
Earnings per share    
Basic 8 105.2p 119.7p 121.9p 68.2p
Diluted 8 104.2p 118.6p 120.5p 67.4p
 
for the year ended 31 December 
 Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year  37.9 22.3
Other comprehensive income/(loss):   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax  22 4.0 7.2
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:   
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations   50.5 (20.4)
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax  24 (3.9) (1.1)
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  50.6 (14.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year   88.5 8.0
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the Parent Company  85.8 6.3
Non-controlling interests  2.7 1.7
Total comprehensive income for the year  88.5 8.0
 
as at 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   83 
 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 10 30.0 30.8
Investment property  11 1.2 1.2
Intangible assets  12 300.5 263.2
Trade and other receivables  14 1.8 1.1
Investments  15 4.1 1.9
Employee benefits 22 7.5 –
Deferred tax asset  7 12.8 12.5
  357.9 310.7
  
Current assets  
Inventories  16 0.7 0.9
Trade and other receivables  14 56.7 61.3
Income tax receivable   2.3 1.7
Investments  15 29.8 5.7
Cash and cash equivalents  17 154.0 168.4
  243.5 238.0
  
Current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 (23.6) (23.1)
Trade and other payables 19 (142.3) (139.3)
Income tax payable  (6.5) (5.9)
Provisions  20 – (0.2)
  (172.4) (168.5)
Net current assets   71.1 69.5
  
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 – (23.0)
Trade and other payables  19 (11.3) (8.1)
Provisions 20 (0.1) –
Employee benefits  22 (5.2) (4.1)
Deferred tax liability  7 (5.7) (4.1)
  (22.3) (39.3)
Net assets   406.7 340.9
  
Capital and reserves  
Share capital  23 7.6 7.6
Other reserves  24 240.1 194.2
Retained earnings   155.8 136.2
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company  403.5 338.0
Non-controlling interests  3.2 2.9
Total equity   406.7 340.9
The financial statements on pages 82 to 116 were approved by the Board on 10 March 2017, and signed on its behalf by: 
 
James Hughes-Hallett   Jeff Woyda  
Chairman     Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer 
Registered number: 1190238 
Consolidated balance sheet 84 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 
84  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
 Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company  
 Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m  
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2016 7.6 194.2 136.2 338.0 2.9 340.9
Profit for the year – – 35.7 35.7 2.2 37.9
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes 
– net of tax  22 – – 4.0 4.0 – 4.0
Foreign exchange differences on 
retranslation of foreign operations 24 – 50.0 – 50.0 0.5 50.5
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax 24 – (3.9) – (3.9) – (3.9)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – 46.1 39.7 85.8 2.7 88.5
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues  23,24 – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Employee share schemes 24 – (0.3) (1.8) (2.1) – (2.1)
Tax on other employee benefits  7 – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Tax on other items in equity 7 – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Dividend paid  9 – – (18.5) (18.5) (2.4) (20.9)
 – (0.2) (20.1) (20.3) (2.4) (22.7)
Balance at 31 December 2016 7.6 240.1 155.8 403.5 3.2 406.7
 
 Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company  
 Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m  
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 5.2 35.5 126.6 167.3 – 167.3
Profit for the year – – 19.7 19.7 2.6 22.3
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes 
– net of tax  22 – – 7.2 7.2 – 7.2
Foreign exchange differences on 
retranslation of foreign operations 24 – (19.5) – (19.5) (0.9) (20.4)
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax 24 – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income  
for the year – (20.6) 26.9 6.3 1.7 8.0
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues  23,24 2.4 178.7 – 181.1 – 181.1
Employee share schemes 24 – 0.6 0.3 0.9 – 0.9
Tax on other employee benefits  7 – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Tax on other items in equity 7 – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiary 12 – – – – 10.8 10.8
Dividend paid  9 – – (18.2) (18.2) (9.6) (27.8)
 2.4 179.3 (17.3) 164.4 1.2 165.6
Balance at 31 December 2015 7.6 194.2 136.2 338.0 2.9 340.9
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity www.clarksons.com 85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 
84  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
 Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company  
 Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m  
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2016 7.6 194.2 136.2 338.0 2.9 340.9
Profit for the year – – 35.7 35.7 2.2 37.9
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes 
– net of tax  22 – – 4.0 4.0 – 4.0
Foreign exchange differences on 
retranslation of foreign operations 24 – 50.0 – 50.0 0.5 50.5
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax 24 – (3.9) – (3.9) – (3.9)
Total comprehensive income  
for the year – 46.1 39.7 85.8 2.7 88.5
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues  23,24 – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Employee share schemes 24 – (0.3) (1.8) (2.1) – (2.1)
Tax on other employee benefits  7 – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Tax on other items in equity 7 – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Dividend paid  9 – – (18.5) (18.5) (2.4) (20.9)
 – (0.2) (20.1) (20.3) (2.4) (22.7)
Balance at 31 December 2016 7.6 240.1 155.8 403.5 3.2 406.7
 
 Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company  
 Notes
Share 
capital
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Total  
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
 £m  
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 5.2 35.5 126.6 167.3 – 167.3
Profit for the year – – 19.7 19.7 2.6 22.3
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes 
– net of tax  22 – – 7.2 7.2 – 7.2
Foreign exchange differences on 
retranslation of foreign operations 24 – (19.5) – (19.5) (0.9) (20.4)
Foreign currency hedge – net of tax 24 – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income  
for the year – (20.6) 26.9 6.3 1.7 8.0
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues  23,24 2.4 178.7 – 181.1 – 181.1
Employee share schemes 24 – 0.6 0.3 0.9 – 0.9
Tax on other employee benefits  7 – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Tax on other items in equity 7 – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiary 12 – – – – 10.8 10.8
Dividend paid  9 – – (18.2) (18.2) (9.6) (27.8)
 2.4 179.3 (17.3) 164.4 1.2 165.6
Balance at 31 December 2015 7.6 194.2 136.2 338.0 2.9 340.9
 
 
for the year ended 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   85 
 Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before taxation  47.3 31.8
Adjustments for:  
Foreign exchange differences 3 (3.6) (1.9)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  3, 10 5.0 4.2
Share-based payment expense 21 1.3 1.6
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment   (0.1) (0.1)
(Gain)/loss on sale of investments  (9.6) 0.3
Amortisation of intangibles 3, 12 6.6 9.2
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in the income statement (1.9) (2.3)
Finance revenue  3 (2.2) (2.5)
Finance costs 3 1.0 2.2
Other finance costs – pensions  3 0.1 0.4
Decrease in inventories 16 0.2 0.5
Decrease in trade and other receivables   13.9 20.8
Decrease in bonus accrual  (3.0) (11.1)
Decrease in trade and other payables  (1.9) (12.5)
Decrease in provisions 20 (0.1) (2.8)
Cash generated from operations  53.0 37.8
Income tax paid  (7.4) (13.1)
Net cash flow from operating activities  45.6 24.7
Cash flows from investing activities  
Interest received 3 0.6 0.8
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10 (3.1) (24.4)
Proceeds from sale of investments 15 11.3 6.8
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  0.4 0.3
Purchase of investments  (3.8) –
Transfer (to)/from current investments (funds on deposit)  (24.0) 20.0
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including settlement of deferred consideration  (23.7) (26.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents acquired on acquisitions 12 – 43.2
Dividends received from investments 3 1.5 1.7
Net cash flow from investing activities  (40.8) 21.9
Cash flows from financing activities  
Interest paid  (0.1) (1.1)
Dividend paid 9 (18.5) (18.2)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests  (2.4) (1.7)
Repayment of borrowings  – (12.8)
Proceeds from shares issued (net of transaction costs) 23 – 1.2
ESOP shares acquired  (6.0) –
Net cash flow from financing activities  (27.0) (32.6)
  
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (22.2) 14.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  168.4 152.9
Net foreign exchange differences  7.8 1.5
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 17 154.0 168.4
Consolidated cash flow statement 86 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
86  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
1 Corporate information 
The Group and Parent Company financ ial statements of Clarkson PLC  
for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 10 March 2017.  
Clarkson PLC is a Public Limited Co mpany, listed on the London Stock 
Exchange, incorporated and registered in England and Wales and 
domiciled in the UK.  
The term ‘Company’ refers to Clarkson PLC and ‘Group’ refers to the 
Company, its consolidated subsidiaries and the relevant assets and 
liabilities of the share purchase trusts.  
Copies of the annual report will be ci rculated to all shareholders and will 
also be available from the registered office of the Company at Commodity 
Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF. 
2 Statement of accounting policies 
2.1 Basis of preparation 
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in 
preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values 
are rounded to the nearest one hund red thousand pounds sterling  
(£0.1m) except when otherwise indicated. 
The consolidated income statement is shown in columnar format to  
assist with understanding the Group’s results by presenting profit for the 
period before exceptional items and acquisition related costs; this is 
referred to as underlying profit. Items which are non-recurring in nature and 
considered to be material in size are shown as ‘exceptional items’. The 
column ‘exceptional items’ represents the gain and special dividend arising 
on the sale of The Baltic Exchange sh ares. The column ‘acquisition related 
costs’ includes the amortisation of in tangible assets, the expensing of the 
cash and share-based elements of consideration linked to ongoing 
employment obligations on acquisitions, acquisition related professional 
fees and interest on the loan note ob ligations. These notes form an integral 
part of the financial statements on pages 82 to 85. 
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going 
concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by 
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments)  
at fair value through profit or loss. 
The Group has considerable financial resources available and a strong 
balance sheet, as explained in the fina ncial review on pages 36 and 37.  
As a result of this, the Directors beli eve that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully, despite the challenging market 
backdrop. The Directors have a reason able expectation that the Group  
has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the next 12 months. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently  
to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements incorporate the results  
and net assets of Clarkson PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings made 
up to 31 December each year. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group 
controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 
See note U to the Parent Company fina ncial statements for full details  
on subsidiaries. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements  
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group. 
All inter-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation, however for the purposes of segmental 
reporting, internal arm’s-length recharges are included within the 
appropriate segments. 
2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures 
New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
The annual improvements (2014) to existing standards which are 
mandatory for the Group for the first ti me for the financial year beginning  
on or after 1 January 2016 have had no material impact on the Group. 
There were no other new IFRSs or in terpretations issued by the IFRS 
Interpretation Committee (IFRS IC) that had to be implemented during  
the year that significantly affect these financial statements. 
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not  
yet effective for the financial y ear beginning 1 January 2016 and not 
early adopted. 
As at the date of authorisation of th ese financial statements, the following 
standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective (and in 
some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Group has not 
applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of these 
financial statements. 
– Amendment to IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ on disclosure initiative 
– Amendment to IAS 12, ‘Income taxes’ on recognition of deferred tax 
assets for unrealised losses 
– Amendment to IFRS 2, ‘Share based payments’ regarding how to 
account for certain types of share-based payment transactions 
– IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ 
– IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ 
– Amendments to IAS 40, ‘Investment property’ relating to transfers of 
investment property 
– IFRIC 22, ‘Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration’ 
– IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ 
– Annual improvements (2014 – 2016) 
The impact on the Group’s financial st atements of the future adoption  
of these and other new standards and in terpretations is still under review. 
The Group does not expect, with the exception of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from 
contracts with customers’ and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, that any of these 
changes will have a material effect on the results or net assets  
of the Group. 
There were no other new IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to ha ve a material impact on the Group. 
  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements www.clarksons.com 87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
86  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
1 Corporate information 
The Group and Parent Company financ ial statements of Clarkson PLC  
for the year ended 31 December 2016 were authorised for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 10 March 2017.  
Clarkson PLC is a Public Limited Co mpany, listed on the London Stock 
Exchange, incorporated and registered in England and Wales and 
domiciled in the UK.  
The term ‘Company’ refers to Clarkson PLC and ‘Group’ refers to the 
Company, its consolidated subsidiaries and the relevant assets and 
liabilities of the share purchase trusts.  
Copies of the annual report will be ci rculated to all shareholders and will 
also be available from the registered office of the Company at Commodity 
Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF. 
2 Statement of accounting policies 
2.1 Basis of preparation 
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in 
preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values 
are rounded to the nearest one hund red thousand pounds sterling  
(£0.1m) except when otherwise indicated. 
The consolidated income statement is shown in columnar format to  
assist with understanding the Group’s results by presenting profit for the 
period before exceptional items and acquisition related costs; this is 
referred to as underlying profit. Items which are non-recurring in nature and 
considered to be material in size are shown as ‘exceptional items’. The 
column ‘exceptional items’ represents the gain and special dividend arising 
on the sale of The Baltic Exchange sh ares. The column ‘acquisition related 
costs’ includes the amortisation of in tangible assets, the expensing of the 
cash and share-based elements of consideration linked to ongoing 
employment obligations on acquisitions, acquisition related professional 
fees and interest on the loan note ob ligations. These notes form an integral 
part of the financial statements on pages 82 to 85. 
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
as adopted by the European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going 
concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by 
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments)  
at fair value through profit or loss. 
The Group has considerable financial resources available and a strong 
balance sheet, as explained in the fina ncial review on pages 36 and 37.  
As a result of this, the Directors beli eve that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully, despite the challenging market 
backdrop. The Directors have a reason able expectation that the Group  
has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the next 12 months. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently  
to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements incorporate the results  
and net assets of Clarkson PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings made 
up to 31 December each year. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group 
controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. 
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 
See note U to the Parent Company fina ncial statements for full details  
on subsidiaries. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements  
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group. 
All inter-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation, however for the purposes of segmental 
reporting, internal arm’s-length recharges are included within the 
appropriate segments. 
2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures 
New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
The annual improvements (2014) to existing standards which are 
mandatory for the Group for the first ti me for the financial year beginning  
on or after 1 January 2016 have had no material impact on the Group. 
There were no other new IFRSs or in terpretations issued by the IFRS 
Interpretation Committee (IFRS IC) that had to be implemented during  
the year that significantly affect these financial statements. 
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not  
yet effective for the financial y ear beginning 1 January 2016 and not 
early adopted. 
As at the date of authorisation of th ese financial statements, the following 
standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective (and in 
some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU). The Group has not 
applied these standards and interpretations in the preparation of these 
financial statements. 
– Amendment to IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ on disclosure initiative 
– Amendment to IAS 12, ‘Income taxes’ on recognition of deferred tax 
assets for unrealised losses 
– Amendment to IFRS 2, ‘Share based payments’ regarding how to 
account for certain types of share-based payment transactions 
– IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ 
– IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ 
– Amendments to IAS 40, ‘Investment property’ relating to transfers of 
investment property 
– IFRIC 22, ‘Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration’ 
– IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ 
– Annual improvements (2014 – 2016) 
The impact on the Group’s financial st atements of the future adoption  
of these and other new standards and in terpretations is still under review. 
The Group does not expect, with the exception of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from 
contracts with customers’ and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, that any of these 
changes will have a material effect on the results or net assets  
of the Group. 
There were no other new IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet 
effective that would be expected to ha ve a material impact on the Group. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   87 
2.3 Key accounting judgements and estimates 
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure 
of contingent liabilities, at the repo rting date. However, uncertainty about 
these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could 
require a material adjustment to the car rying amount of the asset or liability 
affected in the future. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course 
of business. Trade receivables are classified as current assets if collection 
is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the 
business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current assets. 
The provision for impairment of receivables represents management’s best 
estimate at the balance sheet date. A number of judgements are made in 
the calculation of the provision, pr imarily the age of the invoice, the 
existence of any disputes, recent historical payment patterns and the 
debtor’s financial position. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group’s entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and 
financial segments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain 
obligations, for example stage completion of a vessel build in broking or 
formal approval of a debt or equity transaction in finance, between two  
or more third parties over which the Group has no control. Consideration 
is therefore required as to whether the parties’ obligations have been 
fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised. See note 2.21  
for further details. 
Impairment testing of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the 
value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which these assets have been 
allocated. The value-in-use calculation requires estimation of future cash 
flows expected to arise for the cash- generating unit, the selection of 
suitable discount rates and the esti mation of future growth rates. 
Classification and recognition of adjusting items 
The Group excludes adjusting items (exceptional items and acquisition 
related costs) from its ‘underlying’ earnings measure. The Directors believe 
that alternative performance measures can provide the users of the 
financial statements with a better und erstanding of the Group’s underlying 
financial performance, if properly used. If improperly used and presented 
these measures could mislead the users of the financial statements by 
obscuring the real profitability and financial position of the Group.  
Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this 
classification. There can also be ju dgement as to the point at which  
costs should be recognised and the amount to record. 
2.4 Forward-looking statements 
Certain statements in this annual repo rt are forward-looking. Although the 
Group believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking 
statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these 
expectations will prove to have b een correct. Because these statements 
involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from 
those expressed or implied by thes e forward-looking statements. The 
Group undertakes no obligation to up date any forward-looking statements 
whether as a result of new informat ion, future events or otherwise. 
2.5 Property, plant and equipment 
Land held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for 
administrative purposes, is stated on the balance sheet at its historic cost. 
Freehold and long leasehold properties, leasehold improvements, office 
furniture and equipment and motor vehicles are recorded at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost 
includes the original purchase price of the asset. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is charged on a 
straight-line basis over the estimated usef ul life (after allowing for estimated 
residual value based on current prices) of the asset, and is charged from 
the time an asset becomes available for its intended use. Estimated useful 
lives are as follows: 
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-60 years 
Leasehold improvements Over the period of the lease  
Office furniture and equipment 2–10 years 
Motor vehicles 4-5 years 
Estimates of useful lives and residual scrap values are assessed annually. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. 
2.6 Investment properties 
Land and buildings held for long-t erm investment and to earn rental 
income are classified as investment properties. Investment properties are 
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised 
impairment loss. 
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful 
life of the asset, and is charged from the time an asset becomes available 
for its intended use. Estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Investment properties 60 years 
In addition to historical cost accounting, the Directors have also presented, 
through additional narrative, the fair value of the investment properties in 
note 11. 
   88 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
88  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.7 Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s share in the net fair value of the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. 
All transaction costs are expensed in the income statement as incurred. 
Any contingent consideration to be tr ansferred by the Group is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a 
change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is 
classified as equity is not re-measu red, and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated 
to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. 
2.8 Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition  
at cost. The cost of intangible asse ts acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value as at the date of acq uisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and 
assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible 
asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation 
method for an intangible asset with a fi nite useful life are reviewed at least 
at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied  
in the asset are accounted for by ch anging the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting 
estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives  
is recognised in income statement within administrative expenses. 
Trade name and non-contractual commercial relationships 
Amortisation is calculated using estimates of revenues generated by  
each asset over their estimated useful lives of between two and five years. 
Forward order book on acquisition 
Amortisation is calculated based on expected future cash flows estimated 
to be three years. 
2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If an y such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the 
asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher 
of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its 
value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset 
does not generate cash inflows that ar e largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Wh ere the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amou nt. In assessing value-in-use, the 
estimated future cash flows are disco unted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects cu rrent market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair  
value less costs to sell, an appropri ate valuation model is used. These 
calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, or other available  
fair value indicators. 
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in profit  
or loss in those expense categories co nsistent with the function of the 
impaired asset. 
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting 
date as to whether there is any indi cation that previously recognised 
impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.  
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case 
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. 
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of deprecia tion, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. 
The following criteria are also appl ied in assessing impairment of  
specific assets: 
Goodwill 
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators that goodwill is 
impaired at each reporting date. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates. Where 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than their 
carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be revers ed in future periods. The Group 
performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at 31 December. 
   www.clarksons.com 89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
88  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.7 Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s share in the net fair value of the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. 
All transaction costs are expensed in the income statement as incurred. 
Any contingent consideration to be tr ansferred by the Group is recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a 
change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is 
classified as equity is not re-measu red, and its subsequent settlement is 
accounted for within equity. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated 
to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. 
2.8 Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition  
at cost. The cost of intangible asse ts acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value as at the date of acq uisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and 
assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible 
asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation 
method for an intangible asset with a fi nite useful life are reviewed at least 
at each financial year-end. Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied  
in the asset are accounted for by ch anging the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting 
estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives  
is recognised in income statement within administrative expenses. 
Trade name and non-contractual commercial relationships 
Amortisation is calculated using estimates of revenues generated by  
each asset over their estimated useful lives of between two and five years. 
Forward order book on acquisition 
Amortisation is calculated based on expected future cash flows estimated 
to be three years. 
2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication 
that an asset may be impaired. If an y such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the 
asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher 
of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its 
value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset 
does not generate cash inflows that ar e largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Wh ere the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amou nt. In assessing value-in-use, the 
estimated future cash flows are disco unted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects cu rrent market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair  
value less costs to sell, an appropri ate valuation model is used. These 
calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, or other available  
fair value indicators. 
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in profit  
or loss in those expense categories co nsistent with the function of the 
impaired asset. 
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting 
date as to whether there is any indi cation that previously recognised 
impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such 
indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.  
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case 
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. 
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of deprecia tion, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. 
The following criteria are also appl ied in assessing impairment of  
specific assets: 
Goodwill 
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators that goodwill is 
impaired at each reporting date. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates. Where 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than their 
carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be revers ed in future periods. The Group 
performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at 31 December. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   89 
2.10 Investments and other financial assets 
Classification 
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets 
at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity 
investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. When 
financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, 
plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs. 
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets on initial 
recognition, taking into account the purpose for which the financial assets 
were acquired. Where allowed and a ppropriate, the Group re-evaluates 
this designation at each financial year-end. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value through pr ofit or loss includes financial assets 
held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as 
at fair value through profit or loss. 
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for  
the purpose of selling in the near term. Gains or losses on investments 
held for trading are recognised in profit or loss. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quot ed in an active market. After initial 
measurement loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method less an y allowance for impairment. Gains and 
losses are recognised in profit or lo ss when the loans and receivables are 
derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. 
Available-for-sale financial investments 
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial  
assets that are designated as availabl e-for-sale or are not classified in  
any of the two preceding categories or held-to-maturity investments.  
They are included in non-current as sets unless the investment matures 
within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. Available-for-sale 
financial assets are measured at cost, since they are investments in 
unlisted companies where the fair value cannot be determined. 
Recognition and measurement 
Fair value 
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial 
markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the 
close of business on the balance sh eet date. For investments where there 
is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques, 
unless these are not reliable in whic h case the investments are shown at 
cost. Such valuation techniques include using recent arm’s-length market 
transactions; reference to the current market value of another instrument 
which is substantially the same; disc ounted cash flow analysis; or other 
valuation models. 
Amortised cost 
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost. This is computed 
using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. The 
calculation takes into account any prem ium or discount on acquisition and 
includes transaction costs and fees that are an integral part of the effective 
interest rate. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recogn ised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less provision for impairment. 
2.11 Impairment of financial assets 
The Group assesses at each balance sh eet date whether a financial asset 
or group of financial assets is impaired. 
Assets carried at amortised cost 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at 
amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value 
of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that 
have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective 
interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance 
account. The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases 
and the decrease can be related objectiv ely to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed, to the extent that the carryin g value of the asset does not exceed 
its amortised cost at the reversal date. Any subsequent reversal of an 
impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made  
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to  
collect all of the amounts due under th e original terms of the invoice.  
The carrying amount of the receivab le is reduced through use of an 
allowance account. Impaired debts are derecognised when they are 
assessed as uncollectable. 
Available-for-sale financial investments 
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the 
difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) 
and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised  
in profit or loss, is transferred from eq uity to profit or loss. Reversals in 
respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not 
recognised in profit or loss. Reversals of impairment losses on debt 
instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value 
of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after  
the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss. 
   90 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
90  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.12 Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. It excludes 
borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. 
2.13 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits  
with an original maturity of between one day and three months. 
2.14 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce  
exposure to foreign exchange movements. These can include forward 
foreign exchange contracts and currency options. All derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value 
adjusted for transaction costs. 
The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by 
reference to quoted prices in an active market. Where no such active 
market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation 
techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis 
and the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the 
derivative depends on whether the in strument has been designated as a 
hedging instrument and, if so, the ca sh flow being hedged. To qualify for 
hedge accounting, the terms of the he dge must be clearly documented  
at inception and there must be an exp ectation that the derivative will be 
highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk. 
Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and if  
at any point it is concluded that th e relationship can no longer be  
expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge 
relationship is terminated. 
Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which qualify for 
hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the hedge 
relationship and the item being hedged. 
Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as  
cash flow hedges when they hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in 
cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable 
forecast transaction. Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are 
recognised directly in equity, to th e extent that they are determined  
to be effective. Any remaining portion of the gain or loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. On recognition of the hedged  
asset or liability, any gains or losses that had previously been recognised 
directly in equity are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of 
the asset or liability. When a hedging in strument expires or is sold, or when 
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss in equity remains ther e and is recognised in the income 
statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expect ed to occur, the cumulative gain  
or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the  
income statement. 
Where financial instrument derivatives do not qualify for hedge  
accounting, changes in the fair market value are recognised immediately in 
the income statement. 
2.15 Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have  
been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts 
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year 
or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, 
they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
2.16 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly 
attributable transaction costs and have not been designated as ‘at fair 
value through profit and loss’. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method. 
2.17 Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation  
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount  
of the obligation. Where the Group expect s some or all of a provision to be 
reimbursed, for example under an in surance contract, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is 
virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in profit 
or loss net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is 
material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that 
reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost. 
2.18 Employee benefits 
The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. 
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly  
or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid 
contributions are recognised as an a sset to the extent that a cash refund 
or a reduction in the future payments is available. 
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that  
an employee will receive on retirement , usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
   www.clarksons.com 91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
90  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.12 Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. It excludes 
borrowing costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. 
2.13 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits  
with an original maturity of between one day and three months. 
2.14 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to reduce  
exposure to foreign exchange movements. These can include forward 
foreign exchange contracts and currency options. All derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value 
adjusted for transaction costs. 
The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by 
reference to quoted prices in an active market. Where no such active 
market exists, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation 
techniques from observable data, including discounted cash flow analysis 
and the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the 
derivative depends on whether the in strument has been designated as a 
hedging instrument and, if so, the ca sh flow being hedged. To qualify for 
hedge accounting, the terms of the he dge must be clearly documented  
at inception and there must be an exp ectation that the derivative will be 
highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk. 
Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the hedge and if  
at any point it is concluded that th e relationship can no longer be  
expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge 
relationship is terminated. 
Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which qualify for 
hedge accounting are recognised according to the nature of the hedge 
relationship and the item being hedged. 
Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as  
cash flow hedges when they hedge the Group’s exposure to changes in 
cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable 
forecast transaction. Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are 
recognised directly in equity, to th e extent that they are determined  
to be effective. Any remaining portion of the gain or loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. On recognition of the hedged  
asset or liability, any gains or losses that had previously been recognised 
directly in equity are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of 
the asset or liability. When a hedging in strument expires or is sold, or when 
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss in equity remains ther e and is recognised in the income 
statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expect ed to occur, the cumulative gain  
or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the  
income statement. 
Where financial instrument derivatives do not qualify for hedge  
accounting, changes in the fair market value are recognised immediately in 
the income statement. 
2.15 Trade and other payables 
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have  
been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts 
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year 
or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, 
they are presented as non-current liabilities. 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
2.16 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly 
attributable transaction costs and have not been designated as ‘at fair 
value through profit and loss’. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method. 
2.17 Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation  
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount  
of the obligation. Where the Group expect s some or all of a provision to be 
reimbursed, for example under an in surance contract, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is 
virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in profit 
or loss net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is 
material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that 
reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost. 
2.18 Employee benefits 
The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. 
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly  
or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid 
contributions are recognised as an a sset to the extent that a cash refund 
or a reduction in the future payments is available. 
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that  
an employee will receive on retirement , usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   91 
The asset/liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined 
benefit pension plans is the difference between the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period and the fair 
value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually 
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The 
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting 
the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality 
corporate bonds that have terms to ma turity approximating to the terms of 
the related pension obligation. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are ch arged or credited to equity in  
other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income. 
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to  
the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of  
plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the 
income statement. 
2.19 Share-based payment transactions 
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group receive  
remuneration in the form of sh are-based payment transactions,  
whereby employees render services as consideration for equity 
instruments (equity-settled transactions). 
Equity-settled transactions 
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by 
reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. The fair 
value of the element of these awar ds which have a Total Shareholder 
Return performance condition was valued using a stochastic model.  
All other elements of awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with  
a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the 
performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date  
on which the relevant employees beco me fully entitled to the award  
(the vesting date). The cumulative ex pense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expire d and the Group’s best estimate of 
the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The profit or loss 
charge or credit for a period repr esents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognised as at the be ginning and end of that period. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest,  
except for awards where vesting is co nditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market 
condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service 
conditions are satisfied. 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional  
share dilution in the computation of earnings per share (further details  
are given in note 8). 
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant  
of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself,  
and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction. 
2.20 Share capital 
Ordinary shares are recognised in equity as share capital at their nominal 
value. The difference between consideration received and the nominal 
value is recognised in the share pr emium account, except when applying 
the merger relief provision of the Companies Act 2006. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares 
are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Company shares held in trust in co nnection with the Group’s employee 
share schemes are deducted from co nsolidated shareholders’ equity. 
Purchases, sales and transfers of th e Company’s shares are disclosed  
as changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity. The assets and  
liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in full into the Group’s  
consolidated financial statements. 
2.21 Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent th at it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Broking 
Shipbroking and offshore revenue consists of commission receivable and 
is recognised by reference to the st age of completion, which is measured 
by reference to the underlying comm ercial contract. Futures broking 
commissions are recognised when the services have been performed. 
Financial 
Revenue consists of commissions and fees receivable from financial 
services activities. Fees for investment banking activities, syndication and 
other financial solutions are recognised on a success basis when certain 
criteria in applicable agreements have been met. Commission from trading 
activities is recognised at trade date. Fees for advisory and accounting 
services are recognised as earned. 
Support 
Port service income is recognised on vessel load or discharge completion 
date and store rent on a time basis. Agency income is recognised when 
vessels arrive in port. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when 
the goods are physically despatched to the customer. Rental income 
arising from operating leases on properties is accounted for on a straight-
line basis over the lease term. 
Research 
Revenue comprises fees, which are recognised as and when services are 
performed, and sales of shipping publ ications and other information, which 
is recognised when products are de livered. Subscriptions to periodicals 
and other information are recognised over the subscription period. 
Finance income 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
2.22 Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the chief op erating decision-maker. The Group 
considers the executive members of the Company’s Board to be the chief 
operating decision-maker. 
   92 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
92  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.23 Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at  
the rates of exchange prevailing on th e date of the transaction. At each 
balance sheet date, monetary assets an d liabilities that are denominated  
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance 
sheet date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the 
income statement. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date  
of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date 
when the fair value was determined. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas 
operations are translated into pounds st erling at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income an d expense items are translated at 
the average exchange rates for the period as an approximation of rates 
prevailing at the date of the trans action unless exchange rates fluctuate 
significantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the 
Group’s currency translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or expense in the period in which an operation is 
disposed of. Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero at 
the date of transition to IFRSs. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
operation are treated as assets and lia bilities of the foreign operation and 
translated at the closing rate. 
2.24 Taxation 
Current income tax 
Current income tax assets and liabiliti es for the current and prior periods 
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to  
the taxation authorities. The tax rate s and tax laws used to compute the 
amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. 
Current income tax is recognised in the income statement, except on 
items relating to equity, in which case the related current income tax is 
recognised directly in equity. 
Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets  
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except: 
– where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or of an asset or liabil ity in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and 
– in respect of taxable temporary diffe rences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses,  
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of 
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: 
– where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is no t a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects ne ither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
– in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, deferred income tax assets are recognised 
only to the extent that it is probab le that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future an d taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the ex tent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income 
tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised 
to the extent that it has become prob able that future taxable profit will 
allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and not in profit or loss. 
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a 
legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same 
taxable entity and the same taxation au thority, where there is an intention 
to settle the balances on a net basis. 
2.25 Leases 
Where the Group is a lessee, operating lease payments are recognised  
as an expense in the income statemen t on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term. Lease incentive payments are amortised over the lease term. 
2.26 Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are significant items of a non-recurring nature  
and considered material in both size and nature.  These are  
disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s  
financial performance. 
   www.clarksons.com 93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
92  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
2 Statement of accounting policies continued 
2.23 Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at  
the rates of exchange prevailing on th e date of the transaction. At each 
balance sheet date, monetary assets an d liabilities that are denominated  
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance 
sheet date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the 
income statement. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date  
of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the date 
when the fair value was determined. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas 
operations are translated into pounds st erling at exchange rates prevailing 
on the balance sheet date. Income an d expense items are translated at 
the average exchange rates for the period as an approximation of rates 
prevailing at the date of the trans action unless exchange rates fluctuate 
significantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the 
Group’s currency translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or expense in the period in which an operation is 
disposed of. Cumulative translation differences have been set to zero at 
the date of transition to IFRSs. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
operation are treated as assets and lia bilities of the foreign operation and 
translated at the closing rate. 
2.24 Taxation 
Current income tax 
Current income tax assets and liabiliti es for the current and prior periods 
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to  
the taxation authorities. The tax rate s and tax laws used to compute the 
amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. 
Current income tax is recognised in the income statement, except on 
items relating to equity, in which case the related current income tax is 
recognised directly in equity. 
Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets  
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. 
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences, except: 
– where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition 
of goodwill or of an asset or liabil ity in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and 
– in respect of taxable temporary diffe rences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses,  
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of 
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: 
– where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is no t a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects ne ither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and 
– in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, deferred income tax assets are recognised 
only to the extent that it is probab le that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future an d taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the ex tent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred income 
tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised 
to the extent that it has become prob able that future taxable profit will 
allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
recognised in equity and not in profit or loss. 
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset if a 
legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same 
taxable entity and the same taxation au thority, where there is an intention 
to settle the balances on a net basis. 
2.25 Leases 
Where the Group is a lessee, operating lease payments are recognised  
as an expense in the income statemen t on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term. Lease incentive payments are amortised over the lease term. 
2.26 Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are significant items of a non-recurring nature  
and considered material in both size and nature.  These are  
disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s  
financial performance. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   93 
3 Revenue and expenses  
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue 
Rendering of services   293.9 288.0
Rental income 0.7 2.2
Sale of goods 11.5 11.6
 306.1 301.8
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Finance revenue 
Bank interest income 0.6 0.8
Income from available-for-sale financial assets 1.6 1.7
 2.2 2.5
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Finance costs 
Loan note interest 0.9 1.1
Loan interest – 0.4
Overdraft interest – 0.2
Other finance costs 0.1 0.5
 1.0 2.2
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Other finance costs – pensions 
Net benefit charge 0.1 0.4
 0.1 0.4
Operating profit 
Operating profit from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting): 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Depreciation 5.0 4.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 6.6 9.2
Operating lease expense – land and buildings 11.3 13.9
Operating sublease income – land and buildings (0.5) (2.2)
Net foreign exchange gains (3.6) (1.9)
 
   94 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
94  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
3 Revenue and expenses continued 
 
2016 
£000 
2015
£000
Auditors’ remuneration  
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for the audit of the Company’s and Group financial statements 233 232
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors and their associates for other services:  
The auditing of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 301 322
Audit-related assurance services 64 50
Taxation compliance services 40 18
Taxation advisory services 18 102
 656 724
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Employee compensation and benefits expense  
Wages and salaries 170.7 165.8
Social security costs 15.7 15.5
Expense of share-based payments 1.3 1.6
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 3.6 3.2
 191.3 186.1
The numbers above include remuneration and pe nsion entitlements for each Director. Details are included in the Directors’ remun eration report in the 
Directors’ emoluments and compensation table on page 65. 
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group duri ng the year including Executive Directors is analysed below: 
 2016 2015
Broking 1,021 1,012
Financial 121 121
Support 154 163
Research 96 89
 1,392 1,385
 
   www.clarksons.com 95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
94  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
3 Revenue and expenses continued 
 
2016 
£000 
2015
£000
Auditors’ remuneration  
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for the audit of the Company’s and Group financial statements 233 232
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors and their associates for other services:  
The auditing of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 301 322
Audit-related assurance services 64 50
Taxation compliance services 40 18
Taxation advisory services 18 102
 656 724
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Employee compensation and benefits expense  
Wages and salaries 170.7 165.8
Social security costs 15.7 15.5
Expense of share-based payments 1.3 1.6
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 3.6 3.2
 191.3 186.1
The numbers above include remuneration and pe nsion entitlements for each Director. Details are included in the Directors’ remun eration report in the 
Directors’ emoluments and compensation table on page 65. 
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group duri ng the year including Executive Directors is analysed below: 
 2016 2015
Broking 1,021 1,012
Financial 121 121
Support 154 163
Research 96 89
 1,392 1,385
 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   95 
4 Segmental information 
The Group considers the executive members of the Company’s Board to be the chief oper ating decision-maker. The Board receives s egmental 
operating and financial information on a regular basis. The segmen ts are determined by the class of business the Company provid es and are broking, 
financial, support and research. This is consistent with the wa y the Group manages itself and wi th the format of the Group’s in ternal financial reporting. 
Clarksons’ broking division represents services provided to shipowners and charterers in the transportation by sea of a wide ra nge of cargoes. It also 
represents services provided to buyers and sellers/yards relating to sale and purchase transactions. Also included is a futures broking operation which 
arranges principal-to-principal cash-settled contracts for differences based upon standardised freight contracts. 
The financial division represents full-service investment banking, specialising in the maritime, oil services and natural resou rces sectors. Clarksons also 
provides structured asset finance services and structured projects in the shippi ng, offshore and real estate sectors. 
Support includes port and agency services representing ship agency services provided throughout the UK and property services re garding the provision 
of accommodation. 
Research services encompass the provision of shipping-related information and publications. 
All areas of the business work closely togeth er to provide the best possible service to our clients. Occasionally revenue is sh ared between different 
segments to reflect relative contributions to a particular transaction. Internal arm’s-length recharges are included within the appropriate segments. 
Business segments 
Revenue Results
 
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Broking 233.6 239.5 40.2 49.1
Financial 41.0 28.7 6.8 1.2
Support 17.8 26.2 2.1 3.3
Research 13.7 11.1 4.9 3.4
 306.1 305.5 
Less: property services revenue arising within the Group,  
included under support – (3.7) 
Segment revenue/results 306.1 301.8 54.0 57.0
Head office costs  (9.8) (7.5)
Operating profit before exceptional items and acquisition related costs  44.2 49.5
Exceptional items  9.7 (2.5)
Acquisition related costs  (7.7) (15.1)
Operating profit after exceptional items and acquisition related costs  46.2 31.9
Finance revenue  2.2 2.5
Finance costs  (1.0) (2.2)
Other finance costs – pensions  (0.1) (0.4)
Profit before taxation  47.3 31.8
Taxation  (9.4) (9.5)
Profit for the year  37.9 22.3
   96 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
96  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
4 Segmental information continued 
Business segments 
 Assets  Liabilities
 
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Broking 355.6 348.1 98.8 102.2
Financial 166.3 130.8 20.9 22.2
Support 8.7 38.8 5.3 6.3
Research 17.4 9.6 4.5 4.6
Segment assets/liabilities 548.0 527.3 129.5 135.3
Unallocated assets/liabilities 53.4 21.4 65.2 72.5
 601.4 548.7 194.7 207.8
Unallocated assets predominantly relate to head office cash ba lances, the pension scheme surplus and tax assets. Unallocated li abilities include the 
pension scheme deficit, tax liabilities and loan notes. 
Business segments 
 Non-current asset additions Depreciation Amortisation and impairment
 
Property,  
plant and 
equipment  
2016 
£m 
Intangible  
assets  
2016 
£m 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
2015
£m
Intangible 
assets 
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Broking 1.6 – 4.8 148.6 4.3 1.6 6.4 8.8
Financial 0.9 – 0.2 105.9 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4
Support 0.6 – 19.4 – 0.5 2.3 – –
 3.1 – 24.4 254.5 5.0 4.2 6.6 9.2
Geographical segments – by origin of invoice 
 Revenue
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Europe, Middle East and Africa
*
 240.1 231.1
Americas 26.0 29.5
Asia Pacific 40.0 41.2
 306.1 301.8
Geographical segments – by location of assets 
 Non-current assets**
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Europe, Middle East and Africa
*
 312.9 277.0
Americas 3.3 2.8
Asia Pacific 21.4 18.4
 337.6 298.2
* Includes revenue for the UK of £148.4m (2015: £154.0m) and non-current assets for the UK of £87.6m (2015: £83.2m). 
** Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets. 
   www.clarksons.com 97
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
96  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
4 Segmental information continued 
Business segments 
 Assets  Liabilities
 
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Broking 355.6 348.1 98.8 102.2
Financial 166.3 130.8 20.9 22.2
Support 8.7 38.8 5.3 6.3
Research 17.4 9.6 4.5 4.6
Segment assets/liabilities 548.0 527.3 129.5 135.3
Unallocated assets/liabilities 53.4 21.4 65.2 72.5
 601.4 548.7 194.7 207.8
Unallocated assets predominantly relate to head office cash ba lances, the pension scheme surplus and tax assets. Unallocated li abilities include the 
pension scheme deficit, tax liabilities and loan notes. 
Business segments 
 Non-current asset additions Depreciation Amortisation and impairment
 
Property,  
plant and 
equipment  
2016 
£m 
Intangible  
assets  
2016 
£m 
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
2015
£m
Intangible 
assets 
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Broking 1.6 – 4.8 148.6 4.3 1.6 6.4 8.8
Financial 0.9 – 0.2 105.9 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4
Support 0.6 – 19.4 – 0.5 2.3 – –
 3.1 – 24.4 254.5 5.0 4.2 6.6 9.2
Geographical segments – by origin of invoice 
 Revenue
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Europe, Middle East and Africa
*
 240.1 231.1
Americas 26.0 29.5
Asia Pacific 40.0 41.2
 306.1 301.8
Geographical segments – by location of assets 
 Non-current assets**
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Europe, Middle East and Africa
*
 312.9 277.0
Americas 3.3 2.8
Asia Pacific 21.4 18.4
 337.6 298.2
* Includes revenue for the UK of £148.4m (2015: £154.0m) and non-current assets for the UK of £87.6m (2015: £83.2m). 
** Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   97 
5 Exceptional items 
2016 
Exceptional items include a gain of £9.7m on the sale of shares in The Baltic Ex change to SGX. A special final dividend from Th e Baltic Exchange of 
£1.4m, which was closely linked to the sale, was also treated as an exceptional item in 2016, although a £1.4m special dividend received in 2015 was 
included in underlying income in keeping with the treatment in previous years. 
2015 
During 2014, Clarkson PLC signed a 15 year lease on a new flagship head office at Co mmodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London, commencing on 29 
September 2014. The lease for the previous head office, St. Magnus House, London expired in December 2015. The additional rent and associated 
costs in the year were £1.9m for Commodity Quay up to the relo cation date, and £0.4m for St. Magnus House after relocation. An onerous lease 
provision of £0.3m for a property in Singap ore was also treated as an exceptional item . Costs associated with the reorganisation of the enlarged Group 
post-acquisition totalling £1.2m were treated as exceptional, as they are non-recurr ing. The release of the unutilised portion of the dilapidation provision 
for St. Magnus House of £1.3m was also treated as exceptional other income. 
6 Acquisition related costs 
Included in acquisition related costs are cash and share-based pa yment charges of £0.4m (2015: £2.1m) relating to previous acqu isitions. These are 
contingent on employees remaining in service and are therefore spread over the service period. Also included is £0.7m (2015: £0 .7m) relating to the 
acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interest in Clarkson s Platou Tankers AS. The charge consists of cash and share-based payment charges 
which are linked to future service of the employees and are therefore spread over a four year period. 
Also included is £nil (2015: £3.1m) of legal and professional fees relating to th e Platou and other acquisitions and £6.6m (201 5: £9.2m) relating to 
amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of the Platou and other prior acqu isitions. Interest on the loan notes issued as p art of the Platou acquisition 
totalled £0.9m (2015: £1.1m). 
7 Taxation 
Tax charged/(credited) in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 
 2016
£m
2015
£m
Current tax 
Tax on profits for the year  9.5 9.1
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.0) 0.5
 8.5 9.6
 
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  0.7 0.1
Impact of change in tax rates 0.2 (0.2)
 0.9 (0.1)
Total tax charge in the income statement 9.4 9.5
Tax relating to items charged/(credited) to equity is as follows: 
 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current tax  
Employee benefits – on pension benefits (0.4) (0.4)
 – other employee benefits (1.5) (0.7)
Other items in equity 0.1 0.1
  (1.8) (1.0)
  
Deferred tax  
Employee benefits – on pension benefits 1.0 2.3
 – other employee benefits 1.2 –
Foreign currency hedge (0.9) (0.3)
  1.3 2.0
Total tax (credit)/charge in the statement of changes in equity (0.5) 1.0
   98 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
98  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
7 Taxation continued 
Reconciliation of tax charge 
The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower (2015: higher) than the av erage standard rate of corporation tax i n the UK of 20.00%  
(2015: 20.25%). The differences are reconciled below: 
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit before taxation 47.3 31.8
Profit at UK average standard rate of corporation tax of 20.00% (2015: 20.25%) 9.5 6.4
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 2.8
Non-taxable income (2.3) (0.3)
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (0.4) (0.1)
Tax losses not recognised 1.3 –
Adjustments relating to prior year (0.7) 0.5
Adjustments relating to changes in tax rates 0.2 0.4
Other adjustments 0.2 (0.2)
Total tax charge in the income statement 9.4 9.5
 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax charged/(credited) in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Employee benefits – on pension benefits 0.1 0.9
 – other employee benefits 1.4 0.1
Tax losses recognised (0.6) 0.5
In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 0.2 –
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition (1.5) (2.4)
Other temporary differences 1.3 0.8
Deferred tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 0.9 (0.1)
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Deferred tax asset   
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 0.8 0.7
 – other employee benefits 8.9 10.6
Tax losses  1.0 –
Foreign currency contracts 1.2 0.3
Other temporary differences 0.9 0.9
  12.8 12.5
  
Deferred tax liability  
Employee benefits – on pension benefit asset (1.2) –
In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries (1.3) (1.1)
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition (1.4) (2.6)
Other temporary differences (1.8) (0.4)
  (5.7) (4.1)
Included in the above are deferred tax assets of £4.4m (2015: £4.3m) and deferred tax liabilities of £0.8m (2015: £1.3m) which are due within one year. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realis ation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. 
All deferred tax movements arise from the origination and revers al of temporary differences. The Group did not recognise a defe rred tax asset of £4.4m 
(2015: £1.4m) in respect of unused tax losses, which have no expiry date.  www.clarksons.com 99
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
98  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
7 Taxation continued 
Reconciliation of tax charge 
The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower (2015: higher) than the av erage standard rate of corporation tax i n the UK of 20.00%  
(2015: 20.25%). The differences are reconciled below: 
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit before taxation 47.3 31.8
Profit at UK average standard rate of corporation tax of 20.00% (2015: 20.25%) 9.5 6.4
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 2.8
Non-taxable income (2.3) (0.3)
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (0.4) (0.1)
Tax losses not recognised 1.3 –
Adjustments relating to prior year (0.7) 0.5
Adjustments relating to changes in tax rates 0.2 0.4
Other adjustments 0.2 (0.2)
Total tax charge in the income statement 9.4 9.5
 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax charged/(credited) in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Employee benefits – on pension benefits 0.1 0.9
 – other employee benefits 1.4 0.1
Tax losses recognised (0.6) 0.5
In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 0.2 –
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition (1.5) (2.4)
Other temporary differences 1.3 0.8
Deferred tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 0.9 (0.1)
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Deferred tax asset   
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 0.8 0.7
 – other employee benefits 8.9 10.6
Tax losses  1.0 –
Foreign currency contracts 1.2 0.3
Other temporary differences 0.9 0.9
  12.8 12.5
  
Deferred tax liability  
Employee benefits – on pension benefit asset (1.2) –
In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries (1.3) (1.1)
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition (1.4) (2.6)
Other temporary differences (1.8) (0.4)
  (5.7) (4.1)
Included in the above are deferred tax assets of £4.4m (2015: £4.3m) and deferred tax liabilities of £0.8m (2015: £1.3m) which are due within one year. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realis ation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. 
All deferred tax movements arise from the origination and revers al of temporary differences. The Group did not recognise a defe rred tax asset of £4.4m 
(2015: £1.4m) in respect of unused tax losses, which have no expiry date. 
 
 
www.clarksons.com   99 
8 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calcul ated by dividing profit for the year attr ibutable to ordinary equity holders of th e Parent Company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the y ear, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that w ould be issued on the 
conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earni ngs per share computations: 
 2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the year attributable to ordina ry equity holders of the Parent Company  35.7 19.7
 
 2016 2015
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding sh are purchase trusts’ shares) for basic earnings per share 29,862,508 28,952,917
Dilutive effect of share options 269,262 330,362
Dilutive effect of acquisition related shares 795 870
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding share purchase trusts’ shares)  
adjusted for the effect of dilution 30,132,565 29,284,149
The share awards relating to Directors, where the performance cond itions have not yet been met at the balance sheet date, are n ot included in the above 
numbers. The weighted average number of these shares was 136,634 (2015: 99,533). 
9 Dividends 
 2016
£m
2015
£m
Declared and paid during the year: 
Final dividend for 2015 of 40p per share (2014: 39p per share)  11.9 11.7
Interim dividend for 2016 of 22p per share (2015: 22p per share) 6.6 6.5
Dividend paid 18.5 18.2
 
Proposed for approval at the AGM (not reco gnised as a liability at 31 December):  
Final dividend for 2016 proposed of 43p per share (2015: 40p per share) 12.9 11.9
 
   100 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
100  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
10 Property, plant and equipment 
31 December 2016 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office furniture 
and equipment 
£m 
Motor  
vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2016 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9
Additions – 0.7 2.1 0.3 3.1
Disposals – (0.2) (0.5) (0.3) (1.0)
Reclassified to investment property (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Foreign exchange differences 0.6 0.5 1.3 – 2.4
At 31 December 2016 7.7 18.1 18.0 1.1 44.9
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2016 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1
Charged during the year 0.2 1.4 3.0 0.3 4.9
Disposals – (0.1) (0.4) (0.2) (0.7)
Reclassified to investment property (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.7 – 1.0
At 31 December 2016 1.0 3.4 9.9 0.6 14.9
Net book value at 31 December 2016 6.7 14.7 8.1 0.5 30.0
During the year a property in Dubai was reclassified as an investment property. 
31 December 2015 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office furniture 
and equipment 
£m 
Motor  
vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2015 4.8 1.9 19.8 1.1 27.6
Additions 2.6 14.9 6.7 0.2 24.4
Arising on acquisitions 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4
Disposals (0.1) (0.7) (13.4) (0.3) (14.5)
Foreign exchange differences – 0.1 (0.1) – –
At 31 December 2015 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2015 1.2 1.3 16.9 0.5 19.9
Charged during the year – 1.1 2.8 0.3 4.2
Disposals – (0.7) (13.4) (0.3) (14.4)
Foreign exchange differences (0.1) 0.2 0.3 – 0.4
At 31 December 2015 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1
Net book value at 31 December 2015 6.5 15.2 8.5 0.6 30.8
Included within additions are amounts relating to the office moves in London, Oslo and Singapore. 
 
  www.clarksons.com 101
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
100  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
10 Property, plant and equipment 
31 December 2016 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office furniture 
and equipment 
£m 
Motor  
vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2016 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9
Additions – 0.7 2.1 0.3 3.1
Disposals – (0.2) (0.5) (0.3) (1.0)
Reclassified to investment property (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Foreign exchange differences 0.6 0.5 1.3 – 2.4
At 31 December 2016 7.7 18.1 18.0 1.1 44.9
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2016 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1
Charged during the year 0.2 1.4 3.0 0.3 4.9
Disposals – (0.1) (0.4) (0.2) (0.7)
Reclassified to investment property (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.7 – 1.0
At 31 December 2016 1.0 3.4 9.9 0.6 14.9
Net book value at 31 December 2016 6.7 14.7 8.1 0.5 30.0
During the year a property in Dubai was reclassified as an investment property. 
31 December 2015 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties
£m
Leasehold 
improvements
£m
Office furniture 
and equipment 
£m 
Motor  
vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2015 4.8 1.9 19.8 1.1 27.6
Additions 2.6 14.9 6.7 0.2 24.4
Arising on acquisitions 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4
Disposals (0.1) (0.7) (13.4) (0.3) (14.5)
Foreign exchange differences – 0.1 (0.1) – –
At 31 December 2015 7.6 17.1 15.1 1.1 40.9
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2015 1.2 1.3 16.9 0.5 19.9
Charged during the year – 1.1 2.8 0.3 4.2
Disposals – (0.7) (13.4) (0.3) (14.4)
Foreign exchange differences (0.1) 0.2 0.3 – 0.4
At 31 December 2015 1.1 1.9 6.6 0.5 10.1
Net book value at 31 December 2015 6.5 15.2 8.5 0.6 30.8
Included within additions are amounts relating to the office moves in London, Oslo and Singapore. 
 
 
 
 
www.clarksons.com   101 
11 Investment property 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 1.5 0.6
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.9
At 31 December 2.0 1.5
 
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 0.3 0.3
Charged during the year 0.1 –
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment 0.4 –
At 31 December 0.8 0.3
Net book value at 31 December 1.2 1.2
The fair value of the investment properties at 31 December 2016 was £1.9m (2015: £1.4m). This was based on valuations from inde pendent valuers who 
have the appropriate professional qualifications and recent expe rience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued. 
12 Intangible assets 
31 December 2016 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2016 264.0 28.3 292.3
Foreign exchange differences 42.6 3.2 45.8
At 31 December 2016 306.6 31.5 338.1
  
Accumulated amortisation and impairment  
At 1 January 2016 12.3 16.8 29.1
Charged during the year – 6.6 6.6
Foreign exchange differences 0.1 1.8 1.9
At 31 December 2016 12.4 25.2 37.6
Net book value at 31 December 2016 294.2 6.3 300.5
None of the intangible assets are internally generated. The inta ngible assets have a remaining amortisation period of between o ne and three years. 
Goodwill and other intangible assets are held in the currency of the businesses acquired and are subject to foreign exchange re translations to the closing 
rate at each year-end. 
   102 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
102  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
12 Intangible assets continued 
31 December 2015 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other intangible 
assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2015 52.7 7.8 60.5
Additions 232.6 21.9 254.5
Foreign exchange differences (21.3) (1.4) (22.7)
At 31 December 2015 264.0 28.3 292.3
   
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2015 12.3 7.8 20.1
Charged during the year – 9.2 9.2
Impairment – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2015 12.3 16.8 29.1
Net book value at 31 December 2015 251.7 11.5 263.2
None of the intangible assets are internally generated. 
Included within other intangible assets are £11.5m relating to customer relationships, forward order book and trade name which were identified as part of 
the Platou acquisition. 
Business combinations 
2016 
There were no material business combinations in 2016. 
2015 
On 2 February 2015, Clarkson PLC acquired 100% of the share capit al of RS Platou ASA (Platou), which subsequently changed its name to Clarksons 
Platou AS. 
The fair value of the consideration was £249.9m, of which £23.5m wa s paid in cash, £179.9m being the fair value of ordinary sha res issued (based on 
the Clarkson PLC share price on the acquisiti on date) and £46.5m comprised loan notes. 
Further information on the Platou acquisiti on, including details of the consideration paid, the fair value of the assets acquir ed and the liabilities assumed, 
can be found on pages 88 and 89 of the 2015 annual report. 
 
   www.clarksons.com 103
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
102  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
12 Intangible assets continued 
31 December 2015 
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other intangible 
assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2015 52.7 7.8 60.5
Additions 232.6 21.9 254.5
Foreign exchange differences (21.3) (1.4) (22.7)
At 31 December 2015 264.0 28.3 292.3
   
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2015 12.3 7.8 20.1
Charged during the year – 9.2 9.2
Impairment – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2015 12.3 16.8 29.1
Net book value at 31 December 2015 251.7 11.5 263.2
None of the intangible assets are internally generated. 
Included within other intangible assets are £11.5m relating to customer relationships, forward order book and trade name which were identified as part of 
the Platou acquisition. 
Business combinations 
2016 
There were no material business combinations in 2016. 
2015 
On 2 February 2015, Clarkson PLC acquired 100% of the share capit al of RS Platou ASA (Platou), which subsequently changed its name to Clarksons 
Platou AS. 
The fair value of the consideration was £249.9m, of which £23.5m wa s paid in cash, £179.9m being the fair value of ordinary sha res issued (based on 
the Clarkson PLC share price on the acquisiti on date) and £46.5m comprised loan notes. 
Further information on the Platou acquisiti on, including details of the consideration paid, the fair value of the assets acquir ed and the liabilities assumed, 
can be found on pages 88 and 89 of the 2015 annual report. 
 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   103 
13 Impairment testing of goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) id entified according to operating segment. 
The carrying amount of goodwill acquired through business combinations is as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Dry cargo chartering 12.0 12.0
Container chartering 1.8 1.8
Tankers chartering 11.8 9.6
Specialised chartering 12.2 12.2
Gas chartering 2.7 2.7
Sale and purchase broking 50.7 42.0
Offshore broking 81.8 71.4
Securities 115.0 93.8
Port and agency services 2.9 2.9
Research services 3.3 3.3
 294.2 251.7
The movement in the aggregate carrying value is analysed in more detail in note 12. 
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs which are te sted for impairment at least annually. Th e goodwill arising in each CGU is similar in nature and thus the  
testing for impairment uses the same approach. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are asse ssed using a value-in-use model. Value-in-use is calculated as the net present valu e of the projected risk-
adjusted cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated. 
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are as follows: 
– the pre-tax discount rate for the chartering and broking CGUs is 8.9% (2015: 12.0%), port and agency services is 8.9% (2015: 12 .0%), research 
services is 8.9% (2015: 12.0%) and for securities is 9.2% (2015: 11.0%).  As all broking and chartering CGUs have operations th at are global in nature 
and similar risk profiles, the same discount rate has been used; 
– these discount rates are based on the Group’s weighted average co st of capital (WACC) and adjusted for CGU-specific risk factors. The Group’s 
WACC is a function of the Group’s cost of equity, derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM).  The cost of equity inclu des a number of 
variables to reflect the inherent risk of the business being eval uated.  In 2015, the Group’s WA CC was adjusted to reflect the relative uncertainty of the 
projected cash flows of the recently acquired Platou group.  In 2016, however, there was much more certainty in the calculations of the future cash 
flows, as the Platou group was fully integr ated with the wider Group, and therefore an additional risk factor was not required; and 
– the cash flow predictions are based on financial budgets and strate gic plans approved by the Board, extrapolated over a five ye ar period. These are 
based on both past performance and expectations for future mark et development and take into account the cyclicality of the business in which the 
CGU operates.  Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapol ated in perpetuity using a conser vative growth rate of 1.7% ( 2015: 1.7%) across  
all CGUs. 
The results of the Directors’ review of good will, including sensitivity analyses for r easonable changes in assumptions, still indicate remaining headroom. 
Accordingly, no reasonably possible change is foreseen which gives ri se to an impairment of goodwill.  
In light of global macro-economic and geo- political uncertainty, the Board keeps the carrying value of goodwill under constant review. In the event that 
any of the markets in which we operate has a sustained downturn, an impairment of the relevant CGU’s goodwill may be required. 
   104 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
104  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
14 Trade and other receivables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Non-current  
Other receivables 1.8 1.1
  
Current  
Trade receivables 42.7 49.8
Other receivables 6.2 6.1
Prepayments and accrued income 7.8 5.4
 56.7 61.3
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms payable within 90 days. 
As at 31 December 2016, Group trade receivables at nominal value of £15.5m (2015: £12.3m) were impaired and fully provided for. The amount of the 
provision equates to the total amount of impaired debt. The prov ision is based on experience and ongoing market information abo ut the credit-
worthiness of counterparties.  
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 12.3 9.9
Arising on acquisition – 2.1
Provision release (5.5) (4.3)
Written off (2.9) (2.4)
New provision 9.2 6.4
Foreign exchange differences 2.4 0.6
At 31 December 15.5 12.3
The other classes within trade and other rece ivables do not include any impaired items. 
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Neither past due nor impaired 38.1 43.9
Past due not impaired > 90 days 4.6 5.9
 42.7 49.8
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivab les are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
US Dollar 28.2 32.4
Sterling 6.3 10.0
Norwegian Krone 7.5 6.6
Other currencies 0.7 0.8
 42.7 49.8
 
   www.clarksons.com 105
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
104  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
14 Trade and other receivables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Non-current  
Other receivables 1.8 1.1
  
Current  
Trade receivables 42.7 49.8
Other receivables 6.2 6.1
Prepayments and accrued income 7.8 5.4
 56.7 61.3
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms payable within 90 days. 
As at 31 December 2016, Group trade receivables at nominal value of £15.5m (2015: £12.3m) were impaired and fully provided for. The amount of the 
provision equates to the total amount of impaired debt. The prov ision is based on experience and ongoing market information abo ut the credit-
worthiness of counterparties.  
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 12.3 9.9
Arising on acquisition – 2.1
Provision release (5.5) (4.3)
Written off (2.9) (2.4)
New provision 9.2 6.4
Foreign exchange differences 2.4 0.6
At 31 December 15.5 12.3
The other classes within trade and other rece ivables do not include any impaired items. 
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Neither past due nor impaired 38.1 43.9
Past due not impaired > 90 days 4.6 5.9
 42.7 49.8
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivab les are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
US Dollar 28.2 32.4
Sterling 6.3 10.0
Norwegian Krone 7.5 6.6
Other currencies 0.7 0.8
 42.7 49.8
 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   105 
15 Investments 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current 
Available-for-sale financial assets 4.1 1.9
 
Current 
Funds on deposit 29.4 5.4
Available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 0.2
Held for trading investments 0.1 0.1
 29.8 5.7
The movement in non-current available-for-sale financial assets in the year comprises the addition of a minority investment in CargoMetrics Technologies 
LLC of £3.8m and the disposal of Th e Baltic Exchange shares of £1.6m. 
The Group held £19.4m (2015: £5.4m) in a deposit with a 95 day notice period. The Group also held £10.0m (2015: £nil) in a depo sit with a maturity of 
six months at the year-end. These deposits are held with an A-rated financial institution. 
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of investments in unl isted ordinary shares and are shown at cost. There are no reas onable pricing alternatives to 
be able to give a range of fair value to these assets.  
16 Inventories 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Finished goods 0.7 0.9
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sa les amounted to £5.0m (2015: £7.0m). 
17 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 147.7 161.3
Short-term deposits 6.3 7.1
 154.0 168.4
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Shor t-term deposits are made for v arying periods between 
one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. 
The fair value of cash and cash eq uivalents is £154.0m (2015: £168.4m). 
Included in cash at bank and in hand is £1.3m (2015: £1.8m) of restricted funds relating to employee tax. 
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 
Loan notes 23.6 23.1
 
Non-current 
Loan notes – 23.0
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise the vendor loan notes issued as part of the consideration for the Platou acquisi tion. Interest is charged at 
12 month sterling LIBOR plus 1.25%. Half the loan notes were repa id on 30 June 2016, the balance is repayable on 30 June 2017. 
   106 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
106  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
19 Trade and other payables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Current  
Trade payables 24.3 24.8
Other payables 6.9 8.4
Other tax and social security 2.7 2.8
Deferred consideration 0.9 0.3
Foreign currency contracts 4.2 1.2
Accruals and deferred income 103.3 101.8
 142.3 139.3
  
Non-current  
Other payables 9.3 7.4
Deferred consideration – 0.5
Foreign currency contracts 2.0 0.2
 11.3 8.1
Terms and conditions of the financial liabilities: 
– trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand; and 
– other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand. 
20 Provisions 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Current  
At 1 January 0.2 3.0
Arising during the year – 0.2
Utilised during the year (0.2) (1.7)
Released during the year – (1.3)
At 31 December – 0.2
  
Non-current  
At 1 January – –
Arising during the year 0.1 –
At 31 December 0.1 –
Provisions have been recognised for the dilapidation of various leasehold premises which will be utilised on cessation of the l ease between one and  
four years.  
During the year, an onerous lease provision was utilised. 
During 2015, the St. Magnus House dilapidation provision and on erous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement. This 
release was treated as an exceptional item as set out in note 5. 
   www.clarksons.com 107
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
106  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
19 Trade and other payables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Current  
Trade payables 24.3 24.8
Other payables 6.9 8.4
Other tax and social security 2.7 2.8
Deferred consideration 0.9 0.3
Foreign currency contracts 4.2 1.2
Accruals and deferred income 103.3 101.8
 142.3 139.3
  
Non-current  
Other payables 9.3 7.4
Deferred consideration – 0.5
Foreign currency contracts 2.0 0.2
 11.3 8.1
Terms and conditions of the financial liabilities: 
– trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand; and 
– other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand. 
20 Provisions 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Current  
At 1 January 0.2 3.0
Arising during the year – 0.2
Utilised during the year (0.2) (1.7)
Released during the year – (1.3)
At 31 December – 0.2
  
Non-current  
At 1 January – –
Arising during the year 0.1 –
At 31 December 0.1 –
Provisions have been recognised for the dilapidation of various leasehold premises which will be utilised on cessation of the l ease between one and  
four years.  
During the year, an onerous lease provision was utilised. 
During 2015, the St. Magnus House dilapidation provision and on erous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement. This 
release was treated as an exceptional item as set out in note 5. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   107 
21 Share-based payment plans 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1.3 1.6
The share-based payment plans are described below. There have b een no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2016 or 2015. 
Share options 
Long term incentive awards 
Details of the long term incentive awards ar e included in the Directors’ remuneration re port on page 60. Awards made to the Dir ectors are given in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 67. The fair value of th e element of these awards, which have a TSR performance conditio n, was valued using a 
Stochastic model. All other elements of the aw ards were valued using a Black-Scholes model. 
ShareSave scheme 
The ShareSave scheme is approved by HMRC and enables eligible employees to acquire op tions over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount. 
The fair value of these awards was va lued using the Black-Scholes model. 
Other options 
These options were granted in 2007 to senior executives where the performance conditions have since been met. The fair value of the element of these 
awards, which have a TSR performance condition, was valued using a Stochastic model. All other elements of the awards were valu ed using a Black-
Scholes model. 
Movements in the year 
The following table illustrates the number of, an d movements in, share options during the year: 
 
Outstanding at 
1 January  
2016 
Granted 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Outstanding at 
31 December 
2016 
Exercisable at 
31 December 
2016
Weighted 
average 
contractual life 
Years
Long term incentive awards
1 
398,907 83,183 (39,099) (299,374) 143,617 – 8.25
2013 ShareSave
2 
16,135 – (1,380) (14,755) – – –
2014 ShareSave
3 
36,715 – (11,310) – 25,405 – 1.00
2015 ShareSave
4 
132,597 – (28,433) – 104,164 – 2.00
2016 ShareSave
5 
– 64,888 (1,779) – 63,109 – 3.33
Other options
6 
40,000 – – (25,000) 15,000 15,000 0.81
 624,354 148,071 (82,001) (339,129) 351,295 15,000
The weighted average share price at the da te of exercise was £19.89 in relation to the long term incentive awards, £20.56 for t he 2013 ShareSave 
options and £19.92 for the Other options. 
There is one exercise price for each type of share option award, as follows: 1 £nil , 2 £13.03, 3 £21.11, 4 £18.12, 5 £17.19, 6 £9.91. 
 
Outstanding at  
1 January  
2015 
Granted 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Outstanding at 
31 December 
2015 
Exercisable at 
31 December 
2015
Weighted 
average 
contractual life 
Years
Long term incentive awards
 1 
367,900 53,451 (22,444) – 398,907 247,005 6.28
2012 ShareSave
2 
119,745 – (1,427) (118,318) – – –
2013 ShareSave
3 
17,626 – (1,491) – 16,135 – 1.00
2014 ShareSave
4 
78,215 – (41,347) (153) 36,715 – 2.00
2015 ShareSave
5 
– 138,229 (5,632) – 132,597 – 3.00
Other options
6 
40,000 – – – 40,000 40,000 1.82
 623,486 191,680 (72,341) (118,471) 624,354 287,005
The weighted average share price at the da te of exercise was £23.90 in relation to the 2012 ShareSave options and £23.71 for th e 2014  
ShareSave options. 
There is one exercise price for each type of share option award, as follows: 1 £nil , 2 £10.82, 3 £13.03, 4 £21.11, 5 £18.12, 6 £9.91. 
   108 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
108  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
21 Share-based payment plans continued 
Significant inputs 
The inputs into the models used to value options gran ted in the period fell within the following ranges: 
 2016 2015
Share price at date of grant (£) 19.75 – 22.21 22.16 – 23.07
Exercise price (£) 0.00 – 17.19 0.00 – 18.12
Expected term (years) 3.0 – 3.3 3.0 – 3.3
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.3 – 0.4 0.7 – 0.9
Expected dividend yield (%) 0.0 – 3.1 0.0 – 2.6
Expected volatility (%) 33.4 – 34.6 25.4 – 26.2
Other employee incentives 
During the year, 284,509 shares (2015: 439,648 shares) at a weig hted average price of £22.53 (2015: £22.45) were awarded to employees in settlement 
of 2015 (2014) cash bonuses. There was no expense in 2016 as a result of these awards. 
The fair value of the above shares was determined based on the mark et price at the date of grant. 
As part of previous acquisitions, certain el ements of consideration are payable in the fo rm of shares in Clarkson PLC.  Where t hese are contingent  
on the employees remaining in service, the cost of these shares are charged to th e consolidated income statement over the service period. The 2016 
charge in relation to such awards is £0.4m (2015: £0.5m). 
22 Employee benefits 
The Group’s three defined benefit pension schemes are in the UK and all financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the three 
separate schemes. 
The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, being th e Clarkson PLC scheme, the Plowrights scheme and the Stewarts scheme, which 
are funded by the payment of contributions to separate trusts ad ministered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes’ 
beneficiaries. The schemes’ assets are invested in a range of pool ed pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers. 
Defined benefit pension arrangements give ri se to open ended commitments and liabilitie s for the sponsoring company. As a conse quence, the 
Company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarks on PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004. This section w as closed to further 
accrual for all existing members as from 31 March 2006. The Plowri ghts scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006 . The Stewarts 
scheme was closed to further accrual on 1 January 2004. 
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates o f contribution. 
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared. 
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme sh owed a pension surplus of £3.6m as at 31 March 2016. Clarkson PLC and the Trustees a greed to cease 
funding with effect from 1 October 2016. 
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of £1.2m as at 31 March 2016. Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agr eed to continue the 
funding plan, at the rate of £0.9m per annum, until 30 September 2017. 
The valuation of the Stewarts scheme show ed a pension deficit of £2.1m as at 1 Se ptember 2015. Clarksons Platou (Offshore) Limited have agreed with 
the Trustees to pay contributions to remove the deficit over a period of seven years from 1 September 2015 at the rate of £0.4m per annum until 31 
October 2016 and £0.3m per annum thereafter. 
The Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: 
Asset volatility 
The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set wi th reference to corporate bond yields; if scheme assets under perform this yield, this will 
create a deficit. All schemes hold a significant proportion of equities, which are exp ected to outperform corporate bonds in th e long-term while providing 
volatility and risk in the short-term. 
Changes in bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabil ities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes’  
bond holdings. 
Inflation risk 
Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majori ty of the schemes’ assets are 
either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflat ion will also increase the deficit. 
Life expectancy 
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy wi ll result in an increase  
in the schemes’ liabilities. 
   www.clarksons.com 109
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
108  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
21 Share-based payment plans continued 
Significant inputs 
The inputs into the models used to value options gran ted in the period fell within the following ranges: 
 2016 2015
Share price at date of grant (£) 19.75 – 22.21 22.16 – 23.07
Exercise price (£) 0.00 – 17.19 0.00 – 18.12
Expected term (years) 3.0 – 3.3 3.0 – 3.3
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.3 – 0.4 0.7 – 0.9
Expected dividend yield (%) 0.0 – 3.1 0.0 – 2.6
Expected volatility (%) 33.4 – 34.6 25.4 – 26.2
Other employee incentives 
During the year, 284,509 shares (2015: 439,648 shares) at a weig hted average price of £22.53 (2015: £22.45) were awarded to employees in settlement 
of 2015 (2014) cash bonuses. There was no expense in 2016 as a result of these awards. 
The fair value of the above shares was determined based on the mark et price at the date of grant. 
As part of previous acquisitions, certain el ements of consideration are payable in the fo rm of shares in Clarkson PLC.  Where t hese are contingent  
on the employees remaining in service, the cost of these shares are charged to th e consolidated income statement over the service period. The 2016 
charge in relation to such awards is £0.4m (2015: £0.5m). 
22 Employee benefits 
The Group’s three defined benefit pension schemes are in the UK and all financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the three 
separate schemes. 
The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes, being th e Clarkson PLC scheme, the Plowrights scheme and the Stewarts scheme, which 
are funded by the payment of contributions to separate trusts ad ministered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes’ 
beneficiaries. The schemes’ assets are invested in a range of pool ed pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers. 
Defined benefit pension arrangements give ri se to open ended commitments and liabilitie s for the sponsoring company. As a conse quence, the 
Company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarks on PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004. This section w as closed to further 
accrual for all existing members as from 31 March 2006. The Plowri ghts scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006 . The Stewarts 
scheme was closed to further accrual on 1 January 2004. 
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates o f contribution. 
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared. 
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme sh owed a pension surplus of £3.6m as at 31 March 2016. Clarkson PLC and the Trustees a greed to cease 
funding with effect from 1 October 2016. 
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of £1.2m as at 31 March 2016. Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agr eed to continue the 
funding plan, at the rate of £0.9m per annum, until 30 September 2017. 
The valuation of the Stewarts scheme show ed a pension deficit of £2.1m as at 1 Se ptember 2015. Clarksons Platou (Offshore) Limited have agreed with 
the Trustees to pay contributions to remove the deficit over a period of seven years from 1 September 2015 at the rate of £0.4m per annum until 31 
October 2016 and £0.3m per annum thereafter. 
The Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: 
Asset volatility 
The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set wi th reference to corporate bond yields; if scheme assets under perform this yield, this will 
create a deficit. All schemes hold a significant proportion of equities, which are exp ected to outperform corporate bonds in th e long-term while providing 
volatility and risk in the short-term. 
Changes in bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabil ities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes’  
bond holdings. 
Inflation risk 
Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majori ty of the schemes’ assets are 
either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflat ion will also increase the deficit. 
Life expectancy 
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy wi ll result in an increase  
in the schemes’ liabilities. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   109 
Other pension arrangements 
Overseas defined contribution arrangements have been determined in accordan ce with local practice and regulations. 
The Group also operates various other defined contribution pens ion arrangements. Where required, the Group also makes contribut ions into  
these schemes. 
The Group incurs no material expens es in the provision of post-retirement benefits other than pensions. 
The following tables summarise amounts recogn ised in the consolidated balance sheet and the components of net benefit charge re cognised in the 
consolidated income statement: 
Recognised in the balance sheet 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 200.5 170.1
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (194.1) (172.8)
 6.4 (2.7)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (4.1) (1.4)
Net benefit asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 2.3 (4.1)
The net benefit asset/(liability) disclosed above is the combined total of the three schemes. The Clarkson PLC scheme has a sur plus of £7.5m (2015: 
£0.6m deficit), the Plowrights scheme has a deficit of £0.6m ( 2015: £0.9m) and the Stewarts scheme has a deficit of £4.6m (2015 : £2.6m). As there is no 
right of set-off between the schemes, the benefit asset of £7.5m (2015: £nil) is disclosed separately on the balance sheet from the benefit liability of 
£5.2m (2015: £4.1m).  
A deferred tax asset on the benefit liability amounting to £0.8m (2015: £0.7m) and a de ferred tax liability on the benefit asset of £1.2m (2015: £nil) is 
shown in note 7. 
Recognised in the income statement 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Recognised in other finance costs – pensions: 
Expected return on schemes’ assets 6.4 5.8
Interest cost on benefit obligation and minimum funding requirement (6.5) (6.2)
Recognised in administrative expenses: 
Scheme administrative expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement (0.3) (0.6)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Actual return on schemes’ assets 36.2 3.3
Less: expected return on schemes’ assets (6.4) (5.8)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 29.8 (2.5)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit obligations (22.6) 13.0
Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 7.2 10.5
Tax charge on actuarial gain (1.6) (2.2)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (2.6) (1.4)
Tax credit on minimum funding requirement 1.0 0.3
Net actuarial gain on employee benefit obligations 4.0 7.2
 
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognis ed in the statement of comprehensive income (8.8) (16.0)
   110 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
110  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
22 Employee benefits continued 
Schemes’ assets 
 %
2016 
£m % 
2015
£m
Equities
*
 47.5 95.1 48.9 83.2
Government bonds
*
 31.8 63.7 32.1 54.6
Corporate bonds
*
 13.3 26.8 12.7 21.6
Property 3.5 7.0 4.2 7.1
Cash and other assets 3.9 7.9 2.1 3.6
 100.0 200.5 100.0 170.1
* Based on quoted market prices. 
Net defined benefit asset/(liability) 
Changes in the fair value of the net defined benefit asset/(liability) are as follows: 
31 December 2016 
 
Present value 
of obligation
£m
Fair value of 
plan assets
£m
Total 
£m 
Impact of 
minimum 
funding 
requirement 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 (172.8) 170.1 (2.7) (1.4) (4.1)
Expected return on assets – 6.4 6.4 – 6.4
Interest costs (6.4) – (6.4) (0.1) (6.5)
Contributions – 2.1 2.1 – 2.1
Administrative expenses – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Benefits paid 7.7 (7.7) – – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (22.6) 29.8 7.2 (2.6) 4.6
At 31 December 2016 (194.1) 200.5 6.4 (4.1) 2.3
31 December 2015 
 
Present value 
of obligation
£m
Fair value of 
plan assets
£m
Total 
£m 
Impact of 
minimum  
funding 
requirement 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 (173.3) 163.0 (10.3) – (10.3)
Acquired on acquisition (14.5) 9.8 (4.7) – (4.7)
Expected return on assets – 5.8 5.8 – 5.8
Interest costs (6.2) – (6.2) – (6.2)
Contributions – 2.3 2.3 – 2.3
Administrative expenses – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Insurance income for insured pensioners – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Benefits paid 8.2 (8.2) – – –
Actuarial gain/(loss) 13.0 (2.5) 10.5 (1.4) 9.1
At 31 December 2015 (172.8) 170.1 (2.7) (1.4) (4.1)
The Group expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute £1.4m to its defined bene fit pension schemes in 
2017 (2016: £2.2m). 
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 
 
2016 
% 
2015
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 – 7.0 2.8 – 7.0
Price inflation (RPI) 3.3 3.2
Price inflation (CPI) 2.3 2.2
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.7 3.8 www.clarksons.com 111
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
110  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
22 Employee benefits continued 
Schemes’ assets 
 %
2016 
£m % 
2015
£m
Equities
*
 47.5 95.1 48.9 83.2
Government bonds
*
 31.8 63.7 32.1 54.6
Corporate bonds
*
 13.3 26.8 12.7 21.6
Property 3.5 7.0 4.2 7.1
Cash and other assets 3.9 7.9 2.1 3.6
 100.0 200.5 100.0 170.1
* Based on quoted market prices. 
Net defined benefit asset/(liability) 
Changes in the fair value of the net defined benefit asset/(liability) are as follows: 
31 December 2016 
 
Present value 
of obligation
£m
Fair value of 
plan assets
£m
Total 
£m 
Impact of 
minimum 
funding 
requirement 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 (172.8) 170.1 (2.7) (1.4) (4.1)
Expected return on assets – 6.4 6.4 – 6.4
Interest costs (6.4) – (6.4) (0.1) (6.5)
Contributions – 2.1 2.1 – 2.1
Administrative expenses – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Benefits paid 7.7 (7.7) – – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (22.6) 29.8 7.2 (2.6) 4.6
At 31 December 2016 (194.1) 200.5 6.4 (4.1) 2.3
31 December 2015 
 
Present value 
of obligation
£m
Fair value of 
plan assets
£m
Total 
£m 
Impact of 
minimum  
funding 
requirement 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 (173.3) 163.0 (10.3) – (10.3)
Acquired on acquisition (14.5) 9.8 (4.7) – (4.7)
Expected return on assets – 5.8 5.8 – 5.8
Interest costs (6.2) – (6.2) – (6.2)
Contributions – 2.3 2.3 – 2.3
Administrative expenses – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Insurance income for insured pensioners – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Benefits paid 8.2 (8.2) – – –
Actuarial gain/(loss) 13.0 (2.5) 10.5 (1.4) 9.1
At 31 December 2015 (172.8) 170.1 (2.7) (1.4) (4.1)
The Group expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute £1.4m to its defined bene fit pension schemes in 
2017 (2016: £2.2m). 
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 
 
2016 
% 
2015
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 – 7.0 2.8 – 7.0
Price inflation (RPI) 3.3 3.2
Price inflation (CPI) 2.3 2.2
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.7 3.8
 
 
www.clarksons.com   111 
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obli gation at 31 December 2016 is based on the ‘SAPS Light’ standa rd mortality tables 
published by the actuarial profession in 2014 (31 December 2015: ‘SAPS Light’ ta bles published in 2008). These tables have been adjusted to allow for 
anticipated future improvements in life expectancy using th e standard projection model published in 2015 (31 December 2015: pro jection models 
published between 2011 and 2013). Examples of the assumed fu ture life expectancy are given in the table below: 
  Additional years
  2016 2015
Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65: 
Pensioners retiring in the year – male 22.0 to 23.1 24.4
 – female 24.0 to 24.3 25.6
Pensioners retiring in 20 years’ time  – male 23.5 to 24.5 26.2
 – female 25.6 to 25.8 27.5
Experience adjustments 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Experience gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 29.8 (2.5)
Gain/(loss) on schemes’ liabilities due to changes in demographic assumptions 14.1 –
(Loss)/gain on schemes’ liabilities due to changes in financial assumptions (40.6) 12.5
Experience gains on schemes’ liabilities 3.9 0.5
Loss on minimum funding requirement (2.6) (1.4)
Total actuarial gain 4.6 9.1
Sensitivities 
The table below provides information on the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant ac tuarial assumptions. The 
table shows the impact of changes to each a ssumption in isolation although, in practi ce, changes to assumptions may occur at th e same time and can 
either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined be nefit obligation. These sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as 
used for the main calculations. The weighted averag e duration of the defined obligation is 17 years. 
Change in  
assumption 
Change in defined 
benefit obligation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities +0.25% -4.0%
 -0.25% +4.3%
Price inflation (RPI) +0.25% +2.5%
 -0.25% -2.9%
An increase of one year in the assumed li fe expectancy for both males and females would increase the defined benefit obligation by 3.9% (2015: 4.1%). 
23 Share capital 
Ordinary shares of 25p each, issued and fully paid: 
2016
Number
2015 
Number 
2016
£m
2015
£m
At 1 January  30,231,767 20,598,389 7.6 5.2
Additions 1,412 9,633,378 – 2.4
At 31 December 30,233,179 30,231,767 7.6 7.6
In 2016 the Company issued 1,412 shares in relation to the 2012 ShareSave scheme (2015: 115,009 shares). The difference between the exercise price 
of £10.82 and the nominal value of £0.25 has been taken to the share premium account, see note 24. 
On 2 February 2015, the Company issued 9,518 ,369 shares at a nominal value of £2.4m as part of the acquisition of Platou, refer to note 12. 
Shares held by employee trusts 
The trustees have waived their right to dividends on the unallocated shares held in the employee share trust. 
   112 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
112  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
24 Other reserves 
31 December 2016 
 
Share 
premium
£m
ESOP  
reserve 
£m 
Employee 
benefits 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 29.0 (4.3) 4.1 2.0 (1.1) 177.5 (13.0) 194.2
Total comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – – (3.9) – 50.0 46.1
Share issues 0.1 – – – – – – 0.1
Employee share schemes:    
Share-based payments 
expense – – 1.2 – – – – 1.2
Transfer to profit and loss 
on vesting – 6.1 (2.8) – – – – 3.3
Net ESOP shares acquired – (4.8) – – – – – (4.8)
Total employee share schemes – 1.3 (1.6) – – – – (0.3)
At 31 December 2016 29.1 (3.0) 2.5 2.0 (5.0) 177.5 37.0 240.1
31 December 2015 
 
Share 
premium
£m
ESOP  
reserve 
£m 
Employee 
benefits reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 27.8 (5.4) 4.6 2.0 – – 6.5 35.5
Total comprehensive loss – – – – (1.1) – (19.5) (20.6)
Share issues 1.2 – – – – 177.5 – 178.7
Employee share schemes:    
Share-based payments 
expense – – 1.6 – – – – 1.6
Transfer to profit and loss 
on vesting – 0.7 (2.1) – – – – (1.4)
 Net ESOP shares utilised – 0.4 – – – – – 0.4
Total employee share schemes – 1.1 (0.5) – – – – 0.6
At 31 December 2015 29.0 (4.3) 4.1 2.0 (1.1) 177.5 (13.0) 194.2
Nature and purpose of other reserves 
ESOP reserve 
The ESOP reserve in the Group represents 159,676 shares (2015: 280, 106 shares) held by the share purchase trusts to meet obliga tions under various 
incentive schemes. The shares are stated at cost. The market value of these shares at 31 December 2016 was £3.5m (2015: £6.3m). At 31 December 
2016 none of these shares were under option (2015: none). During the year the share purchase trusts acquired 535,238 shares at a weighted average 
price of £20.23 (2015: 481,514 shares at £22.93). 
Employee benefits reserve 
The employee benefits reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees. Further details are included  
in note 21. 
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve arose on pr evious share buy-backs by Clarkson PLC. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the fair value of cash flow hedg ing instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not  
yet occurred. 
Currency translation reserve  
The currency translation reserve represents the currency translat ion differences arising from the consolidation of foreign oper ations. 
Merger reserve 
This comprises the premium on the share plac ing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou a cquisition. No share 
premium is recorded in the financial statem ents, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 200 6.  www.clarksons.com 113
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
112  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
24 Other reserves 
31 December 2016 
 
Share 
premium
£m
ESOP  
reserve 
£m 
Employee 
benefits 
reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 29.0 (4.3) 4.1 2.0 (1.1) 177.5 (13.0) 194.2
Total comprehensive 
(loss)/income – – – – (3.9) – 50.0 46.1
Share issues 0.1 – – – – – – 0.1
Employee share schemes:    
Share-based payments 
expense – – 1.2 – – – – 1.2
Transfer to profit and loss 
on vesting – 6.1 (2.8) – – – – 3.3
Net ESOP shares acquired – (4.8) – – – – – (4.8)
Total employee share schemes – 1.3 (1.6) – – – – (0.3)
At 31 December 2016 29.1 (3.0) 2.5 2.0 (5.0) 177.5 37.0 240.1
31 December 2015 
 
Share 
premium
£m
ESOP  
reserve 
£m 
Employee 
benefits reserve
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 27.8 (5.4) 4.6 2.0 – – 6.5 35.5
Total comprehensive loss – – – – (1.1) – (19.5) (20.6)
Share issues 1.2 – – – – 177.5 – 178.7
Employee share schemes:    
Share-based payments 
expense – – 1.6 – – – – 1.6
Transfer to profit and loss 
on vesting – 0.7 (2.1) – – – – (1.4)
 Net ESOP shares utilised – 0.4 – – – – – 0.4
Total employee share schemes – 1.1 (0.5) – – – – 0.6
At 31 December 2015 29.0 (4.3) 4.1 2.0 (1.1) 177.5 (13.0) 194.2
Nature and purpose of other reserves 
ESOP reserve 
The ESOP reserve in the Group represents 159,676 shares (2015: 280, 106 shares) held by the share purchase trusts to meet obliga tions under various 
incentive schemes. The shares are stated at cost. The market value of these shares at 31 December 2016 was £3.5m (2015: £6.3m). At 31 December 
2016 none of these shares were under option (2015: none). During the year the share purchase trusts acquired 535,238 shares at a weighted average 
price of £20.23 (2015: 481,514 shares at £22.93). 
Employee benefits reserve 
The employee benefits reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees. Further details are included  
in note 21. 
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve arose on pr evious share buy-backs by Clarkson PLC. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the fair value of cash flow hedg ing instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not  
yet occurred. 
Currency translation reserve  
The currency translation reserve represents the currency translat ion differences arising from the consolidation of foreign oper ations. 
Merger reserve 
This comprises the premium on the share plac ing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou a cquisition. No share 
premium is recorded in the financial statem ents, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 200 6. 
 
 
www.clarksons.com   113 
25 Financial commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group has entered into commercial leases in relation to land and buildings and other assets on the basis that it is not in the Group’s best interests  
to purchase these assets. The leases expire within one and 12 years and have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal righ ts. Renewals are at the 
option of the specific entity that holds the lease. There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these lea ses. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable op erating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Within one year 
9.1 6.9
After one year but not more than five years 
39.4 36.0
After five years 
53.4 55.1
 
101.9 98.0
The Group has sublet space in certain proper ties. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease 
agreements as at 31 December 2016 is £1.2m (2015: £1.2m). 
Contingencies 
The Group has given no financial commitments to suppliers (2015: none). 
The Group has given no guarantees (2015: none). 
From time to time the Group is engaged in litigation in the ordi nary course of business. The Group carries professional indemni ty insurance.  
There is currently no litigation expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the Group’s consolidated results or ne t assets. 
The Group also maintained throughout the financial year direct ors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of its Directors. 
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise loan note s, trade and other payables and accruals. The Group’s principal f inancial assets are trade 
receivables, current asset investments and cas h and cash equivalents and short-term depo sits, which arise directly from its ope rations. 
The Group has not entered into derivative transactions other than the forward currency contracts explained later in this sectio n. It is, and has been 
throughout 2016 and 2015, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken for speculative purposes. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are credit risk, li quidity risk and foreign exchange risk. The Bo ard of Directors reviews  
and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. 
Credit risk 
The Group seeks to trade only with recognis ed, creditworthy third parties. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basi s and any potential  
bad debts identified at an early stage. Th e maximum exposure is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 14; based on experien ce and ongoing 
market information about the creditworthiness of counterparties, we reasonably expect to collect all amounts unimpaired. There are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the Group. 
With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents and deposits held as current investments, the financial inst itutions used are  
closely monitored by the Group treasury functi on to ensure they are held with creditwo rthy institutions and to ensure there is no over-exposure to any  
one institution. 
For all financial assets held, the Group’s exposure to credit ri sk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal  
to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
   114 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
114  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Liquidity risk 
Cash flow forecasting is performed at an entity level and also co nsolidated at a Group level. This is to ensure there is suffic ient cash to meet operational 
requirements and any regulatory requirements where applicable. 
The tables below summarise the maturity pr ofile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undisc ounted payments. 
31 December 2016 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.9 – 23.9
Trade and other payables 31.2 – – 9.3 40.5
Deferred consideration – – 0.9 – 0.9
Provisions – – – 0.1 0.1
 31.2 – 24.8 9.4 65.4
31 December 2015 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.4 23.9 47.3
Trade and other payables 33.2 – – 7.4 40.6
Deferred consideration – 0.3 – 0.5 0.8
Provisions – – 0.2 – 0.2
 33.2 0.3 23.6 31.8 88.9
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from revenue s and expenses in currencies other than its functional curre ncy, which can 
significantly impact results and cash flows. The Group’s revenue is mainly deno minated in US dollars and the majority of expens es are denominated in 
local currencies. The Group also has balance sheet exposures, eith er at the local entity level where monetary assets and liabil ities are held in currencies 
other than the functional currency, and at a group level on the retranslation of non-st erling balances into the Group’s functio nal currency.  
Our aim is to manage this risk by reduci ng the impact of any fluctuations. The Grou p hedges currency exposure through forward sales of US dollar 
revenues.  We also sell US dollars on the spot market to meet local currency expendit ure requirements.  We also continually ass ess rates of exchange, 
non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.  
The Group is most sensitive to changes in the US dollar and Norw egian Krone exchange rates.  The following table demonstrates t he sensitivity to a 
reasonably possible change in these rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before taxation and eq uity. 
 US$  NOK
 
Strengthening/ 
(weakening) in 
rate
Effect on
profit before 
taxation
£m
Effect on  
equity 
£m 
Effect on 
profit before 
taxation 
£m 
Effect on 
equity
£m
2016 5% 2.6 0.5 1.1 1.1
 (5%) (2.3) (0.5) (1.0) (1.0)
2015 5% 1.6 1.7 0.7 0.7
 (5%) (1.5) (1.5) (0.6) (0.6)
 
 
   www.clarksons.com 115
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
114  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Liquidity risk 
Cash flow forecasting is performed at an entity level and also co nsolidated at a Group level. This is to ensure there is suffic ient cash to meet operational 
requirements and any regulatory requirements where applicable. 
The tables below summarise the maturity pr ofile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undisc ounted payments. 
31 December 2016 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.9 – 23.9
Trade and other payables 31.2 – – 9.3 40.5
Deferred consideration – – 0.9 – 0.9
Provisions – – – 0.1 0.1
 31.2 – 24.8 9.4 65.4
31 December 2015 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.4 23.9 47.3
Trade and other payables 33.2 – – 7.4 40.6
Deferred consideration – 0.3 – 0.5 0.8
Provisions – – 0.2 – 0.2
 33.2 0.3 23.6 31.8 88.9
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from revenue s and expenses in currencies other than its functional curre ncy, which can 
significantly impact results and cash flows. The Group’s revenue is mainly deno minated in US dollars and the majority of expens es are denominated in 
local currencies. The Group also has balance sheet exposures, eith er at the local entity level where monetary assets and liabil ities are held in currencies 
other than the functional currency, and at a group level on the retranslation of non-st erling balances into the Group’s functio nal currency.  
Our aim is to manage this risk by reduci ng the impact of any fluctuations. The Grou p hedges currency exposure through forward sales of US dollar 
revenues.  We also sell US dollars on the spot market to meet local currency expendit ure requirements.  We also continually ass ess rates of exchange, 
non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.  
The Group is most sensitive to changes in the US dollar and Norw egian Krone exchange rates.  The following table demonstrates t he sensitivity to a 
reasonably possible change in these rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before taxation and eq uity. 
 US$  NOK
 
Strengthening/ 
(weakening) in 
rate
Effect on
profit before 
taxation
£m
Effect on  
equity 
£m 
Effect on 
profit before 
taxation 
£m 
Effect on 
equity
£m
2016 5% 2.6 0.5 1.1 1.1
 (5%) (2.3) (0.5) (1.0) (1.0)
2015 5% 1.6 1.7 0.7 0.7
 (5%) (1.5) (1.5) (0.6) (0.6)
 
 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   115 
Derivative financial instruments 
It is the Group’s policy to cover or hedg e a proportion of its transactional US dollar exposures with foreign currency contract s. Where these are 
designated and documented as hedging instru ments in the context of IAS 39 and are demons trated to be effective, mark-to-market gains and losses are  
recognised directly in equity (see note 24) and transferred to the income statement up on receipt of cash and conversion to ster ling of the underlying  
item being hedged. 
The fair value of foreign currency cont racts at 31 December are as follows: 
 Liabilities
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Foreign currency contracts 6.2 1.4
At 31 December 2016 the Group had US$60m outstanding forward co ntracts due for settlement in 2017, 2018 and 2019 (2015: US$110m for 
settlement in 2016, 2017 and 2018). 
Capital management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to co ntinue as a going concern in order to pr ovide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. To tal capital is calculated  
as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet. 
The Group manages its capital structure, an d makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain o r adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the divide nd payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. 
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. The se financial 
statements are prepared on the going concern basis and the Group continues to pay dividends. 
A number of the Group’s trading entities are subject to regulation by the Norwegian FS A, the FCA in the UK and NFA and FINRA in the US. Regulatory 
capital at entity level depends on the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated. In each case, the approach is to hold an appropriate surplus over the local 
minimum requirement. Each regulated entity complied with their regulatory capit al requirements throughout the year. 
27 Financial instruments 
Fair values 
IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: 
– quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1); 
– inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liab ility, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly  
(that is, derived from prices) (level 2); and 
– inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observ able market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).  
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabil ities that are measured at fair value at 31 December. 
 Level 2
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Liabilities 
Foreign currency contracts 6.2 1.4
The fair value of the foreign currency contr acts are calculated by management based on external valuations received.  These valuations are calculated 
based on forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. 
The classification of financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December is as follows: 
Financial assets 
  2016 2015
 
Held for 
trading 
£m 
Available-
for-sale
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Total
£m
Held for
trading
£m
Available- 
for-sale 
£m 
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Total
£m
Other receivables – – 8.0 8.0 – – 7.2 7.2
Investments 0.1 4.4 29.4 33.9 0.1 2.1 5.4 7.6
Trade receivables – – 42.7 42.7 – – 49.8 49.8
Cash and cash equivalents – – 154.0 154.0 – – 168.4 168.4
 0.1 4.4 234.1 238.6 0.1 2.1 230.8 233.0
   116 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
116  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
27 Financial instruments continued 
Financial liabilities 
 2016  2015
 
Hedging 
instruments
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Hedging 
instruments 
£m 
Amortised 
cost 
£m 
Total
£m
Loan notes – 23.6 23.6 – 46.1 46.1
Trade payables – 24.3 24.3 – 24.8 24.8
Other payables – 16.2 16.2 – 15.8 15.8
Foreign currency contracts 6.2 – 6.2 1.4 – 1.4
Other tax and social security – 2.7 2.7 – 2.8 2.8
Deferred consideration – 0.9 0.9 – 0.8 0.8
Accruals – 99.1 99.1 – 98.3 98.3
Provisions – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2 0.2
 6.2 166.9 173.1 1.4 188.8 190.2
Loan notes were initially recognised at fa ir value and have not been designated as ‘fair value through profit or loss’. These a re subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. The carrying value of the loan no tes and other current and non-current fina ncial assets and liabilities is 
deemed to equate to the fair value at 31 December 2016. 
28 Related party transactions 
As in 2015, the Group did not enter into any related party transactions during the year, except as noted below. 
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors) 
There were no key management personnel in the Group apart from the Clarkson PLC Directors. Details of their compensation are se t out below. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5.9 6.5
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.6 0.7
 
6.6 7.3
Full remuneration details are provided in the Di rectors’ remuneration report on pages 57 to 71. www.clarksons.com 117
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements / continued 
116  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
27 Financial instruments continued 
Financial liabilities 
 2016  2015
 
Hedging 
instruments
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Hedging 
instruments 
£m 
Amortised 
cost 
£m 
Total
£m
Loan notes – 23.6 23.6 – 46.1 46.1
Trade payables – 24.3 24.3 – 24.8 24.8
Other payables – 16.2 16.2 – 15.8 15.8
Foreign currency contracts 6.2 – 6.2 1.4 – 1.4
Other tax and social security – 2.7 2.7 – 2.8 2.8
Deferred consideration – 0.9 0.9 – 0.8 0.8
Accruals – 99.1 99.1 – 98.3 98.3
Provisions – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2 0.2
 6.2 166.9 173.1 1.4 188.8 190.2
Loan notes were initially recognised at fa ir value and have not been designated as ‘fair value through profit or loss’. These a re subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. The carrying value of the loan no tes and other current and non-current fina ncial assets and liabilities is 
deemed to equate to the fair value at 31 December 2016. 
28 Related party transactions 
As in 2015, the Group did not enter into any related party transactions during the year, except as noted below. 
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors) 
There were no key management personnel in the Group apart from the Clarkson PLC Directors. Details of their compensation are se t out below. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5.9 6.5
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.6 0.7
 
6.6 7.3
Full remuneration details are provided in the Di rectors’ remuneration report on pages 57 to 71.
 
 
www.clarksons.com   117 
Report on the Parent Company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Clarkson PLC’s Parent Company fi nancial statements (the financial statements): 
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company ’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its cash flows for the yea r then ended; 
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provis ions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
What we have audited 
The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: 
– the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016; 
– the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; 
– the Parent Company cash flow statem ent for the year then ended; and 
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Certain required disclosures have been pres ented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial stat ements. These are cross-
referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has b een applied in the preparation of the financ ial statements is IFRSs as adopted by t he European Union and 
applicable law as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements 
Companies Act 2006 reporting 
In our opinion, based on the work und ertaken in the course of the audit: 
– the information given in the strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statemen ts are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and 
– the strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordan ce with applicable legal requirements. 
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environm ent obtained in the course of the audit , we are required to 
report if we have identified any material misstatemen ts in the strategic report and the Directors’ report. 
We have nothing to report in this respect. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)) we are required to report to you if, in our op inion, information in the 
annual report is: 
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsis tent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or 
– otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Comp any, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
– the financial statements and the part of th e Directors’ remuneration report to be au dited are not in agreement with the account ing records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration report − Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of th e Directors’ remuneration report to be audited ha s been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if , in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneratio n specified by law are not 
made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
  
Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Clarkson PLC 118 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC / continued 
118  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (U K & Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has b een prepared for and only for the Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance wi th Chapter 3 of  
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibilit y for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into wh ose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior co nsent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable a ssurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether c aused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of:  
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Co mpany’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and ad equately 
disclosed;  
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Dir ectors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own j udgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using samp ling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis  
for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through test ing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial informat ion in the annual report to iden tify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any in formation that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, t he knowledge acquired by  
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consi der the implications  
for our report. 
With respect to the strategic report, Directors’ report and corp orate governance statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures 
required by applicable legal requirements. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the cons olidated financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
 
John Waters 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
10 March 2017 www.clarksons.com 119
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Clarkson PLC / continued 
118  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (U K & Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has b een prepared for and only for the Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance wi th Chapter 3 of  
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibilit y for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into wh ose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior co nsent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable a ssurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether c aused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of:  
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Co mpany’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and ad equately 
disclosed;  
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and  
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Dir ectors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own j udgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using samp ling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis  
for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through test ing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial informat ion in the annual report to iden tify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any in formation that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, t he knowledge acquired by  
us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consi der the implications  
for our report. 
With respect to the strategic report, Directors’ report and corp orate governance statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures 
required by applicable legal requirements. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the cons olidated financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
 
John Waters 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
10 March 2017
 
as at 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   119 
Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment B 17.8 19.2
Investment property C 0.3 0.3
Investments in subsidiaries D 296.2 302.5
Employee benefits N 7.5 –
Deferred tax asset E 1.5 3.7
  323.3 325.7
  
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables F 40.7 63.7
Income tax receivable  4.2 2.7
Investments G 29.4 5.4
Cash and cash equivalents H 0.7 0.1
  75.0 71.9
  
Current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings I (23.6) (23.1)
Trade and other payables J (37.1) (12.7)
  (60.7) (35.8)
Net current assets  14.3 36.1
  
Non-current liabilities  
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings I – (23.0)
Trade and other payables J (6.5) (3.6)
Employee benefits N (0.6) (1.5)
Deferred tax liability L (1.5) –
  (8.6) (28.1)
Net assets  329.0 333.7
  
Capital and reserves  
Share capital O 7.6 7.6
Other reserves P 210.6 212.5
Retained earnings  110.8 113.6
Total equity  329.0 333.7
The financial statements on pages 119 to 136 were approved by the Board on 10 March 2017, and signed on its behalf by: 
 
James Hughes-Hallett    Jeff Woyda  
Chairman     Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer 
 
Registered number: 1190238 
 
Parent Company balance sheet 120 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 
120  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company
 Notes
Share capital
£m
Other reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2016 7.6 212.5 113.6 333.7
Profit for the year – – 11.8 11.8
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax N – – 5.8 5.8
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 17.6 17.6
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues O,P – 0.1 – 0.1
Employee share schemes – (2.0) (1.7) (3.7)
Tax on other employee benefits – – (0.2) (0.2)
Dividend paid – – (18.5) (18.5)
 – (1.9) (20.4) (22.3)
Balance at 31 December 2016 7.6 210.6 110.8 329.0
 
Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company
 Notes
Share capital
£m
Other reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 5.2 33.1 95.3 133.6
Profit for the year – – 30.7 30.7
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax N – – 6.1 6.1
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 36.8 36.8
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues O,P 2.4 178.7 – 181.1
Employee share schemes – 0.7 (0.7) –
Tax on other employee benefits – – 0.4 0.4
Dividend paid – – (18.2) (18.2)
 2.4 179.4 (18.5) 163.3
Balance at 31 December 2015 7.6 212.5 113.6 333.7
 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity www.clarksons.com 121
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 
120  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company
 Notes
Share capital
£m
Other reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2016 7.6 212.5 113.6 333.7
Profit for the year – – 11.8 11.8
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax N – – 5.8 5.8
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 17.6 17.6
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues O,P – 0.1 – 0.1
Employee share schemes – (2.0) (1.7) (3.7)
Tax on other employee benefits – – (0.2) (0.2)
Dividend paid – – (18.5) (18.5)
 – (1.9) (20.4) (22.3)
Balance at 31 December 2016 7.6 210.6 110.8 329.0
 
Attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company
 Notes
Share capital
£m
Other reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 5.2 33.1 95.3 133.6
Profit for the year – – 30.7 30.7
Other comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gain on employee benefit schemes – net of tax N – – 6.1 6.1
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 36.8 36.8
Transactions with owners:   
Share issues O,P 2.4 178.7 – 181.1
Employee share schemes – 0.7 (0.7) –
Tax on other employee benefits – – 0.4 0.4
Dividend paid – – (18.2) (18.2)
 2.4 179.4 (18.5) 163.3
Balance at 31 December 2015 7.6 212.5 113.6 333.7
 
 
for the year ended 31 December 
www.clarksons.com   121 
 Notes 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before taxation  8.8 28.9
Adjustments for:  
Foreign exchange differences  (0.2) (0.2)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  B 2.2 1.5
Share-based payment expense  0.6 0.7
Impairment of investments  – 4.6
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in the income statement (1.5) (1.8)
Finance revenue   (25.6) (46.9)
Finance costs  0.9 1.1
Other finance costs – pensions   – 0.3
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables   17.9 (18.3)
Increase/(decrease) in bonus accrual  7.5 (2.9)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  21.0 (5.0)
Decrease in provisions K – (3.0)
Cash utilised from operations  31.6 (41.0)
Income tax received  3.8 2.8
Net cash flow from operating activities  35.4 (38.2)
Cash flows from investing activities  
Interest received  0.1 0.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment B (0.8) (18.8)
Transfer (to)/from current investments (funds on deposit)  (24.0) 20.0
Disposal of subsidiaries  6.3 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries, including settlement of deferred consideration D (23.4) (23.5)
Dividends received from investments  25.4 46.9
Net cash flow from investing activities  (16.4) 24.7
Cash flows from financing activities  
Dividend paid  (18.5) (18.2)
Repayment of borrowings  – (1.5)
Proceeds from shares issued (net of transaction costs) O – 1.2
Net cash flow from financing activities  (18.5) (18.5)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  0.5 (32.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  0.1 32.1
Net foreign exchange differences  0.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December H 0.7 0.1
Parent Company cash flow statement 122 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
122  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
A Statement of accounting policies 
The accounting policies applied in the preparat ion of the Parent Company financial statem ents are the same as those set out in note 2 to the 
consolidated financial statements, and have been applied consistently to all pe riods, with the addition of the following:  
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC ha ve been prepared in accordance with Inte rnational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. 
The Parent Company has elected to take the exemption under sect ion 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Parent Comp any income 
statement or statement of comprehensive income. The profit for the Parent Compan y for the year was £11.8m (2015: £30.7m). 
Investments in subsidiaries 
The Parent Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less provision for impairment. Income is recognised from these investments in 
relation to distributions received. 
B Property, plant and equipment 
31 December 2016 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties 
£m
Leasehold 
improvements  
£m 
Office 
 furniture and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2016 1.9 14.1 5.0 21.0
Additions – 0.3 0.5 0.8
At 31 December 2016 1.9 14.4 5.5 21.8
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2016 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.8
Charged during the year – 1.0 1.2 2.2
At 31 December 2016 0.4 1.5 2.1 4.0
Net book value at 31 December 2016 1.5 12.9 3.4 17.8
31 December 2015 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties 
£m
Leasehold 
improvements  
£m 
Office 
 furniture and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2015 1.9 0.5 6.9 9.3
Additions – 14.1 4.7 18.8
Disposals – (0.5) (6.6) (7.1)
At 31 December 2015 1.9 14.1 5.0 21.0
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2015 0.3 0.5 6.6 7.4
Charged during the year 0.1 0.5 0.9 1.5
Disposals – (0.5) (6.6) (7.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.8
Net book value at 31 December 2015 1.5 13.6 4.1 19.2
  
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements www.clarksons.com 123
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
122  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
A Statement of accounting policies 
The accounting policies applied in the preparat ion of the Parent Company financial statem ents are the same as those set out in note 2 to the 
consolidated financial statements, and have been applied consistently to all pe riods, with the addition of the following:  
Statement of compliance 
The financial statements of Clarkson PLC ha ve been prepared in accordance with Inte rnational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, IFRS IC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. 
The Parent Company has elected to take the exemption under sect ion 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the Parent Comp any income 
statement or statement of comprehensive income. The profit for the Parent Compan y for the year was £11.8m (2015: £30.7m). 
Investments in subsidiaries 
The Parent Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less provision for impairment. Income is recognised from these investments in 
relation to distributions received. 
B Property, plant and equipment 
31 December 2016 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties 
£m
Leasehold 
improvements  
£m 
Office 
 furniture and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2016 1.9 14.1 5.0 21.0
Additions – 0.3 0.5 0.8
At 31 December 2016 1.9 14.4 5.5 21.8
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2016 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.8
Charged during the year – 1.0 1.2 2.2
At 31 December 2016 0.4 1.5 2.1 4.0
Net book value at 31 December 2016 1.5 12.9 3.4 17.8
31 December 2015 
 
Freehold and 
long leasehold 
properties 
£m
Leasehold 
improvements  
£m 
Office 
 furniture and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m
Original cost   
At 1 January 2015 1.9 0.5 6.9 9.3
Additions – 14.1 4.7 18.8
Disposals – (0.5) (6.6) (7.1)
At 31 December 2015 1.9 14.1 5.0 21.0
   
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2015 0.3 0.5 6.6 7.4
Charged during the year 0.1 0.5 0.9 1.5
Disposals – (0.5) (6.6) (7.1)
At 31 December 2015 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.8
Net book value at 31 December 2015 1.5 13.6 4.1 19.2
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   123 
C Investment property 
 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January and 31 Decembe r 0.6 0.6
 
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January and 31 December 0.3 0.3
Net book value at 31 December 0.3 0.3
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December 2016 was £0.8m (2015: £0.6m). This was based on valuations from an ind ependent valuer 
who has the appropriate professional qualif ication and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued. 
D Investments in subsidiaries 
 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cost 
At 1 January 302.5 54.0
Additions – 253.1
Transfer to subsidiary (6.3) –
Impairment – (4.6)
At 31 December 296.2 302.5
2016 
During the year an investment of £6.3m wa s transferred to a subsidiary, Clarkson Shipbroking Group Limited (CSGL).  This invest ment was in relation to 
a previous acquisition where, subsequent to the acquisition, the employees tr ansferred to a subsidiary of CSGL. 
2015 
On 2 February 2015, the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of RS Platou ASA (Platou), which subsequently changed its na me to Clarksons 
Platou AS, for £249.9m. On 20 October 2015 the Company acquired 100 % of the share capital of Clarkson Norway AS for £3.2m from its subsidiary 
Clarkson Overseas Shipbroking Limited, prior to a merger between Clarkson Norway AS and Clarksons Platou AS.  
In 2015, the Company impaired £4.6m of a direct investment in a subsidiary which has ceased all trading during that year. 
E Deferred tax asset 
  
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability – 0.3
 – other employee benefits 1.5 3.0
Other temporary differences – 0.4
  1.5 3.7
Included in the above are deferred tax assets of £0.1m (2015: £0.4m) which are due within one year. Deferred tax assets are rec ognised to the extent 
that the realisation of the related tax benefi t through future taxable profits is probable. 
All deferred tax movements arise from the orig ination and reversal of temporary differences. 
   124 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
124  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
F Trade and other receivables 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Other receivables – 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.3
Owed by Group companies 40.3 63.3
 40.7 63.7
The Company has no trade receivables (2015: none). 
As at 31 December 2016, the Company did not provide for related party receivables (2015: £nil). Further details of related part y receivables are included 
in note T. 
G Investments 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Funds on deposit 29.4 5.4
The Company held £19.4m (2015: £5.4m) in a deposit with a 95 day notice period. The Company also held £10.0m (2015: £nil) in a deposit with a 
maturity of six months at the year-end. These deposi ts are held with an A-rated financial institution. 
H Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.7 0.1
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates base d on daily bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash eq uivalents is £0.7m  
(2015: £0.1m). 
I Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Current  
Loan notes 23.6 23.1
  
Non-current  
Loan notes – 23.0
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise the vendor loan notes issued as part of the consideration for the Platou acquisi tion. Interest is charged at 
12 month sterling LIBOR plus 1.25%. Half the loan notes were repa id on 30 June 2016, the balance is repayable on 30 June 2017. 
J Trade and other payables 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Current  
Owed to Group companies 19.6 1.5
Accruals and deferred income 17.5 11.2
 37.1 12.7
  
Non-current  
Other payables 6.5 3.6
Other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand.  
Further details of related party payables are included in note T.  
   www.clarksons.com 125
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
124  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
F Trade and other receivables 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Other receivables – 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 0.4 0.3
Owed by Group companies 40.3 63.3
 40.7 63.7
The Company has no trade receivables (2015: none). 
As at 31 December 2016, the Company did not provide for related party receivables (2015: £nil). Further details of related part y receivables are included 
in note T. 
G Investments 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Funds on deposit 29.4 5.4
The Company held £19.4m (2015: £5.4m) in a deposit with a 95 day notice period. The Company also held £10.0m (2015: £nil) in a deposit with a 
maturity of six months at the year-end. These deposi ts are held with an A-rated financial institution. 
H Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.7 0.1
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates base d on daily bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash eq uivalents is £0.7m  
(2015: £0.1m). 
I Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Current  
Loan notes 23.6 23.1
  
Non-current  
Loan notes – 23.0
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise the vendor loan notes issued as part of the consideration for the Platou acquisi tion. Interest is charged at 
12 month sterling LIBOR plus 1.25%. Half the loan notes were repa id on 30 June 2016, the balance is repayable on 30 June 2017. 
J Trade and other payables 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Current  
Owed to Group companies 19.6 1.5
Accruals and deferred income 17.5 11.2
 37.1 12.7
  
Non-current  
Other payables 6.5 3.6
Other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand.  
Further details of related party payables are included in note T.  
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   125 
K Provisions 
 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 January – 3.0
Utilised during the year – (1.7)
Released during the year – (1.3)
At 31 December – –
During 2015, the St. Magnus House dilapidation provision and on erous lease were utilised with the excess released to the income statement.  
L Deferred tax liability 
  
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Employee benefits – on pension benefit liability 1.2 –
Other temporary differences 0.3 –
  1.5 –
None of the above deferred tax liab ilities are due within one year. 
All deferred tax movements arise from the orig ination and reversal of temporary differences. 
M Share-based payment plans 
 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.6 0.7
For more information on the Parent Company share-based paymen t plans, see note 21 of the cons olidated financial statements. 
N Employee benefits 
The Company operates two defined benefit pension schemes, being th e Clarkson PLC scheme and the Plowrights scheme, which are fu nded by the 
payment of contributions to separate trusts administered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schem es’ beneficiaries. All 
financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the two separate schemes. The schemes’ assets are invested in a range of pooled 
pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers. 
Defined benefit pension arrangements give ri se to open ended commitments and liabilitie s for the sponsoring company. As a conse quence, the 
Company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarks on PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004. This section w as closed to further 
accrual for all existing members as from 31 March 2006. The Plowri ghts scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006 . 
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates o f contribution. 
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared. 
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme sh owed a pension surplus of £3.6m as at 31 March 2016. Clarkson PLC and the Trustees a greed to cease 
funding with effect from 1 October 2016. 
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of £1.2m as at 31 March 2016. Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agr eed to continue  
the funding plan, at the rate of £0.9 m per annum, until 30 September 2017. 
The Company is exposed to a number of risks, th e most significant of which are detailed below: 
Asset volatility 
The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set wi th reference to corporate bond yields; if scheme assets under perform this yield, this  
will create a deficit. Both schemes hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while 
providing volatility and risk in the short-term. 
Changes in bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabil ities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes’  
bond holdings. 
Inflation risk 
Some of the Company pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majo rity of the schemes’ assets are 
either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflat ion will also increase the deficit. 
Life expectancy 
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy wi ll result in an increase in the 
schemes’ liabilities. 
   126 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
126  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
N Employee benefits continued 
Other pension arrangements 
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. Where required, the Company also make s contributions into this scheme. 
The Company incurs no material expenses in the provis ion of post-retirement benefits other than pensions. 
The following tables summarise amounts recogn ised in the balance sheet and the components of net benefit charge recognised in t he  
income statement: 
Recognised in the balance sheet 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 189.5 160.1
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (178.5) (160.2)
 11.0 (0.1)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (4.1) (1.4)
Net benefit asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 6.9 (1.5)
The net benefit asset/(liability) disclosed ab ove is the combined total of the two sche mes. The Clarkson PLC scheme has a surpl us of £7.5m (2015: 
£0.6m deficit) and the Plowrights scheme has a deficit of £0.6m (2015: £0.9m). As there is no right of set-off between the schemes, the benefit asset of 
£7.5m (2015: £nil) is disclosed separately on the balance sh eet from the benefit liability of £0.6m (2015: £1.5m).  
A deferred tax asset on the benefit liability amounting to £nil (2015: £0.3m) is shown in note E and a deferred tax liability o n the benefit asset of £1.2m 
(2015: £nil) is shown in note L. 
Recognised in the income statement 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Recognised in other finance costs – pensions:  
Expected return on schemes’ assets 6.0 5.4
Interest cost on benefit obligation and minimum funding requirement (6.0) (5.8)
Recognised in administrative expenses:  
Scheme administrative expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement (0.2) (0.6)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Actual return on schemes’ assets 35.2 3.2
Less: expected return on schemes’ assets (6.0) (5.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 29.2 (2.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit obligations (19.7) 11.0
Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 9.5 8.8
Tax charge on actuarial gain (2.1) (1.6)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (2.6) (1.4)
Tax credit on minimum funding requirement 1.0 0.3
Net actuarial gain on employee benefit obligations 5.8 6.1
  
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognis ed in the statement of comprehensive income (8.2) (17.7)
 
   www.clarksons.com 127
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
126  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
N Employee benefits continued 
Other pension arrangements 
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. Where required, the Company also make s contributions into this scheme. 
The Company incurs no material expenses in the provis ion of post-retirement benefits other than pensions. 
The following tables summarise amounts recogn ised in the balance sheet and the components of net benefit charge recognised in t he  
income statement: 
Recognised in the balance sheet 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 189.5 160.1
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (178.5) (160.2)
 11.0 (0.1)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (4.1) (1.4)
Net benefit asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 6.9 (1.5)
The net benefit asset/(liability) disclosed ab ove is the combined total of the two sche mes. The Clarkson PLC scheme has a surpl us of £7.5m (2015: 
£0.6m deficit) and the Plowrights scheme has a deficit of £0.6m (2015: £0.9m). As there is no right of set-off between the schemes, the benefit asset of 
£7.5m (2015: £nil) is disclosed separately on the balance sh eet from the benefit liability of £0.6m (2015: £1.5m).  
A deferred tax asset on the benefit liability amounting to £nil (2015: £0.3m) is shown in note E and a deferred tax liability o n the benefit asset of £1.2m 
(2015: £nil) is shown in note L. 
Recognised in the income statement 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Recognised in other finance costs – pensions:  
Expected return on schemes’ assets 6.0 5.4
Interest cost on benefit obligation and minimum funding requirement (6.0) (5.8)
Recognised in administrative expenses:  
Scheme administrative expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement (0.2) (0.6)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Actual return on schemes’ assets 35.2 3.2
Less: expected return on schemes’ assets (6.0) (5.4)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 29.2 (2.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit obligations (19.7) 11.0
Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 9.5 8.8
Tax charge on actuarial gain (2.1) (1.6)
Minimum funding requirement in relation to the Plowrights scheme (2.6) (1.4)
Tax credit on minimum funding requirement 1.0 0.3
Net actuarial gain on employee benefit obligations 5.8 6.1
  
Cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognis ed in the statement of comprehensive income (8.2) (17.7)
 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   127 
Schemes’ assets 
2016 2015
% £m % £m
Equities* 48.0 91.0 49.5 79.2
Government bonds* 33.2 62.8 32.2 51.5
Corporate bonds* 12.8 24.3 13.5 21.6
Property 3.5 6.6 4.1 6.6
Cash and other assets 2.5 4.8 0.7 1.2
 100.0 189.5 100.0 160.1
* Based on quoted market prices. 
Net defined benefit asset/liability 
Changes in the fair value of the net defined benefit asset/(liability) are as follows: 
31 December 2016 
 
Present value 
of obligation
£m
Fair value of 
plan assets
£m
Total 
£m 
Impact of 
minimum 
funding 
requirement
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 (160.2) 160.1 (0.1) (1.4) (1.5)
Expected return on assets – 6.0 6.0 – 6.0
Interest costs (5.9) – (5.9) (0.1) (6.0)
Contributions – 1.7 1.7 – 1.7
Administrative expenses – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Benefits paid 7.3 (7.3) – – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (19.7) 29.2 9.5 (2.6) 6.9
At 31 December 2016 (178.5) 189.5 11.0 (4.1) 6.9
31 December 2015 
 
Present value 
of obligation
£m
Fair value of 
plan assets
£m
Total 
£m 
Impact of 
minimum 
funding 
requirement
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 (173.3) 163.0 (10.3) – (10.3)
Expected return on assets – 5.4 5.4 – 5.4
Interest costs (5.8) – (5.8) – (5.8)
Contributions – 1.9 1.9 – 1.9
Administrative expenses – (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2)
Insurance income for insured pensioners – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Benefits paid 7.9 (7.9) – – –
Actuarial gain/(loss) 11.0 (2.2) 8.8 (1.4) 7.4
At 31 December 2015 (160.2) 160.1 (0.1) (1.4) (1.5)
The Company expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute £0.9m to its defined be nefit pension 
schemes in 2017 (2016: £1.9m). 
   128 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
128  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
N Employee benefits continued 
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 
 
2016  
% 
2015 
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 – 7.0 2.8 – 7.0
Price inflation (RPI) 3.3 3.2
Price inflation (CPI) 2.3 2.2
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.7 3.8
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obli gation at 31 December 2016 is based on the ‘SAPS Light’ standa rd mortality tables 
published by the actuarial profession in 2014 (31 December 2015: ‘SAPS Light’ ta bles published in 2008). These tables have been adjusted to allow for 
anticipated future improvements in life expectancy using th e standard projection model published in 2015 (31 December 2015: pro jection models 
published between 2011 and 2013). Examples of the assumed fu ture life expectancy are given in the table below: 
 Additional years
 2016 2015
Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65:  
Pensioners retiring in the year – male 23.1 24.4
 – female 24.3 25.6
Pensioners retiring in 20 years’ time – male 24.5 26.2
 – female 25.8 27.5
Experience adjustments 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Experience gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 29.2 (2.2)
Gain on schemes’ liabilities due to changes in demographic assumptions 13.9 –
(Loss)/gain on schemes’ liabilities due to changes in financial assumptions (37.5) 10.5
Experience gains on schemes’ liabilities 3.9 0.5
Loss on minimum funding requirement (2.6) (1.4)
Total actuarial gain 6.9 7.4
Sensitivities 
The table below provides information on the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant ac tuarial assumptions. The 
table shows the impact of changes to each a ssumption in isolation although, in practi ce, changes to assumptions may occur at th e same time and can 
either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined be nefit obligation. These sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as 
used for the main calculations. The weighted averag e duration of the defined obligation is 17 years. 
 
Change in 
assumption 
Change in 
defined benefit 
obligation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities +0.25% -4.0%
 -0.25% +4.3%
Price inflation (RPI) +0.25% +2.8%
 -0.25% -3.2%
An increase of one year in the assumed li fe expectancy for both males and females would increase the defined benefit obligation by 3.8% (2015: 4.1%). 
   www.clarksons.com 129
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
128  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
N Employee benefits continued 
The principal valuation assumptions are as follows: 
 
2016  
% 
2015 
%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 – 7.0 2.8 – 7.0
Price inflation (RPI) 3.3 3.2
Price inflation (CPI) 2.3 2.2
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.7 3.8
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obli gation at 31 December 2016 is based on the ‘SAPS Light’ standa rd mortality tables 
published by the actuarial profession in 2014 (31 December 2015: ‘SAPS Light’ ta bles published in 2008). These tables have been adjusted to allow for 
anticipated future improvements in life expectancy using th e standard projection model published in 2015 (31 December 2015: pro jection models 
published between 2011 and 2013). Examples of the assumed fu ture life expectancy are given in the table below: 
 Additional years
 2016 2015
Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65:  
Pensioners retiring in the year – male 23.1 24.4
 – female 24.3 25.6
Pensioners retiring in 20 years’ time – male 24.5 26.2
 – female 25.8 27.5
Experience adjustments 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Experience gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 29.2 (2.2)
Gain on schemes’ liabilities due to changes in demographic assumptions 13.9 –
(Loss)/gain on schemes’ liabilities due to changes in financial assumptions (37.5) 10.5
Experience gains on schemes’ liabilities 3.9 0.5
Loss on minimum funding requirement (2.6) (1.4)
Total actuarial gain 6.9 7.4
Sensitivities 
The table below provides information on the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant ac tuarial assumptions. The 
table shows the impact of changes to each a ssumption in isolation although, in practi ce, changes to assumptions may occur at th e same time and can 
either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined be nefit obligation. These sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as 
used for the main calculations. The weighted averag e duration of the defined obligation is 17 years. 
 
Change in 
assumption 
Change in 
defined benefit 
obligation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities +0.25% -4.0%
 -0.25% +4.3%
Price inflation (RPI) +0.25% +2.8%
 -0.25% -3.2%
An increase of one year in the assumed li fe expectancy for both males and females would increase the defined benefit obligation by 3.8% (2015: 4.1%). 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   129 
O Share capital 
Ordinary shares of 25p each: 
2016
Number
2015 
Number 
2016
£m
2015
£m
At 1 January 30,231,767 20,598,389 7.6 5.2
Additions 1,412 9,633,378 – 2.4
At 31 December 30,233,179 30,231,767 7.6 7.6
In 2016 the Company issued 1,412 shares in relation to the 2012 ShareSave scheme (2015: 115,009 shares). The difference between the exercise price 
of £10.82 and the nominal value of £0.25 has been taken to the share premium account, see note P. 
On 2 February 2015, the Company issued 9,518 ,369 shares at a nominal value of £2.4m as part of the acquisition of Platou, refer to note 12 of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
P Other reserves 
31 December 2016 
Share 
premium 
£m
Employee 
benefits 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m 
Merger 
reserve
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2016 29.0 4.0 2.0 177.5 212.5
Share issues 0.1 – – – 0.1
Employee share schemes:  
Share-based payments expense – 0.8 – – 0.8
Transfer to profit and loss on vesting – (2.8) – – (2.8)
Total employee share schemes – (2.0) – – (2.0)
At 31 December 2016 29.1 2.0 2.0 177.5 210.6
31 December 2015 
Share 
premium 
£m
Employee 
benefits 
reserve 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m 
Merger 
reserve
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2015 27.8 3.3 2.0 – 33.1
Share issues 1.2 – – 177.5 178.7
Employee share schemes:  
Share-based payments expense – 1.0 – – 1.0
Transfer to profit and loss on vesting – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Total employee share schemes – 0.7 – – 0.7
At 31 December 2015 29.0 4.0 2.0 177.5 212.5
Nature and purpose of other reserves 
Capital redemption reserve 
The capital redemption reserve arose on pr evious share buy-backs by the Company. 
Merger reserve 
This comprises the premium on the share plac ing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou a cquisition. No share 
premium is recorded in the financial statem ents, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 200 6. 
   130 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
130  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Q Financial commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The Company has entered into a commercial leas e in relation to land and buildings on the basis that it is not in the Company’s best interests to purchase 
these assets. The lease has a life of 15 years with renewal term s included in the contract. There are no restrictions placed up on the Company by entering 
into this lease. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable op erating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Within one year 2.1 1.1
After one year but not more than five years 18.8 16.1
After five years 36.5 41.0
 57.4 58.2
The Company has sublet space in its proper ty. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease 
agreements as at 31 December 2016 is £1.1m (2015: £1.0m). 
Contingencies 
The Company has given no financial comm itments to suppliers (2015: none). 
The Company has given no guarantees (2015: none). 
From time to time the Company may be engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of business. The Company carries professional indemnity insurance. 
There are currently no liabilities expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the Company’s results or net assets. 
The Company maintained throughout the year directors’ and offi cers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors. 
R Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise loan notes, loans from Group companies and accruals. The Company has var ious financial assets 
such as current asset investments and loans to Group companies, which arise directly from its operations. 
The Company has not entered into any derivative transactions. 
The main risks arising from the Co mpany’s financial instruments are credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Credit risk 
With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents and current investme nts, the Company’s exposure to credit ri sk arises from default of 
the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equa l to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
Liquidity risk 
The Company monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations. 
The tables below summarise the maturity pr ofile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undi scounted payments. 
31 December 2016 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.9 – 23.9
Trade and other payables – – – 6.5 6.5
 – – 23.9 6.5 30.4
31 December 2015 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.4 23.9 47.3
Trade and other payables – – – 3.6 3.6
 – – 23.4 27.5 50.9
Capital management 
For information on the Parent Company capital management objectiv es, policies and processes, see note 26 of the consolidated fi nancial statements. 
   www.clarksons.com 131
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
130  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
Q Financial commitments and contingencies 
Operating lease commitments 
The Company has entered into a commercial leas e in relation to land and buildings on the basis that it is not in the Company’s best interests to purchase 
these assets. The lease has a life of 15 years with renewal term s included in the contract. There are no restrictions placed up on the Company by entering 
into this lease. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable op erating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 
 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Within one year 2.1 1.1
After one year but not more than five years 18.8 16.1
After five years 36.5 41.0
 57.4 58.2
The Company has sublet space in its proper ty. The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease 
agreements as at 31 December 2016 is £1.1m (2015: £1.0m). 
Contingencies 
The Company has given no financial comm itments to suppliers (2015: none). 
The Company has given no guarantees (2015: none). 
From time to time the Company may be engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of business. The Company carries professional indemnity insurance. 
There are currently no liabilities expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the Company’s results or net assets. 
The Company maintained throughout the year directors’ and offi cers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors. 
R Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise loan notes, loans from Group companies and accruals. The Company has var ious financial assets 
such as current asset investments and loans to Group companies, which arise directly from its operations. 
The Company has not entered into any derivative transactions. 
The main risks arising from the Co mpany’s financial instruments are credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Credit risk 
With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents and current investme nts, the Company’s exposure to credit ri sk arises from default of 
the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equa l to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
Liquidity risk 
The Company monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations. 
The tables below summarise the maturity pr ofile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undi scounted payments. 
31 December 2016 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.9 – 23.9
Trade and other payables – – – 6.5 6.5
 – – 23.9 6.5 30.4
31 December 2015 
 
On 
demand
£m
Less than 
3 months
£m
3 to 12  
months 
£m 
1 to 5  
years 
£m 
Total
£m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – 23.4 23.9 47.3
Trade and other payables – – – 3.6 3.6
 – – 23.4 27.5 50.9
Capital management 
For information on the Parent Company capital management objectiv es, policies and processes, see note 26 of the consolidated fi nancial statements. 
  
 
 
www.clarksons.com   131 
S Financial instruments 
The classification of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December is as follows: 
Financial assets 
2016 2015
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Total  
£m 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m
Total 
£m
Other receivables – – 0.1 0.1
Owed by Group companies 40.3 40.3 63.3 63.3
Investments 29.4 29.4 5.4 5.4
Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.7 0.1 0.1
 70.4 70.4 68.9 68.9
Financial liabilities 
2016 2015
Amortised 
cost 
£m
Total  
£m 
Amortised 
cost 
£m
Total 
£m
Loan notes 23.6 23.6 46.1 46.1
Other payables 6.5 6.5 3.6 3.6
Owed to Group companies 19.6 19.6 1.5 1.5
Accruals 17.4 17.4 11.1 11.1
 67.1 67.1 62.3 62.3
T Related party transactions 
During the year, the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. 
Transactions with subsidiaries during the year were as follows: 
 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Management fees charged 3.1 2.7
Rent receivable 4.1 2.1
Dividends received 25.4 46.9
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries  – (4.6)
Transfer of investment in subsidiaries (6.3) –
Balances with subsidiaries at 31 December were as follows: 
 
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts owed by related parties 40.3 63.3
Amounts owed to related parties (19.6) (1.5)
There were no terms or conditions attached to these balances. 
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors) 
There were no key management personnel in the Company apart from the Clarkson PLC Directors. Details of their compensation are set out in note 28 
to the consolidated financial statements.  132 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
 
www.clarksons.com   132 
U Subsidiaries 
The Parent Company had the followin g subsidiaries at 31 December 2016: 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
Clarkson Capital Markets LLC 211 East 7
th
 Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Advice for shipping-related projects Indirect 100
Clarkson Cloud Limited * Creating electronic products and 
services for shipping clients 
Indirect 100
Clarkson Morocco Sarl 92 Boulevard d’Anfa, Cote Boulevard, 5e 
étage, Casablanca, Morocco 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Port Services Limited * Ship agency and port services Indirect 100
Clarkson Research Services Limited * Research services and products 
relating to shipping and offshore 
Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipbroking (Shanghai) Co Limited Room 111, 3# Building, No 170 Huo 
Shan Road, Shanghai, China 200032 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipping Agency Tower B, 2
nd
 Floor, 2 El Hegaz Street, 
Roxi, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt 
Ship agency and port services Indirect ***48
Clarkson Shipping Services India Private Limited 507-508 The Address, 1 Golf Course 
Road, Sector 56, Gurgaon, 1220011 
Haryana, India 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Valuations Limited * Valuation services to the shipping 
industry 
Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Africa) Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Australia) Pty Limited Level 12, 636 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, 
VIC 3004, Australia 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Brasil) Ltda Avenida Rio Branco, 89 Sala 1601, 
Centro Rio de Janeiro, 20040-004, Brazil 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Hellas) Limited Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road, 
Ajeltake Island, Majuro, Marshall Islands 
MH96960 ** 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Italia) Srl Piazza R. Rosetti, 3A, 16129 Genoa, Italy Shipbroking Direct 100
Clarksons Platou (Nederland) BV De Coopvaert, 6
th
 Floor, Blaak 522, 3011 
TA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Offshore) Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 2 Amadina Road, Douglasdale Ext 68, 
Sandton 2146, South Africa 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Sweden) AB Uppsala Castle, 752 37 Uppsala, 
Sweden 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipbroking Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Asia Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Asia Pte. Limited 12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Commodities USA LLC 211 East 7
th
 Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Introducing broker for LPG swaps Indirect 100
* Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK 
** Trading in Greece  
*** Controlled  
   www.clarksons.com 133
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
 
www.clarksons.com   132 
U Subsidiaries 
The Parent Company had the followin g subsidiaries at 31 December 2016: 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
Clarkson Capital Markets LLC 211 East 7
th
 Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Advice for shipping-related projects Indirect 100
Clarkson Cloud Limited * Creating electronic products and 
services for shipping clients 
Indirect 100
Clarkson Morocco Sarl 92 Boulevard d’Anfa, Cote Boulevard, 5e 
étage, Casablanca, Morocco 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Port Services Limited * Ship agency and port services Indirect 100
Clarkson Research Services Limited * Research services and products 
relating to shipping and offshore 
Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipbroking (Shanghai) Co Limited Room 111, 3# Building, No 170 Huo 
Shan Road, Shanghai, China 200032 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipping Agency Tower B, 2
nd
 Floor, 2 El Hegaz Street, 
Roxi, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt 
Ship agency and port services Indirect ***48
Clarkson Shipping Services India Private Limited 507-508 The Address, 1 Golf Course 
Road, Sector 56, Gurgaon, 1220011 
Haryana, India 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Valuations Limited * Valuation services to the shipping 
industry 
Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Africa) Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Australia) Pty Limited Level 12, 636 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, 
VIC 3004, Australia 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Brasil) Ltda Avenida Rio Branco, 89 Sala 1601, 
Centro Rio de Janeiro, 20040-004, Brazil 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Hellas) Limited Trust Company Complex, Ajeltake Road, 
Ajeltake Island, Majuro, Marshall Islands 
MH96960 ** 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Italia) Srl Piazza R. Rosetti, 3A, 16129 Genoa, Italy Shipbroking Direct 100
Clarksons Platou (Nederland) BV De Coopvaert, 6
th
 Floor, Blaak 522, 3011 
TA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Offshore) Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 2 Amadina Road, Douglasdale Ext 68, 
Sandton 2146, South Africa 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou (Sweden) AB Uppsala Castle, 752 37 Uppsala, 
Sweden 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipbroking Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Asia Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Asia Pte. Limited 12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Commodities USA LLC 211 East 7
th
 Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Introducing broker for LPG swaps Indirect 100
* Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK 
** Trading in Greece  
*** Controlled  
  
 
www.clarksons.com   133 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
Clarksons Platou DMCC Office 2603-4 Reef Tower, Jumeirah 
Lakes Towers, Sheikh Zayed Road, PO 
Box 102929, Dubai, UAE  
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Drift AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Property-related services Indirect ***25
Clarksons Platou Futures Limited * Brokerage of shipping-related 
derivative financial instruments 
Direct 100
Clarksons Platou GmbH Johannisbollwerk 20, 5
th
 Floor, Hamburg 
20459, Germany 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Japan K.K. 2
nd
 Floor Azabu KF Building, 1-9-7 Azabu 
Juban, Minato-Ku, Tokyo 106-0045, 
Japan 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Legal Services Limited * Legal services to the shipping industry Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Offshore (Asia) Pte. Limited 12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Project Finance AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.02
Clarksons Platou Project Sales AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
 
Equity placements for shipping, 
offshore and real estate projects and 
secondary trading of project ownership  
Indirect ***41
Clarksons Platou Property Management AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Property-related services Indirect ***25
Clarksons Platou Real Estate AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Real estate project syndication Indirect ***31
Clarksons Platou Securities AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Equity and fixed income sales and 
trading, research and corporate 
finance services, including equity and 
debt capital markets and M&A 
transactions 
Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Securities Inc 280 Park Avenue, 21
st
 Floor, New York, 
NY 10017, USA 
Equity and fixed income sales and 
trading, research and corporate 
finance services, including equity and 
debt capital markets and M&A 
transactions 
Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Shipbroking  
(Switzerland) SA 
Rue de la Fontaine1, 1204 Geneva, 
Switzerland 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Shipping Services  
USA LLC 
211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Structured Asset Finance 
Limited 
* Structured asset finance advice for 
shipping-related projects 
Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Tankers AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Company Event Management Limited * Event management services Indirect 100
Gibb Tools Limited 271 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5AN, 
UK 
Supply of tools for industrial, 
commercial and retail use 
Indirect 100
H. Clarkson & Company Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
* Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK  
*** Controlled    134 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
134  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
U Subsidiaries continued 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
LNG Shipping Solutions Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
Manfin Consult AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.1
Maritech Limited * Creating electronic products and 
services for shipping clients 
Indirect 100
Norwegian Marine Services AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.02
Shiplease Management AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.02
Tokyo Shipping and Trading Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Australia Holdings Pty Limited Level 12, 636 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, 
VIC 3004, Australia 
Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Capital Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Holdings Limited * Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Overseas Shipbroking Limited * Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Research Holdings Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Shipbroking Group Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Shipping Investments Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarksons Platou (USA) Inc 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, USA 
Holding company Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Offshore (Singapore)  
Pte. Limited 
12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Holding company Indirect 100
Genchem Holdings Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Afromar Properties (Pty) Limited 2 Amadina Road, Douglasdale Ext 68, 
Sandton 2146, South Africa 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Bonus Plus Investments Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Boxton Holding AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Logistics (HK) Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Paris SAS 90 Avenue des Champs Elysees, 75008, 
Paris, France 
Non-trading Direct 100
Clarkson Port Services Ireland Limited 6 Northbrook Road, Ranelagh, Dublin 6, 
Ireland 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Property Holdings Limited * Non-trading Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Futures Pte. Limited 12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Securities Limited * Non-trading Direct 100
Diligent Challenger Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Rigships FZCO Building W3, Office 512, Dubai Airport 
Free Zone, Dubai, UAE 
Non-trading Indirect 55
RS Platou (Hellas) Limited 58 Arch. Makarios III Avenue, Iris Tower, 
Office 602, Nicosia, Cyprus 
Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou (USA) Inc 701 Brazos Street, Suite 1050, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Non-trading Indirect 100
* Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK    www.clarksons.com 135
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
134  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
U Subsidiaries continued 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
LNG Shipping Solutions Limited * Shipbroking Indirect 100
Manfin Consult AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.1
Maritech Limited * Creating electronic products and 
services for shipping clients 
Indirect 100
Norwegian Marine Services AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.02
Shiplease Management AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Shipping and offshore project 
syndication 
Indirect 50.02
Tokyo Shipping and Trading Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Shipbroking Indirect 100
Clarkson Australia Holdings Pty Limited Level 12, 636 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, 
VIC 3004, Australia 
Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Capital Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Holdings Limited * Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Overseas Shipbroking Limited * Holding company Indirect 100
Clarkson Research Holdings Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Shipbroking Group Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarkson Shipping Investments Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Clarksons Platou (USA) Inc 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, 
Wilmington, DE 19808, USA 
Holding company Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Offshore (Singapore)  
Pte. Limited 
12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Holding company Indirect 100
Genchem Holdings Limited * Holding company Direct 100
Afromar Properties (Pty) Limited 2 Amadina Road, Douglasdale Ext 68, 
Sandton 2146, South Africa 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Bonus Plus Investments Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Boxton Holding AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Logistics (HK) Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Paris SAS 90 Avenue des Champs Elysees, 75008, 
Paris, France 
Non-trading Direct 100
Clarkson Port Services Ireland Limited 6 Northbrook Road, Ranelagh, Dublin 6, 
Ireland 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarkson Property Holdings Limited * Non-trading Direct 100
Clarksons Platou Futures Pte. Limited 12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Clarksons Platou Securities Limited * Non-trading Direct 100
Diligent Challenger Limited Room 3209-14 Sun Hung Kai Centre, 30 
Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Rigships FZCO Building W3, Office 512, Dubai Airport 
Free Zone, Dubai, UAE 
Non-trading Indirect 55
RS Platou (Hellas) Limited 58 Arch. Makarios III Avenue, Iris Tower, 
Office 602, Nicosia, Cyprus 
Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou (USA) Inc 701 Brazos Street, Suite 1050, Austin, TX 
78701, USA 
Non-trading Indirect 100
* Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK   
 
www.clarksons.com   135 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
RS Platou Africa Limited First Island House, 19-21 Peter Street, St. 
Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou Energy LLP 44
th
 Floor, The Leadenhall Building, 122 
Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 4AB, 
UK 
Non-trading Indirect 51
RS Platou Finance Singapore Pte. Limited 12 Marina View, #29-01 Asia Square 
Tower 2, Singapore 018961 
Non-trading Indirect 50.02
RS Platou Geneve (Dry) SA 20 Route de Pré-Bois, CP 1852, 1215 
Geneva 15, Switzerland 
Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou Houston Inc 1999 Bryan Street, Suite 900, Dallas, TX 
75201, USA 
Non-trading Indirect 100
RS Platou LLP 44
th
 Floor, The Leadenhall Building, 122 
Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 4AB, 
UK 
Non-trading Indirect 51
Stewart Offshore Ghana Limited Wesley House, Liberia Road, PO Box 
6274, Accra, Ghana 
Non-trading Indirect 75
Stewart Offshore Services (Jersey) Limited First Island House, 19-21 Peter Street, St. 
Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
Non-trading Indirect 100
Calypso Shipping Investments Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Dry Cargo Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Ewings Limited Hurst House, 15-19 Corporation Square, 
Belfast BT1 3AJ, UK 
Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Investment Services (DIFC) Limited Level 6, Liberty House, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, PO Box 283869, Dubai, 
UAE 
Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson IQ Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Logistics Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Market Analysis Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Sale and Purchase Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipbrokers Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Shipping Services  
Acquisition USA LLC 
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1525, 
Houston, TX 77027, USA 
Dormant Indirect 100
Clarkson Tankers Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Coastal Shipping Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
EnShip Limited 70 St. Clement Street, Aberdeen AB11 
5BD, UK**** 
Dormant Indirect 100
Halcyon Shipping Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
J. O. Plowright & Co. (Holdings) Limited * Dormant Direct 100
Levelseas Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
LNG UK PLC * Dormant Direct 100
Marinet (Ship Agencies) Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Michael F. Ewings (Shipping) Limited Hurst House, 15-19 Corporation Square, 
Belfast BT1 3AJ, UK 
Dormant Indirect 100
Oilfield Publications Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
*  Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK 
**** Changed in 2017 to 303 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5AP, UK   136 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Financial statements 
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements / continued 
136  Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 
U Subsidiaries continued 
Company Registered address Principal activity 
Direct or 
indirect 
% of equity 
shares
RS Platou AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Economic Research AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Offshore AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Dormant Indirect 100
RS Platou Shipbrokers AS Munkedamsveien 62C, 0270 Oslo, 
Norway 
Dormant Indirect 100
Samuel Stewart & Co (London) Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Shipvalue.net Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Small and Co. (Shipping) Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Stewart Offshore Services Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
The Stewart Group Limited * Dormant Indirect 100
Waterfront Services Limited Hurst House, 15-19 Corporation Square, 
Belfast BT1 3AJ, UK 
Dormant Indirect 100
 
* Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF, UK  
  www.clarksons.com 137
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Aframax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons as between 80-120,000 dwt.
AG Arabian Gulf.
AHTS Anchor Handling Tug and Supply vessel. Used to tow offshore drilling and production units to location and 
deploy their anchors, and also perform a range of other support roles.
Ballast voyage A voyage with no cargo on board to get a ship in position for the next loading port or docking. On voyage 
the ship is said to be in ballast.
Bareboat charter A hire or lease of a vessel from one company to another (the charterer), which in turn provides crew, bunkers, 
stores and pays all operating costs.
BHP Brake horse power.
Bulk cargo Unpackaged cargoes such as coal, ore and grain.
Bunkers A ship’s fuel.
Cabotage Transport of goods between two ports or places located in the same country, often restricted to domestic 
carriers.
Capesize (cape) Bulk ship size range defined by Clarksons as 100,000 dwt or larger.
Capesize 4tc An index derived from an average of four Capesize time charter rates, published by the Baltic Exchange.
Cbm Cubic metres. Used as a measurement of cargo capacity for ships such as gas carriers.
Cgt Compensated gross tonnage. This unit of measurement was developed for measuring the level of 
shipbuilding output and is calculated by applying a conversion factor, which reflects the amount of work 
required to build a ship, to a vessel’s gross registered tonnage.
Charterer Cargo owner or another person/company who hires a ship.
Charter-party Transport contract between shipowner and shipper of goods.
CIF Cost, insurance and freight. Delivery of goods is the seller’s responsibility to the port of discharge. The freight 
is paid for by the supplier of goods.
ClarkSea index A weighted average index of earnings for the main vessel types where the weighting is based on the number 
of vessels in each fleet sector.
Clean products Refined oil products such as naphtha.
COA Contract of Affreightment. An agreement to transport a defined amount of cargo at an agreed freight rate, 
with the shipowner choosing the ship.
Combination carrier Ship capable of carrying oil or dry cargo, thereby increasing the productivity of the vessel. Typically termed 
OBO or Ore/Oiler.
Containership A cargo ship specifically equipped with cell guides for the carriage of containerised cargo.
Crude oil Unrefined oil.
CST Centistokes. A measure of viscosity used to classify marine fuels.
Daily operating costs The costs of a vessel’s technical operation, crewing, insurance and maintenance, but excluding costs of 
financing, referred to in the industry as opex.
Demurrage Money paid to shipowner by charterer, shipper or receiver for failing to complete loading/discharging within 
time allowed according to charter-party.
Dirty products Less refined oil products such as fuel oil.
Dry (market) Generic term for the bulk market.
Dry cargo carrier A ship carrying general cargoes or sometimes bulk cargo.
Dry docking To put a vessel into a dry dock for inspection, repair and maintenance. Normally done on a regular basis.
Dwt Deadweight tonne. A measure expressed in metric tonnes (1,000 kg) or long tonnes (1,016 kg) of a ship’s 
carrying capacity, including bunker oil, fresh water, crew and provisions. This is the most important 
commercial measure of the capacity.
E&P Exploration and Production.
Other information Glossary 138 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Other information Glossary / continued
FFA Forward Freight Agreement. A cash contract for differences requiring no physical delivery based on freight 
rates on standardised trade routes.
FOB Free on Board. Cost of the delivery of goods is the seller’s responsibility only up to the port of loading.  
The freight is paid for by the buyer of the goods.
Forward order book (FOB) Estimated commissions collectable over the duration of the contract as principal payments fall due.  
The forward order book is not discounted.
FOSVA Forward Ship Value Agreement. An FFA based product designed specifically for the sale and purchase 
market.
FPSO Floating Production, Storage and Offloading unit. Used offshore for the production and processing of 
hydrocarbons in remote deepwater areas.
Freight rate The agreed charge for the carriage of cargo expressed per tonne of cargo (also Worldscale in the tanker 
market) or as a lump sum.
FSO Floating Storage and Offloading. A vessel used for the storage and offloading of crude oil or gas, typically on 
an offshore field, but occasionally also at a port or terminal.
FSRU Floating Storage & Regasification Unit. This vessel type acts as a floating discharge terminal, typically 
shore-side within a port, to allow a discharge solution for LNG carriers in ports which may only have seasonal 
gas import needs, or need a lower-cost solution than a land-based regasification terminal.
FSV Fast Supply Vessel. A type of vessel specialised for crew transport to offshore platforms, along with some 
transport of supplies. Typically found in regions such as the US Gulf, Mexican Bay of Campeche and West 
Africa, which have relatively dense fixed platform infrastructure requiring crew changes.
Handysize Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 10-40,000 dwt or tanker size range defined by Clarksons as 
10-60,000 dwt.
Handymax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 dwt. Includes supramax and ultramax vessels.
IMO International Maritime Organisation. A United Nations agency devoted to shipping.
ISM code International Safety Management code for the safe operation of ships and for pollution prevention as adopted 
by the IMO.
LGC Large Gas Carrier. Vessel defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 cbm.
LNG Liquefied Natural Gas.
LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
LR1 Long Range 1. Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 60,000-80,000 dwt.
LR2 Long Range 2. Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 80,000-120,000 dwt.
MGC Mid-sized Gas Carrier. Vessel defined by Clarksons as 20-40,000 cbm.
MLP Master Limited Partnership. A limited partnership that is publicly traded on a securities exchange.
MOA Memorandum of Agreement.
MR Medium Range. A product tanker of around 45-60,000 dwt.
MT Metric tonne (see tonne).
NGL Natural gas liquids.
OBO Oil, Bulk, Ore carrier (see combination carrier).
Oil tanker Tanker carrying crude oil or refined oil products.
OPEC Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.
OSV Offshore Support Vessels. Such as AHTSs and PSVs. Ships engaged in providing support to offshore rigs 
and oil platforms.
OTC Over the counter. Directly between two parties, without any supervision of an exchange.
Panamax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 65-100,000 dwt or tanker size range defined as 60-80,000 
dwt. Containership size range defined as vessels 3,000+ TEU capable of transiting the Panama Canal. www.clarksons.com 139
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Parcel tanker Tanker equipped to carry several types of cargo simultaneously.
Product tanker Tanker that carries refined oil products.
PSV Platform Supply Vessel. Used in supporting offshore rigs and platforms by delivering materials to them from 
onshore.
Reefer A vessel capable of handling refrigerated cargoes such as meat, fish and fruit.
Ro-Ro Ship with roll-on roll-off ramps for wheeled or tracked cargo.
Semi-refrigerated Semi-refrigerated gas carriers. Ships which employ a combination of refrigeration and pressurisation to 
maintain the transported gas in liquid form.
Shipbroker A person/company who on behalf of a shipowner/shipper negotiates a deal for the transportation of cargo at 
an agreed price. Shipbrokers also act on behalf of shipping companies in negotiating the purchasing and 
selling of ships, both secondhand tonnage and newbuilding contracts.
Shuttle tanker Tanker carrying oil from offshore fields to terminals.
SOx/NOx Sulphur Oxides/Nitrogen Oxides. A ship’s emissions which are subject to regulatory limits.
Spot business Broker commission negotiated and invoiced within the same business year.
Spot market Short-term contracts for voyage, trip or short-term time charters, normally no longer than three months in 
duration.
Suezmax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons as 120-200,000 dwt.
Supramax A sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet defined by Clarksons as 50-60,000 dwt.
SURF Subsea, Umbilicals, Risers and Flowlines. A term for the type of contract often agreed between an offshore 
construction services company and a field operator for construction work on a field which will need subsea 
production infrastructure.
TEU 20-foot Equivalent Units. The unit of measurement of a standard 20 foot long container.
Time charter An arrangement whereby a shipowner places a crewed ship at a charterer’s disposal for a certain  
period. Freight is customarily paid periodically in advance. The charterer also pays for bunker, port and  
canal charges.
Time Charter Equivalent 
(TCE)
Gross freight income less voyage costs (bunker, port and canal charges), usually expressed in US$ per day.
Tonne Imperial/Metric tonne of 2,240 lbs/1,000 kilos (2,204 lbs).
ULCC Ultra Large Crude Carrier. Tanker of more than 320,000 dwt.
Ultramax A modern sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet, defined by Clarksons as 60-65,000 dwt, 
including some vessels up to 70,000 dwt.
VLCC Very Large Crude Carrier. Tanker over 200,000 dwt.
VLGC Very Large Gas Carrier. Vessel defined by Clarksons as 65,000 cbm or larger.
Voyage charter The transportation of cargo from port(s) of loading to port(s) of discharge. Payment is normally per tonne of 
cargo, and the shipowner pays for bunker, port and canal charges.
Voyage costs Costs directly related to a specific voyage (e.g. bunker, port and canal charges).
Wet (market) Generic term for the tanker market.
Worldscale (WS) An international index of freight for tankers. Worldscale is a schedule of freight rates for a standard ship in US 
dollars per tonne of oil for an array of oil routes. The rates listed in the table are designated as Worldscale 
Flat or WS100 and are revised annually. 140 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Other information Five year financial summary
Income statement
2016* 
£m
2015* 
£m
2014* 
£m
2013* 
£m
2012*
†
 
£m
Revenue 306.1 301.8 237.9 198.0 176.2
Cost of sales (8.9) (10.3) (13.3) (6.2) (6.3)
Trading profit 297.2 291.5 224.6 191.8 169.9
Administrative expenses (253.0) (242.0) (191.3) (166.9) (150.8)
Operating profit 44.2 49.5 33.3 24.9 19.1
Profit before taxation 44.8 50.5 33.8 25.1 20.0
Taxation (11.2) (12.6) (8.7) (6.9) (6.0)
Profit for the year 33.6 37.9 25.1 18.2 14.0
* Before exceptional items and acquisition related costs.
† Restated for the effects of IAS 19 (revised).
Cash flow
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 45.6 24.7 37.8 22.8 (4.4)
Balance sheet
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Non-current assets 357.9 310.7 65.7 63.9 65.2
Inventories 0.7 0.9 1.4 0.9 –
Trade and other receivables (including income tax receivable) 59.0 63.0 44.2 47.8 33.5
Current asset investments 29.8 5.7 25.3 25.2 25.2
Cash and cash equivalents 154.0 168.4 152.9 96.9 89.4
Current liabilities (172.4) (168.5) (108.1) (89.4) (72.2)
Non-current liabilities (22.3) (39.3) (14.1) (7.6) (15.1)
Net assets 406.7 340.9 167.3 137.7 126.0
Statistics
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Earnings per share – basic* 105.2p 121.9p 134.2p 98.0p 74.8p
Dividend per share 65p 62p 60p 56p 51p
* Before exceptional items and acquisition related costs. United Kingdom 
London 
Registered office 
Clarkson PLC 
Commodity Quay 
St. Katharine Docks 
London 
E1W 1BF 
United Kingdom
Registered number: 1190238
Contact: Andi Case 
Tel: +44 20 7334 0000 
www.clarksons.com
Ipswich 
Maritime House 
19a St. Helens Street 
Ipswich 
IP4 1HE 
United Kingdom
Contact: David Rumsey 
Tel: +44 1473 297 300
Ledbury 
15 The Homend 
Ledbury 
Herefordshire 
HR8 1BN 
United Kingdom
Contact: Shaun Sturge 
Tel: +44 1531 634 561
Aberdeen 
303 King Street 
Aberdeen 
Aberdeenshire 
AB24 5AP 
United Kingdom
Contact: Innes Cameron 
Tel: +44 1224 211 500
271 King Street 
Aberdeen 
Aberdeenshire 
AB24 5AN 
United Kingdom
Contact: Sean Maclean 
Tel: +44 1224 620 944
City Wharf 
Shiprow 
Aberdeen 
Aberdeenshire 
AB11 5BY 
United Kingdom
Contact: Paul Love 
Tel: +44 1224 256 600
Belfast 
Hurst House 
15-19 Corporation Square 
Belfast 
BT1 3AJ 
United Kingdom
Contact: Michael Ewings 
Tel: +44 2890 242 242
Australia 
Melbourne 
Level 2 
112 Wellington Parade 
East Melbourne 
VIC 3002 
Australia
Contact: Matthew Russell  
Tel: +61 3 9867 6800
Perth 
Level 10 
16 St. Georges Terrace 
Perth 
WA 6000 
Australia
Contact: Mark Rowland 
Tel: +61 8 6210 8700
Brazil 
16th Floor Manhattan Tower 
Avenida Rio Branco 89 
Suite 1601 
Rio de Janeiro 
20.040-004 
Brazil
Contact: Jens Behrendt 
Tel: +55 21 3923 8803
Hong Kong 
3209-3214 Sun Hung Kai Centre 
30 Harbour Road 
Wanchai 
Hong Kong
Contact: Martin Rowe 
Tel: +852 2866 3111
China 
Room 1303–1304 
Standard Chartered Tower 
201 Century Avenue 
Shanghai 
China 200120
Contact: Cheng Yu Wang 
Tel: +86 21 6103 0100
Egypt 
Alexandria 
31 Elbatal Ahmed Abdel Aziz 
Street 
Kasr El Ahlam Building 
3rd Floor Apartment 305 
Kafr Abdo 
Alexandria 
Egypt
Contact: Magdy Abbas 
Tel: +20 3 543 2640
Cairo 
2nd Floor 
2 El Hegaz Street 
Roxi 
Heliopolis 
Cairo 
Egypt
Contact: Mohamed Refaat 
Metawei 
Tel: +20 2 2454 0509
Germany 
Johannisbollwerk 20, 5. fl 
20459 
Hamburg 
Germany
Contact: Jan Aldag 
Tel: +49 40 3197 66 110
Greece 
62 Kifissias Avenue 
15125 Marousi 
Greece
Contact: Savvas Athanassiades 
Tel: +30 210 458 6700
India 
507–508 The Address 
1 Golf Course Road 
Sector 56 
Gurgaon 
122011 Haryana 
India
Contact: Amit Mehta 
Tel: +91 124 420 5000
Italy 
Piazza R. Rossetti 3A 
16129 Genoa 
Italy
Contact: Massimo Dentice 
Tel: +39 0 10 55401
Japan
2nd Floor Azabu KF Building 
1-9-7 Azabu Juban 
Minato-Ku 
Tokyo 106-0045 
Japan
Contact: Robert Chie 
Tel: +81 3 3584 3590
Morocco 
92 Boulevard d’Anfa 
Cote Boulevard 
5e étage 
Casablanca 
Morocco
Contact: Hassan Benjelloun 
Tel: +212 522 493970
The Netherlands 
De Coopvaert 
6th Floor 
Blaak 522 
3011 TA Rotterdam 
The Netherlands
Contact: Hans Brinkhorst 
Tel: +31 10 7422 833
Norway 
Munkedamsveien 62C 
0270 Oslo 
Norway
Contact: Peter M. Anker 
Tel: +47 2311 2000
Singapore 
12 Marina View 
# 29–01 Asia Square Tower 2 
Singapore 018961
Contact: Giles Lane 
Tel: +65 6339 0036
South Africa 
Johannesburg 
PO Box 5890 
Rivonia 
Johannesburg 2128 
South Africa
Contact: Simon Lester 
Tel: +27 11 803 0008
Cape Town  
7C4 Somerset Square 
Highfield Road 
Green Point 
Cape Town 8001 
South Africa
Contact: Simon Pethick 
Tel: +27 21 440 3886
Sweden 
Uppsala Castle 
75237 Uppsala 
Sweden
Contact: Torbjorn Helmfrid 
Tel: +46 18 502 075
Switzerland 
Rue de la Fontaine 1 
1204 Geneva 
Switzerland
Contact: Joe Green 
Tel: +41 22 308 9900
United Arab Emirates 
14th Floor Gold Tower 
Jumeirah Lakes Towers 
PO Box 102929 
Dubai 
UAE
Contact: Essam Bella 
Tel: +971 4 450 9400
USA 
Houston 
1333 West Loop South 
Suites 1525 and 1550 
Houston 
Texas 77027 
USA
Contact: Roger Horton 
Tel: +1 713 235 7400
New York 
21st Floor 
280 Park Avenue 
New York  
NY 10017 
USA
Contact: Omar Nokta 
Tel: +1 212 317 7080
Contact: Philipp Bau 
Tel: +1 212 314 0970
FSC
®
 – The Forest Stewardship Council
®
 runs a global certification 
system that ensures timber produced in certified forests has been 
traced from the tree to the end user. The FSC
®
 certification claim  
can only be used by certified printers.
Thank you.
This report is available at: 
www.clarksons.com
Other information Principal trading offices Clarkson PLC
Commodity Quay
St. Katharine Docks
London E1W 1BF
United Kingdom
+44 20 7334 0000
www.clarksons.com
Clarkson PLC   Annual Report 2016
