  OVERVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc is an independent 
publisher listed on the London Stock Exchange with 
publishing oﬃces in London, New York, New Delhi 
and Sydney. Over its 25 year history, Bloomsbury has 
built a reputation for publishing works of excellence and 
originality. Bloomsbury has a valuable portfolio of content 
and rights based intellectual property assets. 1
OVERVIEW
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
OVERVIEW
Highlights 2
Chairman’s Statement  3
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’s Review 5
Group at a Glance 16
Financial Review 23
Risk Factors 31
Corporate Responsibility 35
GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors  41
Directors’ Report 43
Corporate Governance  50
Directors’ Remuneration Report 57
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report  71
Consolidated Income Statement    73
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  74
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  75
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 76
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   77
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 78
Company Statement of Financial Position 123
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 124
Company Statement of Cash Flows  125
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 126
COMPANY INFORMATION
Company Information  136
Five Year Financial Summary 137
Explanation of the Annual General Meeting  138
Notice of the Annual General Meeting 141
Notes
*  2011 is in respect of the unaudited 12 month period ended 28 February 2011. 2009 is in respect 
of the 12 months ended 31 December 2009. 2012 is in respect of the year ended 29 February 12.
†
 Continuing adjusted profit is continuing profit before taxation, amortisation of intangible 
assets, impairment of goodwill and other highlighted items.
‡
 Continuing adjusted basic EPS is calculated from continuing adjusted profit with normalised tax.  
Continuing revenue  
£m
Continuing profit 
before tax  
£m
11* 12
83.3
97.4
77.5
09 11* 12
5.3
8.5
7.8
09
Continuing adjusted 
profit
†
 
£m
Continuing basic EPS  
pence
11* 12
7.9
12.1
8.4
09 11* 12
5.59
9.80
7.72
09
Continuing adjusted 
EPS
‡
 
pence
Dividend per share 
pence
11* 12
10.03
13.63
8.02
09 11* 12
4.72
5.20
4.43
09
2012 RESULTS OVERVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2
HIGHLIGHTS
“We have enjoyed an extremely successful year, with strong performances across the Group.
2011/12 has been a transformational year for the Group as we continue to see the benefit of our One 
Global Bloomsbury strategy . The acquisition of Continuum has significantly enhanced our academic 
business as we continue to focus on robust renewable revenue streams. This area will be a key driver of 
future growth. We have built a uniquely balanced business between trade and academic publishing.
There is also a fundamental shift happening from print to digital and from the high street to the 
internet. The decision to digitise our backlist several years ago continues to reap benefits and as a result 
we have seen significant ebook sales, up 159% year on year. 
The business has exciting opportunities for 2012 and beyond as our positioning, platform and industry 
insights coupled with our strong titles in the UK and US put us in a very healthy position for this dynamic 
market place. At a time when the traditional books industry is undergoing a revolution, we have built a 
robust and balanced business with more predictable income streams. Added to this, our highly innovative 
and entrepreneurial team, strong balance sheet and focused global strategy mean that we can continue to 
evolve and prosper in this market place.”
Nigel Newton Chief Executive
Financial Highlights
The highlights for the year ended 29 February 2012 include:
 ✶ Total turnover
#
 up 11.5% to £103.2 million (2011*: £92.6 
million)
 ✶ Total continuing turnover up 16.9% to £97.4 million 
(2011*: £83.3 million)
 ✶ Continuing pre-tax profit before highlighted items** up 
53% to £12.1 million (2011*: £7.9 million)
 ✶ Pre-tax profit before highlighted items** up 25.2% to 
£9.4 million (2011*: £7.5 million)
 ✶ Pre-tax profit up 13.6% to £4.8 million (2011*: £4.2 
million)
 ✶ Total dividend increased by 10.2% to 5.2 pence per 
share (year to 31 December 2010: 4.72 pence per share)
 ✶ Continuing basic earnings per share, before highlighted 
items** up 36% to 13.63 pence (2011*: 10.03 pence)
 ✶ Continuing basic earnings per share up 75% to 9.80 
pence (2011*: 5.59 pence)
Operating Highlights
A transformational year 
 ✶ Acquisition of leading academic publisher Continuum 
for net £19.2 million
 ✶ Strong development of intellectual property – 
Continuing Rights & Services revenue up 88% to £12.6 
million (2011*: £6.7 million) demonstrating quality of 
content, includes partnership with IZA in Germany
 ✶ Sale of loss-making German subsidiary for 2.6 million
Development of Academic & Professional business
 ✶ Now generates 24% of Continuing Group sales 
(2011*:17%)
 ✶ Acquisitions of Continuum July 2011 and Fairchild Books 
April 2012
 ✶ Awarded Supplier of the Year by the British and Irish 
Association of Law Librarians
 ✶ The Churchill Archive and Drama Online – two major 
digital publishing initiatives to be launched later this year
Well placed to benefit from growth of digital sales
 ✶ Huge ebook growth with sales increasing by 159% to 
£5.7 million (2011*: £2.2 million)
 ✶ A diversified portfolio of best sellers across the Group
*  The audited statutory results last year were for the fourteen months ended 28 February 2011, following a change in the Company’s year-end. All 2011 results referenced 
here are pro forma unaudited results for the year ended 28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 
** Highlighted items comprise amortisation of intangible assets, acquisition costs, restructuring, relocation costs and the loss on disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag.
#
 Total turnover is turnover for the entire Group i.e. continuing and discontinued operations together. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
3
OVERVIEW
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 
“Even in a steady state economy, 
challenges and innovation are 
key to survival. When the macro-
economic, political and technological 
environments all change so fast – and 
at the same time – a business must 
move with equal speed and steady 
nerves in the service of its customers, 
its shareholders, its employees, and 
the societies within which it operates.”
Jeremy Wilson Chairman
T
his Chairman’s Statement marks the end 
of another year of growth at Bloomsbury. 
The company operates in a rapidly evolving 
environment. The business of publishers 
is the communication of culture in its broadest sense 
so when cultures change, good publishers thrive. 
Bloomsbury continues to ready itself for the new order 
now becoming visible. 
At the global level, the developed but indebted economic 
blocs of the world are sharing their authority and influence 
with emerging cash-rich regions. The new global Growth Axis 
which reaches from Asia to South America and includes India, 
Africa and the Gulf has a GDP growth rate three times that of 
Europe and the United States of America and it is home to 
85% of the world’s population. Throughout the history of 
man such shifts in the planet’s power profile have given rise to 
tension and crisis. It is no different today and the process has 
barely begun. At the same time, a technological revolution is 
spanning the globe with indiscriminate speed. Bloomsbury’s 
future is touched by it all.
Even in a steady state economy, challenges and innovation 
are key to survival. When the macro-economic, political and 
technological environments all change so fast - and at the 
same time - a business must move with equal speed and 
steady nerves in the service of its customers, its shareholders, 
its employees, and the societies within which it operates. 
The Chief Executive’s Report gives a detailed impression 
of how Bloomsbury is moving to take full advantage of the 
opportunity which this change offers. It is doing it through 
the acquisition of companies which have the potential for 
technological versatility and are known for the specialisms 
of their authors, particularly in its academic and professional 
business. It has expanded its business further in countries 
along the Growth Axis. It has focused on the stabilisation and 
diversification of its revenue streams. It is profitably sharing 
its expertise, experience and ethos with partners around the 
world who value the power and integrity of Bloomsbury. It 
has done it by keeping ahead of the digital wave breaking 
over business models across industry and commerce around 
the world. And, through the entrepreneurialism which is 
part of the DNA of the company and of its Founder and Chief 
Executive, it is developing new business lines. 
All these developments are interlinked. The success of one 
contributes to the success of the other. 
It is worth a few more words here on the development of the 
new and transformational digital delivery channel. That 
channel is now so broad and deep that it has had a 
fundamental – and profitable – impact on the balance of sales 
across the company and on the shape of the company. There 
will be more to come. It is a common misconception that the 
e-reader is the central pillar of the digital channel. It is not. It is 
one of the vehicles. The digital revolution is a phenomenon so 
fundamental it is changing the workflows, platforms and 
buying behaviours of all stakeholders in industry across the 
planet from the buyer to the supplier, from the customer to 
the shareholder. Old business models are dying; new ones are 
being developed. In some cases the latter have already 
become so powerful they threaten the existence of free 
market competition (with the longer term implications on 
ethical behaviour central to all democratic societies). 
Bloomsbury will play its part in ensuring that the industry’s 
integrity is not called into question. And it is, with the 
support and commitment of its stakeholder community, 
changing its business model to reflect the new dynamics of 
the publishing industry.
As these changes happen across the company, they call on 
all the resources of a fit and agile corporate enterprise. That 
demands a sense of common purpose and direction. To help 
achieve that the company has moved its businesses from sites 
around the country and from its birth place in Soho Square to 
a single site in Bedford Square. It has re-organised its business 
lines. And it continues to hire new talent and to develop those 
who work within the company. 
None of this will happen without leadership. The Board of 
Bloomsbury is substantially a new one. In this new mix it 
has the benefit of skills well suited to steer and support the 
transformation now being executed by the Founder and 
Chief Executive and his team. Debate within the Non-Executive 
Committees, Executive Committee and Board is robust and 
constructive. It does not deliver all the answers. But it helps 
drive the company to take steps which, whilst many will work 
and some may not, keeps alive the determination to stay 
ahead of the breaking wave. OVERVIEW
4
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
It also helps inform another critical dynamic in times like this – 
the evolution of new skills in the company. The need for a new 
vision and the opportunity that presents is clear to those at the 
top. And the new and rapidly developing digital architecture 
is exciting, motivating and inspiring new generations making 
their way up. But it is not always easy for those between the 
two to understand how to make the change happen. And 
that community is as central to success as the other two. 
Bloomsbury, from top to bottom, comprises people striving, 
with increasing success, to meet these challenges. 
In this regard, the Remuneration Committee has had its 
work cut out this year. The subject is topical anyway. But, in 
adhering to the basic principle that remuneration must be 
tied to performance, in recognising shareholder concern last 
year that this principle had been observed, and, above all, 
in seeking appropriate reward for change on this scale, the 
Remuneration Committee went back to basics. You will see 
further comment in the Chief Executive’s Review and in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, but, in summary, recognition 
has been given to those who have, by their actions, brought 
about the vital short and long term changes – the cost of 
some of them in the Highlighted items in the accounts - which 
position Bloomsbury for the future whilst building the value 
and returns for all those who have invested in the company, 
financially or otherwise. The adjustment process is not over yet, 
however, and the Remuneration Committee will be looking 
further to support the Board and the company in the review of 
parameters which reflect properly the need to reward success 
and not failure.
Finally, at the heart of the company’s success are the authors 
whose work, subject matter, loyalty and commitment serve so 
well the readers for whom they write. It is Bloomsbury’s role 
to connect the two for the benefit of both. In times of such 
significant change in the environment in which it operates, the 
company must adapt and develop to ensure that it provides 
for the needs of those communities. 
And that comes down to its people. The team at Bloomsbury 
is committed, professional, expert and experienced. Upon 
each of those making up that team rests the success of the 
authors, readers, shareholders, retailers, suppliers and all other 
stakeholders who take advantage of Bloomsbury’s publishing 
services. On behalf of the Board and all those stakeholders 
I would like to take this opportunity in the Chairman’s 
Statement to convey our sincere thanks and appreciation 
to them for their dedication, hard work and unremitting 
endeavour in a year of so much change outside and within this 
remarkable company. 
Jeremy Wilson 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
15 June 2012
Signs of change
Digital – Ebooks are substituting for traditional print. The Twitter 
Diaries is an example of a Bloomsbury book published just as an ebook. 
Bloomsbury has produced ebooks since 2005.
One Global Bloomsbury – The organisation has undergone a 
transformational restructuring.
Bringing 300 colleagues together in the new head office improves 
efficiency, encourages strong processes and supports the focus on 
accelerating innovation.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
“The traditional books business is 
undergoing a revolution . . . the 
business has exciting opportunities 
for 2012 and beyond as our 
positioning, platform and industry 
insights coupled with our strong 
titles in the UK and US put us 
in a very healthy position for this 
dynamic market place.”
Nigel Newton 
Chief Executive
Overview
T
he Group has had a successful year with total 
profit before tax and highlighted items of 
£9.4 million, up 25% on the year ended 
28 February 2011 of £7.5 million (fourteen 
months ended 28 February 2011: £7.7 million). Profit before 
tax was £4.8 million, up 14% on the year ended 28 February 
2011 of £4.2 million (fourteen months ended 28 February 
2011: £4.2 million).
The results of our German subsidiary, Bloomsbury Verlag 
GmbH, which we contracted to sell on 28 February 2012, 
have been treated as discontinued in our accounts. 
Continuing profit before tax and highlighted items was 
£12.1 million, up 53% on the year ended 28 February 2011 
of £7.9 million (fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: 
£8.3 million). Continuing profit before tax was £8.5 million, 
up 60% on the year ended 28 February 2011 of £5.3 million 
(fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: £5.5 million). 
We have enjoyed a dynamic year of innovation and 
acquisitions. Our acquisition of Continuum International 
Publishing Group (“Continuum”) in July 2011 for a net 
cash outflow of £19.2 million significantly enhanced our 
academic publishing business, giving us momentum in 
the US, the largest academic publishing market in the 
world, and scale throughout the world, particularly in 
Asia. This represented a major step forward in our core 
strategic objective to increase the proportion of academic 
and professional publishing revenues within the business. 
During the course of the year we have also acquired 
a number of other smaller lists including the National 
Archives Publishing programme backlist and the Absolute 
Press cookery list. In October 2011 we announced the 
licensing of the Wisden brand in India and legal content 
online with Practical Law Company. In line with our 
strategy of focusing on publishing books worldwide in the 
English language, we announced the formation of a new 
publishing business in India which is due to begin trading 
in June 2012. On 28 February 2012 we contracted to sell 
our loss-making German subsidiary and simultaneously 
announced a strategic partnership for the licensing of our 
brands in Germany and an option to the sale of German 
language rights to our UK trade publications. Since the year 
end we have acquired Fairchild Books, a US based fashion 
publisher for US$6.1 million, further strengthening our US 
and international academic business. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 6
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. My Horizontal Life 
by Chelsea Handler
 
2. Kitchen Confidential 
by Anthony Bourdain 
 
3.  Salvage the Bones
by Jesmyn Ward
 
4. Chain Reaction 
by Simone Elkeles
 
5. Waiting for Sunrise 
by William Boyd
 
W orldwide T rade Ebooks 
Best Sellers 2011/2
6. The Finkler Question 
by Howard Jacobson
 
7.  Rules of Attraction 
by Simone Elkeles
 
1.  River Cottage Veg  
Every Day! 
by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall 
3.  Heston at Home
by Heston Blumenthal 
 
4. My Horizontal Life 
by Chelsea Handler
 
5. Pigeon English 
by Stephen Kelman
 
Worldwide T rade (All books) 
Best Sellers 2011/2
2. Harry Potter box sets 
by J.K. Rowling
 
6. The Finkler Question 
by Howard Jacobson
 
7.  Wisden Cricketers  
Almanack 2011 
by Scyld Berry 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 7
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Our publishing services contracts this year included a 
partnership with Forschungsinstitut zur Zukunft der Arbeit 
(IZA) in Germany which will generate £4.3m of revenue 
over five years. We continue to embrace online initiatives, 
which enable our content to reach wider communities. This 
year we announced Drama Online, Irish Law & Tax, UK Tax 
Online, Reed’s Nautical Online, the Bloomsbury Reader, 
Wisden Extra online magazine and the Churchill Archive 
Online.
There has been an acceleration of technological change 
in our industry and it is clear that, while print has a long 
and secure future, many readers have opted for digital 
formats for reasons of convenience, storage and retrieval, 
searchability, portability and cost. Our preparations over 
the last five years have allowed us to respond rapidly to the 
hugely increased demand for ebooks and for aggregated 
information for libraries. There will be further changes 
but our core assets of intellectual property, protected by 
copyright, allow us to maintain and build sales through 
whatever new media develop. We are confident that any 
downturn in the traditional High Street market will be 
compensated if not increased by new routes to market.
Ebook sales were £5.7 million, up by £3.5 million, 159% 
compared to the year ended 28 February 2011. They now 
represent 6% of continuing sales (year ended 28 February 
2011: 3%). In the US, ebook sales were 23% of continuing 
sales compared to the UK where they were 3% of 
continuing sales. We anticipate most markets will reach the 
US level of ebook sales in the near to medium term future.
Financial results
Following a change in the Company’s year end, prior 
period audited statutory results were for the 14 months 
ended 28 February 2011. However, to provide a more 
meaningful year on year comparison of business 
performance, we are also disclosing unaudited numbers 
for the year ended 28 February 2011. During the year we 
have completed on a number of earnings enhancing 
acquisitions, the most significant of which is that of 
Continuum. Underlying numbers disclosed below are 
Continuing numbers, which also exclude the results 
of Continuum. The disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag, the 
acquisition of Continuum and various other strategic 
initiatives have resulted in a numbers of costs which have 
been highlighted separately in these accounts. Adjusted 
numbers below exclude these highlighted items. Group 
financial results are summarised in the table below.
Continuing print sales were up by 6% year on year to 
£78.9 million and continuing digital sales (which comprise 
ebook and digital subscription sales) were up 170% year 
on year to £5.9 million. Continuing Rights & Services 
revenue increased by £5.9 million year on year to £12.6 
million largely due to increased licensing and rights activity 
demonstrating the value inherent in our content. Almost 
half of this income related to digital products. It included 
£1.5 million received for the brand licensing and rights 
agreements which were signed on 28 February 2012 with 
Bonnier AB in Germany.
The continuing operating profit margin before highlighted 
items increased from 9.1% to 12.4% year on year (fourteen 
months ended 28 February 2011: 8.5%), partly due to the 
increased proportion of higher margin Rights & Services 
income.
The Academic & Professional division grew the most  
year on year with a £2.9 million increase in continuing 
adjusted operating profit, due to both the acquisition 
of Continuum and a significant increase in income from 
content licensing deals.
Year ended 
29.2.12 
£m
Unaudited 
Year ended 
28.2.11 
£m
% increase 
year on year
14 months 
ended 
28.2.11 
£m
Adjusted profit before tax 9.4 7.5 25% 7.7
Adjusted continuing profit before tax 12.1 7.9 53% 8.3
Profit before tax 4.8 4.2 14% 4.2
Continuing turnover 97.4 83.3 17% 93.1
Underlying turnover
1
90.3 83.3 8% 93.1
Total turnover
2
103.2 92.6 12% 103.4
1 Underlying turnover is continuing turnover for the Group excluding Continuum.
2 Total turnover is turnover for the entire Group, i.e. continuing and discontinued operations together. 8
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Highlighted items of £4.6 million include £1.6 million for the 
recurring amortisation of intangible assets and £3.0 million 
of non-recurring costs which have been invested in order for 
the Group to achieve its strategic aims. These costs have been 
highlighted to provide a fair representation of the underlying 
results for the Group. They comprise £0.4 million for the 
establishment of a Group head office to bring together our 
many acquisitions, £0.3 million of acquisition costs, £1.3 million 
of restructuring costs following the acquisition of Continuum 
and for the elimination of duplicate roles following the 
strategic global reorganisation of the Group and a £1.0 million 
loss on the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag, our subsidiary in 
Germany.
Adjusted continuing basic earnings per share, which exclude 
highlighted items, were up by 36% year on year to 13.63 
pence (fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: 8.93 pence, 
year ended 28 February 2011: 10.03 pence). Continuing basic 
earnings per share for the year were 9.80 pence (fourteen 
months ended 28 February 2011: 5.68 pence, year ended  
28 February 2011: 5.59 pence).
At 29 February 2012 the Group had net cash of £12.6 million 
(28 February 2011: £36.9 million). 
Divisional Review
Academic & Professional
Bloomsbury took the decision in 2008 to build a new academic 
and professional business that was not reliant on the UK retail 
sector and with a significant and growing proportion of 
revenues from digital, subscription-based services. In the year 
ended 29 February 2012 this division has grown substantially 
through the integration of a number of high quality, 
complementary acquisitions; substantial organic growth in 
print and digital publishing and innovative licensing deals with 
publishing partners. 
The Academic & Professional division generated 24% of 
Group continuing sales this year (year ended 28 February 2011: 
17%) and 34% of Group adjusted continuing operating profit 
(year ended 28 February 2011: 15%). The division’s excellent 
financial results are summarised below.
Continuum International Publishing Group was a transformational 
acquisition made in July 2011 and is a cornerstone for the global 
development of Bloomsbury's academic publishing business.
Year ended 
29.2.12 
£m
Unaudited 
Year ended 
28.2.11 
£m
% increase 
year on year
14 months 
ended 
28.2.11 
£m
Adjusted continuing operating profit 4.2 1.2 242% 1.7
Adjusted underlying operating profit 3.3 1.2 173% 1.7
Continuing turnover 23.1 14.3 61% 16.2
Underlying turnover
1
17.5 14.3 22% 16.2
1
 Underlying turnover is continuing turnover for the Group excluding Continuum.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 9
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
 A large part of the increase in underlying turnover was a 
£2.3 million, 133% year on year rise in continuing Rights 
& Services revenue to £4.1 million, largely as a result of 
content licensing deals, which are reflected in the high 
profit margin for the year. 
We have built up a significant holding in humanities and 
social sciences publishing, with a vibrant and growing 
tax and law business. This comprises Methuen Drama, 
Berg Publishers, Tottel Publishing (now Bloomsbury 
Professional), Arden Shakespeare, Bristol Classical Press 
and Continuum International. On 2 April 2012, Bloomsbury 
announced it had purchased Fairchild Books, the market-
leading publisher of textbooks and educational resources 
for students of fashion, merchandising, retailing and 
interior design. The Fairchild list is highly complementary 
to Bloomsbury’s existing academic list in the Visual Arts, 
which was bolstered by the acquisition of Berg Publishers in 
2008, the launch of the award-winning Berg Fashion Library 
www.bergfashionlibrary.com in 2010 and the acquisition 
of a fashion photography archive in 2011 with more than 
600,000 images. 
With this acquisition, Bloomsbury will enhance its US 
presence and raise its profile through association with a 
leading brand in a market niche where it is already well 
established. Fairchild’s renown as a textbook publisher will 
create synergies with complementary products published 
under the Berg imprint that are aimed at more advanced 
students and researchers, but are sold to the same 
institutions. The combined businesses provide significant 
opportunities for new digital initiatives and significant 
growth in the burgeoning markets in Asia. 
Our first digital subscription service, Berg Fashion Library, 
which launched in September 2010, received five library 
and scholarly awards in 2011 including the Dartmouth 
Medal in 2011, the prize awarded by US librarians for the 
best reference work of the year. When we purchased Berg 
in 2008, we did so largely on the basis of growing its digital 
resource in fashion studies. It has considerably exceeded 
our budget this year for subscription revenue.
The Berg Fashion Library provides customers with a substantial  
searchable database of images.
The acquisition of the Fairchild Books list in April 2012 is highly 
complementary to Bloomsbury’s existing academic list in the Visual Arts 10
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bloomsbury Professional launched its first online services in 
Irish Law and Tax, and UK Tax Online in June and October 
2011. This has been a particularly exciting development 
for Bloomsbury Professional, as we compete against much 
larger entrenched companies in the market. With more 
focused resources we have been able to turn this to our 
advantage with UK Tax Online, with a direct-to-user pricing 
model that severely undercuts competitors whilst offering 
content packages that are much more suited to the high 
street practitioner. 
We were particularly pleased therefore to be awarded 
Supplier of the Year by the British and Irish Association 
of Law Librarians (BIALL). This is the first time BIALL has 
awarded the prize to a book publisher. In autumn 2011 
Bloomsbury Professional won a three year contract to 
publish PricewaterhouseCooper’s Manuals of Accounting 
in print and online. These are the standard works of 
regulatory commentary for company accountants and 
finance directors worldwide. 
We also concluded a large multi-year licensing deal 
in August 2011 with Practical Law Company, who are 
integrating some of our legal content into their corporate 
software service.
Within the division, the integration of Continuum 
International, purchased in July 2011, has been successfully 
managed and its UK staff have moved into Bedford 
Square in May 2012 as we have been fortunate to secure a 
lease for two floors in the building next door to our Head 
Office. The Continuum lists accounted for approximately 
24% of the full financial year turnover of the Academic 
& Professional division over the eight-month period 
under Bloomsbury management and are performing to 
expectations. Delivery of synergies is on track. Continuum 
systems were robust and scalable and there have been 
clear management benefits from this acquisition across the 
division. A project to exploit intellectual property from this 
backlist is underway, and product lines that have enjoyed 
considerable success are being rolled out across the 
division. Continuum lists will be rebranded as Bloomsbury 
later this year.
Bloomsbury Academic & Professional division is embracing 
digital publishing. We are collaborating with developers 
and other publishers to add value to our existing content 
by creating new platforms which build communities and 
enhance revenues. The Churchill Archive http://www.
churchillarchive.com and Drama Online http://www.
dramaonlinelibrary.com are two major digital initiatives 
being launched later this year. The sales campaign for 
both has begun and the response from the marketplace is 
encouraging.
The Churchill Archive and Drama Online are major digital projects that 
leverage existing content and build communities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 11
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Adult
The Adult division generated 46% of Group continuing sales this year (year ended 28 February 2011: 52%). The division’s 
financial results are summarised below.
Year ended 
29.2.12 
£m
Unaudited
Year ended 
28.2.11 
£m
% increase 
year on year
14 months 
ended 
28.2.11 
£m
Adjusted continuing operating profit 4.8 3.8 26% 3.6
Adjusted underlying operating profit 4.8 3.8 26% 3.6
Continuing turnover 45.1 43.1 5% 48.0
Underlying turnover 43.6 43.1 1% 48.0
During the year our German subsidiary made losses of 
£2.7 million, of which £1.9 million was within the Adult 
division. Ebook sales in the division rose 169% year on year 
to £4.2 million. This represents 9% of the division’s total 
continuing sales (year ended 28 February 2011: 4%). In the 
US ebook sales were 23% of continuing sales and in the 
UK they were 5% of continuing sales. We anticipate most 
markets reaching the US level in the near to medium future.  
Rights & Services revenue rose by 153% to £3.8 million (year 
ending 28 February 2011: £1.5 million) and included a share 
of income from Bonnier for the sale of Bloomsbury Verlag 
and the licensing of Wisden in India which will generate 
US$3.2 million of revenue over five years, plus a royalty share.
The fastest year-on-year growth in our Adult division came 
from the US where our global publishing and marketing 
strategy is bearing fruit not least with our first National Book 
Award winner, Salvage the Bones by Jesmyn Ward.
In the UK we saw significant sales increases in our 
exceptional cookery list with Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, 
Heston Blumenthal, Raymond Blanc, the Galvin brothers, 
and many others being market leaders. River Cottage 
Veg Every Day! is still in the bestseller lists six months after 
publication and is Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall’s fastest and 
bestselling cookbook ever. His new cookbook Three Good 
Things, which will be published this year, is accompanied 
by a 50 part Channel 4 TV series in autumn 2012. In May 
2012 Bloomsbury won the 2012 Orange Prize for Fiction 
with The Song of Achilles by Madeline Miller. Bloomsbury 
had three novels on the shortlist of six, including Painter of 
Silence by Georgina Harding and State of Wonder by Ann 
Patchett. This is the first time in the history of the prize that 
one publisher had half the shortlist and is a remarkable 
testimony to our editorial team. We also have two novels 
shortlisted for the 2012 International IMPAC DUBLIN Literary 
Award: The Memory of Love by Aminatta Forna and Even 
the Dogs by Jon McGregor. Pao by Kerry Young is on the 
shortlist for the Commonwealth Book Prize and we have 
some strong candidates for the Man Booker prize.
Bloomsbury has a strong portfolio of best selling cookery books.
Three talented original authors for whom Bloomsbury is the publisher 
were shortlisted for the 2012 Orange Prize including the winner of the 
prize, Madeline Miller for The Song for Achilles. 12
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sales growth in Australia was hindered by Redgroup Retail 
going out of business plus the growing trend of Australian 
readers buying their books from overseas internet retailers. 
Our focus is to ensure our books are marketed as effectively 
as possible in Australia and we are rapidly gaining a 
reputation for being the most innovative and author-
supportive operation in the country.
The key driver of our strategy is significantly to increase 
the proportion of sustainable, annuity-type income from 
the monetization of our strong backlist and through 
innovative business models such as Public Library Online 
digital subscriptions and direct debit direct-to-consumer 
marketing for our annual reference volumes.
Children’s & Educational
The division generated 26% of Group continuing sales 
this year (year ended 28 February 2011: 28%). Continuing 
turnover in the Children’s & Educational division was 
£25.6 million, up 9.9% on £23.3 million for the year ended 
28 February 2011 (fourteen months ended 28 February 
2011: £26.1 million). Continuing operating profit before 
highlighted items was £2.3 million, up 58.7% on £1.4 million 
for the year ended 28 February 2011 (fourteen months 
ended 28 February 2011: £1.5 million). This division had no 
contribution from the results of Continuum.
Ebook sales in the division rose 303% year on year to 
£1.1 million, representing 4% of total continuing sales (year 
ended 28 February 2011: 1%). In June we announced our 
ebook partnership with JK Rowling. Bloomsbury will receive 
a share of the revenues from the sale of ebooks from 
Pottermore.com, which has just commenced. This website 
builds an exciting online experience around the reading of 
JK Rowling’s hugely successful Harry Potter books. 
The sales increase in the UK included the effect of the 
release of the final Harry Potter movie in July and new 
Harry Potter Box sets at Christmas.  Strong sales also came 
from Elizabeth Beresford, Angie Sage, Mark Walden, Neil 
Gaiman and Louis Sachar. Educational sales of £4.2 million 
were at last year’s levels with slightly higher operating 
profits of £1.9 million before the allocation of central 
costs.  Although sales from the US were down slightly year 
on year, the increase in sales from Australia, which began 
trading in January 2011, more than compensated for the 
US shortfall. We have won several prizes for children’s 
books during the year including Winner of the Blue Peter 
Award for Best Children’s Book - The Considine Curse by 
Gareth Jones.
Public Library Online is an online subscription service provided by 
Bloomsbury generating additional sales for backlist titles.
The Wombles are an enduring children’s favourite for the next 
generation
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 13
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
We appointed a new Global Children’s Managing Director 
in 2011 and more recently have new Children’s Publishing 
Directors in the UK and the US. We have strengthened our 
international relationships and global strategy is now at 
the forefront of our acquisition process. Cost management 
systems are working well and processes are audited and 
improved regularly.
In 2012 we have a much improved children’s frontlist 
across all divisions and a strong frontlist pipeline going 
forward. We also have improved integrated sales and 
marketing plans driving frontlist sales. A new communities 
marketing team will increase our ability to market 
effectively into schools and a newly increased export 
team gives us good opportunities across all territories – 
especially in India with the creation of Bloomsbury India. 
We are celebrating the 15th anniversary of Harry Potter 
and the Philosopher’s Stone on June 26th 2012 with a large 
consumer competition to drive people into bookshops 
and libraries - giving us strong promotional activity for 
JK Rowling over the summer months. We are publishing 
illustrated editions of Harry Potter from 2013 and this year 
we will be publishing Hogwarts Library, a three book box 
set. During the first few months of 2012 the children’s UK 
and US trade markets have picked up considerably due 
to the success of Hunger Games. There is now a new trend 
for dystopian Young Adult books and this new genre 
should lead to the growth we have seen for paranormal 
writing in past years. Our key divisional priorities are 
our digital development and enriching our acquisition 
of high quality and commercial titles from a growing 
number of talented authors and illustrators. We intend to 
increase our children’s illustrated publishing and have 
put a team of five new staff in place in the UK to drive this. 
We will continue to invest in digital innovation across the 
children’s and educational lists. The UK market, which 
generates 62% of the division’s continuing sales, is robust.
Information
The division generated 4% of Group continuing sales this 
year (year ended 28 February 2011: 3%) and 7% of Group 
continuing operating profit before highlighted items (year 
ended 28 February 2011: 15%). Continuing turnover in 
the Bloomsbury Information division was £3.6 million, up 
40% on £2.6 million for the year ended 28 February 2011 
(fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: £2.8 million). 
Continuing operating profit before highlighted items was 
£0.9 million, down 26% compared to £1.2 million in the 
year ended 28 February 2011 (fourteen months ended 
28 February 2011: £1.1 million) following an allocation of 
central overhead costs of £0.9 million (2011: 0.5 million). 
Rights & Services revenue of £3.4 million made up 92% 
Exciting publishing initiatives in the pipeline for Harry Potter include 
illustrated editions and the Hogwarts Library. 14
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
of total continuing sales. This comprised £1.8 million of 
management services fees for the businesses we manage 
in Qatar and £1.6 million for other publishing services. This 
year these other publishing services included revenue 
of £0.9 million from the partnership with IZA in Germany 
for the development and provision of a reference and 
information resource in labour economics, which will 
generate £4.3 million of revenue over five years.
The businesses we manage for the Qatar Foundation have 
continued to progress well, and in particular Bloomsbury 
Qatar Foundation Publishing (BQFP) is ahead of its budget 
having published over 70 titles since its launch in April 
2010, which is also ahead of its title target, more than half 
of which are in Arabic. The children’s list in particular 
is gaining recognition in the Middle East as a publisher 
of high-quality Arabic-language titles for younger age 
groups. International recognition is also increasing with 
two groups of BQFP authors completing successful reading 
tours of the UK. The venture’s business in Egypt is strong 
with several BQFP titles reaching the bestseller lists there, 
and elsewhere in the region. BQFP took over sales of 
Bloomsbury Group titles in the Middle East in July 2011 
which has resulted in increased awareness as the books are 
now sold to a wider range of customers than previously. 
Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Journals (BQFJ) is in its start-
up phase with key successes including the development 
of a robust digital platform (www.qscience.com) using 
the Open Access model for research publishing  which 
is currently gaining favour among the global research 
community, as seen by the recent announcement from 
The Welcome Foundation. Visitor numbers and article 
downloads continue to increase in particular through the 
newly launched mega-journal Qscienceconnect.
Information’s business development unit which was 
established during the year is performing well with several 
deals completed or under negotiation. QFinance.com, 
the Group’s first Middle East project which was launched 
in 2009, continues to progress well with average unique 
visitors to the free to user financial best practice and 
thought-leadership website now almost 300,000 per month.
QFinance.com is attracting approaching 300,000 unique visitors 
per month.
BQFP has developed a robust digital platform for research publishing 
which is gaining favour in the global research community.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 15
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Outlook
The growth of Internet retailing in both print and digital 
formats is allowing publishers to maintain their reach. 
Academic markets are holding up well throughout the 
university and professional sectors. For 2012 Bloomsbury 
has strong titles both in the UK and US. These include 
Three Good Things by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, A Lady 
Cyclist’s Guide to Kashgar by Suzanne Joinson, Double Cross: 
The True Story of the D-Day Spies by Ben Macintyre, Mrs 
Robinson’s Disgrace: The Private Diary of a Victorian Lady by 
Kate Summerscale, Waiting for Sunrise by William Boyd, Zoo 
Time by Howard Jacobson, How to Survive The Titanic or The 
Sinking of J. Bruce Ismay by Frances Wilson, Throne of Glass 
by Sarah Maas and Penguin and Pinecone by Selina Yoon.
The traditional books business is undergoing a revolution 
and some new trends are becoming clear. Digital workflows 
can accelerate publication, simplify output files and 
generate internal efficiencies. Global marketing opens up 
significant new markets for both digital and print products. 
Ebook reader usage is still at an early stage in many of 
our markets and new and improved reading devices are 
being competitively marketed, including colour tablets 
and mobile phone applications. The business has exciting 
opportunities for 2012 and beyond as our positioning, 
platform and industry insights coupled with our strong 
titles in the UK and US put us in a very healthy position for 
this dynamic market place. We have built a robust and 
balanced business with more predictable income streams. 
Added to this, our highly innovative and entrepreneurial 
team, strong balance sheet and focused global strategy 
mean that we can continue to evolve and prosper in this 
market place.
Nigel Newton
Chief Executive
15 June 2012
A strong pipeline of titles is in place. 16
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bloomsbury Academic & Professional division has grown rapidly since its inception in 2008, 
and specialises in the humanities, social sciences, law and tax. Output of titles is over 1,100 per 
year. The division includes Bloomsbury Academic, Berg Publishers, Methuen Drama, Arden 
Shakespeare, Bristol Classical Press, Continuum and Bloomsbury Professional. From 2 April 
2012 the division will also include Fairchild Books. 
Within the division, we publish many world-leading writers, Nobel laureates and researchers 
in their fields, and actively seek out the emerging generation of authors. Our authors include 
Karl Barth, Joseph Ratzinger, Rowan Williams, George Bernard Shaw, Jonathan Sacks, Slavoj 
 i ek, Theodor Adorno, Martin Heidegger, Alain Badiou, Bertolt Brecht, Arthur Miller, Michael 
Frayn, Paulo Freire, M A K Halliday, Noel Coward, Cardinal Newman, Willy Russell, Winston 
Churchill, Jean Anouilh, Edward Bond, Dario Fo, Tennessee Williams, Wole Soyinka, Jean 
Baudrillard, Roland Barthes and Paul Virilio.
A focus for the division is expanding its digital revenues. In addition to several thousand 
ebooks, we publish a range of digital services, including the award-winning Berg Fashion 
Library, and Bloomsbury Professional Online. In 2012, it will be publishing online the 
digitalised edition of the Winston Churchill Archive and Drama Online.
Academic & Professional
Managing Director: Jonathan Glasspool
Jonathan joined Bloomsbury in 1999 overseeing the development of 
Bloomsbury’s Academic & Professional publishing business. Previous 
roles include being a Publisher at Reed Elsevier in Singapore, Melbourne 
and Oxford. He started his career at Cambridge University Press. He has 
an MBA with Distinction from Warwick Business School.
Divisional facts
Divisional team members 66
Backlist titles >6,000
Revenue
1
♦ Academic & Professional 24%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 76%
£23.1m
(2011: £14.3m)
♦ UK 81%
♦ US 18%
♦ Australia 1%
Adjusted operating 
profit
2
Adjusted operating 
profit margin
2
♦ Academic & Professional 34%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 66%
£4.2m
(2011: £1.2m)
18%
(2011: 9%)
1 Revenue represents that generated by continuing operations. 2011 revenues are pro forma unaudited revenue for continuing operations for the year ended 
28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 
2 Adjusted operating profit is continuing operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and other highlighted items. 2011 results 
are pro forma unaudited results for the year ended 28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance.
GROUP AT A GLANCE 17
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
The Adult division publishes globally in English for readers of fiction, biography, sport, food 
and drink, general reference and special interests such as yachting and ornithology. The main 
publishing operations are based in New York and London and coordinated by experienced 
editorial and publishing managers so that authors and their works are supported throughout 
the world.
Apart from household names such as Howard Jacobson, Khaled Hosseini, Elizabeth Gilbert and 
Margaret Atwood we are also proud to be the publishers of the Aberdeen Asset Management 
Reed’s Nautical , Wisden Cricketers’ and Whitaker’s Almanacks as well as the great institution 
which is Who’s Who.
Our objectives are to be the publisher of choice for the very best authors and the very best 
books in both digital and print formats. We pay particular attention to editorial support 
for authors both during the publication process and thereafter; the highest standards of 
production and presentation; and creative and innovative marketing.
Our editorial and marketing teams work together so that we can genuinely offer global 
publishing reflecting the changing nature of our markets and the media which alert readers to 
books.
Adult
Managing Director: Richard Charkin
Richard is responsible for the Adult general/specialist publishing which 
includes a number of significant innovative digital and publishing 
services projects and for Bloomsbury’s overseas offices. He joined the 
Bloomsbury Board as an Executive Director in October 2007 following 
ten years as Chief Executive Officer of Macmillian Publishers Limited. See 
“Board of Directors” within the Governance section for a more in depth 
biography.
Divisional facts
Divisional team members 99
Backlist titles >8,000
Revenue
1
♦ Adult 46%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 54%
£45.1m
(2011: £43.1m)
♦ UK 64%
♦ US 27%
♦ Australia 9%
Adjusted operating 
profit
2
Adjusted operating 
profit margin
2
♦ Adult 40%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 60%
£4.8m
(2011: £3.8m)
11%
(2011: 9%)
1 Revenue represents that generated by continuing operations. 2011 revenues are pro forma unaudited revenue for continuing operations for the year ended 
28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 
2 Adjusted operating profit is continuing operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and other highlighted items. 2011 results 
are pro forma unaudited results for the year ended 28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 18
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bloomsbury Children’s & Educational Publishing division includes the Bloomsbury 
Children’s Books trade lists in both UK and US; the Walker Books for Young Readers imprint 
in the US and the A&C Black, Featherstone and Andrew Brodie imprints in the UK education 
market. In October this year we are launching an imprint called Bloomsbury Activity Books.
The Children’s division sells and markets titles to the global trade, education and mass 
market sectors. Our strategy is to grow the list by more focused and global acquisition, 
better exploitation of the backlist, building brands, strategic sales and marketing planning 
and attracting talent to the list.
Children’s & Educational
Managing Director: Emma Hopkin
Emma Hopkin joined Bloomsbury in March 2011 as Managing Director 
of the Children’s & Educational publishing division. Previously she was 
Managing Director of Macmillan Children’s Books where she led the 
acquisition of Kingfisher and drove revenue growth in print and digital. 
Prior to being Managing Director she was Sales and Marketing Director 
having worked her way up from Children’s Product Manager. She has also 
held marketing roles at Pan Macmillan, Routledge and Houghton Mifflin.
Divisional facts
Divisional team members 33
Backlist titles >1,000
Revenue
1
♦ Children’s & Educational 26%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 74%
£25.6m
(2011: £23.3m)
♦ UK 61%
♦ US 30%
♦ Australia 9%
Adjusted operating 
profit
2
Adjusted operating 
profit margin
2
♦ Children’s & Educational 19%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 81%
£2.3m
(2011: £1.4m)
9%
(2011: 6%)
GROUP AT A GLANCE
1 Revenue represents that generated by continuing operations. 2011 revenues are pro forma unaudited revenue for continuing operations for the year ended 
28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 
2 Adjusted operating profit is continuing operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and other highlighted items. 2011 results 
are pro forma unaudited results for the year ended 28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 19
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Information’s focus is on the provision of publishing management services and the 
development of digital knowledge hubs for third-party partners. Building on the successes 
of Bloomsbury’s relationships and content development projects for example with Microsoft 
(Encarta World English Dictionary), Perseus/The Economist/London Business School (Business 
– The Ultimate Resource) and Macmillan (Macmillan English Dictionary for learners of English), 
Information is responsible for the financial best practice and thought-leadership website, 
www.qfinance.com, in partnership with the Qatar Financial Centre Authority. 
The division provides publishing management services to the Qatar Foundation for which it 
manages two publishing ventures, Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing which publishes 
books in English and Arabic, and Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Journals, which publishes 
online Open Access, peer-reviewed research journals. We also work with the prestigious 
German research institute, the Institute for the Future of Labor (IZA) and other international 
organisations. 
Information
Managing Director: Kathy Rooney
Kathy leads the Business Information and Business Development 
publishing division which has a growing list of titles and is particularly 
focused on delivering innovative publishing services projects. She 
has been a Publishing Director of Bloomsbury since 1987. In 2009 
was awarded the prestigious Kim Scott Walwyn Prize for professional 
achievements of women in publishing.
Divisional facts
Divisional team members 7
Titles published since 2010 >70
Revenue
1
♦ Information 4%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 96%
£3.6m
(2011: £2.6m)
♦ UK 100%
Adjusted operating 
profit
2
Adjusted operating 
profit margin
2
♦ Information 7%
♦ Rest of Bloomsbury 93%
£0.9m
(2011: £1.2m)
24%
(2011: 45%)
1 Revenue represents that generated by continuing operations. 2011 revenues are pro forma unaudited revenue for continuing operations for the year ended 
28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 
2 Adjusted operating profit is continuing operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and other highlighted items. 2011 results 
are pro forma unaudited results for the year ended 28 February 2011 and are provided to show a more meaningful comparison of business performance. 20
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
RECENT CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT LANDMARKS FOR BLOOMSBURY
Date
Publishing 
Division most 
affected Description
Acquisition of 
Fairchild Books
April 2012 Academic & 
Professional
Acquisition of a list of visual arts titles which 
augments Bloomsbury’s Berg visual arts imprint.
Sale of Bloomsbury 
Verlag
February 2012 Adult, Children’s & 
Educational
Sale of loss making German subsidiary to a leading 
German publisher.
Set up of 
Bloomsbury India
February 2012 Adult, Academic 
& Professional
Set up of Bloomsbury’s India publishing business 
begins.
Acquisition of 
Absolute Press
September 2011 Adult Acquisition of a specialist cookery list
UK office move August 2011 All Relocated employees from various offices in 
London and Oxford into a single London office.  
This enables teams to work efficiently together 
under the One Global Bloomsbury structure.
Acquisition of 
Continuum 
International 
Publishing Group
July 2011 Academic & 
Professional
Acquisition of substantial UK and US academic 
publisher which extends Bloomsbury’s UK 
academic publishing activities and provides a 
critical mass in the US from which to grow US sales.
One Global 
Bloomsbury
March 2011 All Implementation of a group structure consisting 
of 4 worldwide publishing divisions supported by 
global functions.
GROUP AT A GLANCE 21
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
RECENT PRIZES AND A WARDS FOR BLOOMSBURY
Title of book/Author Year Prizes
The Song of Achilles/Madeline Miller 2012 Orange Prize For Fiction
Even the Dogs/Jon McGregor 2012 International IMPAC Dublin Award
Salvage the Bones/Jesmyn Ward 2012 Ala Alex Award (USA)
Higgy/Alastair Hignell 2012 British Sports Book Awards: Rugby Book of the Year
Cairo/Ahdaf Soueif 2012
2012
Blue Metropolis Literary Prize (Montreal)
Constantin Cavafis Award (Cairo/Athens)
 I Shall Not Hate/Izzeldin Abuelaish 2012 Christopher Awards (USA): Books for Adults
The Rise and Fall of Ancient Egypt/Toby Wilkinson 2011 Hessell-Tiltman Prize
The Flavour Thesaurus/Niki Segnit 2011
2011
André Simon Food And Drink Book Awards: Food Book 
Guild Of Food Writers’: Jeremy Round Award for Best 
First Book
The Memory of Love/Aminatta Forna 2011 Commonwealth Writers’ Prize: Overall winner, best book
Let the Great World Spin/Colum McCann 2011 International IMPAC Dublin Award
Other People’s Money/Justin Cartwright 2011 Spear’s Book Awards: Novel
Mao’s Great Famine/Frank Dikotter 2011 Samuel Johnson Prize
Major Pettigrew’s Last Stand/Helen Simonson 2011
2011
Waverton Good Read Award
Melissa Nathan Award For Comedy Romance
The Wavewatcher’s Companion/Gavin Pretor-Pinney 2011 Royal Society Winton Prize For Science Books
River Cottage Handbook No. 9: Fruit/Mark Diacono 2011 Garden Media Awards: Book Photographer of the Year
2011 Gourmand World Cookbook Awards: UK:
River Cottage Veg Every Day/Hugh Fearnley-
Whittingstall
– Best Vegetarian Cookbook:
A Cook’s Year in a Welsh Farmhouse/Elisabeth Luard – UK, Best Local Cuisine
Bocca/Jacob Kennedy – UK, Italian
Salvage the Bones/Jesmyn Ward 2011 National Book Award for fiction (US)
The Killer is Dying/James Sallis 2011 Hammett Prize (US)
I Shall Not Hate/Dr Izzeldin Abuelaish 2011 Christopher Award for adult books (US) 22
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
RECENT SHORTLISTED BLOOMSBURY AUTHORS AND BOOKS
Title of book/Author Year Nominations for prizes
Once You Break a Knuckle/D.W. Wilson 2012 CBC Short Story Prize (Canada)
Salvage the Bones/Jesmyn Ward 2012
2012
American Booksellers’ Association Indies’ Choice Awards 
(US) Fiction
New York Public Library Young Lions Fiction Award
The Food of Morocco/Paula Wolfert 2012 James Beard Award (US) Cookbooks, International Cooking
Pigeon English/Stephen Kelman 2012 Skyarts South Bank Show Breakthrough Award Literature
The Memory of Love/Aminatta Forna 2012 International IMPAC Dublin award
State of Wonder/Ann Patchett
Painter of Silence/Georgina Harding }
2012 Orange Prize For Fiction
Pao/Kerry Young 2012 Commonwealth Book Prize
Nightmare Movies/Kim Newman 2012 British Fantasy Awards Non Fiction
The Secret Life of Pronouns/James Pennebaker 2012 Books for a Better Life Award for Psychology (US)
During 2011, books published by Bloomsbury, in addition to prize winners, were shortlisted for over 20 prizes and awards 
such as Stephen Kelman with Pigeon English which was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize.
GROUP AT A GLANCE 23
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Introduction
F
ollowing a change in the Company’s year end, 
prior period audited statutory results are for the 
14 months ended 28 February 2011. However, to 
provide a more meaningful year on year review 
of business performance this Financial Review also includes 
unaudited comparative financial information for the year 
ended 28 February 2011.
On 28 February 2012 the Company contracted to sell 
Bloomsbury Verlag, its subsidiary in Germany, following 
a strategic decision to concentrate on English language 
publishing. Continuing figures exclude the results of this 
subsidiary.
During the year we have completed on a number of 
acquisitions. The most significant of these is that of The 
Continuum International Publishing Group Limited, which 
was acquired on 9 July 2011. Underlying numbers disclosed 
below are continuing numbers, which also exclude the 
results of Continuum.
The disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag, the acquisition of 
Continuum and various other strategic initiatives have 
resulted in a number of costs which have been highlighted 
separately in these financial statements. Adjusted numbers 
below exclude these highlighted items.
Prior period results in the statutory financial statements 
have been adjusted to move staff salary costs of £2.5 million 
from cost of sales and £1.0 million from marketing and 
distribution costs into administrative expenses, reflecting 
the new One Global Bloomsbury structure and in order to 
have a consistent approach to the disclosure of salary costs. 
There have been no changes in accounting policies in 
the year. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
Summary of total results
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’m
Unaudited
year ended
28 February 
2011
£’m
Year on year
change
%
14 months 
ended
28 February 
2011
£’m
Revenue 103.2 92.6 12% 103.4
Operating profit 4.7 3.9 21% 3.9
Adjusted operating profit 9.4 7.2 30% 7.3
Profit before tax 4.8 4.2 14% 4.2
Adjusted profit before tax 9.4 7.5 25% 7.7
Basic EPS (p) 4.66p 3.22p 45% 3.02p
Summary of continuing results
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’m
Unaudited
year ended
28 February 
2011
£’m
Year on year
change
%
14 months
ended
28 February 
2011
£’m
Revenue 97.4 83.3 17% 93.1
Operating profit 8.4 5.0 69% 5.2
Adjusted operating profit 12.1 7.6 59% 7.9
Profit before tax 8.5 5.3 60% 5.5
Adjusted profit before tax 12.1 7.9 53% 8.3
Basic EPS (p) 9.80p 5.59p 75% 5.68p
Adjusted basic EPS (p) 13.63p 10.03p 36% 8.93p 24
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Summary of underlying results
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’m
Unaudited
year ended
28 February 
2011
£’m
Year on year
change
%
14 months
ended
28 February 
2011
£’m
Revenue 90.3 83.3 8% 93.1
Operating profit 8.2 5.0 65% 5.2
Adjusted operating profit 11.2 7.6 48% 7.9
Profit before tax 8.3 5.3 56% 5.5
Adjusted profit before tax 11.3 7.9 43% 8.3
Basic EPS (p) 8.67p 5.59p 55% 5.68p
Adjusted basic EPS (p) 12.36p 10.03p 23% 8.93p
Revenue
The Group’s revenues arise from publishing services and 
related income. Publishing services principally comprise 
editing, marketing, selling and distribution of titles either in 
print or digital formats. Related revenue is disclosed in the 
Rights & Services table on page 25.
The revenue bridge below shows the constituent parts of 
the Group’s revenue movements between the year ended 
28 February 2011 and the year ended 29 February 2012:
Revenue bridge
£m
7.1
6.8
92.6
2011
103.2 (5.8)
(3.3)
97.4
Acquisitions Underlying
growth
BV Germany
reduction
2012 BV Germany
turnover
2012
continuing
As well as the revenue growth generated from 
the acquisition of Continuum, the Group had 
significant underlying revenue growth of £6.8 million 
year on year.
Group continuing revenue for the year was £97.4 million, 
up 17% on the year ended 28 February 2011 of 
£83.3 million. Each of the Group’s four divisions grew its 
revenues year on year, both on a continuing and an 
underlying basis. In particular there was growth of 61% 
year on year in the Academic & Professional division, 
which benefited from an exceptional year for Rights & 
Services revenue.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Continuum 
and the result of Bloomsbury Verlag in Germany, the 
Group’s continuing underlying revenue in the year ended 
29 February 2012 of £90.3 million was up on a like-for-like 
basis by 8% compared to £83.3 million in the year ended 
28 February 2011. 
Continuing Revenue Analysis: year ended 29 February 2012
Total
continuing
sales
£’000
Proportion
of total
continuing
sales
%
Annual
underlying
 sales 
movement 
%
Print 78,878 81% -3%
Digital 5,872 6% 168%
Rights & Services 12,649 13% 83%
97,399 100% 8%
FINANCIAL REVIEW
  25
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Print sales were 81% of total continuing sales. They were 
up £4.5 million, 6%, year on year, although down 3% on 
an underlying basis. This decline reflects the changes in the 
market place with the move from print towards ebooks.
Digital sales mainly comprise ebook sales together with 
a small but growing element of digital subscriptions 
revenues. Continuing ebook sales were up 159% year on 
year to £5.7 million, and now are 6% of Group continuing 
revenues (year ended 28 February 2011: 3%).Given the 
nature of ebooks, most of this growth was in the Adult 
division, where 9% of continuing sales were ebooks (year 
ended 28 February 2011: 4%), with slower growth in the 
Children’s & Educational division and fewer ebook sales 
in the Academic & Professional division. Overall 23% of 
continuing sales in the US were of ebooks and 3% in the UK, 
indicating the significant potential still remaining in the UK 
for ebook sales.
Rights & Services revenue streams, which are analysed 
below, have had a particularly successful year. 
Rights & Services Revenue Analysis
£m
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
Unaudited
year ended 
28 February 
2011 Increase
Copyright licences 6.3 3.6 +75%
Trademark licences 1.2 ––
Management contracts 3.4 2.1 +62%
Publishing services income 1.4 0.8 +75%
Advertising 0.3 0.2 +50%
Total continuing 12.6 6.7 +89%
Discontinued – Bloomsbury Verlag 0.5 0.5 0%
Total 13.1 7.2 +82%
Part of our strategy is to grow the revenue potential 
from our intellectual property, particularly through 
entrepreneurial online initiatives. Almost half of continuing 
Rights & Services revenue in the year ended 29 February 
2012 were for online projects. 
Significant Rights & Services deals this year were the 
brand licensing and rights agreements for £1.5 million 
with Bonnier AB in Germany, the licensing deal for 
£2 million with Practical Law Company, who are integrating 
some of our legal content into their corporate software 
service, and the licensing of Wisden in India which will 
generate US$3.2 million of revenue over five years plus a 
royalty share. The increased licensing and rights activity 
demonstrates the value inherent in our content. Our 
strategy is to be innovators in the creation and licensing of 
information databases to support major world institutions 
and corporations. In the year ended 29 February 2012 we 
accrued revenue of £0.9 million from our partnership with 
Forschungsinstitut zur Zukunft der Arbeit (IZA) in Germany 
for the development and provision of a reference and 
information resource in labour economics, which will 
generate £4.3 million of revenue over five years. 
The Group sales by region are shown below. The 
acquisition of Continuum, and since the year end Fairchild 
Books, gives us increased presence in the US, the largest 
academic publishing market in the world. This chart shows 
where Group continuing revenues were generated for the 
year ended 29 February 2012:
Group Continuing Sales by Region
 
UK     69%
US     24%
Australia     7% 26
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Highlighted items
The acquisition of Continuum, the disposal of Bloomsbury 
Verlag and the global reorganisation of the Group 
have resulted in costs which, together with intangible 
amortisation, have been highlighted separately in the 
financial statements.
£m Charge
Costs of acquisition – Continuum 0.2
Restructuring costs – One Global 
Bloomsbury/Continuum 1.3
Relocation of headquarters 0.4
Costs of aborted acquisition 0.1
Intangible asset amortisation 1.6
Total continuing 3.6
Discontinued – Loss on disposal of
Bloomsbury Verlag 1.0
Total 4.6
Gross margin and underlying operating profit
Overall the continuing gross margin increased to 57% 
(year ended 28 February 2011: 55%) with gross profit of 
£55.2 million (year ended 28 February 2011: £45.6 million). 
The rise in the continuing gross profit margin was due to 
the increasing proportion of higher margin Academic & 
Professional and Rights & Services revenues and reduced 
provisions for stock and returns. 
Author costs, consisting of royalties and advances, increased 
from £13.1 million to £15.5 million year on year but remained 
consistent as a percentage of revenue; year ended 29 
February 2012 16% (year ended 28 February 2011 16%). The 
stock provision charged to the income statement in respect 
of obsolescence (excluding write downs for items such as 
wastage) reduced to £2.1 million (year ended 28 February 
2011: £2.4 million) and represented 2.2% of revenues 
compared to 2.9% in the previous year. Books returned 
by customers are credited to the returns provision. There 
was a reduction in the returns provision from 7% to 4% of 
revenues year on year. This is a general trend due to the 
increasing proportion of ebooks, which are not returned, 
and lower returns due to increasing online sales. 
Group continuing adjusted operating profit for the year 
was £12.1 million, 59% ahead of the £7.6 million for the 
year ended 28 February 2011. The adjusted operating 
profit margin for the Group was 12%, compared to 9% for 
the year ended 28 February 2011.
Divisional Performance
The table below shows underlying adjusted performance 
by division. 2010/11 numbers are pro forma unaudited 
results for the year ended 28 February 2011.
Revenue Gross margin % Adjusted operating profit
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’m
Year ended 
28 February 
2011
£’m
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
%
Year ended 
28 February 
2011
%
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’m
Year ended 
28 February 
2011
£’m
Academic & Professional 17.5 14.3 74% 61% 3.3 1.2
Adult 43.6 43.1 52% 52% 4.7 3.8
Children’s & Educational 25.6 23.3 49% 52% 2.3 1.4
Information 3.6 2.6 75% 85% 0.9 1.2
Total 90.3 83.3 56% 55% 11.2 7.6
FINANCIAL REVIEW
  27
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Divisional financial highlights are noted below and further 
information by division is given in the Divisional Review 
section of the Chief Executive’s Review.
The Academic & Professional division has grown 
significantly during 2012 through acquisitions, organic 
growth in digital subscription-based publishing and 
innovative deals with publishing partners. The Group’s 
strategy to build the academic and professional business 
is borne out by the division’s increased share of the 
Group revenue and profit against last year and by its high 
gross margins. This division now makes up 24% of Group 
turnover (year ended 28 February 2011: 17%) and 34% of 
Group adjusted operating profits (year ended 28 February 
2011: 15%). A large part of the increase in the division’s 
underlying turnover was a £2.3 million, 133% year on year 
rise in continuing Rights & Services revenue to £4.1 million, 
largely as a result of content licensing deals including one 
with Practical Law Company.
In the Adult division ebook sales rose 169% year on year to 
£4.2 million, which represented 9% of the division’s total 
continuing sales compared to 4% in the previous year. 
Rights & Services revenue rose by 153% to £3.8 million and 
included a share of the income from Bonnier for the sale 
of Bloomsbury Verlag and the licensing of Wisden in India. 
This division makes up 40% of Group continuing adjusted 
operating profits. The UK sales saw significant increases in the 
cookery list, including Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, Heston 
Blumenthal and Raymond Blanc, and we had three novels 
on the shortlist of six for the 2012 Orange Prize for Fiction: 
Painter of Silence, The Song of Achilles and State of Wonder.
The Children’s sales increase in the UK included the effect 
of the release of the final Harry Potter movie in July and 
new Harry Potter Box sets at Christmas. Ebook sales in the 
division rose 303% year on year to £1.1 million. Through 
the ebook partnership with JK Rowling announced last 
June, Bloomsbury will receive a share of the revenues from 
Pottermore.com, which has just commenced. We have five 
new Children’s staff in the UK following our new investment 
in illustrated publishing. 
The Information division generated 92% or £3.4 million 
of its continuing revenue from Rights & Services. This was 
mainly management services fees and included fees for the 
businesses we manage in Qatar and revenue of £0.9 million 
from the partnership with IZA in Germany that will generate 
£4.3 million of revenue over five years. The division’s 
continuing operating profit before highlighted items was 
£0.9 million (year ended 28 February 2011: £1.2 million) 
following an allocation of central overhead costs of £0.9 
million (year ended 28 February 2011: £0.5 million), before 
which continuing operating profit was £1.8 million, up 6% 
on £1.7 million for the year ended 28 February 2011.
The charts below show the proportion of Group continuing 
revenues that each division generates, and in particular 
reflect the growth in the Academic & Professional division
Continuing Revenues by division
Year ended 29 February 2012
£m
Adult     46%
Children’s & 
Educational  26%
Academic &
Professional  24%
Information     4%
. 
Continuing Revenues by division
Year ended 28 February 2011 
Adult     52%
Children’s & 
Educational  28%
Academic &
Professional  17%
Information     3%
Acquisitions
On 9 July 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the 
share capital of Continuum for a cash consideration of 
£19.2 million, net of £0.9m of cash acquired with the 
business. The acquisition reflected Bloomsbury’s strategy 
to increase its proportion of academic and professional 
revenues compared to trade revenues. Around 60% of 
Continuum’s sales were outside the UK thereby increasing 
Bloomsbury’s presence to the global book market. The 
purchase price stated in the financial statements of £18.0 
million excludes £2.0 million of costs that the vendor 
requested that Bloomsbury pay in relation to staff bonuses 
and the redemption of a Continuum loan note. Goodwill of 
£8.3 million arose on the acquisition and intangible assets 
of £6.4 million were identified for publishing rights and 
imprints acquired. 28
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Disposal
On 28 February 2012, the Group contracted with Bonnier 
AB to sell its subsidiary Bloomsbury Verlag in Germany for a 
cash consideration of 2.6 million. The disposal was subject 
to the approval of the German competition authorities.  
The risks and rewards of ownership passed to Bonnier AB 
as at 28 February 2012 as approval was virtually certain 
to be given by the German competition authorities given 
the size and nature of the business sold. This is supported 
by approval being granted in March 2012. Given that 
the chances of not receiving approval were considered 
to be remote, the sale has been treated in the financial 
statements as completing on 28 February 2012. The loss 
on disposal of £1.0 million and the operating loss for the 
year for Bloomsbury Verlag of £2.6 million, make up the 
discontinued line in the income statement.
Interest
The net interest income for the Group for the year was 
£0.05 million compared with £0.3 million for the year 
ended 28 February 2011 due to lower net cash levels 
resulting primarily from the purchase of Continuum.
Taxation
Taxation on continuing operations was £1.4 million for the 
year, compared to £1.3 million for the 14 months ended 
28 February 2011. The effective tax rate was 16.2% 
(14 months ended 28 February 2011: 23.8%). The rate 
this year was reduced by 8.2% from 24.4% as a result of 
the offset of the losses of Bloomsbury Verlag against UK 
generated profits. Excluding the effect of highlighted and 
other non-recurring items, the continuing effective tax rate 
for the Group was 23.4% (14 months ended 28 February 
2011: 24.1%).
Earnings per share
Adjusted continuing earnings per share, which exclude 
highlighted items, were up by 36% year on year to 
13.63 pence (fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: 
8.93 pence, year ended 28 February 2011: 10.03 pence). 
Basic earnings per share for the year were 4.66 pence 
(fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: 3.02 pence, 
year ended 28 February 2011: 3.22 pence). Diluted earnings 
per share for the year were 4.53 pence (fourteen months 
ended 28 February 2011: 3.02 pence, year ended 28 
February 2011: 3.22 pence).
Dividend and dividend policy
The Group has a progressive dividend policy. In line with 
this policy the Directors are recommending a final dividend 
of 4.31 pence per share, which subject to shareholder 
approval at our Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2012, 
will be paid on 25 September 2012 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 31 August 2012. This 
dividend is a 10.2% increase on the dividend paid for 
the six months ended 31 December 2010. Together with 
the interim dividend, this makes a total dividend for the 
year ended 29 February 2012 of 5.20p per share, a 10.2% 
increase on the 4.72p dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2010 and an increase on the 5.00p 
dividend which was paid for the 14 months ended 
28 February 2011.
Capital structure
Our statement of financial position at 29 February 2012 can be summarised as set out in the table below:
Assets
£’m
Liabilities
£’m
Net assets/
(liabilities)
£’m
Property, plant and equipment 3.0 – 3.0
Goodwill and intangible assets 52.8 – 52.8
Current assets and liabilities 75.7 32.5 43.2
Other non-current assets and liabilities – 0.8 (0.8)
Post-retirement obligations – 0.2 (0.2)
Deferred tax 2.3 3.7 (1.4)
Total before net cash 133.8 37.2 96.6
Net cash 12.6 – 12.6
Total as at 29 February 2012 146.4 37.2 109.2
Total as at 28 February 2011 143.7 31.9 111.8
Increase/(decrease) 2.7 (5.3) (2.6)
FINANCIAL REVIEW
  29
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
The Group’s key assets were goodwill and intangible assets, 
net trade receivables, advances and inventories.
Net assets decreased by 2% to £109.2 million (28 February 
2011: £111.8 million) and net assets per share by 2% to 148 
pence (28 February 2011: 151 pence). The main movements 
in the balance sheet are explained below.
Assets
Goodwill and intangible assets increased by £15.6 million to 
£52.8 million (28 February 2011: £37.2 million) due to:
 ✶ the acquisition of Continuum, an adjustment for the 
deferred consideration on the acquisition of Berg 
Fashion Library and the acquisition of publishing 
lists of Absolute Press and the National Archives, 
which increased goodwill by £8.9 million and other 
intangibles by £6.6 million, 
 ✶ product and systems development of £1.6 million 
(including Academic & Professional online websites); less
 ✶ £1.6 million of amortisation.
Inventories increased 10% to £20.2 million (28 February 2011: 
£18.3 million) driven mainly by £3.1 million of stock acquired 
as part of the Continuum acquisition, offset by stock 
disposed of in the sale of Bloomsbury Verlag of £1.6 million.
Trade and other receivables increased 14% to £55.4 million 
(28 February 2011: £48.7 million). Continuum was £3.4 
million of this increase, offset by the disposal of £2.9 million 
of receivables with Bloomsbury Verlag. After a full year of 
trading the Australian subsidiary’s receivables increased 
by £1.3 million compared to 28 February 2011, when it 
had only been trading for two months. Included within 
other receivables was £3.7 million of accrued income due 
from Bonnier AB in respect of the sale proceeds from the 
disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag and the rights and licence 
agreements signed at the time of that disposal.
Since books sold are generally returnable by customers, 
the Group makes a provision for returns against books 
sold in the accounting period. The unused provision at 
the period end is then carried forward and offset against 
trade receivables in the statement of financial position, 
in anticipation of further book returns subsequent to the 
period end. A provision for the Group of £4.7 million (28 
February 2011: £6.5 million) for future returns relating 
to current year and prior period sales has been carried 
forward in trade receivables at the reporting date. Within 
trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued 
income increased 11% to £30.2 million (28 February 2011: 
£27.2 million) mainly due to the accrued income of £3.7 
million in respect of the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag.
As at 29 February 2012 the Group had 2,493 titles 
(28 February 2011: 1,157) under contract for future 
publication, with a gross investment of £21.7 million 
(28 February 2011: £21.5 million). The increase in titles 
arises from the acquisition of Continuum. After payment 
of the initial tranches of advances to authors, our 
commitment for future cash payments on these contracted 
titles was £12.7 million (28 February 2011: £12.3 million). The 
comparatives exclude Bloomsbury Verlag. The average 
total investment per title fell in 2012 to £8,700 compared 
to £18,600 as at 28 February 2011, reflecting the fact that 
advances are not paid for Academic & Professional titles. 
Equity and Liabilities
At 29 February 2012 total equity was £109.2 million 
(2011: £111.8 million). The reduction of £2.6 million 
was mainly due to £2.0 million being paid to acquire 
Bloomsbury Publishing shares for the Employee Benefit 
Trust; a reduction of £1.0 million from the recycling of 
cumulative currency translations to the income statement 
on the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag; dividends of 
£3.7 million (14 months ended 28 February 2011: £3.3 
million) and the profit for the year of £3.4 million (14 
months ended 28 February 2011: £2.2 million) after both 
highlighted items of £3.6 million and £3.7 million of loss 
from the discontinued operations of Bloomsbury Verlag.
Current liabilities increased 11.4% to £32.5 million 
(28 February 2011: £29.1 million). Within this, trade payables 
increased to £11.3 million (28 February 2011: £9.2 million) 
largely due to the acquisition of Continuum, offset by 
the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag and an increase in 
Australian trade payables due to there being a full year 
of trading compared to two months in the prior period. 
Accruals and deferred income, which is included in trade 
and other payables, increased slightly to £18.8 million 
(28 February 2011: £18.7 million). This includes deferred 
income on database contracts, subscription revenues, 
accrued work in progress and royalty payments due to 
authors, which vary year on year depending on revenue 
and authors’ royalty rates, which typically escalate on 
triggered thresholds as sales increase.
Non-current liabilities increased 73% to £4.7 million 
(28 February 2011: £2.7 million) mainly due to £1.7 million 
of deferred tax liability on the intangible assets recognised 
on the acquisition of Continuum. This will reduce as the 
relevant intangibles are amortised. 30
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Net cash
The Group had net cash of £12.6 million at the year end 
(28 February 2011: £36.9 million). During the year we 
acquired Continuum for net cash of £19.2 million. Since the 
year end we have acquired Fairchild Books for $6.1 million 
(net of a $0.4 million working capital adjustment), this is 
being financed in cash in three equal annual instalments 
with no interest being paid on the deferred cash payments. 
In March we received £3.7 million in cash from Bonnier 
AB in respect of the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag and 
the rights and licence deals contracted at the time of that 
disposal.
Cash flow
Cash and cash equivalents reduced by £24.3 million 
over the year to £12.6 million. The net cash inflow from 
operating activities, including the effect of highlighted 
items, for the year ended 29 February 2012 was £5.0 million, 
£3.2 million below that for the 14 months ended 
28 February 2011, with a higher profit before tax being 
offset by a £4.2 million increase in working capital. 
This increase included the £3.7 million of cash that was 
received after the year end from Bonnier AB. Investing 
activities for the year ended 29 February 2012 resulted in 
an outflow of £23.6 million (14 months ended 28 February 
2011: £2.7 million) from the acquisition of Continuum 
and refurbishment of the Group’s new Head Office in 
Bedford Square. The £2.0 million purchase of shares for 
the Employee Benefit Trust and a dividend of £3.7 million 
made up the majority of the £5.7 million net cash used in 
financing activities (14 months ended 28 February 2011: 
£3.5 million).
Liquidity 
During the year the Group negotiated an unsecured credit 
facility with Lloyds Bank. At 29 February 2012 the Group 
had £10 million of undrawn committed loan facility 
(28 February 2011: nil) and £2 million of undrawn overdraft 
facility. The overdraft facility is available until September 
2012 and the loan facility matures in July 2016. The facility 
is subject to two covenants being a maximum net debt to 
EBITDA ratio and a minimum interest cover covenant. At 
the reporting date the Group had significant headroom on 
its covenants.
The Group’s net cash position changes over the course 
of the year as a result of the seasonality of the business 
with the most significant expenses being the payment of 
royalties in March and September and the most significant 
sale receipts being in February and March from the 
Christmas sales. 
Wendy Pallot ACA
Finance Director
FINANCIAL REVIEW
  31
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
RISK FACTORS
O
utlined in the table overleaf is a description 
of risk factors that management considers 
are relevant to the Group’s business. Not all 
the factors are within management’s control 
and other factors besides those listed below could also 
affect the Group. Actions being taken by management to 
mitigate risk factors should be considered in conjunction 
with the cautioning note to shareholders in the Directors’ 
Report on page 48 with regards to forward looking 
statements. Details on financial risk management are given 
in note 23.
Our strategy
The Group’s Mission is to grow a high quality global 
publishing business delivering high value to its 
contributors, readers and shareholders. 
We achieve this Mission through our strategy which is to:
 ✶ Publish authors and works of excellence and originality.
 ✶ Deliver professional services to those seeking 
publication.
 ✶ Combine tradition and technology to achieve 
excellence.
 ✶ Establish solid profit streams.
Key objectives include:
 ✶ Grow Academic & Professional revenues so that they 
match or exceed our trade revenues (where trade 
revenues are all book sales other than Academic & 
Professional). This is because these revenues have 
higher margins, are generally a more predictable 
revenue stream, are less reliant on the retail bookshop 
environment and have more digital opportunities.
 ✶ Continue acquisition of rights to publish outstanding 
works by undiscovered and established authors. 
 ✶ Expand internationally in English language markets. 
This reduces the Group’s reliance on the UK market 
and, in particular, takes advantage of the biggest 
academic market worldwide in the US and the 
significant growth being experienced in India.
 ✶ Create and exploit copyright and IP including by 
licensing of information databases to support major 
world institutions and corporations.
 ✶ Benefit from the digital opportunity, both in cost saving 
and market expansion.
Information of how we take account of social and 
environmental matters when implementing our strategy is 
included in Corporate Responsibility on pages 35 to 40.
Overview of Bloomsbury’s processes
Bloomsbury is an independent worldwide publisher and 
has been listed on the Main Market of the London Stock 
Exchange since 1994. Over a period of more than 25 years 
the business has built up a substantial body of publishing 
rights.
The Group is structured as four worldwide publishing 
divisions – Adult, Children’s, Academic and Information 
– under a global brand supported by centralised sales, 
marketing, production and head office functions. Each 
publishing division reports to the Chief Executive. The 
Group encourages each publishing division to develop 
and grow diversified income streams. Each division has 
the capability to publish books in all formats but may also 
produce other products such as online content accessable 
through subscription. Each division may also use its 
expertise to provide publishing related services to clients.
Book publishing
Publishing ebooks and printed books is the main 
activity of Bloomsbury. Publishing teams acquire the 
intellectual property rights to publish the works of authors. 
Bloomsbury sells its own books typically through online 
retailers such as Amazon, through bookshops, through 
supermarkets and direct to customers. 
Bloomsbury’s global production function produces books 
in all formats. Bloomsbury has produced ebooks since 2005 
and as an early adopter has benefited from the worldwide 
growth in ebook sales. Printed books that are sold through 
retail outlets are normally sold on a sale-or-return basis. 
The Group subcontracts the printing, warehouse storage 
and distribution of printed books to a number of long-term 
global partners. 32
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group strategic actions to mitigate the risks
The Group focuses on improving its processes in order to 
address the identified risks and has implemented a number 
of key initiatives including:
Repositioning the business towards academic 
publishing
Bloomsbury is a cash generative business and has enjoyed 
the benefit of publishing a number of bestselling titles 
over a prolonged period. Bloomsbury has balanced its 
core general trade publishing business with academic and 
professional publishing. This addresses a number of risks:
 ✶ Long-term growth potential, less sales volatility 
and higher margins: The demand for academic & 
professional books is more regular which reduces the 
volatility of book sales compared to general trade 
publishing.
 ✶ Barriers to entry: Since acquiring Methuen Drama in 
2006, Bloomsbury has continuously invested in growing 
its academic publishing business through organic 
growth and acquisitions of publishing businesses, 
lists of academic books and online databases. The 
acquisition of Continuum in July 2011 with its strong US 
footprint has enabled Bloomsbury to consolidate the 
academic publishing division into a substantial unified 
worldwide publisher with a number of market leading 
subject areas.
 ✶ Bloomsbury is successfully establishing its position in 
the professional publishing market.
 ✶ Exploiting intellectual property: Bloomsbury is 
developing innovative academic online products 
which are sold under annual subscriptions by 
exploiting the Group’s content assets and expertise.
 ✶ Lower risk: Academic publishing acquisitions require 
lower advances. 
One Global Bloomsbury
From 1 March 2011 the Group implemented One Global 
Bloomsbury which is the approach of four worldwide 
publishing divisions under a global brand supported by 
centralised sales, marketing, production and head office 
functions. 
One Global Bloomsbury addresses a number areas:
 ✶ Extended territorial reach of the sales and marketing 
teams: Sales and marketing teams have been unified 
into a single global function to meet the needs of a 
worldwide market.
 ✶ Editorial economies of scale: Editorial teams have an 
increased focus on acquiring the world rights.
 ✶ Functional economies of scale: The book production 
function (which takes finalised scripts from editorial 
teams and converts them into ebooks and/or printed 
books), finance and IT teams have been unified into 
global functions to support Bloomsbury’s teams based 
in different territories worldwide.
Growth in emerging markets
During the year the Board took the strategic decision to 
reallocate Group resources from Germany into India which 
has greater long-term potential for growth. India has one 
of the world’s largest English speaking populations and an 
increasing number of highly educated readers of English. 
Bloomsbury has sold books into India through partner 
arrangements with other publishers such as Penguin but 
establishing its own publishing business in India will enable 
Bloomsbury to publish the works of local authors and 
develop its publishing services.
UK head office consolidation
The Group has relocated most of the UK workforce into a 
single London head office which consolidates the various 
acquisitions and enables economies of scale to be realised 
more easily.
Worldwide systems and processes
The Group has implemented centralised publishing and 
finance systems worldwide across the business allowing 
teams to work more closely together.
RISK FACTORS 33
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
The table below provides a description of risk factors that management considers relevant to the Group’s business. Other 
factors besides those listed could also affect the Group.
Key Area Risk Description Mitigation
Market Volatility of 
general trade 
book sales
 ✶ Sales of general trade books 
for both children and adults 
focus on bestsellers and can 
be both seasonal and volatile
 ✶ Develop Academic & Professional 
publishing where revenues are less volatile
 ✶ Develop other revenue streams including 
Rights and Services
Decline in high-
street bookshops
 ✶ Numbers of bookshops 
(both independent and 
chains) have declined
 ✶ Grow relationships with other retailers 
including internet and supermarkets
 ✶ Develop other revenue streams eg Rights 
and Services
Increase in 
sales through 
supermarkets 
and other non-
traditional outlets
 ✶ Many non-traditional 
retailers focus on bestsellers 
rather than range of titles
 ✶ Reduce dependence on bestsellers by 
developing other revenue streams eg 
Academic & Professional
Increased 
importance of 
internet retailing
 ✶ As bricks and mortar 
bookshops reduce in 
number and range, e-tailing 
increases in importance 
 ✶ Increase focus on developing other 
revenue streams eg Rights and Services 
 ✶ Grow ebook sales
Reduction in 
number of 
customers
 ✶ Number of UK and US 
bookshops is reducing
 ✶ Ensure sales in the huge international 
market are maximised to reduce 
dependence on domestic sales in UK 
and US
Move to digital Shift from print  ✶ Ebooks are increasing as 
a percentage of Group 
turnover
 ✶ Position Group publishing to ensure titles 
can be sold in digital format(s)
 ✶ Broaden range of revenue streams eg 
subscription, Rights and Services
Ebook sales 
plateau
 ✶ Steep rise in ebook sales in 
US and UK may plateau
 ✶ Ensure Group is positioned to take 
advantage of ebook emergence in 
international markets
 ✶ Use social media and other digital 
marketing to encourage direct sales to 
consumers 34
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Key Area Risk Description Mitigation
Title acquisition Retention of 
authors 
 ✶ Authors (especially in 
general trade) are usually 
commissioned on a book by 
book basis
 ✶ Broaden publishing portfolio to reduce 
dependence of business on bestselling 
authors
High advances 
sought by agents
 ✶ Agents seek high advances 
for some authors 
 ✶ Publish more non-general trade books eg 
Academic & Professional
World rights not 
acquired
 ✶ Agents prefer to split 
territorial rights for English 
language publishing 
between US and UK
 ✶ Focus acquisition on titles where world 
English rights are available
 ✶ Concentrate on academic publishing 
where world rights are the norm
IP and copyright Piracy  ✶ Piracy of titles in print or 
digital form
 ✶ Adopt robust anti-piracy policies
 ✶ Ensure good digital rights management 
protection of ebooks and digital formats
 ✶ Participate in key industry anti-piracy 
initiatives
Erosion of 
copyright
 ✶ Erosion of copyright 
through government or 
other action
 ✶ Continue policy of support for copyright 
and Intellectual Property rights as a 
fundamental facet of publishing
RISK FACTORS 35
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
T
he Board recognises that the achievements 
of the Group have depended upon the high 
standards of social responsibility demonstrated 
by the Directors and employees for more than 
twenty five years. The Board takes account of the relevant 
social, environmental and ethical issues and associated risks 
and opportunities to the Group’s short-term and long-
term value. 
Community
We encourage the involvement of staff worldwide in 
volunteer work and Bloomsbury is involved in a number 
of community based activities. Our publishing teams share 
a common passion for promoting the enjoyment of high 
quality literature which is often cutting edge and provides 
new authors with opportunities to establish themselves. 
We have a substantial Children’s & Educational division 
focused on promoting literacy for young readers of all 
abilities and ages including specialist ranges for ‘Hi-Low’ 
pupils (High age, Low attainment) which provide parents 
and teachers with the tools needed to engage their 
children in reading.
 ✶ Support by Bloomsbury 
With a focus mainly on promoting literacy, we actively 
support numerous organisations including schools 
and libraries and other good causes such as Booktrust, 
Barnados, Oxfam and other charities. We are a sponsor 
and partner of World Book Day which was established 
in 1995 by UNESCO with the objective of promoting and 
celebrating books and reading amongst children and 
adults. We donate, or provide at a substantial discount, 
over 100,000 books annually which includes donations 
by our overseas and UK offices of mainstream titles. For 
example we donated books by some of Bloomsbury’s 
leading female authors to charities supporting 
education as part of International Women’s Day. We 
donate signed copies of books by leading authors for 
charity auctions and have supported the Booktrust 
who give every child starting secondary school a 
free book.
We make minor cash donations to charities and not for 
profit organisations that support literary art, education 
and literacy which has included Book Aid International, 
The Charleston Trust, the Independent Publishers 
Guild and other charities that meet our specific 
criteria. We made a minor cash donation in support of 
Bloomsbury’s project to digitise the Churchill Archive 
which has significant educational value. In respect of 
the year we made a number of targeted donations 
totalling £15,000 (2011: £10,000).
 ✶ Support by Employees of Bloomsbury
Our business has a strong team of employees who 
are passionate about literacy and literature with a 
relatively high proportion of women. A number of our 
employees, both privately and through a Bloomsbury 
coordinator of a reading in schools project, are 
involved in formal volunteer reading schemes 
and regularly attend state schools. These schemes 
provide lunchtime supervised reading support 
to young readers often from backgrounds where 
their opportunities to develop reading skills may be 
hindered. 
Other employees are involved with a number of 
formal voluntary activities promoting literacy such as 
in voluntary associations for editors promoting the 
publication of children’s books; in workshops in schools 
for young aspiring journalists and magazine editors 
and writers; in supporting associations for dyslexic 
children; in supporting the updating of a number of 
school libraries; or in arranging visits by authors to talk 
at schools. Other employees voluntarily assist schools 
with numerous activities such as with interview practice, 
presentations on working in publishing and writing 
and producing musicals for primary schools.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Bloomsbury’s core business is the worldwide promotion of high quality 
literature and literacy for readers of all ages which in itself has a high social 
value. We focus on integrity in all of our activities, consider our impact 
on society and the environment and maintain high ethical standards. The 
Company continues to be included in the FTSE4Good Index. 36
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Groups of employees around the business regularly 
participate in a wide range of fund raising events for 
good causes and charities such as sponsored runs, 
cycling challenges for Book Aid, bake sales and other 
employee inspired activities. Privately Bloomsbury 
people actively give their time and support to a wide 
range of good causes.
Employees
We recognise that people are our greatest asset and 
employment policies are directed at creating a workplace 
that attracts, motivates, develops and retains high calibre 
employees. We have a diverse workforce and management 
team lead by a diverse Board, of which one third of the 
members are women.
Supported by regional heads of human resources the 
managing directors of the four publishing divisions, the 
heads of each Group function and managing directors of 
regional offices have responsibility for the employment 
matters of their teams. These people report to the Chief 
Executive who has overall Board level responsibility for 
employment matters and issues. For example, where 
employment matters have a group wide impact or cannot 
be resolved at a lower level in the business then they may 
be referred to the Chief Executive.
The senior management team monitors joiners, leavers, 
headcount, pay rates and other KPIs but the Group does 
not disclose these for commercial reasons that are in the 
interest of the shareholders.
Key features of the Group’s employment policies and 
practices are:
 ✶ Openness: Bloomsbury provides a high degree of 
openness and transparency on its activities and 
performance through information provided to 
employees. Employees are kept updated daily, 
weekly and monthly on sales, book releases, project 
achievements, corporate news and feedback from 
external media and other sources. The Bloomsbury 
Institute arranges regular events which enable staff to 
meet socially. Weekly and other regular team meetings 
and internal annual conferences bring employees 
together from across the Group’s worldwide sites 
allowing team members to formally and informally 
share information about the business and develop 
strong working relationships. An intranet is used to 
provide employees with access to relevant corporate 
information and employees regularly arrange 
social events.
 ✶ Engagement: We promote a friendly collegiate culture 
in which employees are encouraged to discuss their 
concerns and issues with their line managers and 
senior colleagues. The senior management team 
meets frequently to discuss employee matters and is 
supported by regular operational meetings attended 
by managers covering all the Group’s worldwide sites.
 ✶ Ethical Behaviour: We expect employees, Directors, 
subcontractors and others to exercise high ethical 
standards at all times in respect of the relationships 
and dealings Bloomsbury has with its customers, 
authors and agents, suppliers and other third parties. 
Bloomsbury has whistleblower procedures enabling 
employees to have their concerns confidentially 
addressed and has a formal policy on ethical behaviour 
which is included within employment terms.
 ✶ Employee development: Bloomsbury is acquisitive 
and has benefited from an intake of high calibre 
entrepreneurs who support the Group’s capacity 
to innovate. The Group develops its management 
structure to serve the changing needs of customers 
and authors. This creates opportunities for suitably 
high calibre individuals to progress to increasing levels 
of seniority as they gain capabilities and expertise. 
External recruitment is supported by a centralised 
Human Resources function enabling vacancies 
across sites worldwide to be filled internally where 
employees of an appropriately high calibre seek new 
opportunities.
 ✶ Performance and merit: Senior employees agree 
personal objectives and are rewarded based on 
performance determined by business results and 
appraisals. Senior managers are accountable for the 
performance of their teams and determine the most 
appropriate approach to performance management 
for each team. Promotions and external recruitment 
are based on merit and ensure that the most suitable 
person is selected for positions.
 ✶ Employee participation: The Group offers UK 
employees the opportunity to participate in an all 
employee HM Revenue and Customs approved 
Sharesave scheme to encourage employee 
participation in the performance and growth of the 
Group. High performing senior employees may also be 
eligible to participate in the Company’s Performance 
Share Plan (PSP).
 ✶ Flexible working: We encourage family friendly 
working practices such as flexible working hours and 
recognise that experienced employees returning to 
work following maternity, paternity or other career 
breaks are an asset.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 37
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
 ✶ Equality of opportunity: Bloomsbury has a diverse 
workforce and follows a policy that no employee 
or other person receives more or less favourable 
treatment on the grounds of gender, sexual 
orientation, colour, race and ethnic origin, nationality, 
religion, disability or age. This extends to any person 
known to be HIV positive. The Human Resources 
function monitors compliance with the policy and 
with applicable legislative requirements to ensure 
the equality of opportunity in the recruitment, 
selection and promotion of employees. Grievance 
and disciplinary procedures protect employees from 
discriminatory behaviours and attitudes.
 ✶ Disabled persons: Group policy is to offer equal 
treatment in respect of the recruitment, training, 
career development and promotion of disabled 
persons. Where people become disabled during the 
course of their employment, the Group will seek to 
retain their services and to provide retraining where 
necessary.
 ✶ Health and safety: The Company Secretary reporting 
to the Chief Executive in respect of Health and Safety 
(‘H&S’) heads an H&S team that ensures Group-wide 
compliance with H&S policy. H&S incident reports are 
reviewed by the Board and at senior team meetings. 
The H&S team works closely with management and 
employees to ensure that the H&S policy is effectively 
communicated, implemented and maintained across 
the business. Managers of the worldwide sites are 
accountable for ensuring their areas of the business are 
in compliance with H&S policy.
Health and Safety
The Group maintains risk assessments and an accident 
book and staff are encouraged to report all accidents or 
near misses. The Board reviews Health and Safety annually. 
During the year there were no fatalities or serious injuries. 
Accidents reported have typically included infrequent 
bumps and scalds associated with the office environment. 
Environment
The Board recognises that a responsible approach to the 
environment is attractive to its existing and prospective 
customers and authors. Customers can require Bloomsbury 
to demonstrate that the Group is a good corporate citizen 
during the tender process for new and existing contracts.
The executive committee (which consists of the executive 
directors and the managing directors of the publishing 
divisions) have responsibility for environmental matters 
of their teams. These people report to the Chief Executive 
who has overall Board level responsibility for environmental 
matters and issues. 
The impact on the environment of our business 
predominantly arises from the activities we subcontract 
to our suppliers including the printing, production, 
distribution, recycling and disposal of printed books. 
The Company also has office based information product 
development, editorial, sales and administrative activities 
which operate through an employee workforce based 
at offices in the UK, US (mainly in New York) and Australia 
(Sydney).
Our policy is to reduce both the financial cost to 
the business and the impact of the business on the 
environment. We employ specialist independent 
external advisors, Trucost, to monitor our impact on the 
environment. Key areas where we are active in reducing 
the direct and indirect environmental impact of the 
business include:
 ✶ Online print: We are increasingly moving to electronic 
ebooks and online products that will save on using 
natural resources and have very little environmental 
impact. Our strategy embraces digital publishing 
and the potential benefits this may bring to the 
environment.
 ✶ Book Printing: We monitor the impact of our major 
suppliers and engage with them to reduce the 
environmental impact where possible. We stipulate 
that the pulp used to produce the papers for our books 
comes from well-managed forests and encourage our 
suppliers to obtain Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
accreditation and use FSC certified papers. The majority 
of our UK and European suppliers are FSC Chain of 
Custody certified as are several of our main Far Eastern 
colour printers.
 ✶ Building and office facilities: Most of our employees 
travel to work by public transport and we support part 
time and home-working. For most employees we have 
implemented separate recycling bins for different 
waste materials so that a significant proportion of 
our office waste is recycled. Most lights are fitted with 
motion detectors and our office policy is to turn off 
lights out of hours when not in use.
We have previously taken advice from the Carbon Trust 
and implemented their recommendations to reduce 
our carbon footprint. For example, we use point of use 
instead of bottled water coolers, fit energy efficient lamps, 
ensure heating systems are regularly maintained and 
programmed efficiently and turn off unnecessary electrical 
equipment out of hours amongst other measures. 38
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Environmental Results and Targets
Our direct operations are predominately office-based and 
have been independently assessed as having a low impact 
on the environment. We monitor the normalised long 
term average greenhouse gas and waste production for 
our office based employees and our target is to reduce this 
average per employee over the long-term. The Group’s 
consumption of natural resources, although relatively minor, 
is significantly impacted by ambient weather conditions 
beyond our control and by the buildings we lease.
Greenhouse Gases
Our independent external advisor, Trucost, has calculated 
the tables below based on the data we have provided to 
them. Following the change of accounting reference date 
at the previous year end, the figures are reported for the 12 
months to 31 December for 2010 and for the 12 months to 
29 February 2012.
We report on our waste production and greenhouse gas 
emissions aligning with the 2006 Government Guidelines, 
Environmental Key Performance Indicators, Reporting 
Guidelines for UK Businesses. In respect of greenhouse 
gases, we report consumption of natural gas, vehicle fuel 
and electricity in kWh, converted to CO
2
-e following the 
protocols provided by the Department for Environment 
Food, and Rural Affairs (Defra). Emissions have been 
categorised against the Greenhouse Gas Protocol scopes of 
reporting. This information is unaudited.
One-time factors impacting on our 
carbon foot print
In August 2011 we relocated our main London office to 50 
Bedford Square, London WC1B 3DP. As part of this move we 
consolidated staff from Oxford and several sites in London 
into a single location. We have disposed of most of the old 
premises. Over future periods we expect the consolidating 
of staff into a single London site should help us to minimise 
our impact on the environment.
Prior to August 2011 during the period that 50 Bedford 
Square was being refitted, we maintained this building 
together with our other buildings and consequently 
our electricity usage, and production of carbon dioxide, 
has been higher for the year to 29 February 2012 than is 
expected for future periods.
In July 2011 we acquired The Continuum International 
Publishing Group Limited bringing a significant increase 
of head count and several additional premises in the US 
and UK. The staff based at these premises have or are 
being consolidated into Bloomsbury premises and whilst 
this process is being completed we will maintain two office 
places for the staff involved.
Scope 1 Direct Impacts
Greenhouse 
Gases
Definition Data Source and Calculation 
Methods
Quantity
Absolute Tonnes 
CO
2
-e
Normalised Tonnes 
CO
2
-e Per £m 
Turnover
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
Building 
Operations
Emissions from 
natural gas 
consumption in 
utility boilers
Yearly consumption in kWh collected 
from fuel bills, converted according 
to Defra Guidelines for the London 
office. Data scaled up by number of 
employees to estimate emissions for 
operations in the rest of the UK, US, 
and Germany.
89 69 0.99 0.66
Company  
Cars
Emissions from 
petrol consumption
Yearly consumption in litres 
calculated from fuel bills. Converted 
according to Defra Guidelines. 
Estimated for Australia based on last 
year’s figure. Scaled up Germany’s 
fuel use to a year.
42 45 0.46 0.42
Total Scope 1 131 113 1.45 1.08
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 39
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Scope 2 Supply Chain Impacts (Purchased Electricity)
Greenhouse 
Gases
Definition Data Source and Calculation 
Methods
Quantity
Absolute Tonnes  
CO
2
-e
Normalised Tonnes 
CO
2
-e 
Per £m Turnover
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
Electricity Use  Directly purchased 
electricity, 
which generates 
Greenhouse Gases 
including CO
2
-e 
emissions
Yearly consumption of directly 
purchased electricity in kWh collected 
for the London office and German 
offices. Data scaled up by number of 
employees to estimate emissions for 
operations in the rest of the UK and US. 
KWhs converted according to Defra 
and national emission factor values.
255
687 2.81 6.55
Waste
Below we report our waste disposal by method of disposal in metric tonnes per annum and normalised to turnover. 
Waste Definition Data Source and Calculation 
Methods
Quantity
Absolute Tonnes Normalised Tonnes 
Per £m Turnover
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
Landfill  General office waste 
(which includes a 
mixture of paper, 
card, wood, plastics 
and metals) sent to 
landfill sites
Volume of waste generated per 
annum in Australia and the London 
offices. Data scaled to estimate volume 
for operations in the rest of the UK, US, 
and Germany.
54.4
71.6 0.60 0.68
Recycled General office waste 
sent to recycling 
facilities
Volume of waste generated per 
annum as calculated by waste hauler 
from Australia and the London office. 
Data scaled to estimate volume for 
operations in the rest of the UK, US and 
Germany.
38.0
55.8 0.42 0.53 40
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Water consumption
Water Definition Data Source and Calculation 
Methods
Quantity
Absolute Cubic 
Metres
Normalised Cubic 
Metres
Per £m Turnover
12 months to 12 months to 
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
31 Dec
2010
29 Feb
2012
Water 
consumption  
Directly purchased 
water
Yearly volume of water purchased, 
calculated from Germany and partial 
dataset of London office bills. Data 
scaled up by number of employees to 
estimate consumption for operations 
in the rest of the UK, US and Australia.
4,040 4,035 44.60 38.43
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Executive Directors
Nigel Newton 
Founder and Chief Executive
Nigel Newton was born and raised in San Francisco and is a dual 
citizen of the US and UK. He read English at Cambridge. After 
working at Macmillan Publishers, he joined Sidgwick & Jackson. 
He left Sidgwick in 1986 to start Bloomsbury. Bloomsbury 
floated on The London Stock Exchange in 1994 and has grown 
organically and through strategic acquisitions and partnerships. 
Bloomsbury publishes over 1,000 books a year from its offices 
in the UK, USA and Australia. Bloomsbury authors include JK 
Rowling, David Guterson, Margaret Atwood, Daniel Goleman, 
Ben McIntyre, Kate Summerscale, Elizabeth Gilbert, Heston 
Blumenthal, Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall, Howard Jacobson, 
Madeline Miller and Khaled Hosseini. 
Nigel Newton serves as Chairman of the British Library 
Trust, President of Book Aid International, Chairman of the 
Charleston Trust, Member of the Man Booker Prize Advisory 
Committee, Trustee of the International Institute for Strategic 
Studies, past Chair of World Book Day (2006), past member 
of the Publishers Association Council, Board Member of the 
Churchill Centre, Member of the Visiting Committees of 
Cambridge University Library and Qatar University Library, 
and Chairman of Rescue The Cuckmere Valley.
Wendy Pallot 
Finance Director
Wendy Pallot is a graduate Chartered Accountant who qualified 
with Coopers & Lybrand with whom she spent eight years. She 
was Group Finance Director for GCap Media plc, the UK’s leading 
commercial radio operator which was listed on the UK Main 
Market, from 2005 until its sale in 2008. She was Group Finance 
Director of GWR Group plc, a leading UK listed radio operator, 
from 2001 until its merger with Capital Radio plc in 2005 to form 
GCap Media plc. Wendy Pallot is the Chairman and one of the 
co-founding Directors of a company operating a number of local 
radio stations. She is also a Governor of the Central School of Ballet.
Richard Charkin 
Executive Director
Richard Charkin joined the Bloomsbury Board as an Executive 
Director in October 2007. He read Science at Cambridge and 
began his career in 1972 as Science Editor of Harrap & Co. He has 
since held senior roles at Pergamon Press, Oxford University Press, 
Reed International/Reed Elsevier, Current Science Group and 
has been Chief Executive Officer of Macmillan Publishers Limited 
and Executive Director of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck. 
His other publishing interests include being Chairman of the 
International Advisory Board of Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation 
Journals in Doha, Non-Executive Director of the Institute of Physics 
Publishing, a member of the UK Literary Heritage Committee, 
Visiting Professor at the University of the Arts London, Director 
of the Federation of European Publishers and the International 
Publishers Association. He was President of the Publishers 
Association and a non-executive director of Melbourne University 
Publishing. He has an MA in Natural Sciences from Trinity College, 
Cambridge; was a Supernumerary Fellow of Green College, 
Oxford; and attended the Advanced Management Program at the 
Harvard Business School.
Non-Executive Directors
Jeremy Wilson 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Jeremy Wilson joined the Bloomsbury Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in November 2005 and was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman on 27 September 2007. He is also Vice Chairman of 
Barclays Corporate, Barclays Bank PLC. He joined Barclays in 1972. 
During his career at Barclays, Mr Wilson has held a variety of senior 
management positions, both in the UK and abroad, and has been 
responsible for major corporate and institutional client business. 
He is Chairman of CHAPS Co, Chairman of BAFT-IFSA, the global 
commercial banking industry body, Chairman of the Banking 
Environment Initiative, a Director of TheCityUK, and is responsible 
for a number of other Financial Service and industry initiatives 
within the UK and globally.
Ian Cormack
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Senior Independent Director 
Chair of the Audit Committee
Ian Cormack joined the Bloomsbury Board on 1 January 2011, is the 
Senior Independent Director and is Chair of the Audit Committee 
and member with recent and relevant financial experience. He has 
had a successful City career in leading international and UK roles 
at AIG, Citigroup and Citibank, where he spent over thirty years. 
A former member of the Chancellor’s City Advisory Panel, he has 
served on committees for the London Stock Exchange, CHAPS, 
APACS, the European Securities Forum, Cedel and the Bank of 
England and has been an independent non-executive director of 
the board of the Qatar Financial Centre. He is currently Chairman 
of Maven Income & Company VCT4 plc and a Director of several 
other organisations including Phoenix Group Holdings, Aspen 
Bermuda, and National Angels Ltd. Ian Cormack is also an active 
member of the Development Council for the National Theatre and 
the Campaign Committee of Pembroke College, Oxford.
Sarah Jane Thomson 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Sarah Jane Thomson joined the Bloomsbury Board in May 2010. 
She founded Ebiquity Plc in 1997 (formerly Thomson Intermedia 
Plc), a media information business using internet and technology 
to capture and deliver real-time advertising creatives and 
expenditure data for businesses. The company was floated on 
AIM in 2000 and she remains on the Board. In 2006, she founded 
First News, the weekly newspaper for children which has become 
the most widely read children’s publication in the UK and she 
continues to be actively involved in driving the business forward. 
Her other roles include: founder of Priority One, an IT outsourcing 
business serving medium size businesses in Central London, and 
joint CEO of AddictivePoints, a newly launching social reward and 
loyalty solution for brands. Her previous roles include: Head of 
Information at Valin Pollen (Public Relations Consultancy) and 
Sales & Marketing Director at Mintel (Global Consumer, Product 
and Market Research).
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 42
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Membership of Board Subcommittees
Committee Members Date appointed Date resigned
Board Jeremy Wilson Chairman of the Board 24 November 2005 –
Nigel Newton Chief Executive 31 January 1986 –
Ian Cormack Senior Independent Director 1 January 2011 –
Sarah Jane Thomson Independent Director 28 May 2010 –
Richard Charkin Executive Director 1 October 2007 –
Wendy Pallot Finance Director 8 April 2011 –
Colin Adams – 29 April 1994 8 April 2011
Audit Committee Ian Cormack Chair of the Committee 1 January 2011
Sarah Jane Thomson
Remuneration 
Committee Sarah Jane Thomson Chair of the Committee 28 May 2010
Jeremy Wilson
Ian Cormack
Nomination 
Committee Nigel Newton Chair of the Committee 20 September 2004
Jeremy Wilson
Ian Cormack
Sarah Jane Thomson
Group Company Secretary
Michael Daykin is a graduate Chartered Company Secretary (FCIS) and Chartered Accountant (FCA) and joined as 
company secretary in February 2011. He has held Group Company Secretary and senior roles in a number of UK Main 
Market listed companies.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 43
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
T
he Directors present their report and the audited 
financial statements for the Group for the year 
ended 29 February 2012. Bloomsbury Publishing 
Plc is a company incorporated in England and 
Wales, company number 01984336, with its principal place of 
business and registered office at 50 Bedford Square, London 
WC1B 3DP. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc is a listed company 
subject to the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act, the Company is required to produce a fair view of 
the business, including a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Company. This is set out in 
the Overview, the Business Review and the Governance 
sections on pages 1 to 70, which provide information about 
the Group, all of which are incorporated into this Directors’ 
Report by reference.
Corporate Responsibility
A summary of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
activities is contained on pages 35 to 40, which forms part of 
the Directors’ Report.
Corporate Governance
The Group’s report relating to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code disclosures is contained on pages 50 to 56 and forms 
part of the Directors’ Report.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the publication 
of books, the development of electronic information 
products and reference databases, the provision of 
managed services and related activities.
Overseas activities
The Group has overseas subsidiaries that are based and 
operate in Australia and North America. During the year the 
Group also had an overseas subsidiary based and operated 
in Germany which was disposed of on 28 February 2012. 
These subsidiaries generally allow locally employed teams to 
deliver services locally to authors and customers. The Group 
has UK based sales, marketing and editorial people who 
are involved in business development and travel to various 
countries worldwide.
Results
The Key Performance Indicators for the Group include 
Adjusted Profit, Revenue and Profit Before Tax which are set 
out in the Financial Review on pages 23 to 30. Profit after tax 
for the Group’s continuing and discontinued operations 
for the year was £3.4m (14 months ended 28 February 2011: 
£2.2m). 
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.31p (2011: 0.28p) per share payable on 25 September 2012 to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 31 August 2012. The dividends paid and proposed by the Company for the year 
ended 29 February 2012 and for the 14 month period ended 28 February 2011 are as follows:
Dividend
Dividend 
per share Total dividend
Record 
date
Paid/
payable date
2012 Final (proposed) 4.31p £3.1m 31 August 2012 25 September 2012
2012 Interim 0.89p £0.7m 4 November 2011 30 November 2011
Total 5.20p£3.8m
2011 Final 0.28 £0.2m 26 August 2011 27 September 2011
2011 2nd Interim 3.91 £2.8m 3 May 2011 1 June 2011
2011 1st Interim 0.81 £0.6m 22 October 2010 19 November 2010
Total 5.00p £3.6m
  44
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors
The names of the Directors as at the date of this report, 
together with biographical details, are set out on pages 41 and 
42, which forms part of the Directors’ Report. The Directors 
serving on the Board of the Company during the year were as 
follows:
Date 
appointed
Date 
resigned
Executive Directors
Nigel Newton – –
Richard Charkin – –
Wendy Pallot 8 April 2011 –
Colin Adams – 8 April 2011
Chairman and Independent 
Non-Executive Directors 
Jeremy Wilson – –
Ian Cormack – –
Sarah Jane Thomson – –
 
Details of Directors’ service contracts and Directors’ 
interests in shares and options are shown in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 70. Other than as 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, none 
of the Directors held any interest, either during or at the 
end of the financial year ending 29 February 2012, in any 
material contract or arrangement with the Company or 
any subsidiary undertaking. 
Company policy is to appoint Directors to the Board on 
the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 
This may be as part of the progressive refreshing of the 
Board, to reappoint a Director retiring by rotation, to fill a 
vacancy arising as a result of a retiring Director or as part of 
measures taken to enhance the skills, experience, capability 
and balance of the Board.
The effect of the Company’s Articles of Association is to 
require that at least approximately one third of Directors 
who have remained in office for the longest period since 
being elected or re-elected and any Director who did not 
stand for re-election in either of the two proceeding AGMs 
must retire by rotation. The Articles also require that new 
Directors appointed by the Board must offer themselves 
for re-election at the next AGM. Accordingly, Richard 
Charkin and Sarah Jane Thomson retire by rotation at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Both these Directors, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. The 
Chairman on behalf of the Board confirms that each of the 
Directors proposed for re-election at the AGM continues 
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment 
to the role (including commitment of time for Board and 
committee meetings and any other duties).
The terms of termination of the Directors’ contracts are 
described in the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out 
in pages 57 to 70 which includes details of any agreements 
by which the Company would pay compensation to its 
Directors for loss of office, for loss of employment or would 
make payments in respect of a change of control of the 
Company.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, 
Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to 
the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred 
as a result of their office. The Group maintained insurance 
throughout the year for its Directors and officers against 
the consequences of actions brought against them in 
relation to their duties for the Group.
Charitable and political donations
The Group made charitable donations of £15,000 in respect 
of the year (14 months ended 28 February 2011: £10, 000). 
Details of the non-cash support given by the charitable and 
voluntary activities of the Company are as set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility section on pages 35 to 40. 
No political donations were made by the Group during the 
year or in the previous period.
Payment policy for suppliers
It is the Company’s policy that payments to suppliers are 
made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed 
between the Company and its suppliers, provided that 
all trading terms and conditions have been complied 
with. The same policy is adopted for the subsidiaries of the 
Company. 
At 29 February 2012 the number of days’ credit taken for 
purchases by the Group was 82 days (28 February 2011: 55 
days). The year on year difference is due to the timing of 
the purchase of inventory to set up the Australian business 
during the previous period.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 45
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
Financial instruments
Treasury activities are controlled and monitored by the 
Finance Director and are carried out in accordance with 
policies approved by the Board. The Finance Director has 
delegated authority to approve financial transactions 
within agreed frames of reference and levels of authority.
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than 
derivatives, comprise trade receivables, rights income 
receivables, trade payables, royalties payable, leases, 
cash and short term deposits. The purpose of the policies 
summarised below is to ensure that adequate cost effective 
funding is available to the Group and exposure to financial 
risk – interest rate, credit, liquidity and currency risk – is 
minimised. Group policy permits the use of derivative 
instruments but only for reducing exposures arising 
from underlying business activity and not for speculative 
purposes. 
Derivatives including foreign exchange forward contracts 
have not been used during the year. Derivatives and 
financial instruments are only entered into when there is a 
commercial justification and with counterparties which fulfil 
predetermined credit criteria.
a) Interest rate risk
The Group policy is to continuously monitor the rates of 
interest available on cash deposits and to place deposits at 
the best available rate using only low risk high grade bank 
deposit facilities.
b) Credit risk
Authorised credit limits are set for new corporate customers 
based on an assessment of credit worthiness and on 
reports from third party credit checking agencies where 
appropriate. 
c) Liquidity risks
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between 
continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of its 
own resources, cash balances, an overdraft and revolving 
credit facility and leases. The policy is to ensure that the 
Group has adequate committed bank facilities available.
d) Currency risks
The receipts and payments of overseas trading operations 
are largely in their local currency and therefore only 
material transactions would be hedged. The Group is 
subject to currency exposure on the translation of the 
profits and net assets of overseas subsidiaries. It is policy 
not to hedge exposures arising from profit and net asset 
translation on consolidating overseas subsidiaries as these 
are not material to the Group; the Board keeps this policy 
under review. The main foreign currencies in which the 
Group operates are the Euro, the US Dollar and Australian 
Dollar.
Share capital and rights attaching to the 
Company’s shares
The share capital of the Company comprises a single class 
of ordinary 1.25p shares (“ordinary shares”). As at the date 
of this Directors’ Report, there were 73,844,724 fully paid 
issued shares, all listed on the London Stock Exchange, with 
a further 24,614,880 ordinary shares that the Directors are 
authorised to issue. Details of the issued share capital of the 
Company can be found in note 20 together with details of 
the shares issued and cancelled during the year.
No ordinary shares carry special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. At a general meeting of the 
Company every member has one vote on a show of hands 
and on a poll one vote for each share held. The notice of 
general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting 
rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at a general meeting. 
Under the Articles of Association, any share in the Company 
may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in 
regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as 
the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution 
determine (or, in the absence of any such determination, as 
the Directors may determine).
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, 
entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a 
general meeting or to exercise any other rights conferred 
by being a shareholder if he or she or any person with an 
interest in shares has been sent a notice under Section 793 
of the Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public 
companies the power to require information with respect 
to interests in their voting shares) and he or she or any 
interested person failed to supply the Company with the 
information requested within 14 days after delivery of that 
notice. The Board may also decide to apply to the court 
for an order under section 794 of the Companies Act 2006 
so that no dividend is payable in respect of those default 
shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be 
registered. These restrictions end seven days after receipt 
by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of 
the shares or all the information required by the relevant 
Section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.  46
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer which is 
not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be 
exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority 
regards as preventing dealing in the shares of that class 
from taking place on an open proper basis. The Directors 
may likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour of more 
than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions in the 
transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than 
certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); 
and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority whereby certain employees of the Group require 
approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of the securities or voting rights.
Share dilution
The Company adheres to “ABI Principles of Remuneration” 
issued 29 September 2011 by the Association Of British 
Insurers in respect of dilution limits. In particular:
 ✶ The rules of the Company’s LTIP scheme ensure that 
commitments to issue new shares or re-issue treasury 
shares, when aggregated with awards under all of 
the Company’s other schemes, do not exceed 10% of 
the issued ordinary share capital (adjusted for share 
issuance and cancellation) in any rolling 10 year period.
 ✶ The Remuneration Committee ensures that appropriate 
policies regarding flow-rates exist in order to spread 
the potential issue of new shares over the life of relevant 
schemes so that the limit is not breached.
 ✶ Commitments to issue new shares or re-issue treasury 
shares under executive (discretionary) schemes do not 
exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company (adjusted for share issuance and cancellation) 
in any rolling 10 year period. The implicit dilution 
commitment is provided for at point of grant even 
where, as in the case of share-settled share appreciation 
rights, it is recognised that only a proportion of shares 
may in practice be used.
As set out below in this report, the Bloomsbury Employee 
Benefit Trust purchases shares in the market to be used for 
satisfying LTIP awards and other employee share options 
that vest.
Authorities to purchase shares, to allot shares  
and pre-emption rights
Notice of the 2012 Annual General Meeting and explanatory 
foreword to the meeting on pages 138 to 144 form part of 
the Directors’ Report and set out:
 ✶ an ordinary resolution renewing the authority for 
the Directors to allot shares under Section 551 of the 
Companies Act;
 ✶ a special resolution renewing the authority given to the 
Directors to disapply statutory pre-emption rights under 
Section 571 of that Act to allow shares to be issued for 
cash or treasury shares to be sold for cash on a non-pre-
emptive basis; and
 ✶ a special resolution renewing the authority given to the 
Directors to purchase the Company’s own shares on the 
stock market.
Employee Benefit Trust
Throughout the year to 29 February 2012, Ogier Employee 
Benefit Trustee Limited (“Trustee”) acted as the trustee of 
the Bloomsbury Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”). As at 
29 February 2012 the EBT held 1,600,610 ordinary shares of 
1.25 pence in the Company being approximately 2.2% of 
the issued ordinary share capital. The EBT did not make any 
purchases of shares in the Company between 29 February 
2012 and the signing of this report. The Trustee may vote on 
shares held by the EBT at its discretion, but waives its right to 
a dividend.
The Trust made the following share purchases during year:
Date of transaction
Number of 
Ordinary shares 
of 1.25 pence 
each purchased
Price per 
share
28-Mar-11 35,000 £1.27
31-Mar-11 615,000 £1.31
04-Apr-11 10,000 £1.31
05-Apr-11 185,000 £1.32
06-Apr-11 27,500 £1.31
07-Apr-11 639,350 £1.32
 
Share purchases
During the year the Company made no purchases of its 
own shares. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 47
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
Substantial Shareholdings
As at 15 June 2012, substantial shareholdings of 3% or more of the shares in the Company notified to the Company prior to 
signing of this report or per the share register as at 31 May 2012 (being the latest practical dates) are set out below:
Ordinary 
shares 
Number
% issued 
share
[1]
Managed funds
Schroder Investment Management 10,453,482 14 
BlackRock, Inc 8,813,137 12 
Capital Research & Management 5,405,000 7 
Liontrust Asset Management 5,211,561 7 
Aberdeen Asset Management 5,208,940 7 
Standard Life Investments 3,793,837 5 
Charles Stanley, stockbrokers 2,783,008 4 
Legal & General Investment Management 2,778,325 4
 
[1]
 Based on 73,844,724 issued shares. 
Changes of control
The Group has established close relationships over a long 
period within the publishing markets in which it operates. 
It relies heavily on its goodwill and reputation and in 
particular on its reputation as an autonomous independent 
publisher with authors, customers and key employees that 
could be affected by a change of control. 
The Company’s share incentive schemes contain provisions 
relating to a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover bid (see note 21 for further details of the share 
incentive schemes). Under these provisions, a change of 
control of the Company would normally be a vesting event, 
facilitating the exercise of awards, typically subject to the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee. 
Contracts and arrangements essential to the 
business
The Group has a diverse base of authors, customers 
and general suppliers so that its dependency on any 
one individual author, customer or supplier is reduced. 
Primarily for printed books, the Group develops longer 
term relationships with a reduced number of business 
partners, printers and distributors to maximise process 
efficiencies and economies of scale. Failure of a main 
supplier could disrupt the supply of books to market 
or result in increased cost of working whilst alternative 
arrangements are made.
The Group depends on its reputation as there is a tendency 
for its authors and customers to behave collectively in the 
selection of their publishing service provider.
Future developments
The Group intends to continue to develop its range 
of publishing businesses and other services. Although 
the primary focus of the Group is on organic growth, 
acquisitions in these areas of business will be considered.
Going Concern
After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated and 
Company financial statements in accordance with Going 
Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2009. Further going concern disclosure 
is given in the financial statements as noted in the Basis of 
Preparation section of the Accounting Policies on page 78. 48
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Cautionary Statement
Under s417 of the Companies Act 2006, a company’s 
Directors’ Report is required, among other matters, 
to contain a fair review by the Directors of the Group’s 
business through a balanced and comprehensive analysis 
of the development and performance of the business of 
the Group and the position of the Group at the period end, 
consistent with the size and complexity of the business. The 
Directors’ Report together with all sections incorporated 
into it by reference has been prepared only for the 
shareholders of the Company. Its sole purpose and use is 
to assist shareholders to exercise their governance rights. 
In particular, the Directors’ Report has not been audited 
or otherwise independently verified. The Company and its 
Directors and employees are not responsible for any other 
purpose or use or to any other person in relation to the 
Directors’ Report.
The Directors’ Report contains indications of likely future 
developments and other forward looking statements 
that are subject to risk factors associated with, among 
other things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the sectors, countries and 
business divisions in which the Group operates. These 
factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed 
under Risk Factors on pages 31 to 34. These and other 
factors could adversely affect the Group’s results, strategy 
and prospects. Forward looking statements involve risks, 
uncertainties and assumptions. They relate to events and/
or depend on circumstances in the future which could 
cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from 
those currently anticipated. No obligation is assumed to 
update any forward looking statements, whether as a result 
of new information, future events or otherwise.
Auditor
a) Reappointment of the Auditor
A resolution to reappoint Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as auditor 
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting.
b) Statement as to Disclosure of Information 
to the Auditor
The Directors who were in office on the date of approval 
of these financial statements have confirmed that, as far 
as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the auditor is unaware. Each of the Directors 
have confirmed that they have taken all the steps that 
they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that it has been communicated to the auditor.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ 
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the separate 
Corporate Governance statement and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Company financial statements for each financial period. 
The Directors are required under the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority to prepare Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)  as adopted by the European 
Union (“EU”) and have elected under company law to 
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS 
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position 
of the Group and the Company and the financial 
performance of the Group. The Companies Act 2006 
provides in relation to such financial statements that 
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial 
statements giving a true and fair view are references to 
their achieving a fair presentation.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that 
period. 
 
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
a.  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
b.  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
c.  state whether they have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs adopted by the EU;
d.  prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the Company will continue in business;
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 49
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Group’s and the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Group and the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 
in the Directors’ Report confirms that, to the best of their 
knowledge:
a.  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the EU give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
b.  the Directors’ Report contained in the Annual 
Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position 
of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website, www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the 2012 Annual General Meeting of 
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc is set in pages 141 to 144. An 
explanation of the resolutions to be put to shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2012 is set out on 
pages 138 to 140 which forms part of this Directors Report.
By order of the Board
Michael Daykin
Company Secretary
15 June 2012 50
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
T
he Company’s compliance throughout the year 
with the main principles of The UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2010 in addition to the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority is set 
out below. The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 is also 
published on the Financial Reporting Council’s website 
(www.frc.org.uk).
Confirmation of Compliance with the Code
The Board confirms that it has applied the principles and 
complied fully with all provisions of the Code in respect of 
the year ended 29 February 2012 except for provisions:
 ✶ B.2.1 which requires that the Chairman of the Board or 
an independent non-executive Director should chair 
the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee 
is formed of two independent non-executive directors, 
the Chairman of the Board, and the Chief Executive who 
continued to chair the Committee. The Board considers 
that provision B.2.1 is complied with fully in all other 
respects and that the principle B.2 is applied effectively 
in that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to 
the Board. The Company has a balanced board of 
independent and executive directors. The Committee 
engages external recruitment consultants and two 
independent non-executive Directors were appointed 
during the period ended 28 February 2011. Directors are 
appointed to the Board on merit and one third of the 
Board are women.
 ✶ B.2.3 which requires that non-executive directors should 
be appointed for a specified period. The current letter 
of appointment of Jeremy Wilson dated 31 October 
2007 does not specify a fixed date before requiring 
the renewal of his appointment and instead specifies 
a fixed notice period of 3 months by either party. The 
Board considers that provision B.2.3 has been complied 
with fully in all other respects and that principle B.2 is 
applied effectively in that all Directors are submitted 
for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued 
satisfactory performance. Further, the Board ensures 
there is planned and progressive refreshing of the 
Board.
Board
The Directors are responsible to the shareholders for 
ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed 
and that it achieves its objectives. The Board comprises 
the independent non-executive Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director, a further independent non-
executive director, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director 
and a further executive director. The biographies of the 
Directors appears on pages 41 and 42.
The Board met for seven main Board meetings during 
the year with an additional three meetings called during 
the year for the Board to consider specific matters. Board 
meetings included reviewing the Company’s strategic 
direction, operating and financial performance and 
overseeing that the Company is adequately resourced and 
effectively controlled. 
The Board has approved the matters specifically reserved 
for consideration by the Board. The Board determines 
the responsibilities and authority of its sub-committees, 
individual Directors and the level of authorities delegated 
to the management of the business. 
The Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee have terms of reference 
approved by the Board that can be found on the 
Company’s website, www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk. Matters 
considered at Board meetings during the year have 
typically included:
 ✶ Review and setting of strategy for the Company’s 
operations.
 ✶ Review of the management accounts, key performance 
indicators and full year forecasts produced quarterly.
 ✶ Approval of the annual and interim results and Interim 
Management Statements.
 ✶ Review and approval of annual budgets.
 ✶ Regular reports by the Chief Executive, proposals and 
updates on developing business operations, significant 
investments, major initiatives, other organisational 
changes and health and safety.
 ✶ Reports of the Chairs of sub-committees and minutes 
following sub-committee meetings.
 ✶ Review and approval of decisions, transactions and 
sensitive policies that are significant to the Company 
such as dividends, the organisational, legal and capital 
structure of the Company, acquisitions of literary titles, 
businesses and companies, and major contracts. 
 ✶ Risk management and review of the risks of the 
Company.
 ✶ Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board including 
the appropriateness of the terms of reference of sub-
committees.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head 
of the Company, with the Chairman responsible for the 
effective operation of the Board, encouraging the active 
participation of all Directors, and the Chief Executive 
responsible for the strategic running of the Company’s 
businesses. The Board has approved formal statements  51
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
describing the role and remit of both the Chairman and 
Chief Executive, which further emphasise this division of 
responsibilities. The executive directors regularly hold 
formal meetings with senior managers as a management 
team to assist the Chief Executive in fulfilling his 
operational objectives. This management team makes 
recommendations to the Board and seeks approval from 
the Board where required. The non-executive directors 
constructively challenge and help develop proposals on 
strategy at meetings specifically set up for the purpose, 
which are attended by all Board members.
All Directors and Board sub-committees have access 
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, 
who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and advising the Board, through the 
Chairman, on governance matters. They also have access 
to independent professional advice, if required, at the 
Company’s expense.
The Chairman has held meetings with the non-executive 
Directors without the executives present to discuss relevant 
matters.
Director independence
The Board considers each of the three non-executive 
directors, including the non-executive Chairman, to be 
independent in character and judgement and does not 
consider that there are any relationships or circumstances 
which affect, or could appear to affect, their independent 
judgement. 
During the year Ian Cormack was an independent 
non-executive director of the Authority Board of Qatar 
Financial Centre (QFC) to whom Bloomsbury’s Information 
publishing division supplies publishing support services 
which provides a minor source of revenue to the 
Bloomsbury Group. He does not have any executive 
responsibilities for the management of either the Qatar 
Financial Centre or Bloomsbury. The Bloomsbury Board 
and the QFC Board have satisfied themselves that this 
relationship does not affect Mr Cormack’s independent 
judgement in either his role with Bloomsbury or with QFC. 
Following the Company’s financial year end Ian Cormack’s 
period as an independent non executive director to the 
QFC Authority Board was completed and he stepped down 
from the QFC Board through rotation.
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two 
independent non-executive directors and Chairman of 
the Board and is chaired by Sarah Jane Thomson. The 
Committee met five times during the year.
The Committee formulates and recommends to the Board 
the policy for the remuneration of the executive directors 
including the Chief Executive, Chairman of the Board and 
senior executives designated by the Board. It approves the 
design of, and determines the targets for, reward schemes 
for the executive directors. The remuneration of the non-
executive directors is determined jointly by the Chairman and 
the executive directors and the remuneration of the Chairman 
is determined by the Directors excluding the Chairman. The 
Committee is supported by remuneration consultants New 
Bridge Street who work exclusively for the Committee and 
have no other commercial connection with the Company. A 
statement to this effect is included on the Company’s website, 
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk.
The Committee ensures that the contractual terms and 
payments upon the termination of Directors’ services are 
fair and do not reward failure, and that the duty to mitigate 
loss is fully recognised. It approves the design of employee 
share incentive plans, the grant of share incentive awards 
and options to employees and determines whether the 
performance criteria have been met for the vesting 
of awards and options. The Committee monitors the 
remuneration trends for employees generally across 
the Company and oversees major changes in employee 
benefits structures. 
During the year there were no new long-term incentive 
schemes (as defined in the Listing Rules) or significant 
changes to existing schemes. However, the Board would 
invite shareholders to specially approve new long term 
incentive schemes and significant changes to existing 
schemes.
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises two independent non-
executive directors, namely Ian Cormack and Sarah Jane 
Thomson. The Chair of the Committee is Ian Cormack. The 
Committee met on three occasions during the year. The 
Board is satisfied that the experience of Ian Cormack is 
sufficient for him to meet the experience and qualification 
requirements to be a member of the Audit Committee with 
recent and relevant financial experience under the Code 
and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules. 52
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on 
the Company’s website, www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk, and 
set out the role and authority of the Committee. Duties 
and matters reserved for the Committee include oversight 
of the relationship and process with the external auditor; 
review of significant financial information, including 
assumptions, judgements of management and critical 
accounting policies, to be published externally; reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Company’s systems of internal 
control and risk management; and recommending to the 
Board changes to the Committee’s terms of reference.
During the year, the Committee has reviewed the interim 
and annual results and Interim Management Statements 
to ensure that they present a fair assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects before approval 
by the Board. The Committee approves all significant 
changes in accounting policies. It has reviewed the 
Company’s statement on internal control systems prior to 
endorsement by the Board and has reviewed the policies 
and processes for identifying, assessing and managing 
business risks.
The Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the external 
auditor and oversees their appointment, reappointment 
and fees, ensuring these are adequate for the work they 
are required to undertake. The Committee monitors the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditor, 
ensuring that key audit partners are rotated at appropriate 
intervals. The Committee reviews the level of non-audit 
fees relative to audit fees and has approved a formal policy 
on the provision of non-audit services to safeguard the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors. The 
policy prohibits the external auditor from being engaged 
on work where their independence could be threatened 
and requires the pre-approval by the Committee of other 
non-audit services where the fees of the external auditor 
would exceed £5,000. Further safeguards are employed 
such as audit and non-audit work being performed by 
different teams from the external auditor.
The Committee reviews the plans, findings and 
recommendations of the internal auditor, and 
management’s responses to internal audit 
recommendations. It ensures that the internal audit 
function is adequately resourced in light of the system of 
risk management and has appropriate standing within the 
Company. The Committee evaluates the effectiveness of 
the internal auditor and approves the appointment and 
removal of the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee typically invites the external auditor, 
internal auditor, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, 
Finance Director and Executive Director to attend 
meetings. It meets at least once in respect of each 
reporting period and a standard item on the agenda for 
every meeting is a meeting with the external auditor alone 
without management present.
The Committee formally reviews the whistle-blowing 
arrangements of the Company by which staff may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 
in matters of financial reporting or other matters at 
least annually. The Committee’s objective is to ensure 
that arrangements are in place for the proportionate 
and independent investigation of such matters and for 
appropriate follow-up action.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee comprises three independent 
Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, and the 
Chief Executive who chairs the Committee. The Committee 
met once during the year.
The Committee operates under terms of reference agreed 
by the whole Board, and which are available on the 
Company’s website. Its role is to review the composition of 
the Board, consider succession planning and nominate to 
the Board, for approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies. 
The Committee determines the Directors who should stand 
for re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Articles of 
Association of the Company.
The Board formally approves the appointment of all new 
Directors on the recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee. 
Board appointment process
The Board adopts a formal and rigorous approach to the 
appointment of Directors. The following outlines the typical 
board appointment process:
 ✶ the need to appoint a new Director is identified by an 
existing Board member’s intention to retire or by the 
monitoring by the Committee of the Board’s structure, 
balance, succession planning and need for progressive 
refreshing which takes account of the findings of the 
Board’s evaluation of the skills and capabilities of Board 
members;
 ✶ the Committee determines the recruitment process;
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 53
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
 ✶ the Committee considers the strengths and weaknesses 
of the Board, the management team and the business to 
define the experience and capabilities required for the 
new appointment; 
 ✶ external recruitment consultants are appointed and 
briefed with the requirements for candidates; filtering 
selects a long list of the highest calibre candidates; 
standard interviews are conducted on the long list by 
two Directors sitting together supported by the external 
recruitment consultant; and a short list of candidates is 
recommended to the Committee. The recommended 
candidates are supported by further detailed 
background research to confirm their suitability which 
includes detailed references taken up by the Company;
 ✶ the Committee considers whether a suitable high calibre 
candidate can be selected and, if so, recommends a 
single candidate to the Board.
The Chairman ensures that new Directors receive a full, 
formal and tailored induction on joining the Board. Newly 
appointed Directors are provided with the opportunity to 
meet major shareholders as part of the investor relations 
programme of the Company.
Re-election of Directors
All Directors are subject to appointment by the 
shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their 
appointment, and reappointment thereafter at intervals 
of no more than three years. Non-executive directors are 
appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to 
reappointment and a notice period by the Company or 
the Director (notice periods are set out in the directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 70). A policy is 
followed of progressive refreshing of the Board and the 
independent non-executive directors can be expected to 
retire from the Board no later than during the third three 
year period or earlier if appropriate.
Board and Committee attendance
The table below shows the attendance at Board and sub-committee meetings during the year ended 29 February 2012. 
Further meetings of the Directors in addition to the figures included in the table below were convened during the year to 
consider specific issues:
Board Remuneration Audit Nomination
Total number of meetings during the year 7 5 3 1
Executive Directors
Nigel Newton (Chief Executive) 6 2
[1]
2
[1]
1
Richard Charkin 7 – 3
[1]
–
Wendy Pallot 7 1
[1]
3
[1]
–
Non-Executive Directors
Jeremy Wilson (Chairman of the Board) 7 5 3
[1]
1
Sarah Jane Thomson 7 5 3 1
Ian Cormack 7 5 3 1
  
1
 Not a member of the subcommittee. Attended subcommittee meetings as a guest of the Chair of the committee. 54
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Performance evaluation
The performance of the Board, and of each individual 
Director, is evaluated annually through assessment 
questionnaires completed anonymously by Directors 
and one-to-one interviews with the Chairman. Upon 
completing interviews, the Chairman makes a formal 
report to the Board on the findings with recommendations 
for actions to be implemented by the Board, individual 
Directors, the Company Secretary and senior management 
in the business. Where needed the Chairman holds 
confidential follow up meetings with individual Directors to 
address concerns they have raised or to address concerns 
raised about them by other Directors .
The performance evaluation of the Chairman is performed 
by the other non-executive directors and is led by the 
Senior Independent Director. The evaluation is undertaken 
using assessment questionnaires and one-to-one interview 
with the Senior Independent Director who takes into 
account the confidential views of the other Directors.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director update the 
Board on their findings, conclusions and recommendations 
for approval and implementation by the Board. 
The performance of the Board sub-committees is evaluated 
annually using detailed assessment questionnaires which 
review the performance of the committees against best 
practice. The questionnaires are completed as appropriate 
by the non-executive and executive directors, the 
external auditor and Company Secretary. The Company 
Secretary collates a report of anonymous responses to 
questionnaires from which recommended improvements 
to committee processes are agreed by the committees and 
the Board. Each sub-committee considers its own terms of 
reference at least annually and, if considered necessary, 
recommends changes for the Board to approve.
The conclusions of the Board evaluations are considered 
by the Nomination Committee when reviewing the 
structure and composition of the Board and succession 
planning. As a result of the review of performance, the 
Chairman on behalf of the Board confirms that each of the 
Directors proposed for re-election at the AGM continues 
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment 
to the role (including commitment of time for Board and 
committee meetings and any other duties).
Training and development of the Directors 
Evaluation of the Board performance reviews whether 
the Directors have refreshed their skills and knowledge 
sufficiently and provides an opportunity for Directors to 
identify where training and development can assist them in 
the performance of their duties. Development may include, 
for example, meetings with senior managers to gain an 
improved understanding of processes and issues specific to 
the business. Directors are provided with relevant technical 
reports and updates by the external auditor, Finance 
Director and Company Secretary as part of the Board’s 
information process. 
The Board is progressively refreshed. Three Directors have 
recently retired and been replaced by new appointments 
bringing new skills and experience to the Board.
Shareholder Communications
The Annual Report, Interim Reports, Interim Management 
Statements, AGM and post results announcement 
presentations are the principal means through which the 
Company communicates its strategy and performance to 
its shareholders. All shareholders are welcome to attend 
the AGM and private investors are encouraged to take 
advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions. The 
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees attend the meeting and are available to 
answer questions, as appropriate.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with its 
institutional shareholders and City analysts through a 
planned programme of investor relations. The programme 
includes formal presentations of results and post results 
meetings with the major shareholders and other investors 
who request meetings. The presentations are made 
available on the website www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk. The 
meetings and presentations provide an opportunity for 
shareholders to ask questions and to meet the executive 
directors including the Chief Executive and non-executive 
directors including the Senior Independent Director. The 
outcome of regular meetings with the main shareholders, 
presentations and post results meetings is reported to 
the Board. This includes both feedback from individual 
Directors and feedback collated from discussions by the 
Company’s corporate broker with the main shareholders. 
The Company’s corporate broker provides regular 
shareholder analysis to the Board. Feedback from 
shareholders and other members of the shareholder 
corporate governance community is used to help review 
and develop Bloomsbury’s procedures.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 55
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
At least annually, the Chairman writes to the major 
shareholders inviting them to meet to discuss governance 
and strategy and to review with them the Company’s 
performance. The Chairman has met with a number of 
shareholders during the year.
Meetings on Corporate Governance with 
Significant Shareholders 
In respect of the year the Chairman of the Board met 
with three significant shareholders of the Company 
as part of the Company’s ongoing Investor Relations 
communication approach. The Senior Independent 
Director accompanied the Chairman for two of the three 
meetings. The meetings provided shareholders with the 
opportunity to openly discuss Corporate Governance 
matters including remuneration and raise any concerns. 
Following the meetings the Chairman reported to the 
Board on the discussions held including any feedback from 
the shareholders.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Code requires the Directors to assess at least annually 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control 
which include financial, operational and compliance 
controls, and risk management. This review has been 
carried out by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board. 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, for 
setting policy on internal control, and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of internal control. The role of management 
is to implement Board policies on risk and control. The 
system of internal control is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not 
absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement 
or loss.
The Board operates both formally, through Board and 
Committee meetings, and informally, through regular 
contact amongst Directors. High level decisions on such 
matters as strategy, financial performance and reporting, 
dividends, risk management, major capital expenditure, 
acquisitions and disposals are reserved for the Board or 
Board Committees. For its regular formal meetings, the 
Board receives appropriate information in advance from 
management. Other decisions outside of these areas are 
delegated to the Company’s management, which reports 
to the executive directors.
The Board has put in place an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the Company in accordance with the guidance of 
the Turnbull Committee on internal control. This process 
has been in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of this Annual Report. The process 
is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf 
of the Board to ensure that the procedures implemented 
continue to be effective and where appropriate 
recommendations are made to management to improve 
the procedures. The Company’s system of internal financial 
control aims to safeguard the Company’s assets, ensure 
that proper accounting records are maintained, that the 
financial information used within the business and for 
publication is reliable, that business risks are identified and 
managed and that compliance with appropriate legislation 
and regulation is maintained.
Internal Control and Risk Management 
Framework
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
of the Company is the responsibility of the Finance Director 
and is overseen by the Audit Committee and the Board. 
This includes responsibility for ensuring appropriate 
internal controls are in place over financial reporting 
processes and related IT systems. The Audit Committee 
monitors the risks and associated controls over financial 
reporting processes, including the consolidation process.
Relevant features of the Company’s system of internal 
controls and risk management in relation to the financial 
reporting process and preparation of the Group financial 
statements include:
Organisational culture: The Company has a highly skilled, 
professional and committed workforce. The Board is 
committed to developing a culture of openness, integrity, 
competence and responsibility. The Board concentrates 
mainly on strategic and significant organisational issues, 
approving objectives and monitoring, at a high level, the 
financial and operational performance against objectives. 
Risk and control review: The Company maintains risk 
logs and a risk matrix supported by risk reviews by 
management and the internal auditor. The Executive 
Committee (which comprises the senior management 
team and executive directors) and Board have reviewed 
the significant risks and ensures appropriate action is 
being taken to address the risks. The Audit Committee has 
reviewed the Company’s financial risk matrix of areas that 
could impact on reporting and the Company’s financial 
and non-financial risk matrix when considering the 
financial statements. 56
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial internal control and risk review: The Finance 
Director formally reviews the internal financial controls 
taking account of the risks within the financial information 
systems and reports the findings of this review to the 
Audit Committee. Analytical review of operating results 
and detailed control questionnaires completed for the 
publishing divisions and overseas offices supplement 
management’s knowledge of the business for the 
evaluation of the risks and assessment of the internal 
financial controls. The Audit Committee also receives 
reports on the internal controls and risks provided by 
the internal auditor. The Audit Committee receives other 
reports from management relevant to the internal 
financial controls such as reports on the progress of 
key projects including the implementation of a new 
accounting and management information system.
Authority levels: The Board sets the level of authority 
required, before Board approval is needed, to commit the 
Company or to undertake transactions. It also approves 
budgets and other performance targets. Business 
publishing divisions and business functions operate within 
these authority levels and budgets and determine the 
authority to be delegated to individual managers. 
Financial management reporting: The Board approves 
annual budgets. Sales are reported daily, weekly and 
monthly. Financial results of the business operations are 
reported monthly and compared to budgets. Detailed 
forecasts for the Company are updated regularly and 
reviewed by the Board. The Finance Director approves 
author advances in the balance sheet.
Book title acquisition procedures: Established procedures, 
such as the review and approval by an executive director of 
acquisition proposals of rights to new books, are operated 
within set authority limits and used for transactions in the 
ordinary course of business such as for acquisition of books 
for future publication. Acquisitions exceeding delegated 
authority limits require approval by the Board. Significant 
acquisition of companies and businesses are approved by 
the Board.
Accountability: The Company has clearly defined lines 
of responsibility headed by the Chief Executive and 
Executive Committee to control the publishing divisions 
and business functions. Each overseas office has a local 
manager who is responsible for operational effectiveness 
and the local internal controls. Detailed operational and 
financial performance data are monitored by supervisory 
management to ensure the performance of operations 
is in line with targets. The reasons for variances and 
under performance are established by supervisory line 
management. 
Internal audit: An internal audit function conducts risk 
based audits of the processes agreed with the Audit 
Committee to review the internal controls. Its conclusions 
are communicated to senior management and the Audit 
Committee. The Audit Committee considers reports 
from external and internal audit to ensure that adequate 
measures are being taken by management to address risk 
and control issues. The internal audit function reports to 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
By order of the Board
Michael Daykin
Company Secretary
15 June 2012
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 57
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
T
his Directors’ Remuneration Report has 
been prepared on behalf of the Board by the 
Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) 
and has been approved by the Bloomsbury 
Board. As required by the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”), 
a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the 
2012 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has adopted the principles of good 
governance relating to Directors’ remuneration as set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). The 
report complies with the Act and the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority. The Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Code relating to Directors’ 
remuneration throughout the year.
The Act requires the external auditor to state whether, 
in their opinion, certain parts of this report have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the applicable 
regulations. Part A below, which is not subject to audit, sets 
out the Company’s remuneration policy. Part B, which has 
been audited, provides details of the remuneration and 
share incentives of the Directors.
PART A – UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration committee
Membership
Throughout the year ended 29 February 2012 and up until 
signing this report the Committee has comprised three 
independent non-executive directors, namely Sarah Jane 
Thomson, Ian Cormack and Jeremy Wilson. Sarah Jane 
Thomson has chaired the Committee since 28 May 2010. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Assistance to the Committee
During the year the Committee took advice from external 
remuneration consultants, principally New Bridge Street, 
who do not perform other services for the Company. 
The Committee received assistance from the Company 
Secretary and, where specifically requested by the 
Committee, the Chief Executive and Finance Director. 
Meetings were held with major shareholders during the 
year as part of Bloomsbury’s ongoing investor relations 
programme to discuss corporate governance matters 
including remuneration. The conclusions of these meetings 
have been discussed by the Committee. The Committee 
also considers the reports and recommendations of 
shareholder representative bodies and corporate 
governance analysts.
Terms of Reference
During the year the Committee reviewed its terms of 
reference as part of the Board evaluation process and 
recommended to the Board that these should be updated 
in line with model terms of reference published by the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.  
The Committee’s terms of reference are available  
on the Company’s investor relations website  
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk.
Responsibilities and activities of the Committee
The Committee determines the remuneration policy for the 
executive directors for approval by the Board. In particular, 
the Committee approves for each executive director the 
basic salaries, pensions, other benefits, bonus awards and 
the awards made under Bloomsbury’s Long Term Incentive 
Plan (see below). The Committee approves all payments of 
bonus for each executive director and the vesting of all LTIP 
awards before payments are made.
The Committee considers it is appropriate for the executive 
directors to determine the remuneration of senior 
management. In respect of employees below the level of 
the Board, the Committee approves the bonus pool from 
which bonuses are paid and approves the grant/vesting of 
all LTIP awards before payments are made.
The Committee met formally on five occasions during 
the year including two occasions without the executive 
directors present and on three occasions with the executive 
directors attending part of meetings for specific items on 
agendas at the invitation of the Committee. During the 
year the Committee:
 ✶ approved a below-inflation annual increase in 
basic salaries for executive directors of 2.8% being 
the budgeted increase for the basic salaries of all 
Bloomsbury employees;
 ✶ implemented performance targets for the annual 
bonus that proved to be stretching and which brought 
about vital short and long term changes to the business. 
Based on the results for the year ended 29 February 
2012, the Committee has approved bonus payments 
for executive directors of 54% of salary (see below for 
further details). The level of bonus payments approved 
by the Committee has been substantially reduced 
compared to the previous period whilst Adjusted Profit 
(see below for details of the treatment of highlighted 
items) and Profit Before Tax have increased and key 
initiatives have been implemented; 58
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 ✶ implemented new procedures for setting performance 
targets for LTIP that ensure stretching performance is 
required for vesting to start and that the highest levels 
of performance are required for full vesting. Applying 
these procedures the Committee approved the 
granting of LTIP awards for the year;
 ✶ determined that LTIP awards granted in 2008 should not 
vest; and
 ✶ reviewed the structure of executive director 
remuneration and concluded that the:
 ✶ annual cash bonus, subject to minor refinements 
to make the scheme more stretching and more 
focussed on achieving vital strategic objectives, 
remains appropriate, providing a strong incentive 
to motivate the Directors and align their short-term 
interests with those of the shareholders; and
 ✶ the structure of the existing LTIP remains 
appropriate, providing a strong incentive to attract, 
retain and motivate the Directors to achieve the 
highest levels of performance and align their long-
term interests with those of the shareholders.
Remuneration policy
In determining remuneration policy the Committee applies 
the key principles that remuneration:
 ✶ should attract and retain suitably high calibre executive 
directors and ensure that they are motivated to achieve 
the highest levels of performance including delivering 
strategic initiatives and objectives; and 
 ✶ should align the interests of the executive directors with 
those of the shareholders. 
A significant proportion of the remuneration of each 
executive director is expected to accrue through 
variable elements (see below) which are dependent 
on the performance of the business and the personal 
performance of the Director both over the course of 
the year and over the longer term. Remuneration of the 
executive directors is reviewed annually. 
In order to illustrate the impact of different levels of 
performance on the composition of total remuneration 
in terms of the proportion of fixed (salary, pension and 
benefits) and variable (annual bonuses and long term 
incentives) remuneration, two notional levels of Company 
share price, Company and personal performance have 
been defined. The assumptions made for the charts are as 
follows:
Performance 
level
Target 
performance 
Maximum 
performance
Annual 
bonus
50% of basic salary 100% of basic salary
LTIP 50% of the value 
of the shares at the 
date of grant
100% of the value 
of the shares at the 
date of grant
The charts below assume that future LTIP is awarded at a 
level of 75% of basic salary for Nigel Newton and 66% of 
basic salary for Richard Charkin and Wendy Pallot until 
such time as the Committee changes policy. The charts 
exclude the relatively minor value of options granted 
under Bloomsbury’s Sharesave scheme in which executive 
directors may voluntarily participate.
Chief Executive – Nigel Newton
 
Maximum
Target
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
■ Fixed pay ■ Annual Bonus ■ LTIP
Executive Director – Richard Charkin
 
Maximum
Target
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
■ Fixed pay ■ Annual Bonus ■ LTIP
Executive Director – Wendy Pallot
 
Maximum
Target
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
■ Fixed pay ■ Annual Bonus ■ LTIP
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 59
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
The fixed and variable components of the executive 
directors’ remuneration are as follows.
1) Basic salary
Basic salaries for the executive directors are reviewed 
annually and are set at levels that take account of the 
performance, experience and responsibilities of each 
individual concerned having regard to the prevailing 
market conditions and the budgeted annual increase in 
basic salaries used for Bloomsbury employees generally. On 
appointment, the basic salaries for executive directors take 
account of appropriate market competitive ranges from 
companies of a similar size and complexity. The Committee 
determines as a proportion of basic salary, the level of 
opportunity to earn a performance related annual bonus 
and the level of opportunity to earn long term incentive 
awards.
The salaries for the executive directors are as follows:
 
Executive director
From 
1 March 
2012
£’000
From 
1 March
 2011
†
£’000
From 
1 Jan 
2010
£’000
Nigel Newton 395 384 *341
Richard Charkin 323 314 *279
Wendy Pallot
‡
226 220 N/A
  
*  For the 12 months from 1 January 2010, Nigel Newton and Richard Charkin 
voluntarily took a 10% reduction in basic salary which was restored effective 
from 1 January 2011.
†  Or date of appointment if later in the period
‡  Wendy Pallot was appointed on 8 April 2011 on an initial salary of £220,000
2) Pension contributions
Executive directors may receive contributions from the 
Company to their contributory pensions schemes based 
on a percentage, determined by the Committee, of 
their basic salary. On his appointment, the basic salary of 
Richard Charkin included an allowance in lieu of pension 
at a level of 10% of basic salary excluding pension. No 
further pension contributions have been made by the 
Company. During the year ended 29 February 2012 the 
other executive directors received contributions to their 
contributory private pensions which ranged from 10% to 
15% of basic salary. Further details are presented within the 
Directors’ Emoluments table.
3) Other benefits
The Company offers executive directors a car or a 
cash alternative and benefits including life assurance, 
permanent health cover, private medical cover and other 
minor benefits. Wendy Pallot receives a cash alternative 
of £10,000 to a car allowance. On his appointment in 2007, 
Richard Charkin received an uplift in basic salary of £10,000 
in lieu of a car allowance.
4) Performance related annual bonus
The Committee determines the policy on an annual cash 
bonus scheme for the executive directors and the eligibility 
of executive directors to participate in the scheme.
For the year ended 29 February 2012 the Committee 
reviewed the annual cash bonus to ensure that it strongly 
aligns the short term interests of executive directors with 
those of the shareholders. The conclusion of this review 
was that subject to minor refinements, the majority of the 
annual cash bonus provides the executive directors with 
a strong incentive for the highest levels of performance 
over the coming financial year. The Committee refined the 
bonus scheme to ensure that:
 ✶ basic profit related bonus and personal/strategic 
objectives bonus (see below) require stretching 
Adjusted Profit performance in order for any bonus 
to begin to accrue and requires exceptional Adjusted 
Profit performance to be achieved in order for full 
bonus to be earned; and
 ✶ there is an increased emphasis on each executive 
director achieving strategic objectives that realise 
benefits to the Group both in the present and future 
years. 
Following the introduction of the new scheme, annual 
cash bonus payments to the executive directors for the 
year ended 29 February 2012 have fallen compared to the 
previous period both in absolute terms and as a proportion 
of basic salary whilst Adjusted Profit and Profit Before Tax 
have both increased. Further, the executive directors have 
also achieved a wider range of strategic objectives vital to 
the business.
As a percentage of basic salary, the opportunity for the 
executive directors to earn bonus is as follows:
Period end:
29 February 
2012
28 February
2011*
Profit Related bonus 70% 80%
Personal Objectives bonus 10% 10%
Strategic Objectives bonus 20% 10%
Maximum bonus 
opportunity 100% 100%
 
*  Bonus in respect of the 14 months ended 28 February 2011 was restricted to  
12 months. 60
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic and personal objectives
The majority of the strategic and personal objectives set by the Committee for the year ended 29 February 2012 directly 
relate to vital initiatives underpinning the highlighted items set out below. A summary of the strategic and personal 
objectives for the executive directors is as follows:
Highlighted item
Description of targeted strategic and personal objectives set by 
the Committee for the executive directors
Nigel Newton Richard Charkin Wendy Pallot
Strategic global 
reorganisation of 
the Group
Implement the One 
Global Bloomsbury plan 
(achieved by restructuring 
the organisation).
Improve digital 
understanding 
throughout the Group.
Align the finance team 
with the One Global 
Bloomsbury structure.
Complete the 
implementation of the 
new finance system in 
the UK.
Establishing and relocating 
the Group’s head office
Implement the One 
Global Bloomsbury 
plan (achieved by 
consolidating teams 
into a single head office 
building).
Acquisitions Deliver the acquisition of 
Continuum International 
Publishing Group Limited.
Project manage the 
Continuum acquisition, 
set up the ongoing 
monitoring of milestones 
and synergies and 
integrate the UK and US 
finance teams.
Disposal Solve the lack of German 
profitability (achieved 
by supporting the Chief 
Executive in the disposal of 
the German subsidiary).
Other targeted objectives 
not relating directly to 
highlighted items
Implement a long term 
digital growth strategy.
Deliver long term growth 
in BRIC countries.
Improve the profitability 
of certain trade publishing 
areas.
Deliver annuity income 
streams to compensate for 
potential retail decline.
Improve the quality of 
financial reporting, in 
particular at Board and 
management level.
Improve analyst 
and shareholder 
communications with the 
Group.
Complete the restructuring 
of the finance team to 
improve business support 
and efficiency.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 61
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
Operation of the bonus pool
Bonuses paid to the executive directors and other 
managers in the business are paid from a bonus pool 
approved by the Committee. The bonus pool is calculated 
by applying formulae based on Adjusted Profit and targets 
set by the Committee. If there is a short fall in the bonus 
pool such that the pool is not sufficient to fund full bonuses 
then the bonuses for the executive directors and other 
managers are scaled back in proportion to the shortfall. 
The Committee sets a minimum target for Adjusted Profit 
below which no bonuses are paid. The minimum target 
is in line with City analysts’ key indices, namely Adjusted 
Profit, prevailing at the time bonus plans are set by the 
Committee.
Profit measurement for annual cash bonus
Consistent with other UK listed companies in the media 
sector, the Committee considers that audited Adjusted 
Profit to be an appropriate financial measure for the 
performance targets for profit related bonus. This measure 
of performance is consistent with the profit forecasts 
that City analysts publish and ensures that the majority 
of the annual cash bonus and the short term financial 
achievement of the executive directors are aligned with the 
interests of the shareholders.
The Committee may use its independent discretion to 
adjust bonus payments in order to ensure they are aligned 
with the interests of shareholders. The Committee considers 
each highlighted item that is excluded from Adjusted Profit 
and determines whether, in the opinion of the Committee, 
the treatment with respect to bonus is in the interests of 
shareholders.
Highlighted items for the financial year
Adjusted Profit, on which profit related bonus is calculated, 
is before highlighted items. The Committee considered in 
detail the highlighted items set out in the Chief Executive’s 
review on pages 5 to 15. The Committee sets bonus targets 
before amortisation of intangible assets consistent with the 
accounting treatment for Adjusted Profit and City analysts’ 
key indices and is satisfied that the amortisation charge for 
the year is not exceptional. In determining whether other 
highlighted items may be excluded from Adjusted Profit for 
the purposes of calculating the bonus the Committee has 
applied the following criteria:
 
 ✶ the highlighted items relate to important strategic 
steps instructed by the Board that have been taken to 
strengthen the business;
 ✶ future profits should benefit from the investment value 
of the highlighted items;
 ✶ failure to implement the strategic steps and incur the 
highlighted items would have been detrimental to the 
interests of the shareholders;
 ✶ management has mitigated the quantum of the 
highlighted items; and
 ✶ the highlighted items are measureable, properly 
accounted for and audited.
The Committee also takes account of whether highlighted 
items have arisen as a result of the executive directors 
achieving their personal and strategic bonus objectives 
approved by the Committee. 62
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Highlighted item £m Commentary
Recurring amortisation of intangible 
assets.
1.6 To be consistent with Adjusted Profit, City analysts’ indices and 
market practice in the listed media sector, bonus targets are 
calculated before the annually recurring charge for the amortisation 
of intangibles. The level of the charge is not exceptional for the year 
given the recent acquisition of Continuum International Publishing 
Group Limited. The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that this 
approach remains appropriate and, by measuring and rewarding 
performance which is directly influenced by the executive directors, 
is aligned to shareholder interests.
Restructuring costs relating to the 
strategic global reorganisation of 
the Group including restructuring 
following the acquisition of 
Continuum International Publishing 
Group Limited.
1.3 Business operations have been transformed by the successful 
implementation of One Global Bloomsbury - the consolidation 
of the Group’s various acquisitions, fragmented local publishing 
activities and local support functions into four worldwide unified 
publishing divisions supported by global production, sales and 
marketing, finance and other support functions. This strategic move 
was deemed critical to the Company’s future brought about by the 
digital revolution and its global impact.
One Global Bloomsbury has opened up the Group’s intellectual 
property assets to the sales and marketing function and extended 
the global reach of the function. This will help drive future revenue 
growth as the business develops its digital content assets.
Costs for establishing and relocating 
the Group’s head office to bring 
together many acquisitions.
0.4 In line with One global Bloomsbury, the consolidation of most of the 
UK employees into a single head office building will yield efficiencies 
and productivity improvements. It will help the business to grow 
whilst enabling better control of operating costs thus protecting 
margins.
Bringing talented multi-disciplinary teams and people into close 
proximity will help the business develop new ideas into products 
more efficiently. 
Acquisition costs. 0.3 During the year the Board approved the acquisition of significant lists 
of titles and the acquisition of Continuum International Publishing 
Group Limited aligned with Bloomsbury’s long term group strategy 
of an increased focus on academic publishing to capitalise on 
the robust nature of these income streams. Investing in these 
acquisitions is needed to develop the business and should increase 
future profits.
Disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag, 
Bloomsbury’s former German 
subsidiary.
1.0 During the year the Board reviewed its international footprint 
strategy to ensure investment and time was being allocated to the 
areas of greatest growth potential and least risk. The conclusion of 
this review has been the disposal of the German subsidiary whilst 
retaining the opportunity to partner with the acquirer and the 
development of a wholly owned start up in India.
  
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 63
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
Bonuses paid
Bonus payments to the current executive directors approved by the Committee are as follows:
Year ended 29 February 2012 14 months ended 28 February 2011
[1]
Personal/
Strategic 
Objectives 
% 
achieved
Profit 
Related 
Bonus 
%
 achieved
Total 
bonus 
paid 
£’000
Total 
bonus 
paid 
%
Basic Salary
Personal/
Strategic 
Objectives 
%
achieved
Profit 
Related 
Bonus 
% 
achieved
Total 
bonus 
paid
 
£’000
Total 
bonus 
paid 
% 
Basic Salary
Nigel Newton 100% 35% 208 54% 100% 100% 341 84%
Richard Charkin 100% 35% 170 54% 95% 100% 265 81%
Wendy Pallot 100% 35% 107 54% ––––
485 606
 
[1]
  For the 14 months to 28 February 2011 the bonus was restricted to 12 months and the maximum bonus was calculated based on the basic salary after the executive 
directors had elected to accept a 10% cut in basic salary during 2010.
The recent history of total executive director bonus compared to the dividend paid to shareholders is as follows:
Period
Total 
dividend 
declared in 
respect of 
the period
£’m
Total 
executive 
director 
bonus
£’m
Ratio: 
Dividend to 
executive 
director 
bonus
Ratio: 
Dividend to
total bonus
[1]
Year ended 29 February 2012 3.8 0.50 7.6:1 4:1
14 months 28 February 2011 3.6 0.80 4.5:1 2.2:1
 
[1]
  Total bonus includes bonus paid to the executive directors and to managers below the level of executive director. 
5) Long term incentive plans
The Company’s primary long term incentive plan (LTIP) is the Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 2005 Performance Share Plan 
which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 September 2005. LTIP awards are made by 
the Committee to the executive directors and managers below board level.
Details of the Directors’ outstanding LTIP awards are shown in Part B of this report.
Level of LTIP awards 
The policy of the Committee is to apply a maximum award level of 75% of basic salary for the Chief Executive, 66% for the 
other executive directors and lower levels for individuals below the level of the Board. The Committee may use its discretion to 
approve a one-time enhanced award to an executive director upon their appointment to the Board: Wendy Pallot who was 
appointed to the Board on 8 April 2011 has been made an initial award of 100% of basic salary. The terms of the LTIP permit 
awards to be granted to executive directors and senior individuals up to a maximum level of 150% of base salary per annum.
The level of LTIP awards granted to the executive directors as a percentage of basic salaries are as follows:
Year of award 2011 2010 2009
Nigel Newton 75% 75% 75%
Richard Charkin 66% 66% 66%
Wendy Pallot 100% – –
Colin Adams – 66% 66% 64
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Performance conditions for LTIP awards
LTIP awards are subject to two non-concurrent performance conditions, namely 50% of the awards are subject to 
Normalised Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) targets and 50% of the awards are subject to Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
targets at the end of a three year period. LTIP awards lapse in the event that the conditions are not met at the end of the 
three year performance period.
The Committee has reviewed the LTIP and concluded that non-concurrent rather than concurrent EPS and TSR 
performance conditions provide the most effective incentive to align the long-term interests of LTIP participants with the 
long-term interests of the shareholders.
The Committee determines performance conditions for each LTIP award at the time of making an award.
EPS targets
In respect of the 2011 LTIP awards, the following approach was taken for setting the EPS performance targets:
 ✶ The Lower Vesting threshold (see below) for Normalised EPS was set with reference to City analysts’ indices for Adjusted 
EPS prevailing at the time the awards were granted.
 ✶ The Mid Vesting threshold was determined so as to align the expected value of the awards with the expected value of 
similar awards granted by other listed companies to executive directors. The expected value of 2011 LTIP awards was 
estimated from long term projections for the Bloomsbury Group under a number of scenarios taking account of risks 
and probabilities.
 ✶ The Upper Vesting Threshold is an achievable but highly stretching target based on long term Group projections.
Based on the above, therefore, the EPS targets attached to the 2011 awards were as follows:
Lower Vesting threshold
— Level of vesting 30%
— Target for Normalised EPS 10.7 pence
Mid Vesting threshold
— Level of vesting 66%
— Target for Normalised EPS 11.5 pence
Upper Vesting threshold
— Level of vesting 100%
— Target for Normalised EPS 14 pence
Vesting is on a straight line basis between the Lower to Mid Vesting thresholds and between the Mid to Upper Vesting 
thresholds. There is no vesting below the Lower Vesting threshold. The maximum level of vesting is 100%. 
The Committee intends to follow a substantially similar approach to that applied to the 2011 LTIP for setting stretching EPS 
performance targets for LTIP awards in subsequent years.
During the year the Committee has reviewed the measurement of EPS used for LTIP awards and concluded that audited 
Adjusted EPS remains an appropriate measure for Normalised EPS performance targets for the LTIP. This measure of 
EPS is consistent with the forecasts published by City analysts and ensures the performance required for LTIP awards 
to vest is both clear to management and aligned with the interests of the shareholders. The Committee considers that 
stretching absolute targets for EPS provide the greatest clarity to management to motivate them to achieve the long term 
performance required in order for LTIP awards to vest.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 65
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
TSR targets
Comparator group FTSE Mid 250 excluding investment trusts
Lower Vesting threshold 
Level of vesting 35%*
Target Ranking at or above the median (top 50%)
Upper Vesting threshold
Level of vesting 100%
Target Ranking at or above the median (top 25%)
 * In respect of LTIP awards from 2012 and onwards the Committee intends to reduce threshold vesting in accordance with best practice.
Vesting is on a straight line basis between the Lower to 
Upper Vesting thresholds based on ranking within the 
comparator group. There is no vesting below the Lower 
Vesting threshold. The maximum level of vesting is 100%.
The terms of the LTIP awards permit the Committee to 
restrict vesting in circumstances where the Committee 
considers that the Company’s TSR rank in the comparator 
group is not reflective of the underlying performance of 
the Company.
Vesting of awards
The vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the approval of 
the Committee and to which the Committee will apply its 
Intervention Policy. Under this policy the Committee may 
apply its independent discretion to modify the measurement 
of EPS to ensure that the interests of management are 
aligned with those of the shareholders. For example, the 
Committee may review the appropriateness of treatment of 
highlighted items with regards to the calculation of EPS used 
for determining the level of vesting.
The Committee will consider the impact of share buy-backs 
over the relevant performance periods for the purposes of 
determining the level of vesting of share incentive awards.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 
(“Sharesave”)
Subject to the approval of the Committee each executive 
director is eligible to voluntarily participate in the 
Company’s all-employee HM Revenue and Customs 
approved Sharesave scheme. The Company intends to run 
a new Sharesave scheme annually. A Sharesave scheme 
allows participants to make 36 equal monthly instalments 
under a building society savings contract. On maturity of 
the savings contract, participants may use the savings plus 
interest to purchase shares under share options granted 
at a discount of 15% to the market price at the start of the 
savings contract. Company policy is to limit the monthly 
savings into any Sharesave scheme to £100 per participant 
and to limit the total monthly savings into all Sharesave 
schemes to £250.
Details of the Directors’ outstanding Sharesave options are 
shown in Part B of this report.
Change of control provisions for share 
incentive schemes
On a change of control, LTIP awards vest to the extent 
that the performance conditions, as adjusted for the 
reduced vesting period due to the change of control, 
have been achieved subject to settlement of taxes arising 
on vesting. The Committee determines a reasonable 
basis for measuring the extent to which the performance 
conditions have been achieved. Sharesave options become 
exercisable on a change of control, however the treatment 
for tax would be subject to HM Revenue & Customs 
regulations that apply at the time.
Remuneration earned by the executive 
directors from outside appointments
Significant external appointments of the Directors are 
given in the bibliographic details on pages 41 and 42. 
The Committee considers that the external appointments 
of the executive directors have no detrimental impact 
on the performance of their duties. The Committee has 
approved that each executive director may retain his or 
her remuneration earned from external appointments up 
to £15,000 per year.
Contracts of service
The Company’s policy is for executive directors to have 
contracts of employment with notice periods of up to 12 
months. The Company will not enter into service contracts 
of more than two years duration without obtaining prior 
shareholder approval. Contracts with notice periods in 
excess of 12 months will only be considered at the time of 
recruitment and would normally be structured so that the 
notice period reduces to a period up to 12 months over a 
specified time of service. 66
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Details of the service contracts of the Directors who served 
during the year are set out below:
Executive 
Directors
Date of 
agreement
Date of 
expiry
Notice 
period
Nigel Newton 24 June 
2003
– 12 months
Richard Charkin 10 October 
2007
– 12 months
Wendy Pallot 10 March 
2011
– 12 months
Colin Adams
[1]
24 September 
2004
12 months
[1] Colin Adams resigned from the Board on 8 April 2011.
Termination of executive director 
appointments
The service agreements of Richard Charkin and Wendy 
Pallot include terms such that there would be no claim 
for loss of office as a Director resulting from termination 
of their service agreement. The agreement for Wendy 
Pallot includes that the Company may make a payment of 
basic salary in lieu of notice. There are no further specific 
provisions for compensation on early termination of 
service contracts for the executive directors including Nigel 
Newton and no automatic right to payments.
The payment of bonus and the vesting of LTIP awards on 
termination are subject to the discretion of the Committee.
In the event of early termination, the Committee would 
seek to take such steps as necessary to mitigate the loss to 
the Company and to ensure that the executive director 
observed his or her duty to mitigate loss. The Committee 
considers the termination terms of the executive 
directors to be appropriate to avoid rewarding failure on 
termination.
Non-executive directors
The annual fees of non-executive directors (“NEDs”) upon 
appointment are determined by the Chairman and the 
executive directors. The annual fee of the Chairman upon 
appointment is determined by the other NEDs and the 
executive directors. NEDs receive a basic annual fee plus 
an extra annual amount for additional responsibilities 
such as chairing sub-committees. The fees of the NEDs 
and Chairman are reviewed regularly against benchmark 
data provided by external remuneration consultants 
New Bridge Street. Where NEDs and the Chairman receive 
an increase in annual fee this is normally limited to the 
budgeted annual increase in salaries for Bloomsbury 
employees. During 2010 the NEDs and Chairman elected to 
take a cut of 10% in their annual fees which was restored 
from 1 January 2011.
NED fees for the upcoming financial year are:
Non-executive directors Fee for year to 28 February 2013 Roles
Jeremy Wilson £100,609 Chairman of the Board
Sarah Jane Thomson £38,272 Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Ian Cormack £38,550 Chair of the Audit Committee and 
Senior Independent Director
The continuance of service of each non-executive director is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
The non-executive directors and Chairman do not participate in the Company’s annual bonus or share incentive schemes 
including Sharesave.
Details of the NED agreements are as follows:
Non-Executive Directors
Date of 
appointment
Date of 
agreement 
Date of 
expiry
Notice 
period
Jeremy Wilson 24 November 2005 31 October 2007 – 3 months
Ian Cormack 1 January 2011 12 October 2011 31 December 2014 3 months
Sarah Jane Thomson 28 May 2010 12 October 2011 28 May 2013 3 months
 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 67
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
The letter of appointment of the Chairman, Jeremy Wilson, 
does not include a fixed term of expiry but instead includes 
a fixed notice period of 3 months. There are no specific 
provisions for compensation on early termination. In the 
event of early termination, the Board would seek to take 
such steps as necessary to mitigate the loss to the Company 
and to ensure that the director observed his or her duty to 
mitigate loss.
During the year Ian Cormack and Sarah Jane Thomson 
entered into updated agreements, the general terms for 
which can be found on Bloomsbury’s investor relations 
website at www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk. The agreements 
provide for 3 months notice by the Director or by the 
Company with the options for the Company to terminate 
an appointment at any time on payment of 3 months fees 
in lieu of notice. Termination of the agreements is without 
compensation.
Performance graph 
The chart below shows the Company’s Total Shareholder Return for the year ended 29 February 2012 and for the four prior 
years together with the FTSE Small Cap Media sector index. The index has been selected as it represents a broad equity 
market index of which the Company is a constituent member.
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Feb 12 Feb 07 Aug 07 Feb 08 Aug 08 Feb 09 Aug 09 Feb 10 Aug 10 Feb 11 Aug 11
 BMY Total Return Index  FTSE Small Cap Media and Entertainment sector Total Return Index 68
GOVERNANCE
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
PART B – AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ Emoluments
Basic 
salary 
or fees
2012
£’000
Performance 
related 
bonus
2012
£’000
Other 
benefits
 [4]
2012
£’000
Total
2012
£’000
Gain on 
share 
incentives 
exercised
2012
£’000
Pension
contributions
[3]
2012
£’000
Total
2012
£’000
Total 
(14 months)
2011
£’000
Executive Directors
Nigel Newton 385 208 9 602 – 58 660 974
Richard Charkin 314 170 6 490 – – 490 599
Wendy Pallot
[1]
197 107 12 316 – 9 325 n/a
Colin Adams
[2]
28 9 1 38 – 3 41 493
Non–Executive Directors
Jeremy Wilson 98 – – 98 – – 98 102
Sarah Jane Thomson 37 – – 37 – – 37 26
Ian Cormack 38 – – 38 – – 38 6
1,097 494 28 1,619 – 70 1,689 2,200
    
[1]
 Wendy Pallot was appointed to the Board on 8 April 2011.
[2]
 Colin Adams retired from the Board from 8 April 2011. No compensation for loss of office was payable by the Company. The numbers presented above, which include 
a prorated bonus calculated on a similar basis to the other executive directors, reflect the period of time served on the Board in the year ended 29 February 2012.  No 
compensation for loss of office was payable by the Company
[3]
 Nigel Newton, Wendy Pallot and Colin Adams accrued benefits under defined contribution pension arrangements during the year. 
[4]
 A description of the other benefits received by Directors is given in Part A above.
    
Share Based Incentives
LTIP awards
LTIPs are granted for nil consideration over Ordinary Shares of 1.25 pence in the Company under the Bloomsbury 2005 
Performance Share Plan. The number of LTIPs awarded is calculated based on the mid-market share price prevailing 
at the date of grant or the average share price during the five dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant. 
The performance conditions for the LTIP awards are given in Part A above. The following LTIPs awarded to the executive 
directors were outstanding during the period:
    
Date of award 
Date of 
exercise/expiry
Grant 
price
At 
1 March 
2011
Awarded 
during 
the 
period
Exercised 
during 
the 
period
Lapsed 
during 
the period
Share 
price on 
date of 
exercise
At 28 
February 
2012
Nigel Newton 12 May 2008 12 May 2011 144.50p 194,706 – – (194,706) n/a –
25 Sep 2009 25 Sep 2012 120.50p 235,820 – – – n/a 235,820
6 May 2010 6 May 2013 110.00p 258,331 – – n/a 258,331
8 Dec 2011 8 Dec 2014 98.75p – 292,077 – – n/a 292,077
Richard Charkin 12 May 2008 12 May 2011 144.50p 295,848 – – (295,848) n/a – 
25 Sep 2009 25 Sep 2012 120.50p 169,510 – – – n/a 169,510
6 May 2010 6 May 2013 110.00p 185,691 – – – n/a 185,691
8 Dec 2011 8 Dec 2014 98.75p – 209,947 – – n/a 209,947
Wendy Pallot 8 Dec 2011 8 Dec 2014 98.75p – 222,785 – – n/a 222,785
Colin Adams* 12 May 2008 12 May 2011 144.50p 83,563 – – (83,563) n/a –
25 Sep 2009 25 Sep 2012 120.50p 117,189 – – (117,189) n/a –
6 May 2010 6 May 2013 110.00p 128,375 – – (128,375) n/a –
    
* All the outstanding LTIP awards of Colin Adams lapsed following his departure from the Company on 8 April 2012.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 69
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
The following EPS based performance conditions, which took account of consensus broker forecasts and the need to 
set challenging performance targets to motivate a high level of performance of the executive directors in the light of 
deteriorating economic conditions at the respective grant dates, apply to the 2009 and 2010 LTIP awards:
Award reference 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP
Date of grant 6 May 2010 25 September 2009
Date of vesting 6 May 2013 25 September 2012
Lower Vesting threshold 
Level of vesting 33% 33%
Target for Normalised EPS 8.25 pence 8.25 pence
Mid Vesting threshold
Level of vesting 66% 66%
Target for Normalised EPS 8.75 pence 8.75 pence
Upper Vesting threshold
Level of vesting 100% 100%
Target for Normalised EPS 9.25 pence 9.25 pence
Vesting is on a straight line basis between the Lower to Mid Vesting thresholds and between the Mid to Upper Vesting 
thresholds. There is no vesting below the Lower threshold. The maximum level of vesting is 100%. 
The following TSR performance conditions apply to the 2009 and 2010 LTIP:
 
Award reference 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP
Date of grant 6 May 2010 25 September 2009
Date of vesting 6 May 2013 25 September 2012
Comparator group FTSE Mid 250 excluding investment trusts
Lower Vesting threshold
Level of vesting 35%
Target Ranking at or above the median (top 50%)
Upper Vesting threshold
Level of vesting 100%
Target Ranking at or above the median (top 25%)
Vesting is on a straight line basis between the Lower to Upper Vesting thresholds based on ranking within the comparator 
group. There is no vesting below the Lower Vesting threshold. The maximum level of vesting is 100%. 70
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
GOVERNANCE
Sharesave options
Bloomsbury operates an HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme for which all UK employees are eligible to participate. The 
following Sharesave options granted to the executive directors were outstanding during the period end.
At 
1 March 
2011
Granted 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At 
28 February 
2012
Exercise 
Price
Date 
of grant
Date from 
which 
exercisable
Expiry 
Date
Nigel Newton 8,131 – (8,131) – 115.60p 5 June 2008 1 July 2011 1 Jan 2012
Richard Charkin 8,131 – (8,131) – 115.60p 5 June 2008 1 July 2011 1 Jan 2012
– 3,676 – 3,676 98.18p 12 Aug 2011 1 Oct 2014 1 April 2015
Wendy Pallot – 3,676 – 3,676 98.18p 12 Aug 2011 1 Oct 2014 1 April 2015
Colin Adams 8,131 – (8,131) – 115.60p 5 June 2008 1 July 2011 1 Jan 2012
Directors’ interests 
a) Interests in shares
The direct and indirect interests of the Directors at the period end in the share capital of the Company are shown below. All 
interests are beneficial.
 
Director
Ordinary 
Shares 
29 February 
2012 
Number
Ordinary 
Shares 
28 February 
2011 
Number
Nigel Newton 1,470,376 1,470,376
Richard Charkin 22,000 12,000
Ian Cormack 11,975 11,975
Jeremy Wilson 4,026 4,026
The closing market price of an Ordinary Share at 29 February 2012 was 121.25p (2011: 119.75p) and the range of market 
prices from 1 March 2011 to 29 February 2012 was 90.00p to 139.46p (2011: 106.5p to 134.25p).
b) Other interests
No Director has or has had any interest, direct or indirect, in any transaction, contract or arrangement (excluding service 
agreements), which is or was unusual in its nature or conditions or significant to the business of the Group during the 
current or immediately preceding financial year. 
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf 
Sarah Jane Thomson
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
15 June 2012
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING PLC 
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements (“the financial statements”) on pages 73 to 135. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As more fully explained in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 48 to 49, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/
scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion 
 ✶ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at 29 
February 2012 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
 ✶ the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union; 
 ✶ the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 ✶ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 ✶ the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; 
 ✶ the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
 ✶ the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 50 to 56 in compliance with rules 
7.2.5 and 7.2.6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook issued by the Financial Services Authority 
(information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and 
about share capital structure) is consistent with the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 72
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 ✶ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
 ✶ the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 ✶ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 ✶ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 ✶ a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 ✶ the Directors’ statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern; 
 ✶ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 to 56 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
 ✶ certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Mark Harwood (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BAKER TILLY UK AUDIT LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
25 Farringdon Street
London EC4A 4AB
15 June 2012
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 73
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2012
Continuing operations Notes
Year ended
29 February
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
£’000
Revenue 3 97,399 93,144
Cost of sales (42,201) (42,548)
Gross profit 55,198 50,596
Marketing and distribution costs (14,157) (14,449)
Administrative expenses  (32,629) (30,995)
Operating profit before highlighted items 12,057 7,912
Highlighted items 4 (3,645) (2,760)
Operating profit 4 8,412 5,152
Finance income 5 160 403
Finance costs 5 (108) (49)
Profit before taxation and highlighted items 12,109 8,266
Highlighted items 4 (3,645) (2,760)
Profit before taxation 8,464 5,506
Taxation 7 (1,367) (1,311)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 7,097 4,195
Discontinued operation
Loss for the period from discontinued operation 10 (3,724) (1,966)
Profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company 3,373 2,229
Earnings per share attributable to owners of the Company 
– continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 11 9.80p 5.68p
Diluted earnings per share 11 9.54p 5.68p
* See note 2 b)
The notes on pages 78 to 122 form part of these consolidated financial statements. 74
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2012
Year ended
29 February
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Profit for the period 3,373 2,229
Other comprehensive income:
Currency translation differences on foreign operations 365 (368)
Reclassification of translation reserve on disposal of foreign operation (985) –
Deferred tax on share based payment transactions 11 (26)
Other comprehensive income for the period net of tax (609) (394)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable 
to the owners of the Company 2,764 1,835
Arises from:
Continuing operations 7,473 3,801
Discontinued operation (4,709) (1,966)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable 
to the owners of the Company 2,764 1,835
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive 
income is disclosed in note 7. 75
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
FINANCIAL POSITION 
AT 29 FEBRUARY 2012 COMPANY NUMBER 1984336
Notes
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Assets
Goodwill 12 34,610 25,664
Other intangible assets 13 18,153 11,577
Property, plant and equipment 14 3,020 965
Deferred tax assets 15 2,336 1,583
Total non-current assets 58,119 39,789
Inventories 16 20,184 18,334
Trade and other receivables 17 55,431 48,719
Cash and cash equivalents 12,639 36,876
Total current assets 88,254 103,929
Total assets 146,373 143,718
Liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 22 157 95
Deferred tax liabilities 15 3,737 2,176
Other payables 18 341 467
Provisions 19 507 –
Total non-current liabilities 4,742 2,738
Trade and other payables 18 32,101 29,120
Current tax liabilities 193 16
Provisions 19 157 –
Total current liabilities 32,451 29,136
Total liabilities 37,193 31,874
Net assets 109,180 111,844
Equity  
Share capital 20 924 924
Share premium 20 39,388 39,388
Translation reserve 20 3,616 4,236
Other reserves 20 1,318 3,219
Retained earnings 20 63,934 64,077
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 109,180 111,844
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 15 June 2012.
Nigel Newton  Wendy Pallot
Director   Director   76
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
CHANGES IN EQUITY
 
Share 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Translation 
reserve
 £’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£’000
Share-
based 
payment 
reserve
£’000
Own 
shares 
held by 
EBT
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
equity
£’000
At 1 January 2010 922 39,388 4,604 20 2,393 – 65,357 112,684
Profit for the period – – – – – – 2,229 2,229
Other comprehensive income
  Exchange differences on 
translating foreign operations – – (368) – – – – (368)
  Deferred tax on share-based 
payment transactions – – – – – – (26) (26)
Total comprehensive income for 
the period – – (368) – – – 2,203 1,835
Transactions with owners
 Share buy back and cancellation (2) – – 2 – – (187) (187)
 Share options exercised 4 – – – – – – 4
  Dividends to equity holders of the 
Company – – – – – – (3,296) (3,296)
 Share-based payment transactions – – – – 804 – – 804
Total transactions with owners of 
the Company 2 – – 2 804 – (3,483) (2,675)
Balance at 28 February 2011 924 39,388 4,236 22 3,197 – 64,077 111,844
Profit for the year – – – – – – 3,373 3,373
Other comprehensive income
  Exchange differences on 
translating foreign operations – – 365 – – – – 365
  Deferred tax on share-based 
payment transactions – – – – – – 11 11
  Recycling of cumulative currency 
translation reserve on disposal – – (985) – – – – (985)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – (620) – – – 3,384 2,764
Transactions with owners
 Reclassification* – – – – – (134) 134 –
 Share buy back – – – – – (2,008) – (2,008)
  Dividends to equity holders of the 
Company – – – – – – (3,661) (3,661)
 Share-based payment transactions – – – – 255 – – 255
 Share options cancelled – – – – (14) – – (14)
Total transactions with owners of 
the Company – – – – 241 (2,142) (3,527) (5,428)
Balance at 29 February 2012 924 39,388 3,616 22 3,438 (2,142) 63,934 109,180
 
* Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) have been reclassified from retained earnings to a separate component of equity in the year as the balance 
held at 29 February 2012 is material. 77
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2012
Year ended
29 February
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
£’000
Continuing operations  
Profit before tax 8,464 5,506
Adjustments for:
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 411 615
 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,599 1,136
 Impairment of goodwill – 969
 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 11 –
 Share-based payment charges 255 804
 Finance income (160) (403)
 Finance costs 108 49
 10,688 8,676
Increase in inventories (342) (1,277)
Increase in trade and other receivables (5,690) (391)
Increase in trade and other payables 1,860 6,087
Cash generated from continuing operations 6,516 13,095
Discontinued operation (404) (2,097)
Cash generated from operating activities 6,112 10,998
Income taxes paid (1,116) (2,792)
Net cash generated from operating activities 4,996 8,206
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,553) (563)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 6 –
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired (19,654) (1,100)
Purchases of intangible assets (1,595) (1,437)
Sale of discontinued operation (10) –
Interest received 213 385
Net cash used in investing activities (23,593) (2,715)
Cash flows from financing activities
Share options exercised – 4
Share buy back – (187)
Purchase of shares by the Employee Benefit Trust (2,008) –
Equity dividends paid (3,661) (3,296)
Interest paid (49) (33)
Net cash used in financing activities (5,718) (3,512)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (24,315) 1,979
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 36,876 35,036
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents 78 (139)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 12,639 36,876
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b)) 78
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Reporting entity
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (the ‘Company’) is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of the 
Company’s registered office can be found on page 136. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and 
for the year ended 29 February 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The 
Group is primarily involved in the publication of books and other related services.
2. Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
a) Statement of compliance
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) 
and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations adopted by the European 
Union (“EU”) at the time of preparing these financial statements and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. 
b) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and on a going concern 
basis.
Certain comparative amounts in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
and associated notes have been restated to reflect:
i) the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation for the year ended 29 February 2012. The 
comparative statements have been re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the 
comparative period (see note 10).
ii) the change in classification of certain staff costs as administration expenses that were previously included in cost of sales 
and marketing and distribution costs. This occurred as a result of the Group being restructured on a global division 
basis as opposed to a geographic basis. £2,489,000 and £975,000 have been reclassified in the comparative amounts 
from cost of sales and marketing and distribution costs respectively to administration expenses. 
The reporting period was changed in the prior year to a February year end to allow for improved access to shareholders 
and analysts during the interim and final reporting season. As a result of this change the comparative amounts presented 
in the financial statements are for a fourteen month period ended 28 February 2011 and are not directly comparable to 
the current twelve month financial year.
c) Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position 
are set out in the Business Review on pages 5 to 40. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position 
are described in the Financial Review on pages 23 to 30. In addition, note 23 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its 
financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors believe that the Group’s diversification of product and geographical spread together with its monitoring 
and forecasting processes place the Group well in managing its business risks. The Group’s forecasts and projections, 
taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group is able to operate within 
the level of its current available facilities including compliance with the bank facility covenants. Details of the facility and 
bank facility covenants are shown in Note 23 c).
After making enquiries of senior management and reviewing cash flow forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual 
financial statements.  79
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
d) Use of estimates and judgments
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make 
judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgments and areas 
where the use of estimates is significant are disclosed in note 2.v). 
e) Application of new and amended standards and interpretations
The following amendments to existing standards have been adopted by the Group for the year ended 29 February 2012 
and have not had a material impact on the Group.
 ✶ IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2010). The IFRIC addresses the accounting for issues of equity instruments in order to settle, in full or in part, a 
financial liability.
 ✶ IFRIC 14 (amended) ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’ 
(effective 1 January 2011) – Amendment; Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement. The amendment permits 
the benefit of early payment of contributions paid to cover minimum funding requirements to be treated as an asset.
 ✶ IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011). The revised 
standard simplifies the disclosure requirements for government-related entities, requires commitments outstanding at 
the reporting date to be disclosed and clarifies the definition of a related party.
 ✶ Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASB’s annual improvements projects.
The Directors have considered the impact of new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on 
the Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective. They have not been adopted early by the Group nor are they 
expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
f) Basis of consolidation
I. Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 ✶ the fair value of consideration transferred; plus
 ✶ the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree; less
 ✶ the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Where the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such 
amounts are generally recognised in the profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in 
connection with the business combination are expensed as incurred. 80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. Changes in contingent 
consideration arising from additional information, obtained within one year of the acquisition date, about facts or 
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date are recognised as an adjustment to goodwill. Other changes in 
contingent consideration are recognised through profit or loss, unless the contingent consideration is classified as 
equity. In such circumstances, changes are recognised within equity.
For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, the Group applies IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2004) in accounting for 
business combinations. All changes to contingent consideration in respect of these acquisitions are recognised as an 
adjustment to goodwill.
II. Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies to obtain 
economic benefit for the Group. The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with accounting policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
III. Loss of control
On the loss of control, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests 
and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is 
recognised in profit or loss. 
IV. Transactions eliminated on consolidation
All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated 
on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.
g) Revenue
Revenue represents the amount derived from the provision of goods, services and rights falling within the Group’s 
ordinary activities, after deduction of trade discounts, value added tax and anticipated returns. 
–  Revenue from book publishing is recognised on delivery to retailers. 
– Revenue from the sale of publishing and distribution rights, including film, paperback, electronic, overseas publishing 
rights and sponsorship, is recognised on the delivery of the related content. 
– Revenue from database contracts is recognised in accordance with the stages of completion of contractual services 
provided. The degree of completion is calculated as a proportion of the content generated against the contractually 
agreed milestone, for example the number of words generated. Where the degree of completion of milestones cannot 
be reliably measured, revenue is only recognised in full on completion. 
– Revenue from management services contracts is recognised at the contractually agreed rate. 
– Revenue from e-book sales is recognised when content is delivered.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 81
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
h) Foreign currencies
I. Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the group entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). These consolidated financial 
statements are presented in sterling (£) as this is the most representative currency of the Group’s operations. All 
financial information presented in sterling has been rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise stated.
II. Transactions and balances
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the 
dates of the transactions. Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at closing rates of 
exchange at the statement of financial position date. 
Exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement within administration expenses.
III. Group companies
The results and financial position of all the group entities that have a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
– Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
– Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rates; and
– All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation 
reserve in equity. On disposal of a foreign entity these exchange differences are recycled to the profit and loss. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
i) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
I. Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in 
the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods 
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using 
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
II.  Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised 
for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised 
if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of 
other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be generated to 
allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled based upon tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting 
period. 
III. Current and deferred tax for the year
Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or 
charged directly to other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. 
j) Goodwill and other intangible assets
I. Goodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition of the business 
(see note 2f) above) less accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of 
cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 
A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
where there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is 
less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the 
unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss in the consolidated income statement. An 
impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. 
On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination 
of the profit or loss on disposal. 
II. Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 
Except for goodwill, intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis in profit and loss over their expected useful 
lives by equal annual instalments at the following rates:
 Publishing relationships   – 5%–20% per annum
 Imprints     – 3%–5% per annum
 Subscriber and customer relationships  – 6%–17% per annum
 Order backlog    – 33% per annum
 Product and systems development  – 20% per annum
 
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted prospectively 
if appropriate.
The separately acquired trademark for the name Bloomsbury Publishing Plc in the US is shown at historical cost and is 
subject to annual impairment reviews. The trademark is deemed to have an indefinite life due to the underlying stability 
of the industry in which it operates. 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 83
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
III. Product and Systems Development
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of systems, such as software products, are 
recognised as intangible assets. Likewise costs incurred in developing a product, typically an online platform, are 
recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, 
future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and use the 
asset.
k) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated in order to write down their cost less residual value using the straight-line 
method over their expected useful lives at the following rates: 
Short leasehold improvements  – over the remaining life of the lease
Furniture and fittings   – 10% per annum
Computer and other office equipment - – 20% per annum
Motor vehicles    – 25% per annum
Depreciation is pro-rated in the years of acquisition and disposal of an asset. The estimated useful lives, residual value and 
depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate 
accounted for on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected 
to arise from the continued use of the asset. The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined 
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income 
statement.
l) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At the end of each reporting period the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the 
asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of 
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher value of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the 
carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 
recognised immediately in profit or loss.  84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
m) Inventories
Inventories include paper, sheets and bound stock. The cost of work in progress and finished stock represents the amounts 
invoiced to the Group for paper, origination, printing and binding. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
n) Royalty advances to authors
Advances to authors are included within prepayments and accrued income and are written off to the extent that they are 
not covered by anticipated future sales or firm contracts for subsidiary rights receivable.
o) Provisions
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be 
estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. When 
a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present 
value of those cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material).
p) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group has become a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument. The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as below:
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is 
established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the 
original terms of the contractual arrangement. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will 
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and changes to debtor payment patterns are considered indicators that the 
trade receivable may be impaired. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank and other short-term deposits held by the Group, repayable 
on demand.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after 
deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
q) Operating leases
Operating leases are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the related asset are not 
transferred to the Group. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement as they fall due. Stamp duty is 
capitalised in leasehold improvements and depreciated over the life of the lease.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 85
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
r) Employee benefits
I. Defined contribution plans
Pension costs relating to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period 
for which related services are rendered by the employee. 
II. Defined benefit plans
Until 1997 a subsidiary company operated a defined benefit pension scheme. The liability in respect of the defined 
benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligations, calculated using the projected unit 
credit method at each balance sheet date by the scheme actuary, less the fair value of the scheme’s assets.
The current service cost, interest on scheme liabilities and all actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income 
statement.
III. Termination benefits
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense when the Group is demonstrably committed, without realistic 
possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan either to terminate employment before the normal retirement date, 
or to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
IV. Share-based payment transactions
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payment instruments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of equity-settled share-based payments is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest. 
Options granted under the Group’s share option schemes, Sharesave scheme and share appreciation rights scheme 
are equity settled. The fair values of such options have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model or a modified 
version of the same, based on publicly available market data. 
Awards granted under the Group’s performance share plan are equity settled. Due to the Total Shareholder Return 
performance condition that applies to half of any award granted under the plan, the fair value of awards has been 
calculated using the Monte-Carlo style stochastic model.
s) Employee share ownership plans
The Company operates an employee benefit trust and has de facto control of shares held by the trust and bears their 
benefits and risks. The Group records certain assets and liabilities of the trust as its own. Finance costs and administrative 
expenses are charged as they accrue.
t) Segmental reporting
Operating segments, which have not been aggregated, are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), regarded as the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The CEO views the Group primarily from a nature of business basis. This reflects the divisional performance of Adult, 
Children’s & Educational, Academic & Professional and Information down to the operating profit level. Segment results 
that are reported to the CEO include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a 
reasonable basis. 86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
u) Dividends
Dividend payments are recognised as liabilities once they are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of 
the Company.
v) Critical accounting estimates and judgments
Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
reasonable expectations of future events. The resultant estimates will, by definition, not necessarily equal the related actual 
results and may require adjustment in subsequent accounting periods. The estimates and assumptions that may cause a 
material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are:
Book returns
As books are returnable by customers, the Group makes a provision against books sold in the accounting period which is 
then carried forward and offset against trade receivables in the statement of financial position in anticipation of book 
returns received subsequent to the reporting period end. The provision is calculated by reference to historical returns 
rates and expected future returns.
Author advances
A provision is made by the Group against published title advances which may not be covered by anticipated future sales, 
paperback editions or contracts for subsidiary rights receivable. At the end of each financial year a review is carried out on 
all published titles advances. If it is unlikely that royalties from future sales, ebook sales, paperback sales or subsidiary rights 
will fully earn down the advance, a provision is made to the income statement for the difference between the carrying 
value and the anticipated recoverable amount from future earnings.
Inventory
At the end of each reporting period a review is carried out on all published titles where inventory is held. A provision is 
made by the Group against unsold inventory on a title by title basis, with regard to historical net sales and expected future 
net sales, to value the inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Impairment reviews
IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite life assets and, for finite life assets, to 
test for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be 
recoverable. The Group currently undertakes an annual impairment test covering goodwill and other indefinite life assets 
and also reviews finite life assets to consider whether a full impairment review is required. 
Intangible assets recoverability is an area involving management judgment, requiring assessment as to whether the 
carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using cash 
flow projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate. In calculating the net present value of the future cash 
flows, certain assumptions are required to be made. Note 12 details the assumptions used.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 87
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
3. Segmental analysis
On 1 March 2011, the Group reorganised its structure into four worldwide publishing divisions: Adult, Children’s & 
Educational, Academic & Professional and Information. These changes were made in order to align the Group’s structure 
with the increasing globalisation of the publishing business and the growing demand for digital content. These divisions 
are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information and the results for the period ended 28 February 
2011 have been restated accordingly. Segments derive their revenue from book publishing, sale of publishing and 
distribution rights, management and other publishing services.
The analysis by segment for continuing operations is shown below:
Year ended 29 February 2012
 
 
Adult 
£’000
Children’s & 
Educational
£’000
Academic & 
Professional
£’000
Information
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Total
£’000
External revenue 45,112 25,591 23,053 3,643 – 97,399
Cost of sales (21,920) (13,132) (6,250) (899) – (42,201)
Gross profit 23,192 12,459 16,803 2,744 – 55,198
Marketing and distribution costs (6,583) (4,104) (3,401) (69) – (14,157)
Contribution before 
administrative expenses 16,609 8,355 13,402 2,675 – 41,041
Administrative expenses 
excluding highlighted items (11,845) (6,073) (9,250) (1,816) – (28,984)
Operating profit before 
highlighted items 4,764 2,282 4,152 859 – 12,057
Intangible asset amortisation (60) (181) (1,142) (5) (211) (1,599)
Other highlighted items – – – – (2,046) (2,046)
Operating profit/(loss) 4,704 2,101 3,010 854 (2,257) 8,412
Finance income – – – – 160 160
Finance costs – – – – (108) (108)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 
– continuing operations 4,704 2,101 3,010 854 (2,205) 8,464
Taxation – – – – (1,367) (1,367)
Profit/(loss) for the year 
– continuing operations 4,704 2,101 3,010 854 (3,572) 7,097
       
Depreciation  243  138  29  1   –  411 
Capital expenditure  –   –   –   –  4,130  4,130
 
 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Period ended 28 February 2011 – Restated
 1, 2, 3
 
 
Adult 
£’000
Children’s & 
Educational
£’000
Academic & 
Professional
£’000
Information
£’000
Unallocated
£’000
Total
£’000
External revenue 47,995 26,096 16,226 2,827 – 93,144
Cost of sales (23,555) (12,615) (6,005) (373) – (42,548)
Gross profit 24,440 13,481 10,221 2,454 – 50,596
Marketing and distribution costs (7,836) (3,807) (2,722) (84) – (14,449)
Contribution before 
administrative expenses 16,604 9,674 7,499 2,370 – 36,147
Administrative expenses 
excluding highlighted items (13,033) (8,162) (5,783) (1,257) – (28,235)
Operating profit before 
highlighted items 3,571 1,512 1,716 1,113 – 7,912
Intangible asset amortisation (60) (101) (905) – (70) (1,136)
Impairment of non-current assets – – – – (969) (969)
Other highlighted items – – – – (655) (655)
Operating profit/(loss) 3,511 1,411 811 1,113 (1,694) 5,152
Finance income – – – – 403 403
Finance costs – – – – (49) (49)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 
– continuing operations 3,511 1,411 811 1,113 (1,340) 5,506
Taxation – – – – (1,311) (1,311)
Profit/(loss) for the period 
– continuing operations 3,511 1,411 811 1,113 (2,651) 4,195
       
Depreciation  364  206  43  2  –  615 
Capital expenditure –  –  –  –  1,219  1,219
 
1
 Restated following the change of the Group’s internal reporting structure from geographic to divisional. 
2
 Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b))
3
 Restated to reflect the change in classification of certain staff costs as administrative expenses (see note 2 b))
Total Assets
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Adult 8,611 13,775
Children’s & Educational 9,670 7,280
Academic & Professional 46,968 32,674
Information 61 124
Unallocated 81,063 89,865
Total assets 146,373 143,718
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
External sales by destination – continuing operations
Source
United 
Kingdom
£’000
North 
America
£’000
Australia
£’000
Total
£’000
Destination    
Year ended 29 February 2012    
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 52,509 – – 52,509
North America 2,581 23,487 – 26,068
Continental Europe 5,906 – – 5,906
Australasia 210 – 6,312 6,522
Far and Middle East 4,966 – – 4,966
Rest of the World 1,428 – – 1,428
Overseas countries 15,091 23,487 6,312 44,890
 67,60023,4876,31297,399
         
Fourteen months ended 28 February 2011 (Restated)* 
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 49,114 – – 49,114
North America 1,179 21,734 – 22,913
Continental Europe 7,522 – – 7,522
Australasia 4,332 – 965 5,297
Far and Middle East 5,066 – – 5,066
Rest of the World 3,232 – – 3,232
Overseas countries 21,331 21,734 965 44,030
 70,445 21,734 965 93,144
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b))
During the period sales to one customer exceeded 10% of Group revenue (2011: one). The value of these sales was 
£13,638,000 (2011: £11,953,000).
External continuing revenue by product and services: 
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February 2011
(Restated)
1
£’000
Print 78,878 83,030
Digital 5,872 2,600
Rights & Services
2
12,649 7,514
Total Revenue 97,399 93,144
1 
Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b)).
2 
Rights & Services revenue includes income from copyright and trademark licences, management contracts, advertising and publishing services income. 90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Analysis of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) by geographic location: 
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February 
2011
£’000
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 51,838 34,528
North America 3,934 3,575
Continental Europe – 101
Australia 11 2
Total 55,783 38,206
4. Operating profit
Operating profit for continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting) the following amounts:
Notes
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
£’000
Purchase of goods and changes in inventories 26,656 27,736
Auditor’s remuneration (see below) 389 475
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 411 615
Operating leases 991 1,402
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 –
Highlighted items (see below) 3,645 2,760
Advance provisions  17 5,191 3,668
Exchange loss/(gain) 181 (112)
Employee costs  6 20,518 20,013
 
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b)).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
Highlighted items
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
£’000
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,599 1,136
Impairment of goodwill – 969
Professional fees on acquisitions 237 25
Relocation of headquarters 447 196
Aborted acquisition costs 76 313
Restructuring costs 1,286 121
Highlighted items attributable to continuing operations 3,645 2,760
Highlighted items attributable to discontinued operation 980 689
Total highlighted items 4,625 3,449
 
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b)).
Highlighted items charged to operating profit comprise significant non-cash charges and non-recurring items which are 
highlighted in the income statement because, in the opinion of the Directors, separate disclosure is helpful in 
understanding the underlying performance of the business.
All continuing highlighted items are included in administrative expenses in the Income Statement.
Highlighted items attributable to discontinued operations of £980,000 relate to the loss on disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag 
GmbH of £1,023,000 and a write back of an over provision for restructuring costs of £43,000. The 2011 charge related to 
goodwill impairment and restructuring costs. 
Legal and other costs of £237,000 were incurred primarily in relation to the acquisition of Continuum International 
Publishing Group Limited, see note 9 (2011: £25,000 incurred in relation to the acquisition of Duckworth Academic). 
The Group incurred costs of £447,000 (2011: £196,000) relating to the relocation of its Head Office to Bedford Square in 
August 2011, including professional fees and additional rental expense while the new premises were refurbished.
Aborted acquisition costs of £76,000 (2011: £313,000) related to professional fees in connection with acquisition of a 
business which did not go ahead following the due diligence process.
Restructuring costs of £1,286,000 (2011: £121,000) have been incurred as a result of the strategic global reorganisation of 
the Bloomsbury Group and the acquisition of Continuum. 92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Cost of sales, marketing and distribution costs and administrative expenses for continuing operations are analysed below:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
£’000
Cost of sales:  
Cost of goods and rights sold 23,607 23,856
Inventory provision and write down 3,049 3,880
Royalty costs 15,545 14,812
 42,201 42,548
Marketing and distribution costs:
Marketing expenses 4,404 6,045
Distribution fees and commission 9,753 8,404
 14,157 14,449
Administrative expenses:
Staff costs 20,294 19,248
Other staff related expenses 977 799
Share-based payment charge 224 765
Depreciation 411 615
Premises costs 2,884 2,743
Professional fees 1,506 1,870
Editorial expenses 1,493 1,495
Insurance 483 487
Bad debt provision and write off 300 114
Exchange loss/(gain) 181 (112)
Other  231 211
 28,984 28,235
Highlighted items:
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,599 1,136
Impairment of goodwill – 969
Other highlighted items 2,046 655
 3,645 2,760
Total administration expenses 32,629 30,995
*  Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation and to reflect the change in classification of certain staff costs as 
administrative expenses (see note 2 b)).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
Amounts payable to Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP and its associates in respect of both audit and non-audit services are as follows:
Year ended 29 February 2012 14 months ended 28 February 2011
UK 
£’000
Overseas 
£’000
Total
£’000
UK 
£’000
Overseas 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor 
for the audit of parent company and 
consolidated financial statements 75 59 134 96 29 125
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor 
and its associates for other services:
  Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 
pursuant to legislation 111 10 121 93 13 106
 Other services pursuant to legislation:
 Interim review 43 – 43 100 – 100
Tax services
 Compliance 41 – 41 50 – 50
 Advisory 18 – 18 16 – 16
Other Services
 Relating to corporate finance transactions * 29 – 29 75 – 75
 317 69 386 430 42 472
Fees in respect of the defined benefit 
pension scheme
 Audit 3–3 3– 3
*  Costs in relation to the acquisition of Continuum of £27,000 are included under highlighted items (2011: £25,000). 94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5. Finance income and finance costs
 
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Finance income
Interest on bank deposits 117 380
Other interest receivable 23 –
Expected return on pension plan assets (see note 22) 20 23
 160 403
Finance costs
Interest cost on pension obligations (see note 22) 27 32
Interest on bank overdraft and loans 7 –
Other interest payable – 1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plan (see note 22) 74 16
 108 49
6. Staff Costs
Staff costs for continuing operations during the period were:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
£’000
Salaries 17,570 16,382
Social security costs 2,020 2,042
Pension costs (see note 22) 704 824
Share-based payment charge (see note 21) 224 765
 20,518 20,013
    
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
The average monthly number of employees during the period was:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012 
Number
14 months ended
28 February
2011
(Restated)*
Number
Editorial, production and selling 339 229
Finance and administration 62 76
 401 305
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b))
Staff costs are charged to administrative expenses. 
The Group considers key management personnel as defined under IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to be the Directors of 
the Company and those Directors of the major geographic regions and departments who are actively involved in strategic 
decision making. 
Full details concerning Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 70.
Total emoluments for Directors and other key management personnel were:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 4,165 3,568
Post-employment benefits 154 245
Share-based payments 177 552
 4,496 4,365
  96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
7. Taxation
a) Tax charge for the period
 
 
Year ended 29 February 2012
 
Notes
Continuing 
operations
£’000
Discontinued 
operation
£’000
Total
£’000
Current taxation    
UK corporation tax    
 Current year 788 – 788
 Adjustment in respect of prior years (293) – (293)
Overseas taxation 
 Current year 202 52 254
 Adjustment in respect of prior years 118 – 118
  815 52 867
Deferred tax  15 
UK  
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 317 – 317
 Tax rate adjustment  (96) – (96)
Overseas 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 331 – 331
  552 – 552
Total taxation expense 1,367 52 1,419
14 months ended 28 February 2011 (Restated)*
Current taxation 
UK corporation tax 
 Current period 1,757 – 1,757
 Adjustment in respect of prior years (55) – (55)
Overseas taxation 
 Current period 33 – 33
  1,735–1,735
Deferred tax  15 
UK  
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 – 4
Overseas 
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (428) 680 252
  (424) 680 256
Total taxation expense 1,311 680 1,991
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b))
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 26.17% 
(2011: 28%). The reasons for this are explained below:
 
Year ended 
29 February 2012 
14 months ended 
28 February 2011
(Restated)*
£’000 % £’000 %
Profit before taxation 8,464 100.00 5,506 100.00
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate 
of corporation tax in the UK of 26.17% (2011: 28%) 2,215 26.17 1,542 28.00
Effects of: 
 Non-deductible revenue expenditure 18 0.21 (27) (0.49)
 Non-qualifying depreciation 17 0.20 34 0.62
 Share-based payment transactions 73 0.86 150 2.73
 Movement in unrecognised temporary differences (223) (2.63) ––
 Different rates of tax in foreign jurisdictions 232 2.74 (13) (0.24)
 Tax losses utilised –– (207) (3.75)
 Movement in deferred tax rate (note 15(a)) (96) (1.13) (95) (1.73)
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior periods
 Current tax (175) (2.07) (55) (1.00)
 Deferred tax (83) (0.98) (5) (0.09)
Tax charge for the period before highlighted and other 
non-recurring items 1,978 23.37 1,324 24.05
Highlighted and other non-recurring items:
 Disallowable costs incurred on acquisitions, abortive  
 acquisitions and moving head office 82 0.97 143 2.60
 Impairment of goodwill –– 271 4.92
 Recognition of deferred tax asset on US tax losses not  
 previously recognised –– (427) (7.76)
 Utilisation of overseas losses in the UK (693) (8.19) ––
Tax charge for the period 1,367 16.15 1,311 23.81
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b)) 98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
c) Factors affecting tax charge for future years
The UK current tax rate will be reduced from 26% to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012, in line with previously substantively 
enacted legislation. The rate applying to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities has also been reduced to 25%, creating a rate 
adjustment, which is partly reflected in the consolidated income statement and partly in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
The proposed reduction of 1% per annum that will result in a standard rate of 24% at 1 April 2012 has not yet been 
substantively enacted. If these reductions had been enacted by 29 February 2012 the effect would have been to reduce 
the net deferred tax liability as at 29 February 2012 from £1,401,000 to £1,297,000. Of this reduction it is estimated that 
£114,000 would be credited to the consolidated income statement and £10,000 charged to the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
 
d) Tax effects of components of other comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
Before tax 
2012
£’000
Tax charge 
2012
£’000
After tax 
2012
£’000
Before tax 
2011
£’000
Tax charge 
2011
£’000
After tax 
2011
£’000
Exchange differences on translating 
foreign operations 365 – 365 (353) – (353)
Deferred tax on share based payments –1111 – (26) (26)
Recycling of cumulative currency 
translation reserve on disposal (985) – (985) –––
Other comprehensive income (620) 11 (609) (353) (26) (379)
8. Dividends
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Amounts paid in the period  
Prior period second interim 3.91p dividend per share paid in the period (2011: nil) 2,825 –
Prior period final 0.28p dividend per share paid in the period (2011: 3.65p) 202 2,698
Interim 0.89p dividend per share paid in the period (2011: 0.81p) 643 598
 3,670 3,296
Amounts arising in respect of the period
Interim 0.89p dividend per share for the period (2011: 0.81p) 643 598
Second interim of nil dividend per share for the period (2011: 3.91p) – 2,825
Proposed 4.31p final dividend per share for the period (2011: 0.28p) 3,114 202
 3,757 3,625
The proposed final dividend of 4.31p per ordinary share will be paid to the equity shareholders on 25 September 2012 to 
shareholders registered on 31 August 2012. It is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has 
not been included as a liability in the financial statements. The ex-dividend date is 29 August 2012.
The second interim dividend in the prior year was payable due to a 14 month extended period.
 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
9. Acquisitions
The Continuum International Publishing Group Limited
On 9 July 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of The Continuum International Publishing Group Limited 
(“Continuum”) for a cash consideration of £18,048,000. The acquisition has been accounted for by the acquisition 
method of accounting. Bloomsbury’s strategy has been to increase its proportion of academic and professional revenues 
compared to trade revenues through retail channels. Academic revenues are more predictable and have a lower 
related cost of sale resulting in higher margins. Around 60% of Continuum’s sales are outside the UK thereby increasing 
Bloomsbury’s presence to the global book market.
The table below summarises the book values of the major categories of assets and liabilities of Continuum at the date of 
acquisition by the Group and their fair values included in the consolidated financial statements at that date.
 
Net assets acquired
Book value
£’000
Alignment of 
accounting 
policy
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Total fair 
value to the 
Group
£’000
Identifiable intangible assets – – 6,352 6,352
Property, plant and equipment 68 – – 68
Inventories 3,276 (200) – 3,076
Trade and other receivables 4,048 (209) – 3,839
Cash and cash equivalents 916 – – 916
Net deferred tax liability – – (286) (286)
Payables and provisions (2,677) – (1,550) (4,227)
 5,631 (409) 4,516 9,738
Goodwill 8,310
Cash consideration 18,048
Cash consideration above excludes the settlement of management bonuses (which are included in the fair value 
adjustments for payables and provisions above) and loan notes held by Continuum, which were paid by the Group as part 
of the transaction on behalf of the vendor. Including these outflows, total cash outlay in relation to the acquisition was 
£20,070,000. The table below summarises the net outlay in respect of the acquisition:
 
£’000
Purchase of shares 18,048
Management bonus and loan notes 2,022
Cash acquired (916)
Net cash outlay 19,154
 
Identifiable intangible assets of £6,352,000 consist of publishing rights of £5,720,000 and imprints of £632,000. The 
publishing rights have a useful life of 15 years and imprints 20 years. The goodwill arising of £8,310,000 is attributable to the 
expected profitability of the acquired business and the synergies expected to arise after the acquisition. 
Transaction costs of £235,000 have been expensed in the period within highlighted items (see note 4). 
From 9 July 2011 revenue of £7,113,000 and profit attributable to equity shareholders of £825,000 has been included in the 
consolidated income statement in relation to Continuum. 
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 March 2011 the revenue and profit attributable to shareholders of the combined entity 
from continuing operations for the current reporting period would have been £101,149,000 and £7,126,000 respectively. 
These amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The information is provided for comparative 
purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of 
future results of operations of the combined companies. 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Absolute Press
On 1 September 2011 the Group acquired the trade and assets of Absolute Press Limited for a cash consideration of 
£450,000. Goodwill of £80,000 and publishing rights of £173,000 were recognised on acquisition in the consolidated 
statement of financial position. 
10. Discontinued Operation
On 28 February 2012 the Group contracted to sell its German subsidiary Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH to Pendo 
Betilligungsgesellschaft mbH, a subsidiary of Bonnier AB, for a cash consideration of 2,600,000 (£2,158,000). The disposal 
was subject to the approval of the German competition authorities. The risks and rewards of ownership passed to Bonnier 
AB as at 28 February 2012 and approval was virtually certain to be given by the German competition authorities given the 
size and nature of the business sold. This is supported by approval being granted in March 2012. Given that the chances of 
not receiving approval were considered to be remote, the sale has been treated in the financial statements as completing 
on 28 February 2012.
The sale of this segment was accompanied by the sale for 1,800,000 (£1,500,000) of German language rights in relation to 
Bloomsbury trade publications and the use of the Bloomsbury Berlin and associated brands for a period of three years to 
Piper Verlag, another subsidiary of Bonnier AB, and this sale has been included within continued operations. The decision 
to sell this segment followed a strategic decision to focus on English language publishing. 
The subsidiary was not a discontinued operation or classified as held for sale at 28 February 2011. The comparative 
statement of comprehensive income has been re-presented to show the discontinued operation separately from 
continuing operations. 
Results of discontinued operation
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Revenue 5,818 10,254
Expenses excluding highlighted items (8,510) (10,851)
Results from operating activities before highlighted items (2,692) (597)
Highlighted items 43 (689)
Results from operating activities (2,649) (1,286)
Taxation – (680)
Results from operating activities net of tax (2,649) (1,966)
Loss on sale of discontinued operation (1,023) –
Taxation on sale of discontinued operation (52) –
Loss for the period (3,724) (1,966)
Loss per share – discontinued operation
Basic loss per share (5.14)p (2.66)p
Diluted loss per share (5.01)p (2.66)p
 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
The effect of the disposal on the financial position of the Group is as follows:
Year ended
29 February
2012
£’000
Property, plant and equipment (102)
Inventories (1,600)
Trade and other receivables (2,933)
Cash and cash equivalents (10)
Trade and other payables 815
Net assets and liabilities (3,830)
Total consideration 2,158
Net assets disposed (3,830)
Foreign exchange recycled to the income statement on disposal 985
Transaction expenses (336)
Net loss on disposal (1,023)
Consideration receivable, to be satisfied in cash 2,158
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of (10)
Net cash inflow 2,148
 The cash consideration was received in March 2012. 
Cash flows used in the discontinued operation
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Net cash used in operating activities (404) (2,097)
Net cash from investing activities (39) (27)
Net cash flows for the period (443) (2,124)
11. Earnings per share
The basic earnings per share for the year ended 29 February 2012 is based on a weighted average number of Ordinary 
Shares in issue of 72,387,195 (2011: 73,844,724) after deducting 1,457,529 (2011: 88,760) shares held by the Employee Benefit 
Trust.
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
(Restated)*
2011
£’000
Profit for the period from continuing operations
1
7,097 4,195
Loss for the period from discontinued operation
1
(3,724) (1,966)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
1
3,373 2,229 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Year ended
29 February
2012
Number
14 months ended
28 February
2012
(Restated)*
Number
Weighted average shares in issue 72,387,195 73,844,724
Dilution
2
2,003,022 –
Diluted weighted average shares in issue 74,390,217 73,844,724
Basic earnings per share 4.66p 3.02p
From continuing operations 9.80p 5.68p
From discontinued operation (5.14)p (2.66)p
Diluted earnings per share 4.53p 3.02p
From continuing operations 9.54p 5.68p
From discontinued operation (5.01)p (2.66)p
Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent
3
 (£’000) 9,870 6,596
Adjusted basic earnings per share 13.63p 8.93p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 13.27p 8.93p
* Restated to reflect the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation (see note 2 b))
1
 Profit and earnings per share values are stated after tax
2
 The dilution is in respect of unexercised share options and the performance share plan
3
 Adjusted profit is post-tax earnings generated by continuing operations before taking account of highlighted items 
12. Goodwill
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February 
2011
£’000
Cost  
At start of period 31,465 31,517
Acquisitions 8,897 28
Revision of cost* – (33)
Disposals (1,531) –
Exchange differences 37 (47)
At end of period 38,868 31,465
Impairment
At start of period 5,801 4,264
Impairment – 1,532
Disposals (1,531) –
Exchange differences (12) 5
At end of period 4,258 5,801
Net book value
At end of period 34,610 25,664
At start of period 25,664 27,253
* This represents the cancellation of a consultancy invoice on the 2004 acquisition of Walker Publishing.
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is subject to annual impairment reviews. Any impairment losses are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
Impairment testing
The recoverable amount of the Group’s goodwill has been considered with regard to value in use calculations. These 
calculations use pre-tax future cash flow projections of each cash generating unit (“CGU”) based on the Board’s approved 
budgets for the year ended 28 February 2013, extrapolated forecasts for subsequent years up to 2017 and include a 
terminal value based on the projections for the final year of that forecast with a long term growth rate applied.
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to the following CGUs:
 
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February 
2011
£’000
A&C Black 14,164 14,164
Continuum 8,310 –
Bloomsbury Professional 5,579 5,579
Other 6,557 5,921
Total 34,610 25,664
 
The remaining goodwill balance of £6,557,000 (2011: £5,921,000) is allocated across multiple CGUs with no individual CGU 
exceeding 10% of the Group’s goodwill balance. Each CGU represents a separate business operation acquired.
The key assumptions for calculating value in use are:
 Discount rates Revenue Growth
Long term 
growth rate
 
 
2012
%
2011
%
2012
%
2011
%
2012
%
2011
%
A&C Black 9.6 10.5 4.2 3.5 2.0 3.5
Continuum 9.6 – 4.4 – 2.0 –
Bloomsbury Professional 9.1 9.5 4.5 4.0 2.0 4.0
Other UK business units 8.6–9.6 9.5–10.5 4.0–5.0 4.0 2.0 4.0
Other US business units 10.1–10.6 10.3–11.3 4.0 5.0 2.0 5.0–5.5
Discount rates
The discount rates applied to the cash flows are calculated using a pre-tax rate based on the weighted average cost of 
capital “WACC” for the Group. This is adjusted for risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates. The Group has 
considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining appropriate discount rates. 
Growth Rates
Growth rates have been calculated on those applied to the one year Board approved budget and incorporate future 
expectations of growth in backlist revenues and identified new revenue streams. The Directors feel the growth rates, 
although higher than long term industry averages, are justifiable on the basis of past performance and the history of 
growth in the Group.
Long term growth rates
The five year forecasts are extrapolated to perpetuity on the basis that the relevant CGUs are long established business 
units and the useful lives of these CGUs were assessed at acquisition as twenty years or greater. 
Gross margin
Gross margins have been based on historic performance and expected changes to the sales mix in future periods.  104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sensitivity
For the John Wisden CGU the recoverable amount calculated as value in use exceeded the carrying value by £227,000. A 
0.5% worsening of all the key assumptions would cause the value in use to fall below the carrying value. 
The Group has not identified any reasonably possible changes to key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of 
goodwill of any other CGU to exceed its recoverable amount. 
13. Other intangible assets
 
Publishing 
relationships
£’000
Trademarks
£’000
Imprints
£’000
Subscriber 
and 
customer 
relationships
£’000
Order 
backlog
£’000
Product 
and systems 
development
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 4,846 111 2,413 3,626 141 – 11,137
Acquisitions 849 – 81 – – – 930
Additions 693 – 60 – – 684 1,437
Exchange differences 1 – –– –– 1
At 28 February 2011 6,389 111 2,554 3,626 141 684 13,505
Acquisitions 5,943 – 632 – – – 6,575
Additions – – – – – 1,595 1,595
Exchange differences 6 2 –– –– 8
At 29 February 2012 12,338 113 3,186 3,626 141 2,279 21,683
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 471 – 110 152 59 – 792
Charge for the period 594 – 108 350 55 29 1,136
At 28 February 2011 1,065 – 218 502 114 29 1,928
Charge for the year 925 – 114 300 27 233 1,599
Exchange differences 3 – – – – – 3
At 29 February 2012 1,993 – 332 802 141 262 3,530
Net book value
At 29 February 2012 10,345 113 2,854 2,824 – 2,017 18,153
At 28 February 2011 5,324 111 2,336 3,124 27 655 11,577
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
14. Property, plant and equipment
 
 
Short 
leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Furniture 
and fittings
£’000
Computers 
and other 
office 
equipment
£’000
Motor 
vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost     
At 1 January 2010 1,664 466 2,018 179 4,327
Additions 176 2 383 – 561
Disposals – – (1) (22) (23)
Exchange differences – – (11) – (11)
At 28 February 2011 1,840 468 2,389 157 4,854
Additions 2,202 108 268 – 2,578
Acquired through business combinations – 1 67 – 68
Disposals (1,651) (192) (1,305) (31) (3,179)
Exchange differences – – (1) – (1)
At 29 February 2012 2,391 385 1,418 126 4,320
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 1,397 315 1,413 141 3,266
Charge for the period 264 40 314 37 655
Disposals – – (1) (22) (23)
Exchange differences – – (9) – (9)
At 28 February 2011 1,661 355 1,717 156 3,889
Charge for the period 120 34 282 12 448
Disposals (1,649) (190) (1,155) (42) (3,036)
Exchange differences – – (1) – (1)
At 29 February 2012 132 199 843 126 1,300
Net book value
At 29 February 2012 2,259 186 575 – 3,020
At 28 February 2011 179 113 672 1 965
£37,000 (2011: £40,000) of the depreciation charge is attributable to discontinued operations. The continuing operations 
depreciation charge of £411,000 (2011: £615,000) was charged in administrative expenses.  106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
15. Deferred tax
a) Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using the tax rate appropriate to the jurisdiction in which the 
asset or liability arises and the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled. 
Movement in temporary differences during the period:
 
 
Tax losses 
£’000
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
£’000
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£’000
Share-based 
payments
£’000
Intangible 
assets
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 881 73 18 335 (1,933) 357 (269)
(Charge)/credit to the 
income statement (310) (40) (1) – (337) 432 (256)
Charge to other 
comprehensive income – – – (26) – – (26)
Exchange differences (42) – – – – – (42)
Reallocation 809 – (1) (19) – (789) –
At 28 February 2011 1,338 33 16 290 (2,270) – (593)
Recognised on 
acquisition 1,298 62 – – (1,651) 6 (285)
(Charge)/credit to the 
income statement (1,292) (112) 40 (31) 313 530 (552)
Credit to other 
comprehensive income – – – 11 – – 11
Exchange differences 14 – – – – 4 18
Reallocation 118 – – – – (118) –
At 29 February 2012 1,476 (17) 56 270 (3,608) 422 (1,401)
Due to changes in the statutory tax rate in the UK, deferred tax is provided at 25% (2011: 27%) which is the rate that has 
been substantively enacted to apply from 1 April 2012. The impact of the change in tax rate is a credit of £92,000 (2011: 
£96,000), of which a credit of £96,000 has been recognised in the deferred tax charge in the income statement and the 
remainder recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets in respect of losses are only recognised to the extent that it is anticipated they will be utilised in the 
foreseeable future.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
b) The analysis for financial reporting purposes is as follows:
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Deferred tax assets 2,336 1,583
Deferred tax liabilities (3,737) (2,176)
(1,401) (593)
 
c) Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
The Group had deferred tax assets not recognised in the financial statements as follows:
 
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Unused tax losses 1,677 1,443
Non trading losses 600 –
 2,277 1,443
These deferred tax assets are recoverable against available taxable profits of the same type or from the same trades in 
future years. They have not been recognised in the financial statements as it is not sufficiently certain that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
The gross tax losses on which no deferred asset has been recognised were £6,708,000 (2011: £4,745,484). This relates to tax 
losses for certain subsidiaries in the UK. These losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At 29 February 2012 the Group has non-trading losses of approximately £2,400,000 (2011: nil). A deferred tax asset has not 
been recognised in respect of non-trading losses carried forward as it is not clear whether non-trading income against 
which the losses may be offset will arise in the Group in the foreseeable future. 
 
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where the Group controls the timing of remittance and 
it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
16. Inventories
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Raw materials 160 370
Work in progress 5,636 4,940
Finished goods for resale 14,388 13,024
 20,184 18,334
 
 The cost of inventories recognised as cost of sales amounted to £23,607,000 (2011: £24,942,000). 
The provision and write down of inventories to net realisable value recognised in cost of sales amounted to £3,049,000 
(2011: £4,796,000). 108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
17. Trade and other receivables
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Gross trade receivables 28,897 28,635
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (655) (745)
Less: provision for returns (4,704) (6,512)
Net trade receivables 23,538 21,378
Income tax recoverable 437 –
Other receivables 1,238 191
Prepayments and accrued income 30,218 27,150
Total trade and other receivables 55,431 48,719
 
As at 29 February 2012 £2,510,000 (2011: £2,067,000) of prepayments and accrued income are expected to be recovered 
after more than 12 months.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values. The 
Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks is disclosed in note 23. Trade receivables principally comprise amounts 
receivable from the sale of books due from distributors. The average number of days’ credit taken for sales of books by the 
Group was 102 (2011: 96 days).
The majority of trade debtors are secured by credit insurance, third party distributors and letters of credit.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is made with reference to specific debts, past default experience, trading 
history and the current economic environment. Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables 
are as follows:
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
At start of period 745 1,044
Amounts utilised (167) (470)
Assumed in a business combination 69 –
Removed through disposal (37) –
Amounts created 45 171
At period end 655 745
 
A provision for the return of books by customers is made with reference to the historic rate of returns. Movements on the 
Group provision for returns are as follows:
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
At period start 6,512 6,505
Amounts utilised (6,703) (11,053)
Amounts released (1,624) –
Assumed in a business combination 487 –
Removed through disposal (389) –
Exchange adjustments 47 (19)
Amounts created 6,374 11,079
At period end 4,704 6,512
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
Prepayments and accrued income includes net advances. A provision is held against gross advances payable in respect of 
published titles advances which may not be fully earned down by anticipated future sales, paperback editions or contracts 
for subsidiary rights receivable. Movements on the Group provision for advances are as follows:
Year ended
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Amounts utilised (5) (1,682)
Assumed in a business combination 1,383 –
Removed through disposals (7,440) –
Exchange adjustments (70) (273)
Amounts created 5,191 3,668
Net movement in provision (941) 1,713
 
18. Trade and other payables
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February 
2011
£’000
Non-current  
Other payables 341 467
Current 
Trade payables 11,259 9,156
Taxation and social security 407 353
Other payables 1,598 961
Accruals 16,602 16,068
Deferred income 2,235 2,582
Total current payables 32,101 29,120
Total trade and other payables 32,442 29,587
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs. Non-current other 
payables represent the authors’ share of rights receivable falling due after more than one year. 110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
19. Provisions
 
 
 
Property
£’000
Contingent 
consideration
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 March 2011 –––
Assumed in a business combination 120 – 120
Created in the year 55 507 562
Utilised in the year (18) – (18)
At 29 February 2012 157 507 664
Non-current – 507 507
Current 157 – 157
The properties provision includes amounts provided for onerous lease commitments and dilapidations. The timing of cash 
flows for onerous leases commitments are dependent on the terms of the remaining leases.
The Group acquired Oxford International Publishers Limited (t/a Berg Publishers) in 2008. The contingent consideration 
arrangement is based on average revenues for the Berg Fashion element of the business and is payable based on results for 2014 
and 2015. The maximum potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Group could be required to make under 
the contingent consideration arrangement is £1,000,000, of which £507,000 has been recognised at 29 February 2012.
20. Share capital and other reserves
Share Capital
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Authorised:  
98,459,604 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each 
(2011: 91,688,948 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each) 1,231 1,146
Allotted, called up and fully paid:  
73,844,724 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each 
(2011: 73,844,724 Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each) 924 924
 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries equal voting rights and no contractual right to receive 
payment. No shares are held by the Company as Treasury shares. Directors and other employees of the Group have been 
granted options to purchase 2,713,519 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £33,919 (note 21).
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve arose on the purchase by the Company of its own shares and comprises the amount by 
which the distributable profits were reduced on these transactions. 
Share-based payment reserve
The share based payment reserve comprises cumulative amounts charged in respect of employee share-based payment 
arrangements which have not yet been settled by means of an award of shares to an individual. 
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial information 
of foreign operations.
Retained earnings
The retained earnings reserve comprises profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company and other items 
recognised directly through equity as presented on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust
The Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) is an independent discretionary trust established to acquire issued shares of the Company 
to satisfy any of the share based incentive schemes (see note 21) and plans of the Company. All employees of the Group are 
potential beneficiaries of the EBT. The results and net assets of the EBT are included in the financial statements of the Group. 
The market value of the 1,600,610 shares of the Company held at 29 February 2012 (2011: 88,760) in the EBT was £1,948,000 
(2011: £106,000). Whilst the trustee has power to subscribe for Ordinary Shares and to acquire Ordinary shares in the 
market or from treasury, it is not permitted to hold more than five per cent of the issued share capital without prior 
approval of the shareholders.
As at the date of signing this Annual Report, the Trust held 1,600,610 ordinary shares of 1.25 pence being approximately 2.2% 
of the issued ordinary share capital. The Trust made the following purchases of the Company’s shares during the year:
Date of transaction
Shares 
purchased 
Number
Price per 
share
28 March 2011 35,000 £1.27
31 March 2011 615,000 £1.31
4 April 2011 10,000 £1.31
5 April 2011 185,000 £1.32
6 April 2011 27,500 £1.31
7 April 2011 639,350 £1.32
Total share purchases 1,511,850
 
21. Share-based payments
Options over shares of the ultimate parent undertaking, Bloomsbury Publishing Plc, have been granted to employees of 
the Group under various schemes.
The total share based payment charge for the year is £255,000 (2011: £804,000), of which £31,000 (2011: £39,000) relates to 
the discontinued operation Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH.
a) The 1994 Approved Executive Share Option Schemes (“Approved 1994 ESOS”)
All Approved 1994 ESOS options outstanding at 29 February 2012 and 28 February 2011 have vested. No options have been 
granted under the scheme since 1994. 
Grants under the Approved 1994 ESOS were made on an annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of 
options being not less than the higher of the nominal value of an Ordinary Share and the average middle market 
quotation of an Ordinary Share for the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer of options under the Scheme. If 
options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of the grant or if (except in certain circumstances) the 
employee leaves the Group, the options lapse. 
 
 
Scheme options
2012
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price 
2012
Pence
Scheme options
2011
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2011
Pence
Outstanding at period start 165,000 200 659,398 207
Lapsed (127,440) 204 (494,398) 209
Outstanding at period end 37,560 186 165,000 200
Exercisable at period end 37,560 186 165,000 200
  112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2012 2011
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (pence) 178.7–249.5 143.5–249.5
Weighted average remaining contracted life (months) 15 9
Expense recognised for the period (£’000) – –
         
b) The Bloomsbury Performance Share Plan 2005 (“the PSP”)
The Group operates the PSP for Directors and senior employees. Awards under the scheme are granted as a nil-priced 
option. The number of Ordinary Shares comprised in an award is calculated using a share value equal to either the average 
middle-market price of the Ordinary Share for the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date or the middle-
market price on the dealing day before the award date. 
The vesting period is three years and the level of vesting is subject to the achievement of Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) and 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance conditions approved by the Remuneration Committee. For details of the 
performance conditions see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 70. Awards are not exercisable after the 
vesting date and awards that vest on the vesting date are automatically exercised. Except in certain circumstances awards 
lapse if the employee leaves the Group.
 
2012
Number
2011
Number
Outstanding at period start 2,545,981 2,374,644
Granted during the period 1,136,758 961,299
Exercised – (307,723)
Lapsed (1,261,971) (482,239)
Outstanding at period end 2,420,768 2,545,981
Exercisable at period end – –
 
2012 2011
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (pence) – –
Weighted average remaining contracted life (months) 22 16
Expense recognised for the period (£’000) 249 760
The share options granted in the year to 29 February 2012 have been measured by New Bridge Street Consultants using 
the Monte-Carlo style stochastic model:
Performance condition Increase in EPS over RPI Total Shareholder Return
Share price 97.25 pence 97.25 pence
Exercise Price – –
Expected term 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility n/a 28.20%
Performance condition discount n/a n/a
Risk Free Interest Rate n/a 0.40%
Fair Value charge per award 97.25 pence 63.78 pence
The expected volatility was based on Bloomsbury’s share price volatility over the period prior to grant equal in length to 
the expected three year life. Half of each award is subject to an EPS performance condition (which is not factored into the 
valuation). Half of each award is subject to a Total Shareholder Return condition whereby performance is compared to the 
FTSE Mid 250 companies (excluding Investment Trusts) over a three year period from the date of grant. A median ranking 
results in 35% of shares subject to this performance condition vesting, rising to 100% for an upper quartile ranking. The 
discount for this TSR condition is calculated at the date of grant using the “Monte-Carlo” model.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
c) Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan 2005
The Group operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved savings related share option scheme under which employees 
are granted options to purchase Ordinary Shares in the Company in three, five or seven years’ time, dependent upon 
their entering into a contract to make monthly contributions to a savings account over the period of the savings term. The 
Sharesave Plan is open to all UK employees.
 
 
 
Sharesave 
options
2012
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2012
Pence
Sharesave 
options
2011
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2011
Pence
Outstanding at period start 76,191 116 113,282 125
Granted 177,948 98 ––
Lapsed (78,948) 115 (37,091) 143
Outstanding at period end 175,191 98 76,191 116
Exercisable at period end – – 1,096 148
 
2012 2011
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (pence) 98.18 115.6–148.2
Weighted average remaining contracted life (months) 32 10
Expense recognised for the period (£’000) 6 45
         
d) 2006 Share Appreciation Rights Scheme (“SAR Scheme”)
SAR Scheme awards provide participants the right to buy a number of Company shares at their nominal value. The awards 
have an exercise price which is set at the time of granting the awards. The number of shares that can be acquired is equal 
to the excess of the market price of the Company’s shares at date of exercise over the exercise price for the award. SAR 
awards are exercisable for four years after the vesting date subject to satisfying an Earnings per Share condition at the date 
of exercise.
 
 
 
SAR Scheme 
Awards
2012
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2012
Pence
SAR Scheme 
Awards
2011
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2011
Pence
Outstanding at period start 120,000 301 146,792 278
Lapsed (40,000) 250 (26,792) 174
Outstanding at period end 80,000 327 120,000 301
Exercisable at period end 80,000 327 120,000 301
 
2012 2011
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (pence) 315.25–337.8 249.5–337.9
Weighted average remaining contracted life (months) 14 18
Expense recognised for the period (£’000) – –
  114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
e) 2007 Unapproved Employee Share Option Scheme (“2007 ESOS”) 
Awards under the 2007 ESOS were granted as options to be exercised up to 3 years from the date of grant subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee. 
 
 
 
Scheme 
Awards
2012
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2012
Pence
Scheme 
Awards
2011
Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
2011
Pence
Outstanding at period start 16,000 176 88,760 212
Lapsed (16,000) 176 (72,760) 220
Outstanding at period end – – 16,000 176
Exercisable at period end – – 16,000 176
2012 2011
Range of exercise price of outstanding options (pence) – 175.5
Weighted average remaining contracted life (months) – 2
Expense recognised for the period (£’000) – –
22. Post-employment benefits
Pension costs
The pension costs charged to the income statement of £704,000 (2011: £824,000) relate to the Group’s defined 
contribution and defined benefit pension arrangements. 
Defined contribution plans
The Group operates defined contribution retirement benefit plans for all qualifying employees.
The total cost charged to income of £684,800 (2011: £802,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by  
the Group at rates specified in the rules of the schemes. At 29 February 2012 there were no prepaid contributions  
(28 February 2011: £12,000).
Defined benefit plan
A subsidiary company operates a defined benefit scheme for some staff which is accounted for in accordance with IAS 19. 
Accrual of benefits ceased in 1997, with the scheme now operated as a closed fund. There is no obligation in respect of 
medical costs. A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 1 January 2010 and updated to 29 February 2012 by a qualified 
independent actuary.
At the date of the last completed independent actuarial valuation, which was 1 January 2010, the market value of the assets 
of the scheme was £388,000. The actuary advised that at that date the actuarial valuation of the assets of the scheme was 
sufficient to cover 76% of the benefits that had accrued to members. The scheme is actuarially valued every three years. 
The next valuation of the scheme will be as at 1 January 2013.
Contributions are paid by the employer at the rate of £1,600 per month, plus expenses as and when required. 
Contributions paid to the scheme during the year were £19,200 (fourteen months to 28 February 2011: £22,000). The 
Directors’ best estimate of the contribution to be paid for in the year ending 28 February 2013 is £19,200. 
The Group’s policy is to fund the deficit in the scheme by additional contributions to meet the scheme’s commitment to 
members.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
The financial assumptions used by the actuary for the update were as follows:
 
 
29 February
2012
28 February
2011
31 December
2009
31 December
2008
31 December
2007
Rate of increase in salaries Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
(LPI) 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
Discount rate 4.50% 5.50% 5.70% 6.30% 5.90%
Inflation assumption 3.10% 3.50% 3.50% 2.90% 3.20%
Expected return on plan assets * 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.80%
* The expected return on plan assets has been determined by reference to the scheme’s current investment strategy.
The scheme is closed and there are no active paying members, therefore no increases in payments have been applied. The 
assumptions used are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale 
covered, may not necessarily occur in practice.
Mortality rate assumptions follow the PnxA00 table with long cohort improvements subject to a minimum 1.0% per annum 
improvement. The mortality assumptions adopted at the end of the reporting period imply the following remaining life 
expectancies at age 65:
29 February 
2012
Life expectancy 
at age 65
28 February
2011
Life expectancy
at age 65
Male currently aged 45 25.3 25.2
Female currently aged 45 27.7 27.6
Male currently aged 65 23.3 23.2
Female currently aged 65 25.8 25.7
 
The amounts recognised in income in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Interest cost (27) (32)
Expected return on scheme assets 20 23
Actuarial losses (74) (16)
 (81) (25)
 
Of the total charge, £101,000 (2011: £48,000) and £20,000 (2011: £23,000) were included in finance costs and finance 
income respectively.  116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligation in respect of the defined 
benefit pension scheme is as follows:
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Fair value of assets (with profit policy) 411 421
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (568) (516)
Retirement benefit obligations (net liability) (157) (95)
Deferred taxation 39 17
 (118) (78)
Analysis for reporting purposes
Non-current liabilities (157) (95)
Deferred tax assets 39 17
 
Movements in the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities in the period were as follows:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
At period start (516) (480)
Interest cost (27) (32)
Benefits paid 50 16
Actuarial losses (75) (20)
At period end (568) (516)
Movements in the present value of scheme assets in the period were as follows:
Year ended 
29 February 
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
At period start 421 389
Expected return on scheme assets 20 22
Actuarial gains 1 4
Employer contributions 19 22
Benefits paid (50) (16)
At period end 411 421
The actual return on scheme assets was £21,000 (2011: gain of £27,000).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
31 December
2009
£’000
31 December
2008
£’000
31 December
2007
£’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (568) (516) (480) (514) (548)
Fair value of scheme assets 411 421 389 496 471
Deficit in scheme (157) (95) (91) (18) (77)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets
Amount (£’000) 1 4 (28) (9) 4
Percentage of scheme assets 0.2% 1.0% (7.0)% (2.0)% 1.0%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities
Amount (£’000) (4) 6 1 (4) 9
Percentage of the scheme liabilities (0.8)% 1.0% – (1.0)% 2.0%
 
23. Financial instruments and risk management
Capital management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while 
maximising the return to shareholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business. In order to maintain or 
adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders and issue new shares. The 
Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from 2011.
The capital structure of the Group comprises equity attributable to owners of the parent, comprising issued capital, 
reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and note 20. 
Categories of financial instruments 
Note
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Loans and receivables   
Cash and cash equivalents  12,639 36,876
Trade receivables     17 23,538 21,378
Accrued Income 5,985 -
Rights income receivable 795 1,167
Total loans and receivables 42,957 59,421
Financial liabilities 
Trade payables     18 11,259 9,156
Other payables 2,005 961
Other payables due in more than one year 18 341 467
Accruals     18 16,602 16,068
Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost * 30,207 26,652
Net financial instruments 12,750 32,769
* These amounts also represent the contractual cash payments due.
There is no material difference between the fair value and book value of financial assets and liabilities.  118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial risk management
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management 
framework. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets 
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance from the key risks of market risk 
(including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. 
The Board has approved the Group Treasury policies and procedures by which the Group Treasury function is to be 
managed, headed by the Group Finance Director and part of Bloomsbury’s Finance Department, it operates under a 
delegated authority from the Board. 
The treasury management policies and procedures focus on the investment of surplus operating cash likely to be needed 
in order to support Bloomsbury’s on-going operations, foreign currency requirements and interest rate risk management. 
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. The policies are reviewed at least on an annual basis 
by the Group Finance Director and any amendments approved by the Board. The Board is assisted in its oversight role 
by Internal Audit, who undertakes regular reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are 
reported to the Audit Committee. 
a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to 
manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. 
The Group’s activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in 
interest rates. The Group incurs costs in the same currencies as it earns revenue creating some degree of natural hedging.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to 
minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Risk management is carried out by Group 
Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group Treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets so as 
to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk managements, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as 
funding, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
(i)  Interest rate risk
The Group has significant interest bearing assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents; as such cash flows are 
dependent on changes in market interest rates. 
The Group maintains a low risk stance to investing surplus cash balances and does not allow speculative trading or 
investment and invests surplus funds only in investments that meet certain criteria which include the following:
 ✶ Invest utilising permitted instruments as authorised by the Board
 ✶ Are held at a permitted institution
 ✶ Have a defined maximum maturity date which is no longer than twelve months unless a UK Government bond
 ✶ Are denominated in sterling, euro, US dollars or AUS dollars
 ✶ Pay interest at a fixed, floating or discount rate
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
Interest rate profile of financial assets
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Variable rate instruments 12,639 12,300
Fixed rate instruments – 24,576
 12,639 36,876
 
Fixed rate instruments are short-term bank deposits with a maturity date range of one day to one month. Variable rate 
instruments are cash at bank. The average rate of interest during the year was 0.9% (2011: 1.08%). The Group had no 
interest-bearing financial liabilities at 29 February 2012 or 28 February 2011.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Therefore a change in 
interest rates at 29 February 2012 would not affect profit or loss. 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The Group derived the following sensitivities to assess the impact of changes in interest rates, based on the effect of the 
market volatility in the current climate and the previous 12 months. The analysis assumes all other variables remain 
constant. 
 
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Impact on profit or loss 
1% increase in base rate of interest (2011: 1%) 126 369
0.5% decrease in base rate of interest (2011: 0.5%) (117) (184)
There would be no equity impact.
(ii)  Currency risk
The Company believes in its current circumstances that the Group’s risk from foreign currency exposure is limited and no 
active currency risk management by hedging is considered necessary, as a significant proportion of revenues are matched 
by expenditure in the same local currency creating some degree of natural hedging.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
 Loans and receivables Financial Liabilities
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
GBP 26,438 48,584 24,377 19,480
USD 9,705 6,775 3,061 2,479
   3,927 3,010 – 2,715
AUD 2,887 1,052 2,769 1,978
Total 42,957 59,421 30,207 26,652
 
No significant amounts of loans and receivables or financial liabilities are denominated in currencies other than sterling, US 
dollars, Euros and Australian dollars. 120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
The Group derived the following sensitivities based on the outstanding foreign currency denominated financial assets and 
liabilities at the period end. The sensitivity analysis includes loans to foreign operations within the Group where the 
denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the functional currency of the lender or the borrower. 
The use of a 10% sensitivity rate has been determined based on the effect of the market volatility in exchange rates 
between the current and previous period end, and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible 
change in foreign exchange rates. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or equity. 
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Impact on equity  
10% increase in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (581) (386)
10% decrease in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 706 471
10% increase in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (351) (27)
10% decrease in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 451 33
10% increase in AUS dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (11) 85
10% decrease in AUS dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 13 (104)
Impact on profit or loss
10% increase in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (29) (46)
10% decrease in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 35 55
10% increase in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (22) (29)
10% decrease in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 29 36
10% increase in AUS dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) – –
10% decrease in AUS dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) – –
The Group’s sensitivity has increased in the current period due to the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH (functional 
currency ) and the acquisition of The Continuum Publishing Group Inc (functional currency USD). 
b) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s trade and rights income receivables. 
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The amounts presented in the statement 
of financial position are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on the 
trading experience and the current economic environment. An analysis of the relevant provisions is set out in note 17.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings as assigned by 
international credit-rating agencies.
The Group determines its concentration of credit risk based on the individual characteristics of its customers and publicly 
available knowledge of specific circumstances affecting those customers. The Group defines counterparties as having 
similar characteristics if they are related entities. 
The Group has a significant concentration of credit risk due to its use of third party distributors. Credit limits for the final 
customers are set by the distributors for customers based on a combination of payment history and third party credit 
references. Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis in conjunction with debt ageing and collection history. The 
distributors belong to established international groups whose business includes a number of publishing interests and 
clients. The Group’s risk is limited as significant amounts outstanding through the UK distributors are secured by credit 
insurance and letters of credit. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
c) Liquidity risk
The Directors do not consider that the Group currently has an exposure to liquidity risk, as the Group has no borrowing 
and has sufficient cash deposits to meet its debts as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
Cash flow budgets and forecasts are prepared by the operating entities of the Group, aggregated for the Group and 
regularly reviewed by the Board, and the actual cash position of the Group and each entity is compared monthly against 
budget. This allows management to ensure that each operating entity and the Group have sufficient cash to meet 
operational needs. Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above the balance required for working capital 
management is invested in interest bearing accounts and money market deposits. 
During the year the Group negotiated a banking facility with Lloyds Bank. It includes an unsecured revolving credit facility 
repayable on demand. At 29 February 2012 the Group had at its disposal £12 million of undrawn borrowing facilities  
(2011: nil) comprising a £10m committed revolving credit facility and a £2m overdraft. The overdraft facility is due 
for review in September 2012 and the loan facility matures in July 2016. The facility is subject to two covenants being a 
maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio and a minimum interest cover covenant.
The Group’s financial liabilities are trade payables, accruals and other payables, as shown above. Apart from the identified 
other payables due after one year, all financial liabilities are due within one year.
24. Operating leases
At 29 February 2012 the Group had the following outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February 
2011
£’000
Within one year 1,165 949
Later than one year and less than five years 2,905 2,731
After more than five years 2,274 3,050
 6,344 6,730
 
The operating leases represent rentals payable by the Group for certain office properties, vehicles and equipment. The 
lease terms over properties are for an average of eleven years. The lease at the headquarters in Bedford Square is for a 
period of twenty years with an option to break the lease at the tenth year. The operating leases over vehicles are in respect 
of company cars driven by certain employees. The lease terms are for an average of three years. The operating leases over 
equipment are in respect of office equipment. The lease terms are for an average of three years.
25. Commitments and contingent liabilities
a) Capital commitments
29 February 
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 214 1,285
Intangible assets 125 250
 339 1,535
  122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
b) Other commitments
The Group is committed to paying royalty advances to authors under publishing contracts during subsequent financial 
years. At 29 February 2012 this commitment amounted to £15,360,000 (2011: £15,115,000).
c) Guarantees
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have guarantees in place relating to the Group’s borrowing facilities, see note 23c). 
The Group entered into a promissory note and guarantee for the acquisition of Fairchild Book; see note 27.
26. Related party transactions
The Group has no related party transactions other than key management remuneration as disclosed in note 6. 
27. Post balance sheet events
On 2 April 2012 the Group acquired the trade and assets of Fairchild Books, a business unit of Advance Magazine Publishers 
Inc, for a cash consideration of $6,500,000 (£4,063,000) payable in three equal annual instalments commencing at 
completion. Fairchild Books, based in New York, is a market-leading publisher of textbooks and educational resources for 
students of fashion, merchandising, retailing and interior design and will become part of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc’s 
Academic & Professional division. 
As part of the acquisition, Bloomsbury Publishing Inc. entered into a promissory note and guarantee to pay to Advance 
Magazine Publishers Inc. $4,333,334 in two annual instalments to satisfy the outstanding consideration on this acquisition. 
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc guaranteed the payment of this amount on behalf of its subsidiary.
28. Investments in subsidiary companies
The principal subsidiary companies at 29 February 2012 are:
 
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion 
of equity 
capital held
Nature of 
business 
during 
the year
Subsidiary undertakings held directly by Bloomsbury Publishing Plc:
A.& C. Black Plc England 100% Intermediate 
holding company
Bloomsbury Publishing Inc USA 100% Publishing 
Bloomsbury Information Limited England 100% Publishing
Bloomsbury Professional Limited England 100% Publishing
Bloomsbury Australia PTY Limited Australia 100% Publishing
The Continuum International Publishing Group Limited England 100% Publishing
Subsidiary undertakings held through a subsidiary company:
A & C Black Publishers Limited England 100% Publishing
Christopher Helm (Publishers) Limited England 100% Publishing
Oxford International Publishers Limited t/a Berg Publishers England 100% Publishing
Berg Fashion Library Limited England 100% Publishing
John Wisden & Co Limited England 100% Publishing
The Continuum International Publishing Group Inc USA 100% Publishing
 
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 29 February 2012 will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed at 
Companies House in accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 29 FEBRUARY 2012 COMPANY NUMBER 1984336
 
 
 
 
Notes
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Assets   
Intangible assets 31 1,857 1,271
Property, plant and equipment 32 2,771 546
Investments in subsidiary companies 33 54,237 36,189
Deferred tax assets 34 286 280
Trade and other receivables 36 11,211 12,128
Total non-current assets 70,362 50,414
 
Inventories 35 4,389 3,029
Trade and other receivables 36 39,594 23,863
Cash and cash equivalents 7,755 29,010
Total current assets 51,738 55,902
Total assets 122,100 106,316
 
Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 34 109 –
Other payables 37 341 465
Total non-current liabilities 450 465
 
Trade and other payables 37 34,711 19,954
Current tax liabilities 618 148
Total current liabilities 35,329 20,102
Total liabilities 35,779 20,567
Net assets 86,321 85,749
 
Equity  
Share capital 38 924 924
Share premium 38 39,388 39,388
Other reserves 38 3,460 3,219
Retained earnings 38 42,549 42,218
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 86,321 85,749
The Company financial statements on pages 123 to 135 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue 
on 15 June 2012.
Nigel Newton Wendy Pallot
Director Director 124
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE OWNERS OF THE COMPANY
 
 
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium 
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings 
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 922 39,388 20 2,393 51,915 94,638
Loss for the period – – – – (6,188) (6,188)
Other comprehensive income
  Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – (26) (26)
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – (6,214) (6,214)
Transactions with owners
 Share buy back and cancellation (2) – 2 – (187) (187)
 Share options exercised 4 – – – – 4
 Dividends to equity holders of the Company – – – – (3,296) (3,296)
 Share-based payment transactions – – – 804 – 804
Total transactions with owners of the 
Company 2 – 2 804 (3,483) (2,675)
Balance at 28 February 2011 924 39,388 22 3,197 42,218 85,749
Profit for the year ––––3,9813,981
Other comprehensive income
  Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – 11 11
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 3,992 3,992
Transactions with owners
 Dividends to equity holders of the Company – – – – (3,661) (3,661)
 Share-based payment transactions – – – 255 – 255
 Share options cancelled – – – (14) – (14)
Total transactions with owners 
of the Company – – – 241 (3,661) (3,420)
Balance at 29 February 2012 924 39,388 22 3,438 42,549 86,321  125
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2012
 
Year ended
29 February
2012
£’000
14 months ended
28 February
2011
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax 4,224 (4,700)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 257 418
Amortisation of intangible assets 309 73
Investment impairment – 7,452
Share-based payment charges 122 348
Finance income (376) (605)
Finance costs 1 –
 4,537 2,986
Increase in inventories (1,360) (817)
Increase in trade and other receivables (12,726) (2,052)
Increase in trade and other payables 14,807 4,481
Cash generated from operations 5,258 4,598
Income taxes received/(paid) 156 (2,076)
Net cash generated from operating activities 5,414 2,522
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,482) (372)
Purchase of businesses (18,048) -
Purchases of intangible assets (895) (1,344)
Interest received 429 599
Net cash used in investing activities (20,996) (1,117)
Cash flows from financing activities
Share options exercised – 4
Share buy back – (187)
Purchase of Shares by the Employee Benefit Trust (2,008) –
Equity dividends paid (3,661) (3,296)
Interest paid (4) –
Net cash used in financing activities (5,673) (3,479)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (21,255) (2,074)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 29,010 31,084
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 7,755 29,010 126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
29. Reporting entity
Bloomsbury Publishing PLC (the ‘Company’) is a Company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of the 
Company’s registered office can be found on page 136. The Company is primarily involved in the publication of books and 
other related services.
30. Significant accounting policies 
a) Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations adopted by the European Union 
(“EU”) at the time of preparing these financial statements and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The reporting period was changed in the prior year to a February year end to allow for improved access to shareholders 
and analysts during the interim and final reporting season. As a result of this change the comparative amounts presented 
in the financial statements are for a fourteen month period to 28 February 2011 and are not directly comparable to the 
current twelve month financial year.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company accounting policies are consistent with the Group policies set out in note 2 of the consolidated financial 
statements. Key additional policies are stated below. 
b) Parent company result
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to 
present the Company income statement or statement of comprehensive income. The Company’s profit for the year was 
£3,981,000 (2011: loss of £6,188,000 for the 14 month period).  
c) Use of estimates and judgments
The preparation of the Company financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgments, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgments and areas 
where the use of estimates is significant are disclosed in note 2 v) for the Group and are applicable for the Company.
d) Application of new and amended standards and interpretations
The following amendments to existing standards have been adopted by the Company for the year ended 29 February 
2012 and have not had a material impact on the Company.
 ✶ IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2010). The IFRIC addresses the accounting for issues of equity instruments in order to settle, in full or in part, a 
financial liability.
 ✶ IFRIC 14 (amended) ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’ 
(effective 1 January 2011) – Amendment; Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement. The amendment permits 
the benefit of early payment of contributions paid to cover minimum funding requirements to be treated as an asset.
 ✶ IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011). The revised 
standard simplifies the disclosure requirements for government-related entities, requires commitments outstanding at 
the balance sheet date to be disclosed and clarifies the definition of a related party.
 ✶ Amendments to various IFRSs and IASs arising from the IASB’s annual improvements projects
COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES 127
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
The Directors have considered the impact of new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on 
the Company that are currently endorsed but not yet effective. They have not been adopted early by the Company nor 
are they expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
e) Investment in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less accumulated impairment in the statement of financial position. 
Investments are reviewed at each reporting date to assess whether there are any indicators of impairment. Any 
impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the period they occur.
f) Share based payments
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payment instruments to certain employees of the Group. Equity-settled 
share-based payment transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant 
date of equity-settled share-based payments is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.  
Options granted under the Company’s share option schemes, sharesave scheme and share appreciation rights scheme 
are equity settled. The fair values of such options have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model or a modified 
version of the same, based on publicly available market data. 
Awards granted under the Company’s performance share plan are equity settled. Due to the Total Shareholder Return 
performance condition that applies to half of any award granted under the plan, the fair value of awards has been 
calculated using the Monte-Carlo style stochastic model.
The Company recharges a share of the share based payment charge to subsidiaries. This recharge is made via 
intercompany. 128
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
31. Intangible assets
 
 
Publishing
relationships
£’000
Systems 
development
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost   
At 1 January 2010 – – –
Additions 660 684 1,344
At 28 February 2011 660 684 1,344
Additions – 895 895
At 29 February 2012 660 1,579 2,239
 
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 – – –
Charge for the period 44 29 73
At 28 February 2011 44 29 73
Charge for the year 132 177 309
At 29 February 2012 176 206 382
 
Net book value
At 29 February 2012 484 1,373 1,857
At 28 February 2011 616 655 1,271
The amortisation charge of £309,000 (2011: £73,000) is included in administration expenses in the period.
32. Property, plant and equipment
 
 
Short 
leasehold
improvements
£’000
Furniture
and fittings
£’000
Computers
and other
office
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost    
At 1 January 2010 1,634 452 1,115 3,201
Additions 176 1 195 372
At 28 February 2011 1,810 453 1,310 3,573
Additions 2,202 106 174 2,482
Disposals (1,634) (195) (885) (2,714)
At 29 February 2012 2,378 364 599 3,341
 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 1,372 312 925 2,609
Charge for the period 262 37 119 418
At 28 February 2011 1,634 349 1,044 3,027
Charge for the year 119 31 107 257
Disposals (1,634) (195) (885) (2,714)
At 29 February 2012 119 185 266 570
 
Net book value
At 29 February 2012 2,259 179 333 2,771
At 28 February 2011 176 104 266 546
The depreciation charge of £257,000 (2011: £418,000) is included in administrative expenses in the period.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 129
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
33. Investment in subsidiary companies
 £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2010 53,116
Revisions of cost* (33)
At 28 February 2011 53,083
Additions 18,048
Disposals (7,452)
At 29 February 2012 63,679
 
Impairment
At 1 January 2010 9,442
Charge for the period 7,452
At 28 February 2011 16,894
Disposals (7,452)
At 29 February 2012 9,442
 
Net book value
At 29 February 2012 54,237
At 28 February 2011 36,189
* Revisions of cost represent the cancellation of a consultancy invoice on the 2004 acquisition of Walker Publishing. 
The additions in the financial year ending 29 February 2012 represent the investment in The Continuum International 
Publishing Group Limited. A list of subsidiaries is set out in note 28.
34. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using the tax rate appropriate to the jurisdiction in which the 
asset or liability arises and the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled. 
Movement in temporary differences during the period:
 
 
Property,
plant and
equipment 
£’000
Retirement
benefit
obligation
£’000
Share based
payments
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2010 22 – 322 22 366
Charge to the income statement (40) – (19) (1) (60)
Charge to other comprehensive income – – (26) – (26)
At 28 February 2011 (18) – 277 21 280
(Charge)/credit to the income statement (90) 7 (31) – (114)
Credit to other comprehensive income – – 11 – 11
Reallocation (1) 9 13 (21) –
At 29 February 2012 (109) 16 270 – 177
Due to changes in the statutory tax rate in the UK, deferred tax is provided at 25% (2011: 27%) which is the rate that has 
been substantively enacted to apply from 1 April 2012. The impact of the change in tax rate is a charge of £14,000  
(2011: £10,000), of which £17,000 has been recognised in the deferred tax charge in the income statement and the 
remainder recognised in other comprehensive income. 130
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The analysis for financial reporting purposes is as follows:
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Deferred tax assets 286 280
Deferred tax liabilities (109) –
 177 280
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries where the Group controls the timing of remittance and 
it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
35. Inventories
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Raw materials 10 9
Work in progress 1,910 1,043
Finished goods for resale 2,469 1,977
 4,389 3,029
The cost of inventories recognised as cost of sales amounted to £8,984,000 (2011: £9,642,000).
The provision and write down of inventories to net realisable value recognised in cost of sales amounted to £863,000  
(2011: £1,051,000).
36. Trade and other receivables
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Non-current   
Amounts owed by group undertakings 11,211 12,128
 
Current 
 Gross trade receivables 17,716 10,605
 Less: provision for impairment of receivables (576) (219)
 Less: provision for returns (2,121) (2,211)
Net trade receivables 15,019 8,175
Amounts owed by group undertakings 6,472 4,764
Other receivables 3,197 309
Prepayments and accrued income 14,906 10,615
Total current receivables 39,594 23,863
Total trade and other receivables 50,805 35,991
Non-current amounts owed by group undertakings represent loan balances due from subsidiary companies. These loans 
are technically repayable on demand; however there is no intention to demand repayment of the loans within the next 
twelve months. As at 29 February 2012, £2,511,000 (2011: £2,067,000) of prepayments and accrued income are expected to 
be recovered after more than 12 months.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 131
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values. The 
Company’s exposure to credit and currency risks is disclosed in note 40. Trade receivables principally comprise amounts 
receivable from the sale of books due from distributors. The average number of days’ credit taken for sales of books by the 
Company was 167 days (2011: 92 days). The reason for the increase is due to the streamlining of the business whereby all UK 
trade debtors are being recorded in one sales ledger in the Company.
Movements on the Company provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
At start of period 219 388
Amounts utilised (167) (268)
Transferred from subsidiaries 364 –
Amounts created 160 99
At period end 576 219
Movements on the Company provision for book returns are as follows:
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
At start of period 2,211 2,143
Amounts utilised (2,324) (2,499)
Transferred from subsidiaries 570 –
Amounts created 1,664 2,567
At period end 2,121 2,211
Prepayments and accrued income includes net advances of £9,495,000 (2011: £9,101,000). A provision is held against gross 
advances payable in respect of published titles advances which may not be fully earned down by anticipated future sales, 
paperback editions or contracts for subsidiary rights receivable. The net advance is included within prepayments and 
accrued income. Movements on the Company provision for advances are as follows:
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Amounts utilised – (2)
Amounts created 2,425 876
Net movement in advances 2,425 874 132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
37. Trade and other payables
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Non-current  
Other payables 341 465
 
Current 
Trade payables 5,621 4,391
Amounts owed to group undertakings 17,304 5,050
Taxation and social security 411 199
Other payables 1,280 663
Accruals 10,095 9,651
Total current trade and other payables 34,711 19,954
Total trade and other payables 35,052 20,419
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs. Non-current other 
payables represent the authors’ share of rights receivable falling due after more than one year.
38. Share capital and other reserves
For details of share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, share-based payment reserve and retained 
earnings see note 20. For details on the Company profit for the year see note 30 b).
For details of dividends see note 8.
39. Share based payments
Options over shares of the Company have been granted to employees of the Company and Group under various 
schemes. The full share based payment disclosures can be found in note 21. The Company incurred a charge of £255,000 
(2011: £804,000) in the year in relation to share based payments. Of this amount £133,000 (2011: £456,000) was recharged to 
subsidiaries of the Company.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 133
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
40. Financial instruments and risk management
Full disclosures relating to the Group’s financial risk management strategies and other financial assets and liabilities are 
given in the Financial Instruments section of the Directors’ report and note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Categories of financial instruments 
 
 
 
 
 
Note
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Loans and receivables   
Cash and cash equivalents 7,755 29,010
Amounts owed by group undertakings 36 17,683 16,892
Trade receivables 36 15,019 8,175
Accrued Income 3,847 –
Rights income receivable 779 882
Total loans and receivables 45,083 54,959
 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 37 5,621 4,391
Accruals 37 10,095 9,651
Other payables 1,691 663
Amounts owed to group undertakings 37 17,304 5,050
Other payables due in more than one year 37 341 465
Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost * 35,052 20,220
Net financial instruments 10,031 34,739
* These amounts represent the contractual cash payments due.
a) Market risk
(i) Interest rate risk
Interest rate profile of financial assets
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Variable rate instruments 7,755 4,434
Fixed rate instruments – 24,576
 7,755 29,010
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The Company derived the following sensitivities to assess the impact of changes in interest rates, based on the effect of the 
market volatility in the current climate and the previous 12 months. The analysis assumes all other variables remain 
constant. 
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Impact on profit or loss  
1% increase in base rate of interest (2011: 1%) 78 369
0.5% decrease in base rate of interest (2011: 0.5%) (39) (184)
There would be no impact on equity. 134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(ii) Currency risk
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
 
 
 
 
Loans and receivables Financial Liabilities
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
GBP 40,737 54,136 35,052 20,218
USD 415 506 – 2
 3,927 314 – –
AUD 4 3 – –
Total 45,083 54,959 35,052 20,220
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
The Company derived the following sensitivities based on the outstanding foreign currency denominated financial assets 
and liabilities at the period end. 
The use of a 10% sensitivity rate has been determined based on the effect of the market volatility in exchange rates 
between the current and previous period end, and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible 
change in foreign exchange rates. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or equity. 
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Impact on profit or loss  
10% increase in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (29) (46)
10% decrease in US dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 35 55
10% increase in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) (22) (29)
10% decrease in Euro fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) 29 36
10% increase in AUS dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) – –
10% decrease in AUS dollar fx rate against pound sterling (2011: 10%) – –
There would be no impact on equity.
b) Credit risk 
The Company has a significant concentration of credit risk due to its use of third party distributors. Credit limits for the final 
customers are set by the distributors for customers based on a combination of payment history and third party credit 
references. Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis in conjunction with debt ageing and collection history. The 
distributors belong to established international groups whose business includes a number of publishing interests and 
clients. The Company’s risk is limited as significant amounts outstanding through the UK distributors are secured by credit 
insurance and letters of credit. 
c) Liquidity risk
During the year the Group negotiated a banking facility with Lloyds Bank. At 29 February 2012 the Group had at its disposal 
£ 12 million of undrawn borrowing facilities (2011: nil) comprised of a £10m revolving credit facility and a £2m overdraft. 
The overdraft facility will be reviewed in September 2012 and the loan facility matures in July 2016. The facility is subject to 
two covenants being a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio and a minimum interest cover covenant.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 135
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW COMPANY INFORMATION
41. Operating leases
At 29 February 2012 the Company had the following outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Within one year 692 516
Later than one year and less than five years 2,520 1,922
After more than five years 2,274 3,050
 5,486 5,488
The operating leases represent rentals payable by the Company for certain office properties, vehicles and equipment, see 
note 24 for further details.
42. Commitments and contingent liabilities
a) Capital commitments
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 214 1,285
Intangible assets 125 250
 339 1,535
b) Other commitments
The Company is committed to paying royalty advances to authors under publishing contracts during subsequent financial 
years. At 29 February 2012 this commitment amounted to £10,031,000 (2011: £8,678,000).
c) Guarantees
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have guarantees in place relating to the Group’s borrowing facilities, see 
note 40 c).
43. Related Parties
Trading transactions
During the period the Company entered into the following transactions and had the following balances with its 
subsidiaries:
 
 
 
29 February
2012
£’000
28 February
2011
£’000
Sale of goods to subsidiaries 4,449 750
Management recharges 1,074 1,659
Commission payable from subsidiaries 249 204
Finance income from subsidiaries 289 293
Amounts owed by subsidiaries at period end 17,683 16,892
Amounts owed to subsidiaries at period end 17,304 5,050
Commission payable was based on the Group’s usual list prices. All amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled 
in cash. No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by subsidiaries. 
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note 6. 136
COMPANY INFORMATION
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
COMPANY INFORMATION
Directors 
Executive Directors
Nigel Newton – Founder and Chief Executive
Richard Charkin – Executive Director
Wendy Pallot – Finance Director
Independent Non-executive Directors
Jeremy Wilson – Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Ian Cormack – Senior Independent Director
Sarah Jane Thomson – Independent Non-Executive Director
  
Company Secretary
Michael Daykin FCIS, FCA
  
Registered Office
50 Bedford Square
London WC1B 3DP
020 7631 5600
Registered number 
01984336 (England & Wales)
  
Auditor
 Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP
25 Farringdon Street
London EC4A 4AB
  
Bankers 
Lloyds Bank
25 Gresham Street, 
London 
EC2V 7HN
  
Stockbrokers and Financial Advisers 
Investec Investment Banking
2 Gresham Street
London 
EC2V 7QP
  
Registrars 
Capita Registrars Limited
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU   137
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
COMPANY INFORMATION
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Continuing revenue  
£m
12
97.4
11*
93.1
77.5
09 08
88.2
140.8
07
 
 
2007
£’000
2008
£’000
2009
£’000
2011*
£’000
2012
£’000
Revenue 
Continuing 140,771 88,166  77,531  93,144  97,399 
Discontinued 9,440  11,782  9,686  10,254  5,818 
Total 150,211  99,948  87,217  103,398  103,217 
Adjusted profit
†
Continuing 17,608  11,826  8,410  8,266  12,109 
Discontinued 283  20  (699) (597) (2,692)
Total 17,891  11,846  7,711  7,669  9,417 
Continuing adjusted basic EPS
‡
 15.82p  10.85p  8.02p  8.93p  13.63p 
Dividend per share 4.00p 4.22p 4.43p 5.00p 5.20p
Net assets 100,069  113,672  112,684  111,844  109,180
Net cash 47,558  51,908  35,036  36,876  12,639 
Continuing adjusted 
profit
†
  £m
12.1
8.3
8.4
11.8
17.6
12 11* 09 08 07
Continuing adjusted 
basic EPS
‡
  Pence
13.63
8.93
8.02
10.85
15.82
12 11* 09 08 07
Dividend per share 
Pence
5.20
5.00
4.43
4.22
4.00
12 11* 09 08 07
*  2011 is in respect of the 14 month period ended 28 February 2011. Prior years are in respect of the 12 months ended 31 
December. The current year is in respect of the year ended 29 February 2012.
† Adjusted profit is profit before taxation, amortisation of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and other highlighted items.
‡ Continuing adjusted basic EPS is calculated from continuing adjusted profit with tax normalised.  The comparatives have been 
restated for the classification of Bloomsbury Verlag GmbH as a discontinued operation. 138
COMPANY INFORMATION
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
To Bloomsbury Shareholders and, for information only, to the holders of share options and awards 
under the Company’s share incentive schemes
This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
1.  If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice 
immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, fund manager or other appropriate 
independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
2. If you sell or have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, you should send this document together with the 
accompanying Form of Proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other 
agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or the transferee.
Dear Shareholder
The 2012 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Bloomsbury Publishing PLC (the “Company”) is to be held at 50 Bedford 
Square, London WC1B 3DP on Monday 23 July 2012 at 12 noon. The formal notice convening the AGM is set out on pages 
141 to 144 below.
Information regarding the AGM, including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 (the 
“Act”), is available from www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk.
The AGM is an important opportunity for the Directors to listen to the Shareholders and respond to their questions. It is also 
when Shareholders are asked to vote in favour of various resolutions related to the running and management of the 
Company. Therefore below are explanatory notes relating to the resolutions that you will be asked to consider and vote on 
at the AGM. Resolutions 1 to 7 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 8 to 10 will be proposed as special 
resolutions.
As at 12 noon on the date of this notice, the Company’s issued share capital comprised 73,844,724 Ordinary Shares of 1.25 
pence each (subject to any changes which will be notified to you at the beginning of the AGM). Each Ordinary Share 
carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the 
Company as at 12 noon on the date of this notice is 73,844,724.
As a Shareholder, you are entitled to attend and vote but, if you are not able to attend, then you may appoint one or more 
proxies to attend, speak and vote on your behalf. 
As your vote is important to us, whether or not you intend to come to the AGM, you are asked to return the form of proxy 
enclosed with this document. Completing the form of proxy will not prohibit Shareholders from attending, and voting at, 
the AGM in person.
The Ordinary Business to be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting
Resolutions 1 to 3 (ordinary resolutions): The audited report and accounts of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc and a final 
dividend of 4.31 pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 29 February 2012 are recommended by the Board for 
approval.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, which includes details of the remuneration earned by, and paid to, the Directors in 
respect of the year ended 29 February 2012, is also recommended to the Shareholders for approval.
EXPLANATION OF THE 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 139
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
COMPANY INFORMATION
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Resolutions 4 and 5 (ordinary resolutions): In accordance with Article 78.1 of the Articles of Association of the Company, 
one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation are required to retire at the AGM. Richard Charkin (who 
was last re-appointed as a Director at the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2010) and Sarah Jane Thomason 
(who was last re-appointed as a Director at the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2011) will retire at the AGM 
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. The Board has appraised the performance of each director falling 
due to retire by rotation and recommends the reappointment of Richard Charkin and Sarah Jane Thomason.
Resolutions 6 (ordinary resolution): The Board recommends that the incumbent external auditor, Baker Tilly UK Audit 
LLP, is re-appointed for a further year so that they are able to audit the Company’s report and accounts for the year ending 
28 February 2013 and the Board proposes that it be authorised to determine the level of the auditors’ remuneration.
The Special Business to be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting
Resolution 7 – authority to allot Ordinary Shares (ordinary resolution): This replaces the general authority, last given 
at the Company’s annual general meeting held on 11 August 2011, for the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares. This 
resolution, if passed, would give the Directors the authority to allot up to 24,614,880 Ordinary Shares of 1.25 pence with a 
nominal value of £307,686, representing approximately 33.33% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the 
date of this notice.
This authority, if granted, will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Company’s next annual general meeting and 15 
months from the date of passing this resolution. The Board has no present intention of exercising this authority granted by 
this resolution and intends to seek its renewal at subsequent annual general meetings of the Company. 
As at the date of signing the Directors Report for the 2012 Annual Report, the Directors have beneficial holdings of Ordinary 
Shares in the Company which in aggregate amount to approximately 2.0% of the Ordinary Shares in issue. The Directors 
have been granted conditional share awards under the Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Performance Share Plan 2005 and 
options granted under the Bloomsbury Sharesave Plan 2005 that if they were to fully vest would entitle the Directors to 
further Ordinary Shares which in aggregate would amount to approximately 2.1% of the Ordinary Shares in issue. 
Resolution 8 – disapplication of statutory pre-emption provisions (special resolution): This resolution, which will be 
proposed as a special resolution, authorises the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares for cash without first offering them, pro 
rata, to existing Shareholders. 
The maximum nominal value of new Ordinary Shares which may be so allotted under this authority is £46,152 or 3,692,160 
Shares of 1.25 pence being equivalent to approximately 5% of the entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
at date of this notice. This authority would expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Company’s next annual general 
meeting and 15 months from the date of passing this resolution.
Resolution 9 – authority for the Company to purchase Ordinary Shares (special resolution): With the authority of 
Shareholders in general meeting, the Company is empowered by the Articles of Association to purchase Ordinary Shares 
subject to the provisions of the Act. The Directors believe it is prudent to seek general authority from Shareholders to be 
able to act if circumstances arose in which they considered such purchases to be desirable. The Directors have no current 
intention to exercise the authority granted by this resolution and it will only be exercised if and when, in the light of market 
conditions prevailing at that time, the Directors believe that such purchases would increase earnings per share and would 
be for the benefit of Shareholders generally. 
This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, authorises the Company to purchase its own Ordinary Shares 
and either, depending on the circumstances at the time and subject to the provisions of the Act, to hold these as treasury 
shares or to cancel them. This authority would, if granted, expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Company’s next 
annual general meeting and 15 months from the date of passing this resolution. 140
COMPANY INFORMATION
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Company would be authorised to make market purchases of up to 7,384,472 Ordinary Shares of 1.25 pence with a 
nominal value of £923,059, being equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury 
shares) of the Company at the date of this notice. The maximum price (exclusive of expenses) shall be not more than 5% 
above the average market value of the Company’s equity shares for the 5 business days prior to the day the purchase is 
made. The minimum price (exclusive of expenses) that may be paid shall be the nominal value of an Ordinary Share (1.25 
pence).
Resolution 10 – Approval that a general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice (special 
resolution): In terms of the Act, the notice period for general meetings (other than an AGM) is 21 clear days’ notice unless 
the Company (i) has gained shareholder approval for the holding of general meetings on 14 clear days’ notice by passing 
a special resolution at the most recent AGM; and (ii) offers the facility for all shareholders to vote by electronic means. The 
Company would like to preserve its ability to call general meetings (other than an AGM) on less than 21 clear days’ notice. 
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business 
of the meeting and is thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole. Resolution 10 seeks such approval. Should 
this resolution be approved it will be valid until the end of the next AGM. This is the same authority that was sought and 
granted at last year’s AGM.
Action to be taken
As outlined above, information regarding the AGM is available from www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
Enclosed with this Notice, you will find a reply-paid form of proxy for use at the AGM. Whether or not you are able to attend 
the AGM, you are advised to complete and return the form of proxy in accordance with the instructions printed on it.
If you wish to attend the AGM in person then the proxy appointment will not preclude you from doing so. 
The form of proxy should be completed and returned as soon as possible to Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, PO Box 
25, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4BR and, in any event, so as to reach such address no later than 48 hours before the appointed 
commencement time of the AGM (for which a prepaid business reply service has been provided). You may also deliver it by 
hand to Capita Registrars at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU during usual business hours, by 
such time. 
Recommendations
The Board considers that the passing of Resolutions 1 to 10 is in the best interests of the Company and of the Shareholders 
as a whole, and are most likely to promote the success of the Company. The Board unanimously recommends that you 
vote in favour of all the resolutions, as each of the Directors intends to do in respect of his or her own beneficial holdings of 
shares in the Company. 
Yours faithfully
Michael Daykin
Company Secretary
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
15 June 2012
EXPLANATION OF THE 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 141
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
COMPANY INFORMATION
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 50 Bedford Square, London, 
WC1B 3DP on 23 July 2012 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes:-
Ordinary Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions as ordinary resolutions:-
1.  To receive the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 29 February 2012, together with the Report of the 
Directors and the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.  To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 29 February 2012.
3.  A final dividend for the year ended 29 February 2012 of 4.31 pence per ordinary share in the capital of the Company, 
be declared payable on 25 September 2012 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 31 August 2012.
4.  To re-elect Sarah Jane Thomson as a Director of the Company.
5.  To re-elect Richard Charkin as a Director of the Company.
6.  To resolve that Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP be and are hereby reappointed auditors of the Company to hold office until 
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which financial statements for the Company are laid before the 
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors on behalf of the Company.
Special Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolution 7 will be proposed as an ordinary 
resolution and resolutions 8, 9 and 10 will be proposed as special resolutions.
7.  TO RESOLVE THAT:
(a) the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(“the Act”) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot any shares in the Company and to grant rights 
to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company to such persons and on such terms as they 
think proper up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £307,686 provided that:
(i)  this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the 
passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution, unless previously 
varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting; and
(ii)  the Company shall be entitled to make, before the expiry of such authority, any offer or agreement which 
would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares 
in the Company to be granted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors may allot any shares 
pursuant to such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired; and
(b)  all prior authorities to allot any shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any 
security into shares in the Company given to the Directors by resolution of the Company be revoked but 
without prejudice to the allotment of any shares already made or to be made pursuant to such authorities.
8. THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 7 referred to in the notice of the Annual General Meeting (“the Notice”) at 
which this resolution is being proposed:-
(a)  the Directors be granted power pursuant to section 570 and section 571 of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) 
to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 560 of the Act) wholly for cash pursuant to the authority 
conferred on them by resolution 7 in the Notice as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment 
provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:-
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING PLC 142
COMPANY INFORMATION
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(i)  in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of holders of Ordinary 
Shares in the Company (“Ordinary Shares”) where the equity securities respectively attributable to the 
interests of all such holders of Ordinary Shares are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective 
numbers of and/or rights attaching to Ordinary Shares held by them, subject to such exceptions, 
exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional 
entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any 
regulatory body or any stock exchange or otherwise in any territory;
(ii)  pursuant to the terms of the Company’s existing employees’ share or share option schemes or any other 
employees’ share scheme approved by the members of the Company in general meeting; 
(iii)  (other than pursuant to paragraphs (i) or (ii) above) up to a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 
£46,152; 
  and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after passing this 
resolution or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution, unless previously varied, 
revoked or renewed by the Company in general meeting, and provided that the Company may, before 
such expiry, make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted 
after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if 
the power hereby conferred had not expired; and
b)  all prior powers granted under section 571 of the Act be revoked provided that such revocation shall not have 
retrospective effect.
9. THAT the Company is authorised, pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”), to make market 
purchases (as defined in section 693 (4) of the Act) of any of its Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each (“Ordinary Shares”) in 
such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that:- 
(a) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 7,384,472 shares being approximately 
10% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company;
(b) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 
105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which such share 
is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each 
Ordinary Share is 1.25 pence; 
(c) the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of 
the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after passing this resolution or 15 months from the 
date of passing of this resolution, whichever shall be the earlier; and
(d) the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any time before its expiry or termination any 
contract to purchase its own shares which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry or 
termination of such authority and may purchase its own shares pursuant to such contract. 
10. THAT a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Dated 15 June 2012 
By order of the Board
Registered Office:
Michael Daykin 50 Bedford Square
Company Secretary London
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc WC1B 3DP
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING PLC 143
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
COMPANY INFORMATION
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW
Notes: 
1. Only the holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the meeting and vote. A member entitled to attend and 
vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote on his behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the 
Company. A form of proxy is enclosed for your use. Further copies of the form of proxy may be obtained from the 
registered office of the Company or from www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk.
2. If a member wishes his proxy to speak on his behalf at the Meeting, he or she will need to appoint his own choice of 
proxy (who is not the Chairman) and give instructions directly to the proxy. The completion and return of a form of 
proxy will enable a shareholder to vote at the General Meeting without having to be present at the General Meeting, 
but will not preclude him or her from attending the General Meeting and voting in person if he or she should 
subsequently decide to do so. 
3. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to 
different shares. A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share. To 
appoint more than one proxy, please sign and date the form of proxy and attach a schedule listing the names and 
addresses (in block letters) of all your proxies, the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed 
(which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you) and indicating how you wish each proxy 
to vote or abstain from voting. If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, insert “Chairman 
of the Meeting” in the box which is used to identify the name of the proxy on the relevant proxy card.
4. To be valid, the enclosed form of proxy must be lodged with the Company’s Registrars, Capita Registrars, not later 
than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Annual General Meeting. 
5. Shareholders included on the register of members (in relation to ordinary shares held in CREST, pursuant to 
Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001) at 6 pm on 19 July 2012 will be entitled to attend and 
vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time. 
Changes to the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 
attend or vote at the meeting. 
6. Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
enjoy information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder 
by whom he/she was nominated (“Relevant Member”), have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else 
appointed) as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment 
right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she, under any such agreement, may have a right to give instructions to the 
Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.  Your main point of contact in terms of your investment in the 
Company remains the Relevant Member (or, perhaps, your custodian or broker) and you should continue to contact 
them (and not the Company) regarding any changes or queries relating to your personal details and your interest 
in the Company (including any administrative matters). The only exception to this is where the Company expressly 
requests a response from you.
7. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated 
Persons. The rights described in this regard can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company. 144
COMPANY INFORMATION
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
8. Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under 
section 527 to 531 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement 
setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the 
conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or (ii) any circumstance connected with 
an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports 
were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the shareholders 
requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 
2006, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement 
available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement 
that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website
9. A corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, 
all its powers as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers over the same 
share.
10. In the case of joint registered holders, the signature of one holder will be accepted and the vote of the senior who 
tenders a vote, whether in person or proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders. 
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand on the register of members in 
respect of the relevant joint holding.
11. Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office, 50 Bedford 
Square, London WC1B 3DP, during usual business hours on any weekday, Saturdays and public holidays excepted, 
from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Annual General 
Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting:
 ✶ Copies of the service agreements under which Directors of the Company are employed by the Company or its 
subsidiaries
 ✶ Copies of letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors
 ✶ A copy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
 ✶ The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee of 
the Board.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING PLC 21449.05 18/06/12 Proof 2
ATTENDANCE CARD
BLOOMSBURY PUBLISHING Plc (“Bloomsbury”)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2012
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
50 Bedford Square
London
WC1B 3DP
Signature of 
person attending
Barcode:
Investor Code:
FORM OF PROXY
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc (“Bloomsbury”) — Annual General Meeting 2012
Barcode: 
Investor Code:
Event Code:
RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTIONS
1 To receive the audited accounts for  
the year ended 29 February 2012,  
together with the Report of the Directors  
and the Report of the Auditors
2 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the year ended  
29 February 2012
3 To approve the final dividend
4 To re-elect Sarah Jane Thomson as a director
5 To re-elect Richard Charkin as a director
6 To reappoint Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP as  
auditors and to authorise the directors  
to fix their remuneration
Special Business
7 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To authorise the  
directors to allot shares pursuant to  
Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006
8 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To disapply  
statutory pre-emption rights pursuant 
to Section 570 and Section 571 of the 
Companies Act 2006
9 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To authorise the  
directors to buy back Company shares
10 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To approve  
general meetings, other than the  
Annual General Meeting, being called on  
not less that 14 days notice
Please mark ‘X’ to indicate 
how you wish to vote
Please mark ‘X’ to indicate 
how you wish to vote
Signature Date
as my/our proxy to vote on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 
12 noon on Monday 23 July 2012 and at any adjournment thereof.
 I/We wish my/our appointed proxy to vote as shown below in respect of the resolutions set out in the Notice of the Meeting:
Name of Proxy (leave blank to appoint the Chairman) Number of Shares
In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer duly authorised, stating their capacity 
(e.g. Director, Company Secretary).
For
Against
Vote  
Withheld
For
Against
Vote  
Withheld
I/We being a member of the Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or
Please see reverse for further notes
Dear Shareholder,
ATTENDANCE CARD FOR 2012 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
To be held: 12 noon on Monday 23 July 2012 at 50 Bedford Square, 
London WC1B 3DP
If you wish to attend the AGM as a Shareholder then please sign this 
attendance card and present it on arrival. This will facilitate entry to  
the meeting.
You may vote on resolutions without attending the AGM by completing 
and detaching the Proxy Form below and returning it by post to be 
received no later than 12 noon on 19 July 2012.
  Please tick here if you are 
appointing more than one proxy. 21449.05 18/06/12 Proof 2
Notes
1.  If you prefer, you may return the proxy form to the Registrar in an envelope addressed to FREEPOST RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, PXS, Capita Registrars, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
2. Every holder has the right to appoint some other person(s) of their choice, who need not be a shareholder, as his/ her proxy to exercise all or any of his/her rights, to attend, speak 
and vote on his/ her behalf at the meeting. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided on 
the Proxy Form. If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter next to the proxy holder’s name the number of shares in relation to 
which they are authorised to act as your proxy. If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement (or if this proxy form has been issued 
in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account).
3. To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy (whether previously appointed or otherwise) via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by 
the issuer’s agent (ID number RA10) not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time 
(as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message. The Company may treat as invalid a proxy 
appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4. To appoint more than one proxy please sign and date the Proxy Form and attach a schedule listing the names and addresses (in block letters) of all your proxies, the number of 
shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed (which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you) and indicate how you wish each proxy to vote or 
abstain from voting.  
5. Vote Withheld’ enables you to abstain on any particular resolution. However, it should be noted that a ‘Vote Withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of 
the proportion of the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
6. Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the Register of Members of the Company at 
6p.m. on the 19 July 2012 or two days before the adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the Register of Members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights 
of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
7. The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person. If you attend the meeting in person, you may terminate your 
proxy appointment.
8. To be effective, the Proxy Form must arrive during usual business hours not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at: Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham 
Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
9. The Proxy Form shows how your address appears on the Register of Members. If not correct please ring the Registrar’s helpline on 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute plus 
network extras, lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Mon–Fri) to request a change of address form.
10. The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication from 
the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (“nominated persons”). Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered 
shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not 
wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
11.  In the case of an individual, this form of proxy must be signed by the appointor or his attorney.  A shareholder which is a corporation must execute this form of proxy either under 
seal or under the hand of an attorney or duly authorised officer.
12.  A shareholder which is a corporation and which wishes to be represented at the Annual General Meeting by a person with authority to speak and vote (a corporate representative) 
must appoint such a person by resolution of its directors.  A corporate representative has the same powers on behalf of the corporation as he/ she represents as that corporation 
could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.  Corporate representatives must make themselves known to the Company Secretary or Chairman prior to the start  
of the meeting.
13.  If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.  In the case of joint holders, 
where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.  Seniority is determined by the 
order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company’s register of members in respect of the joint holding (the first named being the most senior).
BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE
Licence No. RSBH-UXKS-LRBC
1
PXS
Capita Registrars
34 Beckenham Road
Kent
BR3 4TU  Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
50 Bedford Square
London  WC1B 3DP
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7631 5600
www.bloomsbury.com
www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
Stock code: BMY
