 Cobham plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 www.cobham.com Highlights of the Year
Cobham offers an innovative range  
of technologies and services to solve 
challenging problems in commercial 
and defence and security markets
Front cover image: Advanced 
microelectronics and electronic  
warfare systems
More than 100 Cobham components are onboard 
every F-35 Lightning II, including microelectronic 
components, microwave systems, motion control 
solutions for the Electro-optical Targeting System 
gimbal, communications cryptography chips, pilot 
survival products and aerial refuelling equipment.
(Credit: Lockheed Martin)
Inside cover image: Aerial refuelling  
and aircraft components
Cobham provides a wide range of components  
for the KC-46 tanker aircraft, in addition to its  
next generation aerial refuelling systems. These 
include intricate oxygen shutoff valves, sensors  
and regulators, high capacity fuel tanks, and  
a range of antennas. (Credit: Boeing)
Cobham is a leading global technology and services 
innovator, respected for providing solutions for the  
most challenging problems, from deep space to the  
depths of the ocean.
We employ about 1 1,000 people primarily in the US,  
UK and Europe and Australia. We have customers and 
partners in more than 100 countries. 
Earnings per ordinary share – underlying*
9.0p
(2015: 16.5p**)
Earnings per ordinary share – basic*
(52.8)p
(2015: (2.8)p**)
Total revenue
£1,943.9m
(2015: £2,072.0m)
Free cash flow
£50.7 m
(2015: £105.5m) Contents
Strategic Report
Group at a Glance  02
Chairman’s Statement  04
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 06
Our Markets 08
Our Business Model 10
Our Capabilities 12
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators 16
Communications and Connectivity Sector 20
Mission Systems Sector 22
Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector 24
Aviation Services Sector 26
Financial Review 28
Principal Risks 34
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 40
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors 44
Corporate Governance Report 48
Compliance with the UK  
Corporate Governance Code 53
Nomination Committee Report 54
Audit Committee Report 56
Directors’ Remuneration Report 62
Other Statutory Information 78
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 81
Group Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report 82
Group Financial Statements 87
Parent Company  
Independent Auditors’ Report 132
Parent Company  
Financial Statements 133
Other Information
Group Financial Record 140
Shareholder Information 141
Glossary 142
Definitions 144
The Company is registered in England and Wales  
under company number 30470. The Company’s  
registered office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset,  
BH21 2BJ, England. 
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain 
forward looking statements with regard to the operations, 
performance and financial condition of the Group. By their 
nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results to differ from 
those anticipated. Nothing contained in this Annual Report 
and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Visit us online at 
www.cobham.com 
You can also view this Annual  
Report and Accounts online at  
www.cobhaminvestors.com
2016 Results
 − Underlying operating profit: impacted by weaknesses in management and financial 
controls; contractual and commercial failures and, in a few businesses, more challenging 
market conditions
 − Balance sheet review: impairments of £573.8m and other charges of £236.8m,  
including KC-46
201 7 Priorities
 − Management focus: better control and execution, improved customer relationships, 
simplification of systems, processes and reporting, combined with strong  
and visible leadership
Actions to address the balance sheet
 − Financial position: targeting a net debt/EBITDA gearing ratio of 1.5x
 − Rights Issue: Board to raise £500m, by way of a rights issue, which is full underwritten  
on a standby basis; anticipated to be completed during second quarter of 201 7
Outlook
 − Medium term: leverage Cobham’s strong capabilities and market positions into  
improved operating and financial performance, from a business model that produces  
an attractive and sustainable returns profile
*For definitions refer to page 144
**Restated for the bonus element of the June 2016 rights issue.
www.cobham.com
01
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Cobham has four Sectors with 
differentiated technology and  
leading market positions 
  
See page 20 for more information.
£1,943.9m
(2015: £2,072.0m)
 Operating locations
United States, United Kingdom, Denmark, 
France, South Africa, Finland and Sweden.
 Operating locations
United States and United Kingdom.
Group at a Glance
Revenue 
£690.2m
(2015: £771.8m)
Revenue 
£386.4m
(2015: £382.4m)
Underlying  
operating profit
£60.0m
(2015: £108.4m)
Communications and Connectivity 
Provides high performance equipment and  
solutions to enable reliable connectivity across a 
range of demanding environments in aerospace, 
avionics, satellite and radio, wireless and mobile 
connectivity markets.
Mission Systems 
Provides safety and survival systems for extreme 
environments, aerial refuelling systems and wing-tip  
to wing-tip mission systems for fast jets, transport 
aircraft and rotorcraft. The primary focus is serving 
niche areas of the defence and security market 
globally, supplemented by an expanding presence  
in commercial aviation markets.
The Group in 2016
Cobham offers technologies and services that 
solve challenging problems for our customers 
across commercial, defence and security markets.  
It has leading market positions in air-to-air 
refuelling; aviation services; wireless; audio,  
video and data communications, including  
satellite communications; defence electronics;  
life support and mission equipment.
Cobham has four Sectors, each with differentiated 
technology and leading market positions. The 
Sectors operate at the subsystem and component 
level in their markets. The Aviation Services Sector 
benefits from long term contracts, which bring 
additional visibility to the Group’s order book.
Our revenue split by:
Underlying  
operating profit
£56.5m
(2015: £68.0m)
  
See page 22 for more information.
Sector (%)
Aviation Services
18%
Advanced 
Electronic
Solutions
26%
Communications &
Connectivity  36%
Mission Systems
 20%
Market (%)
Commercial
41%
US defence/security
34%
UK, RoW defence
/security
 25%
02
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Revenue 
£357 .2m
(2015: £390.1m)
Underlying  
operating profit
£38.3m
(2015: £57.3m)
Revenue 
£511.6m
(2015: £538.0m)
Underlying  
operating profit
£60.2m
(2015: £80.5m)
Employees worldwide
10,692
*
(2015: 11,505)
* Total permanent headcount  
at 31 December 2016.
 Operating locations
United States and Mexico.
 Operating locations
Australia and United Kingdom.
Aviation Services 
Delivers outsourced aviation services for customers 
worldwide, including military training, special mission 
flight operations, outsourced commercial aviation, 
including fly-in fly-out services to the natural 
resources industry and aircraft engineering.
Advanced Electronic Solutions 
Provides critical solutions for communication 
on land, at sea, in the air and in space through 
off-the-shelf and customised products including 
radio frequency, microwave, and high reliability 
microelectronics, antenna subsystems and motion 
control solutions. This incorporates defence, 
including missile, radar and electronic warfare,  
X-ray imaging, medical and industrial markets.
For further information visit us  
online at www.cobham.com
Our underlying operating profit by:
  
See page 24 for more information.
  
See page 26 for more information.
£225.0m
(2015: 332.2m)
Geography (%)
RoW  5% USA  48%
Asia  10%
UK  10%
Other EU  16%
Australia  11%
Sector (%)
Aviation Services
18%
Advanced 
Electronic
Solutions
28%
Communications &
Connectivity  28%
Mission Systems
 26%
03
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Cobham remains  
a fundamentally  
sound Group, with 
tremendous potential
Chairman’s Statement
It has been a deeply disappointing year for Cobham. 
Our financial performance fell short of our earlier 
expectations and the prior year. The business 
has faced exceptional market, execution and 
development programme challenges. With higher 
gearing entering 2016, combined with the challenges 
above and a weakening of sterling, we launched a 
rights issue which completed in June. Towards the 
end of the year we also saw the departure of our 
Chief Executive Office (CEO), Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) and Chairman. We welcomed David Lockwood 
as CEO in December 2016 and David Mellors as 
CFO at the start of January 2017. In addition, I took 
over as Chairman on 1 January 2017. Despite such 
an adverse year, Cobham remains a fundamentally 
sound Group and it has tremendous potential, with 
excellent people and technology, and many leading 
market positions. We need to stabilise the Group 
during 2017 and ensure that it is strongly set for  
a full recovery over time. 
The June 2016 rights issue generated proceeds of 
£491m after expenses, which we used to pay down 
debt. However, the Group’s trading performance 
through the remainder of the year remained below 
our expectations, and there was disappointing free 
cash flow generation. The combination of higher 
debt and lower profits have been the primary factors 
which have resulted in our principal financial gearing 
ratio, net debt/EBITDA, being higher than anticipated 
at the year-end, at 3.0x. It has, however, remained 
within the covenant upper threshold, which is not  
to exceed 3.5x.
Since my appointment as Chairman was announced, 
I have met and spoken with a significant number 
of Cobham’s shareholders, and some consistent 
themes have emerged. Overall, shareholders want 
the Board to take actions which will create the 
underlying conditions from which we can generate 
shareholder value over the longer term, even if these 
mean making some difficult decisions. Many of our 
shareholders – and indeed many of our customers 
and other stakeholders – would like us to have  
a reduced level of gearing. After considering this 
matter carefully, the Board is targeting a net  
debt/EBITDA gearing ratio of around 1.5x. 
It has been a deeply 
disappointing year for Cobham 
04
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We have entered 2017 still facing a number of 
challenges and uncertainties, but I believe that the 
key ingredients of our future success are already 
present, and Cobham has tremendous potential.  
This is a Group with differentiated technology  
and know-how and strong market positions, and 
it has a committed and skilful workforce. There 
is a need to deliver a sustainable improvement in 
a number of areas, including in our operational 
and financial execution. Not all this can be done 
immediately but under our new Executive Directors 
we will deliver, over time, the performance that our 
customers, shareholders and other stakeholders 
deserve and expect from Cobham.
 
Michael Wareing
Chairman
2 March 2017
Leading this effort is our new CEO, David Lockwood, 
who joined us from Laird PLC, a FTSE 250 technology 
company. He brings to Cobham a background 
in defence and communications technology, an 
entrepreneurial and customer driven mindset and 
a proven ability to grow businesses. Our new CFO, 
David Mellors, has joined us from QinetiQ Group plc, 
a FTSE 250 science and engineering company, which 
has operations primarily in defence and aerospace 
markets. During his time at that company he played 
a leading role in strengthening the balance sheet, 
refocusing the portfolio and delivering improved 
performance, with an enhanced positioning for 
growth. We are confident they have the right skills  
and capabilities to drive a sustainable improvement 
in the long term performance of the business.
The Board is very pleased to welcome our new 
Executive Directors. However, the performance 
of Cobham over the last twelve months has been 
deeply disappointing and it must take responsibility 
for that performance. While it has already undergone 
significant change over recent months, going 
forward, the Board believes it is important that a 
number of new and experienced Non-executive 
Directors are appointed. At the same time, it is 
important that Cobham can benefit from a period of 
stability and continuity. As a result, it is my intention 
to effect a rolling programme of material Board 
changes over the next two years. 
We are also setting up a Risk Committee as a formal 
sub-committee of the Board, chaired by David 
Lockwood. The Committee will also include  
in its membership Jonathan Flint, our Senior 
Independent Director.
Of course, we must also consider the future, so the 
Board will therefore endeavour to strengthen the 
quality and depth of Cobham’s management below 
Board level by reinvigorating our succession planning. 
This will help us identify, develop and promote 
the senior managers of the future from within the 
business. However, done diligently, this is not a quick 
task and it will take time to develop a robust and 
comprehensive plan.
I would like to thank our employees. They have 
consistently shown great commitment, fortitude 
and hard work through a challenging year. These 
attributes, when combined with Cobham’s specialist 
capabilities, and our leading positions in attractive 
markets lies at the core of what Cobham offers.  
I know I can rely on our employees to give  
David Lockwood and David Mellors the same 
unstinting support.
As a necessary part of our plans to strengthen 
the balance sheet, the Board has decided not 
to recommend a final dividend in respect of 
financial year 2016. Furthermore, the Board will not 
recommend a dividend in respect of financial year 
2017 and we expect to resume dividend payments 
when it is prudent to do so. This will take into 
account a number of factors, including the Group’s 
underlying earnings, cash flow and gearing, its 
investment needs and the requirement to maintain 
an appropriate level of dividend cover.  
Despite this action, we still need the balance 
sheet to be stronger to properly support our 
operations, including the required investment in 
our development programmes. Therefore, the 
Board has concluded that it is in the Group’s best 
interests to raise new equity finance by way of a 
£500m rights issue. In requesting further funding 
from shareholders, we recognise the imperative for 
the Group to review its portfolio of businesses and 
optimise its internal cash generation, and this will lie 
at the heart of management actions in 2017.
Undertaking a structural deleveraging of the balance 
sheet is only part of the answer. We must also strive 
to grow through cycles with a renewed focus on our 
customers and a thorough understanding of their 
needs, and the opportunities this affords. From this 
insight we can ensure our significant technology 
investment is spent effectively, by focusing it on 
the most promising opportunities. This will drive our 
order pipeline and future revenue streams.
Allied to this, we need to improve our financial 
discipline and consistently deliver to expectations. 
This means focusing on how we track future 
customer orders and revenue; it means looking  
hard at our cost base; and taking the necessary 
actions to return Cobham to improved levels of  
cash generation.  
We can create the right conditions in the  
businesses by reducing the number of change 
programmes driven from the centre. Removal of 
these distractions will enable our businesses to  
focus on the critical tasks of execution and  
delivery, whether it is engineering, production or 
progressing specific contracts. 
05
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
The Group has many 
issues which require 
attention to arrest  
and reverse the  
current negative 
performance  
trajectory and this  
is the relentless focus
There is significant untapped 
potential to exploit 
In the short time I have been with the business,  
I have been able to visit Cobham sites in France, 
Australia, the UK and the US. At each of these  
sites I have met people committed to the 
technology, products, systems and services we  
offer our customers. They strive daily to meet  
the needs of all our stakeholders.
All too often we make it difficult for our  
employees to deliver the value from our offering 
to our customers. There have been extensive 
reorganisation costs incurred over the last five years 
which illustrates an increasing level of change.
Financially, it was a very challenging year for 
Cobham and we have reported a statutory 
operating loss of £779.1m and basic earnings per 
share of (52.8)p. On an underlying basis, we have 
reported an operating profit of £225.0m. Organic 
revenue showed a disappointing 7.7% decline 
year-on-year.
In hindsight, it is clear that the integration of 
Aeroflex into Cobham, alongside the management 
of pre-existing change programmes, was beyond 
the capability of the Group, despite extensive  
spend on third party help. Momentum was lost  
and the Group became internally focused. These 
factors, combined with poorer than expected 
results in 2016, ultimately resulted in the major 
goodwill impairment we have taken, as well as  
a loss of talent and capability. 
Underlying issues
The Group has many issues which require  
attention to reverse the current negative 
performance trajectory and this is the relentless 
focus for every employee, starting with me. 
During 2016, there have been a succession of 
performance issues in a number of Cobham 
businesses. These have stemmed from weaknesses 
in management and financial controls; contractual 
and commercial failures and, in a few businesses, 
more challenging market conditions. 
Change projects and initiatives driven from the 
centre have diverted focus from improving  
critical production, operational and contract 
performance. These change programmes have 
consumed significant financial resources and 
management energy over a number of years  
with disappointing outcomes. 
06
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com STRATEGIC REPORT
Actions to address the Balance Sheet
Year end net debt was £1,028.2m, a reduction of 
£178.6m on the prior year, after the £490.6m net 
proceeds from the June 2016 rights issue. Net debt 
also reflected the Group’s modest free cash flow 
generation, £126.1m of dividend payments and 
adverse exchange rate movements of £236.4m.  
Due to the limited reduction in net debt and the 
lower than expected profitability, the Group’s net 
debt/EBITDA ratio at the year end at 3.0x was slightly 
higher than at 31 December 2015, but remains 
within the covenant upper threshold.
As the Chairman has stated, the balance sheet  
is not strong enough to support the operations of 
the Group, given the important role it plays in many 
customer programmes. A stronger balance sheet will 
underpin the confidence of our customers and other 
stakeholders, supporting our medium term growth 
aspiration, for the benefit of our shareholders. 
The Group is targeting a net debt/EBITDA gearing 
ratio of around 1.5x. This should be an appropriate 
capital structure given the requirement for balance 
sheet strength. The timeframe to achieving  
this target needs to be accelerated to give our 
customers, suppliers and employees confidence  
in our financial position. 
Having considered the cash required to complete  
our ongoing development programmes, including 
the impact of the provisions taken at the year end, 
and to strengthen our balance sheet position, the 
Board has concluded that it is in the Group’s best 
interests to raise £500m by way of a rights issue, 
which is fully underwritten on a standby basis and  
on customary market conditions. The rights issue  
is anticipated to complete during the second  
quarter of 2017.
The Board intends to use the proceeds of the  
rights issue to pay down borrowings on its revolving 
credit facilities. There is no current intention to 
pay down the senior notes prior to maturity and 
incur make-whole charges before the Group has 
refinanced its bank facilities in 2018. The Board also 
intends to more closely align the currency mix of 
net debt with the currency mix of profits, thereby 
reducing foreign exchange exposure on the gearing 
ratio (net debt/EBITDA).
However the Group will also look to optimise its 
working capital position over time and, as noted 
above, will consider the breadth and shape of  
the portfolio.
David Lockwood
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2017
In 2016, Cobham spent approximately £130.2m,  
or 8.2% of revenue, on Private Venture (PV),  
or company funded R&D. This was matched by  
a broadly similar amount funded by our customers. 
This investment provides a powerful platform on 
which we can develop world-class technologies  
with significant commercial advantages. In the 
past, the substantial programme of technology 
investment has not always yielded the expected 
returns. We will be looking at ways of focusing this 
R&D spend to generate maximum shareholder value. 
Leadership and simplification
We will reduce complexity and duplication in the  
business by simplifying systems, processes and 
reporting and, with this in mind, we are also 
commencing a review of the breadth and shape  
of the Group’s portfolio. 
By aligning reduced complexity with strong  
and visible leadership, we will build a sense of 
momentum and clear purpose among Cobham’s 
management and employees. This will also improve 
accountability and enhance the speed and quality  
of decision making. 
To help me drive all these priorities, I am pleased  
that David Mellors has joined me as Cobham’s CFO. 
David is an experienced CFO, who, among other 
attributes, has a proven track record of improving 
financial discipline, driving cash generation and 
achieving effective cost control. As with any new 
partnership, you can strike lucky, and this is one  
such occurrence.
 
Outlook
Whilst market uncertainties undoubtedly exist, the 
ability of the Group to forecast performance is  
not as strong as it should be which contributes to  
our early view for 2017 having a wide range of 
potential outcomes. 
The Group has many operational issues which 
require attention in addition to arresting and 
reversing the current negative performance 
trajectory. Some actions to address these have 
already commenced but are at an early stage.  
Some actions may also have associated costs.  
Given these and the issues highlighted above,  
the Board considers that delivery of a similar 
performance to that of 2016 in 2017 may  
be challenging.
Despite the challenges facing Cobham, the Group 
has a portfolio of businesses with differentiated 
technologies and know-how, and it has leading 
positions in attractive markets. These offer good 
opportunities over the medium term and the Board 
is confident that the fortunes of the company will  
be restored over time.
The Group’s reporting structures, including  
its internal processes and the allocation of 
responsibilities have become overly complex  
and unclear. In a number of instances, this has led  
to duplication, reduced accountability and slow 
decision making, which has contributed to the period 
of sustained operational and financial challenges. 
This situation has ultimately impacted employee 
motivation and morale, evidenced by Cobham’s  
high voluntary staff turnover.
Furthermore, with hindsight, the Group may have 
misread the cycles within its markets and within 
its businesses, making poorly timed acquisitions or 
integrating them poorly. These acquisitions appear 
to have amplified internal weaknesses, rather than 
compensated for them. 
Technology and market positions 
The poor 2016 outcome and the underlying 
problems set out above are in stark contrast to  
what I have seen since I became Cobham’s Chief 
Executive Officer on 14 December 2016. The Group 
holds leading positions in many of its specialist 
markets, and its technologies are critical to customer 
needs. Many of these markets are highly attractive 
and offer good medium term opportunities. The high 
technology value-add and Cobham’s leading market 
positions represent significant barriers to entry. The 
key, of course, is to monetise these attributes by 
improving our execution.
Consistent with these observations, I have also met  
a number of customers and partners, and have had 
very encouraging early engagements with them. It  
is apparent that there are many opportunities for  
our businesses to increase market share, as there is  
a need and a real enthusiasm for the products and 
services that Cobham can offer. 
Priorities for 2017
Having carefully considered the Group’s position,  
I have set the following priorities for 2017:
Control and execution
With leadership from the top, we need to  
deliver consistently to our customers’ and 
shareholders’ expectations, recognising that we  
have not always done so. We are in the early  
stages of enhancing our management controls  
and our operational and financial disciplines to 
address this, understanding that a strong operational 
performance and financial control are key pillars of 
improvement for us. 
 
Customer focus
It is also vital that we bring additional focus to  
our customer relationships. This starts with me,  
the CEO, and then must be reflected throughout  
our businesses. We will allocate an appropriate  
level of resource and contact to each customer  
and prioritise winning and retaining key platform  
and programme positions. 
07
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Our Markets
Commercial
We are focused on attractive markets for 
communication on the move and in harsh 
and difficult environments.
The majority of Cobham’s commercial revenue is 
related to communications, particularly for products 
that are used in communications on the move,  
with applications in harsh or difficult environments. 
Communications markets are driven by long term 
global growth, urbanisation and a need to link critical 
networks. There is also an increasing propensity to 
travel, which can require products that enable access 
to voice, data and video applications in challenging 
or remote environments. 
Some of the Group’s communications markets 
have faced challenging conditions during 2016. 
However, over the longer term, the demand for 
communication will grow as evidenced by forecasts 
of global mobile data traffic, which is expected to 
increase significantly.
8.5
13.3
20.0
28.7
39.6
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
52.3 2021
Global monthly data traffic (Exabytes*)
Source: Ericsson Mobility Report 2016
* One exabyte equals one billion gigabytes.
Cobham is also exposed, principally within its 
Aviation Services Sector, to demand for natural 
resources in its fly-in-fly-out operations in Australia, 
and through its outsourced flying operations for 
Qantas, the Australian airline, to regular public 
transport markets. A weakening in demand for 
natural resources, particularly from within the  
Asia-Pacific region, resulted in more challenging 
market conditions for the Group in 2016. 
Our response
Cobham’s business model has been the framework around 
which the Group has responded to market conditions. For 
more information see Our Business Model on pages 10 and 11.
We have invested in technology to develop advanced 
communications products. In certain markets we have 
invested a double digit percentage of our revenue annually, 
with the objective of aligning our investment priorities with 
customer demand and discriminating our product offerings 
based on technology. We have also looked for opportunities 
to develop products for different customers and 
applications. T echnology investment will be an area  
of focus during 2017 as we bring renewed emphasis  
on strengthening customer relationships.
We have positions in three 
broad end-markets
Cobham operates in three broad end 
markets: Commercial, US defence/security 
and UK, RoW defence/security. It looks to 
leverage its technology and know-how 
across these markets
*Other markets include: land SA TCOM, medical, mining and industrial slip rings.
Outsourced 8%
Aviation Services
Marine 6%
SATCOM
Space 3%
Aerospace 10%
(Credit: Martin Coy)
Wireless 7%
Other* 7%
Commercial
Our commercial revenue arises in a number of different end markets and these are  
set out below.
Revenue by market (%)
Commercial   
41%
US defence/
security  34%
UK, RoW defence/
security  25%
08
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Our response
Cobham’s business model has been the framework  
around which the Group has responded to market 
conditions. For more information see Our Business  
Model on pages 10 and 11.
Cobham has technologies and capabilities that are relevant 
to current US DoD priorities and it is therefore well 
positioned to benefit from the US budget. The primary 
focus for Cobham is to ensure that our technology is 
chosen for next generation platforms and programmes, 
which will deliver profitable production revenue. 
The Group has positions on next generation US Air Force 
platforms, including the KC-46 tanker aircraft and the F-35 
multirole fighter aircraft. In addition, Cobham has critical 
content on US Navy upgrade programmes, including the 
Advanced Missile Defence Radar and the Surface Electronic 
Warfare Improvement Program. It also supplies electronic 
subsystems on missiles, including the Standard Missile  
and the Patriot/PAC-3 as well as AGM-88E Advanced  
Anti-Radiation Missile and the AIM-120 Advanced  
Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile. Its technology is also to  
be found on higher volume munitions such as the Paveway 
laser-guided bomb and the Hellfire air-to-ground missile.
UK, RoW defence/security
Our products have relevance to government 
customers around the world
While the US has the world’s largest defence budget, 
comprising about 36% of global spending, Cobham 
also addresses markets outside of the US. Defence 
markets in parts of Asia and the Middle East have 
shown growth, while much of Europe has, like the US, 
been through a period of budget declines. However, 
the UK, France and Germany are now expected to 
see modest budget growth overall, while a number 
of countries in Eastern, Central and Northern Europe 
also have growing budgets. 
The fall in the price of oil has generally not reduced 
spending on defence in important Middle Eastern 
markets and overall, Asia-Pacific continues to 
increase defence investment. The table below shows 
estimated medium term growth rates in defence 
expenditure by geographical region. 
Global defence expenditure growth estimates
* MENA – Middle East and North Africa, excluding inaccessible 
   countries.
Sources: Cobham analysis, SIPRI, IMF, 
Strategic Defence Intelligence.
Asia-Pacific
Latin America
Africa
Europe
3% 5%
2% 4%
3% 5%
2% 4%
-2% 1%
MENA*
 
Our technology  
and know-how  
is used globally
US defence/security
Our technology remains aligned to  
a number of our customers’ priorities
Cobham is exposed to the US Department of 
Defense (US DoD) investment account budget  
lines, comprising procurement and research, 
development, test and evaluation (RDT&E). 
Changes in US defence budgets will tend to be 
driven by macroeconomic factors such as the 
state of the economy, as well as by global security 
tensions. Between 2009 and the end of 2015 the 
US investment budgets fell significantly, driven by 
the global financial crisis and by the withdrawal of 
the US military from Iraq and Afghanistan. However, 
it now seems likely that the budget has reached 
a trough. The Future Years Defense Program has 
provided for a low single digit compound average 
growth rate (CAGR) in the investment accounts to 
2021, and there is potential for budgets to increase 
further. Recently the US DoD has also used a special 
wartime funding mechanism, called the Overseas 
Contingency Operations account, which has 
provided additional budget funding. 
71 120
110
111
117
120
66
63
63
62
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Procurement RDT&E
122 64 2021
US DoD budget (US$bn)
Source: FY17 President’s Budget Green Book
Within the overall budget, the strategy of the US 
DoD has been to rebalance its military posture 
towards the Asia-Pacific region. This has resulted 
in continued investment in the US Navy and a 
recapitalisation of the US Air Force, which has an 
ageing inventory of aircraft. This strategy means 
prioritising high-end technologies which will  
protect and enhance the performance of these 
expensive assets. This aligns with many of Cobham’s 
specialisms including secure communications, 
electronic warfare (or ‘jamming’), intelligence 
gathering and radar technologies.
In addition, with a number of regional conflicts 
ongoing around the globe, there has been strong 
demand for components and subsystems for missiles 
and munitions.
 
Our response
Cobham’s business model has been the framework around 
which the Group has responded to market conditions.  
For more information see Our Business Model on  
pages 10 and 11.
Cobham aims to leverage its technology and know-how  
into UK, RoW defence/security markets through different 
channels. It supplies major UK, RoW defence companies  
on programmes such as the Eurofighter Typhoon, the Saab 
Gripen and the Dassault Rafale fighter aircraft, providing 
critical components and subsystems. In addition, it makes 
direct sales of its components and subsystems into 
accessible UK, RoW markets; and it also benefits from  
the export of US manufactured equipment into  
these markets.
Cobham also supplies critical services into other parts  
of the world, including the UK, Australia, Middle East and  
the Caribbean, where it has aviation contracts for various 
services, including training, maritime surveillance, search  
and rescue, maintenance and engineering services.
09
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Renewing the  
focus on delivery
Our Business Model
Our business model  
is underpinned by:
Our potential for improved financial 
performance
Our differentiated technologies, leading market 
positions and investments in the business  
have contributed to historically strong  
underlying operating margins and good  
free cash flow generation. 
However, the results in 2016 have been 
disappointing. This included the impact of  
more challenging market conditions and, in  
a few businesses, a number of performance  
issues which can be attributed to examples  
of poor control and weak financial discipline.
For more information on our financial performance 
in 2016 and the KPIs that management use to run 
the business see pages 16 to 19.
Our risk management approach 
We have a risk management approach with  
a framework under which the risks to our business 
model are identified and monitored, along with 
controls and assurance measures.
For more information on the effectiveness of our 
approach, our plans for 2017 and our Principal Risks 
please see pages 34 to 39.
How we create value
Through a combination of longstanding customer 
relationships and applying our technology and 
know-how, we aim to provide customers with 
innovative solutions to meet their technology 
and service requirements. Using the extensive 
experience in our markets, we invest in 
differentiated technologies with leading market 
positions. We understand the importance of 
operational excellence to enable us to deliver 
our customer commitments. Improving our 
consistency and execution will be a focus for 
improvement in 2017.
Our enablers 
Our technology solutions can only be delivered 
through the expertise of engaged and talented 
employees. We also put in place policies and 
processes to ensure employees work in a safe 
environment and we look to minimise our impact 
on the environment. Working in highly regulated 
markets, we understand the need to adhere to  
the highest ethical standards.
For more information, see the Corporate 
Responsibility and Sustainability overview  
on pages 40 to 43. 
4
Markets
Scope of 
delivery
Point of 
delivery
Tier one
Tier four
Commercial
Aerospace
Defence
Services
Programmes
-  Systems
-  Subsystems
Book and Ship
-  Products
-  Components
10
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com We have a focus on high value 
add technologies and know-how
Over the last few years, the Group has focused  
on shifting the balance of its portfolio to increase  
the proportion of its revenue in commercial  
end-markets. This has occurred through a 
combination of organic investment in technology,  
in conjunction with acquisitions that have a majority 
of their revenue in commercial markets. As a result  
of this strategy, all four of Cobham’s Sectors now  
have significant exposure to defence/security and 
commercial markets.
4.  P rog r a m m e m a n ag e m en t  
and continuous improvement
To leverage its market positions and technology, 
Cobham uses its technology and know-how to 
design, assemble and test high value-add products 
in-line with customer specifications, while needing 
to deliver on-time and to a pre-agreed budget. 
By succeeding with this approach, our customer 
relationships will be enhanced over time. 
In 2016, the number and complexity of business 
change initiatives was a contributory factor which 
adversely impacted the Group’s operations and 
financial performance. This will be addressed during 
2017 through reducing the number of centrally 
driven change programmes. 
Within the Aviation Services Sector, Cobham 
operates significant medium to long term contracts 
to fly, modify and maintain aircraft and undertake 
training in aviation markets. The nature of the 
services provided means that its contracts can 
last decades, as customers can renew or extend 
agreements multiple times. 
For more information on our capabilities please  
see pages 12 to 15. Also, see page 16 on our 
strategic objective of focusing on our customers.
2.  Investment in leading edge 
technology and know-how
Cobham’s model is to focus on markets with positive, 
long term macro trends that underpin customer 
demand. Success in these markets is dependent  
on our providing new and improved products  
and services, while understanding the needs of  
our customers. 
By making investments that enhance our  
technology differentiation, Cobham aims to offer  
its customers additional capability and lower 
through-life operating costs.
During the year, Cobham invested £130.2m (2015: 
£138.0m) in PV. This represents 8.2% of revenue 
(2015: 8.2%). Including R&D funded by customers, 
total R&D investment was £250.7m (2015: £257.7m). 
In 2016, the Group invested its PV in the development 
of products and services in its avionics, SA TCOM, 
wireless and microelectronics markets, in particular. 
A review of the effectiveness of technology 
investment will be undertaken in 2017, to ensure  
it is focused on the most promising opportunities. 
PV investment
£130.2m
(2015: £138.0m)
Total R&D investment
£250.7m
(2015: £257.7m)
3.   Leveraging existing products 
and services into different  
end markets
As Cobham operates at the component and 
subsystem level, the Group’s technology can often 
be used for different applications and across a variety 
of markets. 
The ability to find new markets helps diversify the 
Group’s customer base and its exposure to business 
cycles. It can also help increase the returns on 
technology investment.
1.  Positions in our markets
Cobham designs, assembles and tests a range of 
components and subsystems, typically operating 
towards the lower half of the supply chain, known  
as tier 3 and tier 4. Cobham also participates to 
a lesser extent at tier 2 where it has some major 
subsystem capabilities. 
Operating at lower market tiers enables Cobham to 
supply to a number of large, multinational customers 
who are sometimes in competition with each other. 
The following diagram shows where the business 
is positioned in the supply chain, using illustrative 
examples of what the Group does within each tier.
1
2
3
4
Platforms / Fully Integrated Systems
–  Aircraft
– Missiles
– Medical & Industrial Equipment
– Satellites (Commercial & Military)
Major Subsystems
–  Complete Apertures
– Missile Subsystems
– Complete EW Subsystems 
Integrated Assemblies
–  AESA Modules
– Microelectronic Assemblies
– Power Distribution Module
– Actuator/Gimbals Assembly
Components
– Diodes
– MMIC Devices
– Semiconductors
– Rad Hard Components
Tier
11
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Communication products for 
sending and receiving voice,  
data and video signals
Capability served by:
 
 Communications and Connectivity
 
 Advanced Electronic Solutions
Our capabilities by Sector:
Pneumatic and  
actuation systems
Capability served by:
 
 Mission Systems
Military and commercial 
outsourced aviation services
Capability served by:
 
 Aviation Services
Our Capabilities
Our differentiated technology and know-how  
is concentrated around six key capabilities
Air-to-air refuelling systems
Capability served by:
 
 Mission Systems
We have specialist and  
high value add capabilities
Advanced electronics
Capability served by:
 
 Advanced Electronic Solutions
Test and measurement products
Capability served by:
 
 Communications and Connectivity
32% 
Communication products for 
sending and receiving voice, 
data and video signals
18%
Military and 
commmercial 
outsourced 
aviation services
13%
Pneumatic and
actuation systems
7%
Air-to-air 
refuelling 
systems
 
Advanced
Electronic
Solutions
Communications
and Connectivity
Mission
Systems
Aviation
Services
26% 
36% 
20% 
18% 
9% 
Test and 
measurement
products
21%
Advanced 
electronics
12
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com STRATEGIC REPORT
Down to earth 
Cobham SA TCOM designs, develops and delivers 
sophisticated Earth Stations, providing the interface for 
Inmarsat services, including communication to aircraft, 
shipping traffic and land mobile applications. 
Proportion of Group Revenue
 32%
Cobham supplies products with a focus on 
communication on the move including in 
demanding or difficult environments. This includes 
components and subsystems used in space, on 
aircraft, and at sea.
Proportion of Group Revenue
 13%
Cobham systems increase the safety, survivability 
and effectiveness of users and assets, leveraging 
specialised technology that includes actuation, high 
pressure pneumatics, oxygen generation and control 
systems, gas management and separation, water 
sensing, and restraints and releases.
Proportion of Group Revenue
 18%
Cobham delivers outsourced aviation services for 
customers worldwide, including military training, 
special mission flight operations, outsourced 
commercial aviation, including fly-in fly-out  
services to the natural resources industry, and  
aircraft engineering.
Plug in power 
Cobham’s aerial refuelling systems are a key enabler of air 
power. Fitted on every major tanker, our hose and drogue 
systems provide front line probe-fitted aircraft with the fuel 
to fly further, faster and more efficiently.
Proportion of Group Revenue
 7 %
Cobham is a market leader in the aerial  
refuelling market having supplied more than  
2,000 systems to customers worldwide.
Precise capabilities
Cobham’s Brimstone missile launcher is providing the 
Eurofighter Typhoon fighter aircraft with a greater precision 
strike capability than ever before.
Excellence above all
Cobham Aviation Services provides helicopters for  
Aero Medical Evacuation operations in Brunei, Cyprus 
and the Caribbean.
Medical marvels
Cobham designs high reliability and radiation hardened 
integrated circuits for growing medical markets, for use  
in MRI scanners and ultrasound. 
Proportion of Group Revenue
 21 %
Cobham supplies customised product solutions 
for a range of applications spanning defence, 
X-ray imaging, medical and industrial requirements 
including airport screening, mining and secure point 
of sale payment applications.
Wireless world
Cobham provides market leading intelligent digital 
Distributed Antenna Systems and wireless coverage 
products for both public safety and cellular applications.
Proportion of Group Revenue
 9%
Cobham makes a range of technology dependent 
test and measurement products for wireless and 
radio markets.
Revenue by market (%)
US defence/
security 19%
Commercial
64%
UK, RoW defence/
security 17%
Revenue by market (%)
US defence/
security 57%
UK, RoW defence/
security 43%
Revenue by market (%)
US defence/
security 52%
Commercial
13%
UK, RoW defence/
security 35%
Revenue by market (%)
UK, RoW defence/
security 56%
Commercial
44%
Revenue by market (%)
US defence/
security 80%
Commercial
15%
UK, RoW defence/
security 5%
Revenue by market (%)
US defence/
security 7%
Commercial
90%
UK, RoW defence/
security 3%
13
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Our Capabilities continued
Cobham has significant content on the 
US Air Force next generation KC -46 
tanker programme. This includes its hose 
and drogue aerial refuelling systems and 
examples of its communication and 
pneumatic and actuation technologies
Our products on 
the KC -46 tanker
Panel Mounted  
Oxygen Regulators
The oxygen regulator is designed  
for use by aircraft crew members  
in high altitude flight. The oxygen 
regulators provide regulated 
breathing oxygen to pilots and aircrew from the 
aircraft’s primary gaseous oxygen system. As altitude 
increases, so too does the oxygen flow so the partial 
pressure of oxygen is roughly constant.
Flat Plate Slotted  
Array Antenna
The flat plate antenna forms part  
of the weather radar system on the 
KC-46. Its job is to facilitate data 
collection and analysis of weather  
to enable safer, smoother and more efficient flights.
Fuel Tank Inerting (OBIGGS) 
Air Separation Module  
and Oxygen Sensor
Operating as the heart of the OBIGGS 
fuel tank inerting system, Cobham’s  
Air Separation Module increases aircraft and passenger 
safety by providing a continuous flow of nitrogen 
enriched gas into the fuel tanks to reduce flammability 
and the likelihood of a fuel tank explosion. Cobham’s 
Oxygen Sensor monitors the air that leaves the Air 
Separation Module, providing confidence that the  
fuel tanks are receiving the proper amount of  
nitrogen-enriched air.
VHF/UHF Tuneable Antenna 
and Logic Converter Unit
Using frequency information 
supplied by its radio, the Logic 
Converter Unit tunes the antenna 
to provide optimal electrical performance and is in 
use with most airborne military radios today. There 
are three sets of Tuneable Antennas and Logic 
Converter Units on the KC-46 capable of providing 
vital air-to-air and air-to-ground communications  
for the crew.
(Credit: Boeing)
14
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com
Our Capabilities continued Oxygen System  
Shutoff Valve
If any part of the aircraft oxygen 
system is compromised, this  
valve will close the failed portion  
to conserve vital oxygen and protect the aircraft from  
a high oxygen concentration which could lead to a fire.
Oxygen Pressure Reducer
Converts high pressure oxygen for  
use in emergency aircraft systems. 
Should an emergency occur in flight, 
the regulator will supply life saving 
oxygen to crew members, allowing them to keep the 
mission on track.
Body Fuel Tank
There are four identical body fuel  
tanks per KC-46 aircraft. The fuel tanks 
provide the fuel offload capability 
required by the United States Air 
Force. Fuel is pumped to the centre 
fuel tank on the aircraft to replenish and supplement 
fuel offloaded or used by the KC-46. The tanks are 
approximately 10 feet wide, 5 feet in height and  
5 feet deep.
Aerial Refuelling System 
(Hose and Drogue)
Incorporates the Wing Aerial 
Refuelling Pod and Centreline Drogue 
System. The Aerial Refuelling System 
enables the transfer of fuel from the 
KC-46 tanker aircraft to a receiver aircraft such as a 
fighter jet, during flight. The KC-46 can refuel a range  
of probe equipped fighter aircraft to extend their range, 
allowing them to fly farther, longer, faster and more 
efficiently. This makes it possible for aircraft to cover 
the distances needed to reach remote conflict zones.
Combined VHF/UHF 
Communications and  
UHF SATCOM Antenna
An antenna that is composed of two 
separate antenna elements capable  
of providing terrestrial, air-to-air or air-to-ground very 
high frequency (VHF) or ultra high frequency (UHF) 
communications, and ultra high frequency satcom with 
near hemispheric coverage.
HGA-7001 High-Gain  
SATCOM Antenna
An antenna that provides a long  
range communications system for  
the flight deck. The KC-46 is powered  
by two engines so the antenna is 
required to comply with Extended Operations standards 
which permit aircraft to fly long distance routes 
previously off limits to twin engine aircraft.
15
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators
Our vision
We work together to be a 
leading global technology 
and services innovator, 
respected for providing 
solutions to the most 
challenging problems.
Our strategy
We build and maintain 
leading positions in our 
chosen markets by leveraging 
innovative technology and 
know-how with a deep insight 
into customer needs.
Our strategic actions
There are five strategic actions which 
are focused on customers, improving 
operational performance, technology 
investment, capital allocation and 
enhancing skills and capabilities. 
   See pages 18 and 19 for more information  
on our strategic actions.
Delivery of our vision and strategy includes 
Our strategy and  
actions in 201 6
We have pursued our five strategic  
actions during a challenging 201 6
A business model  
focused on technology  
and know-how
   See pages 10 and 11  
for more information.
A risk management process 
with regular review of risks
   See pages 34 to 39  
for more information.
A set of values built on ethics, 
responsibility and sustainability 
   See pages 40 to 43  
for more information.
Going forward
Aligned to the 2017 priorities, the Group will review the strategy as well as the breadth and shape  
of the portfolio in 2017. See CEO review on pages 6 and 7 for our 2017 priorities.
Performance issues, in part driven by a strategy that saw Cobham diversify from its core capabilities,  
have led to a lack of focus that needs to be addressed. The review will focus on aligning each of the  
existing strong technology and service positions to create a performing Group. 
16
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Underlying EPS was 45% lower than the prior year. 
This reflected lower underlying operating profit, 
driven by a decline in organic revenue, with an 
adverse mix. There were also higher costs in some 
of the businesses. In addition, there was a 12%pts 
adverse impact from the higher share count 
following the June 2016 rights issue. 
Earnings
Shareholder value
The Group’s return on invested capital (ROIC) 
declined due to the disappointing trading 
performance in the year, and is now below the 
Group’s target. There has been disappointing 
trading in all of the Group’s Sectors, including 
from some of the more recent acquisitions, as 
evidenced by the significant impairment charges 
incurred in the year. For more information see 
note 10 on page 105. 
Cash generation
The Group generated lower operating cash  
flow of £181.8m (2015: £234.6m) as a result  
of its reduced operating profit. Operating  
cash conversion was higher at 81% (2015: 71%), 
including lower capital expenditure of £86.1m 
(2015: £98.7m). There was a modest increase  
in working capital of £8.2m (2015: £48.9m). 
Target: high single  
digit growth 
(45)% 
Target: >80%
81 % 
Target: >10%
8% 
  
See pages 28 to 33 for more information 
on our financial performance.
Cobham used the following key 
performance indicators (KPIs) as 
measures of overall performance 
against the strategic actions
  Key performance indicator used  
by management.
  Used as a measure for determining  
executive remuneration.
  See page 144 for definitions.
Underlying EPS (pence)
19.1
18.3
15.7
16.5
9.0
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Operating cash conversion (%)
104
85
73
71
81
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Return on invested capital (%)
18
15
12
11
8
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
17
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators
We need to improve delivery 
against our KPIs in 201 7
Strategic actions
1. Focus on customers 2.  I m pr o v e o p e r a t i o nal 
performance
Description
Develop a deep understanding  
of customer needs and build  
close relationships.
Drive improvement in our  
operational performance  
to meet customers’ needs.
Importance Understanding customer needs and their priorities 
is crucial to developing products and services that 
are relevant for our markets. We also look to build 
relationships with potential customers, so we can 
develop applications for our technology and  
know-how in new markets.
Delivering products and services in line with 
customer schedules, to budget and to agreed 
performance and quality metrics is essential  
to growing market share.
Links to principal risks Failure to understand market characteristics, see risk 
2 on page 36.
Failure to successfully execute continuous 
improvement, see risk 7 on page 38.
Ineffective project and programme execution,
see risk 4 on page 37.
Progress 
Group revenue (£m)
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
1,749.4
1,789.7
1,851.7
2,072.0
1,943.9
 
On time delivery* (%) 
*On time to promise (OTTP)
78
82
86
90
86
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Commentary Target: mid-single digit organic revenue growth 
Group organic revenue declined 7.7% in the year, 
with an organic decline in all four of the Sectors. 
Organic revenue was impacted by lower volumes, 
an adverse revenue mix and lower flying activity  
in the Aviation Services Sector. 
  
See page 28 for more information.
Target: 90%
Despite improvement since 2012, consistency  
in operational execution remains below customer 
expectation. This will be a key area of focus in 2017.
The Group previously used the major accident 
incident rate as its KPI for operational performance. 
After consideration, the Group believes that OTTP 
is a better measure of performance and this is 
reflected above.
  
See pages 10 and 11 for more information.
  Key performance indicator used  
by management.
  Used as a measure for determining  
executive remuneration.
  See page 144 for definitions.
18
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com 3. Invest in technology 4.  A ll o c a te c a p it a l  
for growth
5.  E n h a nc e s ki l l s  
and capabilities
Invest in technologies, which are 
innovative, discriminating and which 
align with our technology road maps. 
This aligns product investment to 
demand and keeps us competitive. 
Constantly review the market place 
to ensure capital is allocated to 
achieve sustainable value creation 
through a focus on growing markets.
Enhance the skills and capabilities 
of employees to foster long term 
competitive advantage.
Developing products and services which meet 
customer needs and are differentiated from  
other competitive offerings will retain existing  
customers and win new customers.
Reviewing the market place constantly means 
focused investment in those areas which will  
deliver the best financial returns, so optimising 
revenue and profits.
Enhancing the skills and capabilities of employees, 
through focused learning and development, as well 
as by recruiting and developing the next generation 
of skilled employees, is essential for a technology 
business to deliver the promises made to customers.
Failure to execute strategy, see risk 3 on page 37. Failure to deliver value-creating investment, 
including M&A, see risk 8 on page 38.
Failure to recruit and retain personnel with 
appropriate skills and talent, see risk 6 on
page 37.
 
Group PV investment (% of revenue)*
5.3
6.2
6.7
8.2
8.2
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
*excluding Aviation Services
Return on invested capital (%)
18
15
12
11
8
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Voluntary staff turnover (%)
8.7
6.9
6.3
11.2
9.7
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Target: 6%
Company funded PV investment remained 
consistent year-on-year at 8.2% (2015: 8.2%) of 
revenue, ahead of the Group’s target. However, the 
significant investment made is inconsistent with 
the organic revenue decline of 7.7% in the year 
and the effectiveness of Cobham’s investment in 
technology will be reviewed to ensure it is being 
focused on the most promising opportunities.
  
See page 28 for more information.
Target: >10% 
 
It is considered that the declining ROIC is a good 
reflection of the outcome of the Group’s capital 
allocation decisions.
  
See page 17 for more information.
Target: <10%
The Group’s voluntary staff turnover has remained 
high, although just below the target level. The 
Group plans to simplify processes its processes and 
reporting in 2017, as it considers that reporting 
structures and the allocation of responsibilities have 
become overly complex and unclear, impacting 
motivation and morale. This has had a continuing 
adverse impact on voluntary staff turnover. 
  
See page 41 for more information.
The Board will review the strategic 
actions as well as the breadth and  
shape of the portfolio in 201 7
19
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT  
Communications and Connectivity
Organic revenue 
(5)%
(2015: (4)%)
Enabling reliable connectivity 
anywhere, anytime 
 
% of Group revenue
36%
(2015: 37%)
Provides high performance equipment and 
solutions to enable reliable connectivity across  
a range of demanding environments in aerospace, 
avionics, satellite and radio, wireless and mobile 
connectivity markets.
Total Sector revenue decreased by £81.6m. 
This was driven by a £113.4m decrease due 
to divestments, principally the Composites 
businesses which were divested in November 
2015 and the Surveillance business divested in 
January 2016. There was a favourable impact  
from currency translation of £68.7m, which  
was partially offset by organic revenue, which  
was £36.9m or 5.1% lower.
The organic revenue performance was primarily 
driven by lower volumes, including in the 
Wireless business, with lower sales of test and 
measurement products. In addition, there were 
lower antenna and SA TCOM volumes, primarily 
in defence markets, including an adverse impact 
from discontinued product lines. 
Underlying operating profit was £60.0m (2015: 
£108.4m). The lower operating profit in part 
reflected the reduced volumes set out above. 
However, there were also significant additional 
costs incurred through the year primarily from 
increased resource requirements and a number  
of accounting adjustments, as a result of the 
previously announced operational issues in the 
Wireless business. There was a partial offset to 
this from the favourable impact on operating 
profit from divestments completed in 2015 and 
2016, from currency translation and from net cost 
savings achieved in the year. Reflecting the overall 
impact of these factors, the Sector’s operating 
margin was 8.7% (2015: 14.0%). 
While marine markets remain challenging, there 
has been acceleration in shipments of medium 
maritime Very Small Aperture T erminals in the 
SA TCOM business, which are linked to the growth 
in subscribers for new constellations such as 
Inmarsat Global Xpress. Within aerospace markets, 
Cobham’s Aviator S SA TCOM product has now 
been selected for the Airbus single aisle and long 
range aircraft, with revenue anticipated in 2018.
In the Wireless business, while sales volumes  
for test and measurement products were lower 
there have been initial requests to support  
5G pilot projects. The AvComm business has 
developed the first industry test platform 
for Software Communications Architecture, 
generating significant interest from radio 
manufacturers and governments, with first orders 
received in the second half of 2016. The Cobham 
Aerospace Communications business has been 
awarded an initial contract from OneWeb for its 
600+ internet-providing satellite constellation.
Sector revenue (£m) 
771.8
2015 Divestments 
and currency 
translation
Organic
growth
690.2
20 16
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
(44.7)
(36.9)
900
Sector underlying operating profit (£m) 
108.4
2015 Divestments 
and currency 
translation
Organic
growth
60.0
20 16
150
100
50
0
15.9 (64.3)
21 20
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Wireless world
Cobham provided robust public safety 
infrastructure for the Rio de Janeiro Metro 
network and cellular active Digital Antenna 
System solutions in three of the largest 
stadia in the city: the Engenao Stadium, 
Mineirao and the Maracana.
Next generation
Following contract awards in 2016, Cobham will provide  
its new digital Radio and Audio Integrated Management 
System (RAIMS) and new SwiftBroadband Safety System  
known as the AVIA TOR 200S and 700S for the A320neo 
aircraft family. 
Revenue by geography (%)
RoW  9% USA  29%
Asia  20%
UK  8%
Australia  1%
Other EU  33%
Revenue by market (%)
Maritime/other
54%
US defence/
security 7%
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
23%
UK, RoW
defence/security
 16%
21 20
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT  
Mission Systems
Every breath counts
Our aircrew mounted physiological sensing system 
monitors the pilot’s inhalation and exhalation breath  
to identify hypoxia-like symptoms before they affect 
aircrew performance and safety. 
(Credit: U.S. Air Force)
Leading capabilities in aerial 
refuelling and survival systems  
for extreme environments
Organic revenue
(7)%
(2015: 10%)
% of Group revenue
20%
(2015: 18%)
23 22
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Withstanding pressure
Cobham designs and produces high performance  
composite pressure vessels and hybrid integrated  
structures for alternative energy, life support, military  
and commercial aircraft, and spacecraft applications.  
We have leveraged our gas management capabilities  
and technology into the natural gas vehicle market.
Provides safety and survival systems for extreme 
environments, aerial refuelling systems and wing-tip  
to wing-tip mission systems for fast jets, transport 
aircraft and rotorcraft. The primary focus is serving 
niche areas of the defence and security market 
globally, supplemented by an expanding presence  
in commercial aviation markets.
Total Sector revenue increased £4.0m, primarily 
reflecting favourable currency translation of £37.4m. 
This was partly offset by reduced revenue of £6.1m,  
due to the divestment of the unmanned systems 
business in October 2016 and an organic decline  
of £27.3m or 6.6%.
Within the organic result, there was revenue growth 
in some areas, including from increased shipments of 
actuation control subsystems related to air-to-ground 
munitions. However, this was offset by lower revenue 
from aerial refuelling, principally due to Lockheed Martin 
C-130 tanker production volumes and development 
revenue from the Boeing KC-46 tanker programme. 
 
Underlying operating profit was lower at £56.5m  
(2015: £68.0m). This was primarily driven by lower 
C-130 volumes and a lower profit contribution from  
KC-46 development revenue. 
Partially offsetting these was a favourable impact from 
currency translation. Reflecting these factors, the 
operating margin was 14.6% (2015: 17.8%). 
Within the Sector’s aerial refuelling activities the Group 
has taken an exceptional charge of £150m in 2016 on 
KC-46 development, as described on page 29. This is 
not included in underlying operating profit. Work on 
the conformity process for the KC-46 tanker Centreline 
Drogue System is substantially complete. Qualification 
activity is ongoing as part of the overarching US Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA) certification process. 
Conformity activity for Wing Aerial Refuelling Pods 
continues. Elsewhere, the first full production wing pods 
entered service with the German Air Force on the Airbus 
A400M programme.
The Sector’s long life Air Separation Module product 
has now entered service with three major US airlines. 
This product leverages previous investments in defence 
technology to reduce flammability in commercial 
aircraft fuel tanks and is driven by an FAA mandate to 
reduce and mitigate fuel tank flammability on board 
all US domestic carriers by 2018. Demand for missile 
actuation control subsystems on high volume  
air-to-ground missiles and laser guided munitions 
continued to grow, with multi-year contracts secured.
Revenue by geography (%)
Asia  6% RoW  2%
UK  4%
Australia  1%
USA  70%
Other EU  17%
Revenue by market (%)
Maritime/other
1%
US defence/
security 54%
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
8%
UK, RoW defence/
security  
 37%
Sector revenue (£m) 
382.4
2015 Divestments 
and currency 
translation
Organic
growth
386.4
20 16
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
31.3 (27.3)
900
Sector underlying operating profit (£m)
68.0
2015 Divestments 
and currency 
translation
Organic
growth
56.5
20 16
150
100
0
5.3 (16.8)
50
23 22
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT  
 Advanced Electronic Solutions
Providing critical solutions  
on land, at sea, in the air  
and in space
 
Organic revenue
(8)%
(2015: (7)%)
% of Group revenue
26%
(2015: 26%)
 
 
Provides critical solutions for communication 
on land, at sea, in the air and in space through 
off-the-shelf and customised products including 
radio frequency, microwave, and high reliability 
microelectronics, antenna subsystems and 
motion control solutions. This incorporates 
defence, including missile, radar and  
electronic warfare, X-ray imaging, medical  
and industrial markets.
Total Sector revenue decreased by £26.4m. This 
included a £49.3m decrease due to divestments, 
principally Weinschel and Inmet, which were 
divested in June 2015, and Metelics which  
was divested in December 2015. There was  
a favourable impact from currency translation 
of £69.1m, which was partially offset by organic 
revenue, which was £46.2m or 8.3% lower.
Organic revenue was lower primarily due to the 
Integrated Electronic Solutions business, which 
continued to be impacted by the end of some 
mature production programmes. This included  
the EA-18G Low Band Transmitter (LBT) 
programme for the US Navy. In addition, there 
was lower revenue from space programmes  
within the Semiconductor Solutions business. 
However, partially offsetting the above, there  
was revenue growth from missile programmes  
in the Microelectronic Solutions business.
Underlying Operating profit was £60.2m (2015: 
£80.5m), due to the lower volumes described 
above, including from the mature production 
programmes. The Sector incurred some additional 
costs, including the previously announced 
technical and supplier quality issues on certain  
of its development programmes, and additional  
IT security compliance costs. In addition, there 
was a favourable impact from currency translation. 
The Sector’s operating margin at 11.8% (2015: 
15.0%) reflected these factors. 
The Sector is expected to continue to benefit 
from its strong positions in missile markets. This 
includes the Standard Missile-6 and Evolved Sea 
Sparrow Missile (ESSM) programmes, which have 
been successfully tested for expanded roles. It 
also has significant electronic warfare and radar 
subsystem content on the Joint Strike Fighter 
aircraft, with a continuing increase in aircraft 
production expected. In addition, the Air and 
Missile Defense Radar programme is expected  
to go into initial production in 2017. The Sector 
has also had initial success in penetrating 
small satellite programmes and anticipates 
production awards by early 2018, and it has 
continued to secure large orders for Application 
Specific Integrated Circuits. These are wins for 
international space customers and long  
term agreements for industrial customers.
Sector revenue (£m) 
538.0
2015 Divestments 
and currency 
translation
Organic
growth
511.6
20 16
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
19.8 (46.2)
900
Sector underlying operating profit (£m) 
80.5
2015 Divestments 
and currency 
translation
Organic
growth
60.2
20 16
150
50
0
4.3 (24.6)
100
25 24
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com  
Revealing Jupiter’s secrets
NASA’s Jupiter Near-polar Orbiter (Juno) spacecraft 
carries Cobham’s Battery Electronics Unit, engineered 
to provide autonomous balancing of power cells 
enabling Juno to manage its power with reduced  
size and weight. (Credit: NASA)
Blasting into new markets
Cobham provides Application Specific Integrated  
Circuits to Orica, a leading Australian mining  
services company for use in explosive detonation 
equipment used in mining excavation.
Revenue by geography (%)
Asia  3% UK  1%
RoW  2%
Other EU  3%
USA  91%
Revenue by market (%)
Maritime/other
12%
US defence/
security 80%
Commercial
aerospace/
general 
aerospace 3%
UK, RoW
defence/security  
5%
25 24
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Aviation Services
Delivering outsourced 
aviation services for military 
and commercial customers
Organic revenue
(14)%
(2015: 1%)
% of Group revenue
18%
(2015: 19%)
Connecting people
Cobham operates the Boeing 717 jet 
network for Qantaslink in Australia as the 
only third party trusted to operate under 
the Qantas brand.
27 26
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Search and rescue
Cobham Aviation Services provides a turn-key search  
and rescue capability for the Australian Maritime Safety 
Authority, acquiring, modifying, commissioning, operating 
and maintaining four Bombardier Challenger CL-604  
special mission jets.
Delivers outsourced aviation services for customers 
worldwide, including military training, special mission 
flight operations, outsourced commercial aviation, 
including fly-in fly-out services to the natural resources 
industry and aircraft engineering.
Total Sector revenue decreased by £32.9m. While 
currency translation had a £24.7m favourable impact, 
this was offset by organic revenue, which was £57.6m 
or 13.9% lower. The majority of this organic decline 
was in commercial markets, in particular due to lower 
flying activity in Australian natural resources markets. 
However, there was also a decrease in defence/security 
revenue, in part due to the cessation of some smaller 
flying contracts and reduced operational readiness 
training activity, including for the Royal Saudi Air Force. 
This was partially offset by initial revenue from the  
new Australian Maritime Safety Authority contract.
Underlying Operating profit was £38.3m (2015: £57.3m), 
primarily reflecting the overall reduction in flying 
activity, with cost actions taken which partially mitigated 
this impact. Reflecting this, the operating margin was 
10.7% (2015: 14.7%).
Conditions within the Australian natural resources 
market are expected to remain challenging in 2017. 
Despite this outlook, the Sector has commenced 
flying operations for Blackham Resources and Doray 
Minerals to provide fly-in, fly-out services to mining 
sites in Western Australia. The previously announced 
ten year contract extension to continue operations 
across Australia under the Qantas brand commenced 
on 1 January 2017, albeit on reduced margins. In 
defence/security markets, the mobilisation phase of 
the four specially modified Bombardier Challenger 
CL-604 aircraft for the new twelve year AUS$640m 
Australian Maritime Safety Authority contract is nearing 
completion. The first modified aircraft commenced 
operations in Cairns in December 2016 and the second 
commenced operations in Perth in February 2017. The 
remaining two aircraft are undergoing mission systems 
modifications in Cobham’s Adelaide facilities and are 
scheduled to enter service in the first half of 2017.  
The Sector continues to operate the defence  
helicopter flying school in the UK, with transition 
planning underway ahead of the expected contract  
end on 31 March 2018.
Revenue by geography (%)
UK  30% Other EU  2%
Asia  6%
RoW  4%
Australia  58%
Revenue by market (%)
Commercial
aerospace/
general aerospace
44%
UK, RoW defence/
security  
56%
Sector revenue (£m) 
390.1
2015 Currency 
translation
Organic
growth
357.2
20 16
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
24.7
(57.6)
900
57.3
2015 Currency 
translation
Organic
growth
38.3
20 16
150
100
0
2.3 (21.3)
Sector underlying operating profit (£m) 
50
27 26
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Financial Review
£m 2016 2015
Weighted average number  
of shares (millions)*
1,506.3 1,333.2 
Underlying EPS (pence)* 9.0 16.5 
* Comparatives have been restated to reflect the bonus 
element of the rights issue completed during 2016.
Definitions of the underlying measures can be found 
on page 144 and a reconciliation of underlying profit 
to statutory results is set out on page 29. 
Orders
Group order intake was £2,084.0m (2015: 
£2,148.0m). Order intake benefited from the 
significant contract extension for the Aviation 
Services Sector in the first half, with it continuing 
operations across Australia for Qantas until 2026. 
Overall, like-for-like Group order intake was 5% lower. 
The Group’s book-to-bill ratio was 1.07x (2015: 
1.04x). Excluding the Aviation Services Sector, which 
is characterised by the receipt of large multi-year 
orders, the Group’s book-to-bill was 0.99x (2015: 1.09x).
At 31 December 2016, the Group’s order book was 
£2,946.4m (2015: £2,476.8m), an increase of 19%. 
Within this, orders due for delivery in the current year 
are £1,301.7m (2015: £1,130.5m), an increase on 
the prior year of 15%, but only 3% after adjusting for 
divestments and currency. 
Revenue
A summary of the changes to Group revenue in the 
year is as follows:
 
2015
FX  
translation
Acquisitions/
divestments
Organic 
growth
 
2016
£2,072.0m £199.5m £(166.5m) (£161.1m) £1,943.9m
Total Group revenue was lower at £1,943.9m 
(2015: £2,072.0m) and this was primarily driven by 
divestments and lower organic revenue. Partially 
offsetting this there was a significant benefit  
from currency translation, as the pound sterling 
weakened against all four of the Group’s primary  
foreign currencies.
The financial results include 
the impact of execution 
and performance issues
Summary of underlying results 
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, 
the Group has included within its published financial 
statements non-GAAP measures including underlying 
operating profit and underlying earnings. 
These are considered by the Board to be the most 
meaningful measures under which to assess the 
operating performance of the Group and provide 
additional useful information on underlying trends 
to shareholders. The non-GAAP measures used do 
not include the impact of items described below 
which are not considered to reflect the day to day 
operating results of the Group. 
As the Group has been acquisitive over time, 
these include certain accounting treatments and 
adjustments that do not result from the underlying 
business activity. In addition in 2016 a number of 
business and control issues have been identified 
that have given rise to changes in the financial 
statements. Given the nature and size of these items, 
the Board believes that earnings trends are better 
understood by separately identifying the amounts  
as exceptional as detailed below. 
Underlying measures are therefore considered  
to provide a more comparable view year on year, 
having removed the distorting effects of the 
excluded items which are more clearly understood 
when presented separately. 
A summary of the Group’s underlying results is set 
out below:
£m 2016 2015
Revenue 1,943.9 2,072.0 
Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2 
Underlying operating margin 11.6% 16.0%
Underlying net finance expense (49.8) (51.8)
Underlying profit before tax 175.2 280.4 
Underlying tax (39.6) (60.2)
Underlying tax rate 22.6% 21.5%
Underlying profit after tax 135.6 220.2 
There have been a number of  
exceptional items charged in the year
Analysing this revenue performance by end market, 
organic revenue in the Group’s commercial markets, 
which amounted to 41% (2015: 38%) of Group 
revenue, was £46.7m or 5.5% lower in the year. 
Organic revenue in the US defence/security market, 
which was 34% (2015: 36%) of Group revenue, was 
£84.4m or 11.2% lower. UK, RoW defence/security 
organic revenue, which was 25% (2015: 26%) of 
Group revenue, was £30.0m or 5.9% lower. 
Statutory operating loss
The Group made a statutory operating loss of 
£779.1m (2015: £12.0m profit). This was adversely 
impacted by the lower underlying operating result, 
but also included significant exceptional costs. 
For 2016 a number of items are considered to be 
exceptional because of their size and non-recurring 
nature and are excluded from underlying measures. 
While these relate, in part, to ongoing activities, 
their impact is much larger than would normally be 
expected in any individual accounting period and 
reflect commercial events that are not expected to 
repeat. The Board have adopted a more cautious 
approach due to the current trading environment 
and associated risks. As a result, the Board considers 
these costs to be exceptional.
To aid understanding, items have been aggregated 
into the following categories based on similar 
business and control factors:
 − Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets;
 − Revisions of the carrying values of other assets;
 − Estimates of fixed price contract profitability;
 − Assessment of legal and other provisions.
The Board has considered whether any of the 
identified items above relate to prior years. The 
conclusion reached is that these adjustments  
relate to 2016 events and no prior year adjustment 
is necessary. 
28
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
The key components of these adjustments are  
as follows:
1) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The Group has recognised a total non-cash 
impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 
of £573.8m (2015: £26.6m). This impairment is made 
up of charges against:
 − The Wireless business unit, within the 
Communications and Connectivity Sector,  
where there is an impairment of goodwill and 
intangible assets of £196.1m. This unit includes 
part of the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014 and  
Axell Wireless in 2013;
 − The Integrated Electronic Solutions business unit, 
part of the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, 
where there is an impairment of goodwill of 
£185.7m. This unit includes the Lansdale business 
acquired in 2009, part of the M/A-COM business 
also acquired in 2009, the Trivec business 
acquired in 2011 and part of the Aeroflex 
acquisition in 2014; 
 − The Semiconductor Solutions business unit,  
also within the Advanced Electronic Solutions 
Sector, where there is an impairment of £192.0m. 
This unit includes part of the Aeroflex acquisition 
in 2014. 
The 2015 charge related to the Group’s Unmanned 
Systems business, which was divested during  
the year.
The impairments do not reflect a lack of confidence 
from the Board that these businesses can create 
value in the future. They are generated as a result  
of the lower 2016 outturn, combined with lower 
growth from this base. Any benefits or costs 
expected to arise from future restructuring or 
initiatives to enhance performance which have  
not yet commenced are not included, in accordance 
with accounting standards. 
The Board considers the resultant charge to be 
exceptional given the significance of the changes  
in approach that have been agreed. 
Further details of the impairment review can be 
found in note 10.
 
2) Revisions of the carrying values of other assets
A charge of £33.3m has been taken against other 
assets in the Balance Sheet. This includes:
 − £20.2m against the inventory balance reflecting 
ageing stock and lower demand forecasts;
 − £3.9m against intangible assets no longer planned 
to be used;
 − £3.9m tangible asset write down against plant 
and machinery no longer expected to be used;
 − £5.3m provision against aged receivables 
considered doubtful.
These changes to asset carrying values were identified 
following a detailed review and reassessment of 
recovery of generally older items to a more cautious 
standard. While individually these items may not be 
considered exceptional, the changes have resulted 
from a consistent trend across the business that has 
impacted the purchase and holding of inventory  
and assets. 
Given the impact, in aggregate, of revisions to the 
carrying value of these assets, the Board believes  
that it is appropriate to show these as exceptional. 
The combined size of these non-recurring items  
is significant.
Reconciliation of underlying measures
£m 2016 2015
Operating (loss)/profit (779.1) 12.0
Adjusted to exclude:
Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes (8.7) 67.5
Derivative financial instruments 39.3 18.8
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 161.2 176.8
Other business acquisition and divestment related items 1.7 30.5
Exceptional items:
 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 573.8 26.6
 Revisions of the carrying values of other assets 33.3 –
 Estimates of fixed price contract profitability 179.1 –
 Assessment of legal and other provisions 24.4 –
Total operating reconciling items 1,004.1 320.2
Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2
Underlying profit before tax is calculated as follows:
Loss before taxation (847.9) (39.8)
Adjusted to exclude:
Total operating reconciling items above 1,004.1 320.2
Non-underlying finance costs 19.0 –
Underlying profit before taxation 175.2 280.4
Taxation charge on underlying profit (39.6) (60.2)
Underlying profit after taxation 135.6 220.2
Underlying EPS (pence) 9.0 16.5
3) Estimates of fixed price contract profitability
Additional contract loss provisions have been 
identified. The Board considers these costs  
to be exceptional because of their size and  
non-recurring nature. 
In total a charge of £179.1m, including the KC-46 
charge, has been taken against certain contracts 
reflecting increased estimates of costs to complete 
and, in some cases, lower recovery from customers. 
The Board recognises that making estimates on 
complex contracts is inherently judgemental and 
therefore whilst it has taken a reasonable view 
of contract positions, the final outcome of the 
contracts could be more or less favourable than  
the position taken. The charges booked can be 
broadly categorised as:
 − £150.0m against KC-46 reflecting the position 
outlined above;
 − £18.5m on other development contracts within 
the Mission Systems Sector;
 − £7.7m on development contracts within the 
Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector; and
 − £2.9m within the Communications and 
Connectivity Sector.
4) Legal and other provisions
£24.4m of charges have been taken to cover 
the estimated exposure on a number of legal, 
environmental, warranty and other regulatory 
matters across the Group. Given the size and  
non-recurring nature of the provisions, these  
have been highlighted as exceptional.
29
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Financial Review continued
The above adjustments for the estimates of fixed 
price contract profitability and legal and other 
provisions are expected to be cash affecting over  
the next two to three years.
In addition to the items identified by the balance 
sheet review, there were other items which have 
been accounted for as non-underlying, consistent 
with prior years’ treatment, with the most  
significant being:
 − Amortisation of intangible assets arising  
on business combinations of £161.2m  
(2015: £176.8m);
Goodwill and other intangible assets arising on 
business combinations are recognised as a result  
of the purchase price allocation on acquisition  
of subsidiaries.
 − Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative 
financial instruments of £39.3m (2015: £18.8m); 
The impact of derivative financial instruments 
excluded from underlying results includes changes 
in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted 
derivative financial instruments. These amounts relate 
to foreign currency exchange contracts and would 
not impact results had the Group chosen to comply 
with IAS 39 requirements to enable these contracts 
to be hedge accounted. Also included here are 
gains and losses arising on dividend related foreign 
exchange contracts which do not relate to operating 
items and hence are excluded from underlying results.
 − Business restructuring credit of £8.7m related to 
the integration of the 2014 Aeroflex acquisition 
(2015: £67.5m charge – primarily Aeroflex).
These costs relate to prior years’ restructuring 
programmes which have been accounted for as 
incremental to normal operations and non-recurring 
in nature. In 2016 and 2015, these relate to the 
integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 
2014. In 2016, this also reflects a reassessment of 
the level of provisions required in respect of the IT 
integration and remediation costs resulting from the 
Aeroflex acquisition. This has occurred because the 
technical methodology for resolving the issues was 
reassessed in the year, making it inappropriate to  
use against the opening provision and resulting in  
a reversal of £28.6m. It is expected that these costs 
will be treated as non-underlying in future.
See note 2 on pages 98 and 99 for more information 
on these non-underlying charges.
Technology investment
Included within underlying operating profit was 
£130.2m (2015: £138.0m) of company funded PV 
investment, in part reflecting the contribution from 
divestments in the prior year. PV investment in the 
year represented 8.2% (2015: 8.2%) of revenue.
In addition to company funded PV, customer 
funded R&D was £120.5m (2015: £119.7m). As in 
the prior year, this primarily related to aerial refuelling 
development programmes. customer funded R&D  
is reimbursable by the customer at pre-agreed 
intervals or on achievement of pre-agreed 
development milestones. 
Cash flow
£m 2016 2015
Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2
Less share of post tax results of joint ventures (0.2) (0.2)
Underlying operating profit (excluding joint ventures) 224.8 332.0
Depreciation and amortisation 80.5 74.6
Share based payments and provisions (12.5) (6.6)
Pension contributions in excess of pension charges (16.7) (17.8)
Increase in working capital (8.2) (48.9)
Net capital expenditure (86.1) (98.7)
Operating cash flow 181.8 234.6
Operating cash/underlying operating profit (excluding joint ventures) 80.9% 70.7%
Net finance costs paid (71.2) (49.4)
Tax paid (20.1) (31.5)
Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes (39.8) (48.2)
Free cash flow 50.7 105.5
Dividends paid (126.1) (122.1)
Business acquisition and divestment related costs paid (2.5) 137.5
Net rights issue proceeds and allocation of treasury shares 492.9 (24.9)
Exchange movements (236.4) (80.1)
Decrease in net debt 178.6 15.9
Opening net debt (1,206.8) (1,222.7)
Closing net debt (1,028.2) (1,206.8)
Net finance expense and profit before tax
The Group’s net finance charge was £68.8m (2015: 
£51.8m), and this included £19.0m (2015: nil) of 
make-whole payments relating to the pay down  
of senior notes following the June 2016 rights  
issue. The make-whole costs have been treated  
as non-underlying as they are one-off in nature  
and do not reflect the ongoing costs of servicing  
the Group’s net debt. 
The Group’s underlying net finance charge was 
£49.8m (2015: £51.8m). The net expense on cash 
and debt holdings was £48.0m (2015: £48.7m), with 
an adverse impact from foreign currency translation 
largely offsetting the favourable impact of the lower 
debt on the interest charge. The non-cash finance 
charge from pension schemes was £1.8m (2015: 
£3.1m) and this is expected to remain broadly 
unchanged in 2017. 
The Group made a statutory loss before tax of 
£847.9m (2015: £39.8m). The Group’s underlying 
profit before tax was £175.2m (2015: £280.4m).
Taxation
The Group’s overall tax credit was £52.8m (2015: 
£2.1m), reflecting the significant operating loss  
in the year.
The Group’s underlying tax rate increased to 22.6% 
(2015: 21.5%) from an underlying tax charge of 
£39.6m (2015: £60.2m). This included a change  
in the geographical mix of taxable profit.
30
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Earnings per share (EPS) 
Basic EPS was (52.8)p (2015: (2.8)p), including the 
restatement of the prior year figure for the bonus 
factor, following the 2016 rights issue. In addition,  
to the underlying operating performance, basic EPS 
was principally impacted by the exceptional items  
as set out in the paragraphs on statutory operating 
loss. There was also a higher share count, as set  
out below.
Underlying EPS of 9.0p (2015: 16.5p, restated) was 
45% lower. Underlying EPS was primarily impacted 
by the lower underlying operating profit in the year 
but this decline included a reduction of 12% from the 
higher share count following the rights issue, partially 
offsetting a favourable foreign exchange impact. 
The Group’s average share count in the year was 
1,506.3m (2015: 1,129.9m or 1,333.2m restated 
to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue 
completed during 2016) with the year end share 
count, excluding treasury shares, being 1,707.9m 
shares (31 December 2015: 1,138.6m).
Cash flow 
Operating cash flow, which is stated after net capital 
expenditure, but before interest and tax payments 
was £181.8m (2015: £234.6m). Operating cash 
conversion was 81% (2015: 71%), including lower 
capital expenditure of £86.1m (2015: £98.7m).  
There was also a modest working capital outflow  
of £8.2m (2015: £48.9m).
Free cash flow was £50.7m (2015: £105.5m). There 
was net interest paid of £71.2m (2015: £49.4m), 
which included £19.0m (2015: £nil) of make-whole 
payments on senior notes paid down following the 
rights issue. In addition, tax payments were £20.1m 
(2015: £31.5m), reflecting the lower underlying 
profits in the year. Also included in free cash flow 
were payments related to prior periods restructuring 
programmes of £39.8m (2015: £48.2m). A significant 
element of these ongoing payments relate to  
items provided for in previous years, including  
lease payments on vacated premises and IT 
remediation payments. 
Below free cash flow, the Group paid dividends of 
£126.1m (2015: £122.1m). In addition, there was a 
net inflow of £492.9m (2015: £24.9m outflow – net 
cost of treasury shares to satisfy awards and options 
under the Group’s share based payment schemes), 
primarily relating to the net proceeds of the rights 
issue completed in the first half.
 
Dividend and dividend policy 
The Group paid an interim dividend of 2.03p on 4 
November 2016. 
The Board will not be recommending a final dividend 
in respect of the financial year 2016. Furthermore, 
the Board will not recommend either an interim or 
final dividend in respect of financial year 2017 and 
it expects to resume dividend payments when it is 
prudent to do so. 
The decision on the level of any future payment  
will take into account a number of factors including 
the Group’s underlying earnings, cash flows and 
gearing, its investment needs and the requirement  
to maintain an appropriate level of cover. 
In addition, in determining whether to pay a dividend 
in any one year, in accordance with its policy, the 
Board will also consider the level of distributable 
reserves and the requirements of recurring business 
commitments such as pension obligations and 
servicing debt providers. 
In considering these factors, the Board also considers 
the Group’s principal risks, which are set out on  
pages 34 to 39. 
The Group’s Parent Company operates as a holding 
company which primarily derives its net income 
from dividends paid by its subsidiary companies. 
At 31 December 2016 Cobham plc had significant 
distributable reserves, amounting to £967.8m, which 
primarily related to its Retained Earnings. The Parent 
Company Balance Sheet is shown on page 133.
The Board’s decision not to recommend a final 
dividend was driven by consideration of all the 
primary factors above. Overall, it was influenced 
by a year of lower than expected free cash flow 
generation for the Group, this following a number  
of financial years with disappointing cash generation; 
by its leverage, with the Group’s net debt/EBITDA 
ratio being 3.0x at the year end; by the Group’s 2017 
trading outlook and by its dividend cover.
Treasury 
The Group’s treasury activities are managed centrally 
by the Group Treasury function, which reports to 
the Chief Financial Officer. The Treasury function 
operates within written policies and delegation levels 
that have been approved by the Board. It is the 
Group’s policy that trading in financial instruments is 
used for financial risk management purposes only.
Net debt, gearing and 2016 rights issue
The Group’s net debt decreased to £1,028.2m 
(31 December 2015: £1,206.8m) at the year end, 
including adverse exchange rate movements of 
£236.4m (2015: £80.1m), which were largely driven 
by translation of Cobham’s US dollar denominated 
debt between the opening and closing rates. 
The proportion of US dollar denominated debt was 
materially higher than US dollar denominated profit 
during 2016 and there are plans to more closely  
align these proportions in the first half of 2017. 
Also included within net debt are cash deposits, 
which are primarily denominated in UK pounds,  
US dollars, euros, Danish krone and Australian dollars. 
At 31 December 2016, the Group held total cash 
and short term bank deposits, net of offsettable 
overdrafts and all with an original maturity of three 
months or less, of £236.2m (31 December 2015: 
£294.7m).
Cobham announced the results of its fully 
underwritten 1 for 2 rights issue on 17 June 2016. 
The rights issue raised gross proceeds of £506.7m, 
amounting to £490.6m after expenses. The Group 
swapped the net sterling proceeds of the rights 
issue into US dollars at approximately US$1.45/£, 
and this was used to repay US dollar denominated 
borrowings. These repayments comprised US$523m 
of variable rate debt and US$158m of fixed rate 
senior notes, with an average coupon of just over 
7.0% on the senior notes. 
Under the Group’s borrowing agreements, the net 
debt number used in the net debt/EBITDA ratio 
calculation is based on an average foreign exchange 
rate. On this basis the Group’s year end net debt 
figure was £937.9m, resulting in a ratio of 3.0x (2015: 
2.9x). For the purposes of this calculation exceptional 
items are excluded from EBITDA, in addition to some 
smaller proforma adjustments. Interest cover was 
5.1x (2015: 6.8x).
Debt covenants
£m 2016 2015
Net Debt (£m) 
– balance sheet
(1,028.2) (1,206.8)
Net Debt (£m) – average rate (937.9) (1,160.7)
EBITDA (£m) 316.5 396.4
Net Debt to EBITDA (not 
to exceed 3.5x)
3.0 2.9
EBIT A (£m) 245.2 333.4
Net Interest (£m) 48.0 48.7
Interest Cover  
(not less than 3x)
5.1 6.8
At the year end, a summary of the Group’s principal 
borrowings included the following:
 − US$270m multi-currency credit agreement which 
expires in October 2018. Interest is payable at 
the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin. US$235m had been 
utilised at the year end;
 − €70m multi-currency credit agreement 
expiring in October 2018. Interest is payable 
at the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin. €57m had been utilised  
at the year end;
 − DKK525m multi-currency credit agreement 
expiring in October 2018. Interest is payable 
at the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin. The facility was undrawn 
at the year end;
 − An AUS$90m multi-currency credit agreement 
expiring in October 2018. Interest is payable 
at the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin. AUS$49m had been 
utilised at the year end;
 − US$974m of senior notes maturing in tranches 
in 2017, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2024, with an 
average coupon of 3.8%;
 − €135m and US$40m raised from banks and 
maturing in tranches in 2020 and 2022, with 
interest at the applicable floating rate benchmark 
plus margin; and
 − A US$75m fixed rate agreement which expires 
in 2031 and under which the lender has a series 
of options exercisable every three years from 
December 2019.
31
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Financial Review continued
Maturity profile of Group’s outstanding 
debt facilities (£m)
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
1,388
1,327
936
729
550
347
344
344
–
£1,028m net debt at
31 December 2016
The Group has exposure to a number of financial 
risks, including liquidity risk and credit risk, which are 
described in note 23 of the notes to the Group 
Financial Statements. In addition, it has exposure  
to the effects of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates and interest rates, and these are 
described below. 
Foreign currency translation 
The following are the average and closing rates 
for the four foreign currencies that have the most 
impact on the translation of the Group’s Income 
Statement and Balance Sheet: 
2016 2015
Income Statement – average rate
US$/£ 1.35 1.53
AUS$/£ 1.83 2.03
EUR/£ 1.22 1.38
DKK/£ 9.11 10.27
Balance Sheet – closing rate
US$/£ 1.24 1.47
AUS$/£ 1.71 2.03
EUR/£ 1.17 1.36
DKK/£ 8.71 10.13
Foreign exchange translation exposure arises on the 
earnings of operating companies based largely in the 
US, Europe and Australia. These are partially offset 
by foreign currency denominated interest costs 
due to the Group’s current policy, as set out above, 
of generally funding acquisitions with borrowings 
denominated in the same currency and also to 
approximately match the currency mix of EBITDA 
with the currency mix of net debt. The interest 
charge on this debt provides a partial offset against 
currency denominated profits.
After taking into account the above offset of the 
Group’s foreign exchange translation exposure 
within the Income Statement, a combined 1 cent 
movement against the pound sterling in the average 
rate over one year’s trading for the currencies above 
had an estimated £1.1m impact on Group profit 
before tax in 2016. The Group estimates that the  
US dollar accounts for approximately two thirds 
of this impact.
Foreign currency transaction
The Group’s aim is to reduce, or eliminate whenever 
practical, foreign exchange transaction risk. The US 
dollar/pound sterling and the US dollar/Danish krone 
exchange rates are the most significant exposures, 
together with a number of other, smaller foreign 
exchange transaction exposures, including the euro/
US dollar. 
The chart above summarises the Group’s main 
foreign currency transaction exposures and the 
hedging in place to mitigate it. 
All foreign exchange hedging transactions are 
approved under delegated authority from the 
Board. A number of financial instruments are 
used to manage transactional foreign exchange 
exposure, such as forward rate contracts. The Group 
has a policy of hedging at least 80% of estimated 
transactional exposure for the next 12 months, a 
proportion of exposures between 12 and 36 months, 
and firm exposures on long term contracts. Details 
of the most significant of these instruments are 
described in notes 21 and 23 of the notes to the 
Group Financial Statements.
Some 93% of the Group’s anticipated transaction 
exposure to the US dollar/pound sterling exchange 
rate is hedged for 2017 at an average rate of 
US$1.42/£1, with additional forward sales in  
place to partially cover anticipated exposure  
in subsequent years. 
Interest rates
Cobham has various long and short term borrowings 
at both fixed and floating rates of interest. The Group 
monitors its exposure to movements in interest 
rates to bring greater stability and certainty to its 
borrowing costs, with the policy being to assess the 
proportion of borrowings that are fixed and floating 
in the context of prevailing market conditions.
Retirement obligations
Cobham operates a number of defined benefit 
pension schemes, with the largest being the  
Cobham Pension Plan in the UK. At the year end the 
estimated deficit for accounting purposes, which  
is the difference between the aggregate value of  
the schemes’ assets and the present value of their  
future liabilities, was £87.0m before deferred tax 
(2015: £56.7m). 
A reconciliation of the movements in the pension 
deficit in the year is shown in the table below.
2016
Pension deficit at 1 January 2016 (56.7)
Service cost (1.6)
Admin cost (0.2)
Interest charge (1.8)
Total employer contributions 18.5
Actuarial losses (42.6)
Exchange differences (2.6)
Pension deficit at 31 December 2016 (87.0)
Hedging transaction exposure
2017 Total
$/DKK $/£
Hedging in place
Hedging in place
 
2018
2019 to 2022 $2m
nil
$35m
$40m
Historic Average
Effective Rate
2013 $1.59: £1
2014 $1.61: £1
2015 $1.59: £1
2016 $1.51: £1
 
$67m
$98m
$142m
$153m
Average Hedge Rate $1.43:£1
Average Hedge Rate $1:DKK 6.76 $1.42:£1
Average Hedge Rate $1:DKK 6.07 $1.52:£1
68% 93%
Dollar/euro exposure predominantly hedged for 2017 with $52m @ 1.13
32
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com At 31 December 2016, the fair value of scheme 
assets was £790.0m (2015: £663.9m) and the  
present value of scheme obligations was £877.0m 
(2015: £720.6m).
Significant movements within the actuarial losses  
of £42.6m above were:
 − An decrease in discount rate assumptions, which 
are based on corporate bond rates, resulting in 
higher pension liabilities;
 − This was partially offset by gains in liability driven 
investments, following the de-risking strategies 
undertaken in previous years (see below).
The Cobham Pension Plan was closed to future 
accrual from 1 April 2016 and the Group’s defined 
benefit pension schemes have been closed to 
new entrants since 2003, with alternative defined 
contribution schemes offered in all cases. Cobham 
remains committed to the support of the legacy 
defined benefit pension schemes within the Group 
and continues to work with the trustees of those 
schemes to ensure that net deficit issues are 
managed appropriately. The de-risking strategy has 
included the undertaking of a significant buy-in 
transaction in 2013 which eliminated the Group’s 
exposure to interest rate, inflation and longevity 
risks associated with the pension population at the 
time of the transaction and in 2014 there was an 
investment in liability driven investments to provide 
further cover against interest and inflation volatility.
Further details on the Group’s retirement benefit 
schemes in the year, including the primary 
assumptions, the amounts recognised in the Income 
Statement and the changes in value of defined 
benefit schemes are given in note 22 of the notes  
to the Group Financial Statements.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position, are set out in the business overview 
on pages 1 to 27 and the principal risks on pages 
34 to 39. In addition, notes 1, 14, 21 and 23 of the 
notes to the Group Financial Statements include 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital, financial risk management, 
details of financial instruments and hedging activities, 
and its exposure to credit liquidity and other risks.
Note 31 refers to the Group’s target net debt/EBITDA 
ratio of 1.5x and the intention to raise equity of 
£500m. If the equity raise of £500m were to not 
occur, it is likely that the company would approach 
its lenders to seek an amendment to its key financing 
covenant of net debt/EBITDA to ensure that it would 
not breach its debt agreements. There can be no 
certainty that the company would be able to secure 
such an amendment on acceptable terms or at all 
and in these circumstances if the Group’s net debt/
EBITDA should exceed 3.5x, the Group’s lenders 
would be able to demand immediate repayment  
of all borrowings.
The Board has concluded that the resolutions which 
are necessary for the rights issue to proceed are likely 
to be passed and that the equity proceeds are likely 
to be raised in line with the timetable so that there 
will be no covenant breach.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks that 
may prevent the rights issue proceeding in line with 
the expected timetable or at all. There is a risk that 
sufficient shareholders will not vote in favour of the 
resolutions to enable the rights issue to occur and 
also a risk that the Financial Conduct Authority does 
not approve the rights issue prospectus. Note 31 
explains that the rights issue is fully underwritten  
on a standby basis, subject to customary conditions. 
These conditions allow the underwriters to not fund 
the equity in a number of circumstances including 
there being a material adverse change in the affairs 
of the Company or financial markets.
The Board believes that it is unlikely that the rights 
issue will not occur but the consequences of not 
being successful indicate the existence of a material 
uncertainty. This may cast significant doubt about 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern  
so it is appropriate to make full disclosure as required 
by accounting standards. The Board believes that 
adopting the going concern basis in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements is appropriate 
and the financial statements do not include the 
adjustments that would result if the Group were 
unable to continue as a going concern.
The auditors’ report on the financial statements 
contains an unmodified opinion. However, it includes 
an emphasis of matter in respect of going concern.
Assuming the equity is raised as planned, the 
Group will have considerable financial resources 
with liquidity available on the balance sheet from 
its cash resources and it has a spread of maturities 
on its debt. It has a mix of shorter and longer 
term contracts and leading market positions with 
customers across different geographical areas. As a 
consequence, the Board believes that the Group is 
well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors 
have formed a judgement at the time of approving 
the financial statements that it is their expectation 
that the Company and the Group as a whole 
have adequate financial resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements. See also the Group’s 
Viability Statement on page 35.
33
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks
Issues experienced during 2016
The Board recognises that its risk management 
process was not fully effective during 2016, as 
multiple independent execution, contract and 
market related risks crystallised during an exceptional 
period. Whilst a full review has not been undertaken, 
it is obvious that the implementation of certain 
controls requires strengthening. The Board takes this 
issue very seriously, and corrective actions are being 
developed to ensure that adequate controls are in 
operation throughout the Group.
How we manage risk
The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the 
business. It recognises the importance of having 
effective processes and procedures for identifying, 
actively monitoring, mitigating and managing the 
financial and non-financial risks facing the Group.
By regularly reviewing the principal risks reported 
across the Group by businesses and functions, and 
satisfying itself that these risks are managed within 
the Group’s stated risk appetite, the Board ensures 
that the Group’s risk exposure remains appropriate 
and that this links to the effective delivery of its 
strategic objectives.
The Board has ultimate accountability for the 
execution of risk management systems and internal 
controls, with the Risk Committee, comprising 
members of the Group Executive, responsible 
for overseeing execution of risk management 
throughout the Group. From 2017 a new Risk 
Committee, as a formal Board sub-committee  
will be created, further strengthening the process.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the detailed 
monitoring and reviewing of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal control and risk management 
systems to the Audit Committee. Assurance over 
the effectiveness of these systems is provided by a 
combination of regular management reporting to 
the Audit Committee. For the Advanced Electronic 
Solutions Sector, which holds classified US Defence 
programs and so operates under a US DoD Special 
Security Arrangement (SSA), specific assurances 
and authorised assurance reports are given by 
representatives of the SSA Board. The Group’s CEO 
and CFO both sit on the Board of the SSA, as described 
on page 51. Improvements to the effectiveness of 
governance and assurance procedures between the 
Group and the SSA are regularly reviewed. 
The process for monitoring and controlling risk, 
illustrated in the diagram on the left, emphasises 
ongoing evaluation and monitoring by the 
management teams at each appropriate entity  
level: Business unit, Sector, specialist function and at 
Group level. The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework is structured to ensure that risks  
are identified promptly by management teams,  
to support the achievement of their strategic 
objectives and to ensure that they are mitigated  
and managed appropriately in support of the delivery 
of the Group’s strategic plan. Risks are categorised  
in terms of inherent risk (before mitigation) and 
current risk (after existing mitigation). This allows  
the Group to identify risks that are heavily dependent 
on internal mitigating controls and to allocate 
resources appropriately. 
The risk management process described in the 
following section, together with the statements of 
Group Principal Risks, their impact and mitigations, is 
presented to provide details of the intended controls.  
It is recognised that the process in operation in  
2016 was insufficient to effectively manage risk  
in the Group. 
How we manage risk
Building a more effective risk management 
process will be an important contributor  
to the recovery of the Group
Operational Management
Functions
Internal & External Audit
 
 
Risks &
Actions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring 
& Reporting
  
Policy &
Controls
ERM
1
st
 Line
2
nd
 Line
3
rd
 Line
34
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com The risks identified are documented and measured, 
including the ownership of individual risks. Data 
from this process has been aggregated and themed, 
reviewed under the Governance structure outlined 
above and has been used as the basis for the Group’s 
principal risk disclosure on pages 36 to 39.
The Group manages risk by operating a ‘three lines 
of assurance’ risk and control model. The first line 
consists of operational management implementing 
and maintaining effective internal controls and 
risk management procedures. They are supported 
by a number of Group functions which, together 
with performance management procedures, form 
the second line. Internal audit, which is part of 
the third line in conjunction with external audit, is 
empowered to provide an independent assessment 
of the effectiveness of internal controls (guided by 
the risk appetite) and risk management processes 
and procedures, as well as identifying areas for 
improvement. These lines of assurance include the 
Group’s ethics reporting system, enabling employees 
to raise concerns over ethics and compliance 
matters. The internal audit function reports directly 
to the Audit Committee to ensure its independence 
and objectivity. In addition, the Audit Committee 
takes account of the views of the external auditors.
Risk appetite
The Group has established a risk appetite baseline 
through which Cobham’s risks can be managed 
with appropriate controls and assurance measures. 
Risk events can be categorised under four main 
headings: Strategic, Operational, Reporting/Financial 
and Compliance. The Group has broken down these 
risk categories into a number of subcategories and 
defined its risk appetite for each. The risk appetite 
is articulated as conservative, balanced or assertive 
across the various elements of the risk framework, 
with a principles based approach defining what each 
means for a given risk subcategory.
As shown on the risk appetite diagram below, 
typically there is a balanced appetite for taking risk 
across the Operational and Financial/Reporting risk 
subcategories – the cost of taking the risk is weighed 
against the resultant benefits.
There is a more assertive appetite for areas of 
Strategic risk including the promotion of growth,  
for example in business and product portfolios,  
and in the strategic planning processes. There is  
a conservative appetite for Compliance risk. 
The Group’s controls, mitigation activities and 
associated assurance measures implemented  
reflect the risk appetite for each position.
Viability Statement
The Board consider viability as part of their 
continuing programme of monitoring and managing 
risk. The Board has concluded that the most 
relevant time period for this review should be three 
years, taking account of the diversity in demand 
characteristics of its end markets. These range from 
relatively long cycle businesses, such as Cobham’s 
Aviation Services and US defence related businesses 
which both contain predominantly multi-year 
contracts, to the less predictable, largely commercial, 
shorter cycle businesses, such as Cobham’s SA TCOM 
and Wireless businesses, which typically operate with 
an order backlog of a few months or less.
On 16 February 2017, the Group provided a market 
update on a number of matters including an early 
view of 2017 guidance. Within that statement, it 
was acknowledged that the balance sheet is not 
strong enough to properly support the operations of 
the Group, given the important role it plays in many 
customer programmes. In light of this and following 
the extensive balance sheet review that has been 
previously referred to, the Board has updated the 
2017 budget and reviewed its three year outlook to 
assess the preferred capital structure for the Group
Assessing viability
The main assumption is that the Group can complete 
the equity raise of £500m as described in note 31. If 
it is not possible to raise this level of equity, it is likely 
that the Group would seek an amendment to its key 
lending covenant, net debt/EBITDA and therefore the 
assumption that equity can be raised is an important 
consideration in assessing the viability of the Group.
In addition, in making their assessment, the  
Board has taken into account the potential impacts 
all of the matters referred to in the announcement 
on 16 February and also of the principal risk events 
identified in the latest semi-annual risk review  
to consider whether these could prevent the  
Group from achieving its strategic objectives.  
These principal risks are described in detail in the 
Principal Risks section of this report on pages 
36 to 39. Sensitivity analyses were run to model 
the financial and operational impact of plausible 
downside scenarios of these risk events occurring 
individually or in combination. These included 
the impacts of a further deterioration in the 
macroeconomic environment, underperformance  
in executing the Group’s strategy to return to organic 
revenue growth, failure to derive targeted benefits 
from the Group’s operational and cash generation 
improvement initiatives, underperformance on major 
contract cost estimates and associated programme 
management controls, the impact of a significant 
business interruption event, material movements in 
foreign exchange rates and a change in regulations 
impacting the Group’s internal financing structure. 
Consideration was also given to the plausibility of  
the occurrence of other individual events that in  
their own right could have a material impact on  
the Group’s viability. 
Based on the consolidated financial impact of the 
sensitivity analyses and associated mitigating internal 
controls and risk management actions that are either 
now in place, or could be implemented, the Board 
has been able to conclude that the Group will be 
able to maintain sufficient bank facilities to meet its 
funding needs over the three-year period provided 
the equity raise is successful. 
Confirmation of longer term viability
Based upon the assessment of the principal risks 
facing the company and robust downside sensitivity 
analysis, all of which are described above and 
on pages 36 to 39, the Board have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period to December 2019, assuming the 
equity raise referred to in note 31 is successful.  
This assumption is referred to in the note on page 
92 in respect of the basis of preparation of these 
financial statements
The Group’s Going Concern statement is detailed on 
page 33.
Current risk appetite
Conservative
Strategic
Risk
Operational
Risk
 Financial/
Reporting
Risk
Compliance
Risk
Assertive Balanced
35
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Element Risks & Impact Mitigation
Risk 
appetite
Risk status
indicator
1.  V olatile  
macroeconomic 
environment 
Links to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying  
operating profit 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
Cobham’s revenue is derived from global defence/security and 
commercial markets. The Group’s revenues and costs are dependent  
on a complex mix of macroeconomic, fiscal, commercial and strategic 
defence & security imperatives. Variations in the following factors could 
result in an adverse effect on the Group’s results:
 − Customer demand levels;
 − Market growth rates;
 − Increased competition for new and existing business;
 − Programme/contract terminations or delays;
 − Foreign exchange rates and interest rates in the various jurisdictions 
within which the Group operates;
 − Inflation rates;
 − Global commodity prices, particularly oil & gas, iron & steel and  
precious metals.
The Brexit vote may lead to uncertainty in future trade arrangements 
between the Group’s UK businesses and the various end markets which 
they serve. The 2016 US Election result may lead to uncertainty in US 
defence spending and US relations with its principal trading partners.
If the Group does not anticipate changes in the various end markets 
which it serves (including deterioration in demand or a fundamental  
shift in how customers procure products and services), changes in input 
costs, and changes in other macroeconomic factors, its business, results  
of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.
A review of near and long term market trends 
will be conducted as part of the Group’s annual 
strategic planning process to ensure that actual 
and anticipated impacts from macroeconomic 
risks are minimised and managed effectively. 
Periodic reviews of externally sourced market 
demand data, with the re-forecasting and 
adjustment of internal planning in line with  
market demand.
The Group has diversified its portfolio towards 
commercial markets, with the aim to achieve 
sustainable growth through economic cycles.
A culture of continuous improvement will enable 
Cobham to develop market leading operating 
performance, while reducing costs. This will 
enable Cobham to grow market share  
and remain competitive in the face of volume 
declines or price pressures, whilst retaining 
flexibility to adjust the cost base appropriately  
to changing market conditions.
The Group uses financial instruments where 
applicable to assist in the management of 
foreign exchange and interest rate risks, 
principally forward exchange contracts and 
interest rate swaps. 
Emerging issues and opportunities arising as a 
result of the UK decision to leave the EU and  
the 2016 US Election result will be monitored.
Assertive
Increasing Risk
In 2016, the  
volatility in global 
macroeconomic 
conditions had an 
adverse impact on 
the Group’s results. 
The risk remains, and 
the impact of recent 
political events will 
increase the level of 
uncertainty in the 
Group’s markets. 
2.  Market 
characteristics  
and contracting 
environment 
Links to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying  
operating profit 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
The various end markets served by Cobham are highly competitive.  
The Group relies on its ability to win business ahead of its competitors 
through a combination of differentiated technology, contractual terms 
and price. There is no assurance that the Group will be able to maintain  
its current market share with respect to its products or services due to  
the development of competing technologies, the periodic retender and 
renewal of existing contracts, the inability to develop existing products  
due to resource constraints or the emergence of new competitors.
Some of the Group’s revenue is derived from contracts that have a fixed 
price, which generates a risk that the costs required for the delivery of a 
contract could be higher than those agreed in the contract, as a result of 
the performance of new or developed products, schedule over-runs or 
other external factors. Any significant increase in costs that cannot be 
passed on to a customer may reduce the profitability of a contract, or 
even result in a contract becoming loss making. 
The timing of order receipt from customers could have a material impact 
on the Group’s performance in a given reporting period, as the amounts 
payable under such contracts can be individually substantial.
Some of the Group’s contracts have terms (which are customary in  
the Group’s markets), that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group  
or termination rights for the customer. Many of the Group’s contracts  
are also across international borders, leading to increased complexity  
in interpretation.
The Group is reliant on third party manufacturers and key suppliers,  
to whom certain manufacturing and engineering functions are 
outsourced. This results in a reduction in control over capacity  
allocation and quality and may result in disputes regarding the  
ownership of intellectual property.
The occurrence of any or all of these factors may result in the financial 
performance of the Group being impaired, through reductions in revenue, 
increased costs or the emergence of unexpected liabilities.
The Group seeks to focus on areas within  
those markets in which its deep customer 
understanding and technical expertise provide  
it with an advantage in bidding, to reduce  
the likelihood of an emergent technology or 
competitor affecting the competitive position.
Fixed price bids and projects are reviewed for 
early detection and management of issues 
which may result in cost over-run or excessive 
delivery risk.
The Group seeks to mitigate risks associated 
with the complex characteristics of its markets 
through the establishment of a Contract Policy 
which is intended to ensure that the Group 
enters into contracts with an appropriate 
balance of risk and reward. The Contract Policy 
ensures that contract terms are subject to 
appropriate escalation and approval.
The Group’s bid and approval process and  
contract policy is applied to all bids, contracts  
and development programmes to ensure that  
a consistent approach is followed. 
Appropriate trained personnel are embedded  
within the business to ensure that the  
contract policy is adhered to, and that  
delays to negotiating and agreeing contracts  
are minimised.
T raining is conducted for key staff with 
responsibility for negotiating contracts.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
In 2016, the Group 
was adversely 
affected in a number 
of areas, in particular 
with regard to fixed 
price development 
contracts. The 
Group’s markets  
and the resultant 
contracting 
environment 
continue to increase 
in complexity. 
Principal Risks continued
36
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Element Risks & Impact Mitigation
Risk 
appetite
Risk status
indicator
3.  Group strategy  
is not executed
Links to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying  
operating profit
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
 − Voluntary staff turnover
Cobham’s ability to generate profitable organic revenue growth is  
a key strategic objective and driver of value creation.
The Group may fail to define and execute its strategy effectively  
and in accordance with its strategic framework, in areas such as the 
development of innovative products to counter disruptive technologies, 
ensuring alignment with market, customer and investor expectations  
and the successful execution of programmes designed to integrate the 
Group’s operations and more closely align them with market trends.
Key to achieving the Group’s strategic objective of delivering sustainable 
organic growth will be the ability of the business to recover from its poor 
performance in 2016 and deliver a turnaround in 2017 and beyond. There 
is a risk that the issues which impacted the Group’s performance in 2016 
cannot be quickly resolved.
The Group will also experience impacts on employee recruitment and 
retention, potential reputational damage and a reduced ability to invest  
for future growth.
Carry out effective strategic planning to ensure 
the Group is exposed to growth markets and 
creates value through business cycles.
Continued appropriate investment in future 
technologies with alignment to identified market 
growth areas and customer needs.
Continued focus on and investment in 
programme management to ensure customer 
expectations are met and that integration 
programmes are successfully managed to 
completion, which underpins the Group’s ability 
to grow. 
A cycle of budgets and forecasts together with 
tracking of actual performance including reasons 
for variances against plans.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
The Group 
experienced issues 
with strategy 
execution in 2016,  
and continues to face 
challenging market 
conditions which  
may impact its  
ability to produce  
improved financial 
performance in 2017.
4.  P roject and 
Programme 
Management is 
not effective
Links to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth 
 − Underlying  
operating profit 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
The Group designs, develops and delivers products and services that  
are often customised, utilising complex technologies, under fixed price 
contracts that can be long term in nature. This gives rise to the risks  
of failure to execute contracts profitably, the supply of defective or 
delayed product, the occurrence of other contractually related liabilities,  
or damage to reputation and commercial relationships.
F ailure by the Group to execute or deliver a project or programme gives 
rise to the risk of increased programme costs, damages, product liability 
claims, litigation and other financial liabilities, reduced future profitability 
and reputational risk.
Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding 
new and existing business from the Group.
Lifecycle Management (LCM) and programme 
management procedures are intended to ensure 
that the Group’s key contract and programme 
management policies and procedures are 
applied consistently and appropriately across all 
areas of the business. These procedures also 
provide increased focus on improvements to its 
LCM and programme management capabilities.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
The Group continues 
to be in a significant 
phase of engineering 
and development 
activity on various 
programmes and 
platforms, in 
particular the KC-46 
development 
programme, which 
adversely impacted 
the Group in 2016. 
Engineering and 
development activity 
will continue in 2017.
5.  Borro wing 
agreements 
contain covenants 
that may not be 
complied with and 
may not generate 
sufficient liquidity
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
The Group has a capital structure that is partially funded through 
borrowings from banks and other financial institutions, which incorporate 
financial covenants that are measured on a bi-annual basis. Delivery  
of below target business performance and cash generation will lead to  
higher than anticipated debt and gearing, ultimately leading to breaches  
in bank covenants.
Breaches of bank covenants would lead to potential defaults under the 
Group’s banking agreements, costs associated with obtaining temporary 
covenant waivers, the requirement to reduce debt through divestments  
or further capital raising and ultimately the ability for the Group’s lenders  
to assume control of the Group.
Higher debt and gearing would also lead to reduced capacity  
to fund organic investment in research and development and  
other critical capabilities and undermine customers and suppliers 
confidence in the Group. 
Cash performance and cash flow forecasts 
across the Group should be closely monitored 
and regularly reviewed and reported to the 
Board on a monthly basis. 
Controls and processes covering the Group’s 
treasury activities include cash policy, credit 
collection policies, working capital metrics  
and other performance targets. 
Conservative
Increasing Risk
The Group conducted 
a rights issue in  
2016 which partially 
resolved the risk of 
a covenant breach. 
However, the 
business issues 
experienced during 
2016 have put 
heightened pressure 
on the Group’s 
borrowing facilities. 
6.  Shortage of 
appropriate  
skills and talent
Links to KPIs
 − Voluntary staff turnover
Key to execution of the Group’s strategic plan is the recruitment, 
development and retention of sufficient quality personnel to meet the 
needs of the business, in engineering, technical and managerial roles.  
In addition, a lack of diversity (particularly with regard to age) within  
the Group’s workforce creates a risk of future skills shortage. Insufficient 
availability of personnel will generate a resource gap that will impair  
the Group’s ability to deliver against its strategic plan.
The resulting talent gap will lead to a reduced ability to execute on 
growth plans and key programmes, resulting in reduced customer 
confidence and an adverse impact on the Group’s financial position 
and financial outlook.
The Group undertakes workforce planning to 
ensure that skill gaps are identified and plans are 
established to close them. This includes ensuring 
that the Group’s compensation planning and 
review process takes into account any key 
shortages and that succession planning is  
carried out to ensure that a pipeline of suitable 
candidates for key roles is maintained. 
Development programmes are undertaken to 
ensure that internal candidates develop the skills 
and experience necessary to undertake more 
senior roles within the organisation.
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for 
information on talent management actions.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
A shortage of  
suitably skilled  
and experienced 
personnel, combined 
with the Group’s  
poor financial 
performance is 
affecting its ability  
to attract and retain 
quality personnel.
37
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks continued
Element Risks & Impact Mitigation
Risk 
appetite
Risk status
indicator
7.  Continuous 
Improvement (CI)  
and Business 
Transformation 
programmes are  
not successfully 
executed
Links to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying  
operating profit
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
F ailure to embed Continuous Improvement principles and practices within 
Business Units will reduce the Group’s ability to deliver growth and 
improvements in operational performance that are sustainable.
If CI and transformation programmes are not successfully implemented, 
customer expectations of improvements in operational performance will 
not be achieved, leading to deteriorations in financial performance, loss of 
customer confidence and reduced success in winning new business from 
existing customers.
CI benefits are built into budgets with  
progress monitored at quarterly business  
review meetings.
CI sustainment training has been delivered  
to business management teams.
Assessment and accreditation processes have  
been developed to assess sites with respect  
to CI and to identify areas for improvement.
Balanced
Unchanged
In 2016, the number 
and complexity of 
business change 
initiatives adversely 
impacted the Group’s 
operations and 
financial performance. 
This will be addressed 
during 2017 through 
reducing the number 
of centrally driven 
programmes.
8.   V alue creating 
Mergers, 
Acquisitions  
(M&A) and 
Divestment 
activity is not 
identified and/or 
executed
Links to KPIs
 − Return on invested capital
Cobham does not have capacity for any acquisition activity. This may 
result in the Group not being in a position to compete for suitable value 
creating M&A targets. In addition, portfolio management activities  
may require divestments to be executed in a subdued market and in 
timescales that do not allow optimum valuations to be realised. 
This will result in a reduced ability to capitalise on time sensitive 
opportunities and effectively maintain a robust M&A pipeline. This could 
cause a failure to meet strategic targets, as well as reputational damage 
which could affect the success of future acquisitions. 
Divestments that are conducted within confined timescales may result  
in optimum valuations not being achieved.
Focus on operational execution to pay down 
debt and create scope for future M&A activity  
in the medium term.
Conducting divestments through competitive 
processes rather than through the identification 
of single buyers should optimise sale proceeds.
Balanced
Unchanged
The Group’s  
portfolio is being 
managed to  
optimise the total 
performance  
in continued  
challenging markets. 
9.  Occurrence of  
an event leading 
to a significant 
business 
interruption
Links to KPIs
 − Organic revenue growth
 − Underlying  
operating profit
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
 − On time delivery
Cobham’s businesses could be impacted by natural disasters or other 
external events affecting its operational locations or suppliers, by  
other significant events in the supply chain or by IT systems failures 
(including from cyber-attack), rendering critical systems or manufacturing 
locations unable to function. 
Unscheduled interruption to business activities would result in the inability 
to deliver products to customers in accordance with their expectations. 
This would result in reduced profits, loss of customer satisfaction, potential 
cost outlays, and reputational impact. 
For the Group’s larger manufacturing locations, 
programmes have been implemented that seek  
to meet or exceed best practice loss prevention 
guidance, and for its smaller locations effective 
loss prevention programmes and incident 
management plans have been put in place. The 
Group also maintains major incident/IT failure 
business continuity plans. Employees are trained 
in relevant procedures.
IT security and capability are monitored and 
strengthened when needed.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance  
cover and works with insurers and other  
third party experts to ensure operating 
infrastructure and processes include robust  
risk improvement activities. 
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for 
further details on mitigating actions against 
business interruption risk arising from 
environmental factors.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
IT security threats 
continue to escalate. 
The Group has 
increased exposure  
to site specific IT  
risks through the 
additional sites that 
were acquired as  
part of the Aeroflex 
transaction.
10.  The integration 
benefits arising 
from the Aeroflex 
acquisition are  
not realised
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying  
operating profit 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
 − Voluntary staff turnover
Following the acquisition of Aeroflex in 2014, Cobham has focused  
on integrating the acquired businesses into the Group. The integration 
process is complex, costly and time consuming and the Group may  
not be able to capture all of the anticipated synergies, cost savings  
and other benefits in the time frame anticipated. The integration  
process could also cause disruptions in the Group’s other businesses, 
including potential adverse reactions from customers or other changes  
to business relationships.
F ailure to deliver the planned synergies and growth from the Aeroflex 
acquisition will have a detrimental impact on the Group’s financial 
performance and returns. It could also generate a lack of investor 
confidence, reputational damage, impairments to existing customer 
relationships and potentially in the longer term a loss of market 
competitiveness due to the inability to maintain investment in research  
and development.
The integration programme is subject to the 
Group’s comprehensive LCM review process.
Assertive
Increasing Risk
To date, the full 
integration benefits 
have not been 
delivered.
38
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Element Risks & Impact Mitigation
Risk 
appetite
Risk status
indicator
11.  Failure to comply 
with laws and 
regulations
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying operating 
profit 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Return on invested capital
Cobham operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject  
to the laws, regulations and restrictions of many jurisdictions, notably 
including those of the US and the UK as well as many other countries  
in which it operates. 
These include anti-bribery provisions, import and export controls, tax, 
government contracting rules, human rights, environmental, and health 
and safety regulation. A lack of understanding of legal and regulatory 
restrictions in force in the jurisdictions in which it operates could lead  
to the Group being in contravention of applicable laws or regulations.
Cobham’s US defence business is managed through a Special Security 
Agreement (SSA), the terms of which are agreed with the US Government. 
The SSA is intended to ensure that the US defence business is not subject 
to the effects of FOCI (Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence). Further 
details of the SSA can be found on page 51. The terms of the SSA may 
reduce the ability for the Group to effectively manage its US defence 
business due to reduced visibility into the business and its performance.
Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales intermediaries, or others acting 
on its behalf to comply with laws, regulations and restrictions could 
include fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment of the 
Group from future government contracts for a period of time, as well  
as having a potentially significant impact on the Group’s reputation.  
Such sanctions could also have an impact on the Group’s financial position 
and future operations. 
Cobham employs procedures to ensure  
it remains in compliance with all legal 
requirements and regulations, and continues  
to drive a culture that ensures that ethical, 
environmental, and health and safety 
considerations are embodied in all that it does.
Policies and procedures are included in the 
Group’s corporate framework to ensure all of  
the Group’s compliance requirements are met. 
This is regularly reviewed and audited, including 
procedures related to the use of sales and 
marketing representatives, anti-bribery and  
anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, 
whistleblowing, and investigation of ethics  
and compliance concerns, along with  
Cobham’s Code of Business Conduct.
Mandatory training is undertaken by all 
employees on a variety of compliance related 
subjects including US Government contracting 
and anti-bribery and corruption.
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for 
information on human rights, environmental,  
and health and safety actions.
Conservative
Increasing Risk
The regulatory 
landscape in many 
areas, continues  
to develop. 
12.  Gov ernance 
framework  
is poorly 
constructed and 
implemented
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying  
operating profit 
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
 − Return on invested capital
Cobham is implementing an enhanced governance framework, through 
determination of the Group’s risk appetite and identification of the 
appropriate governance in each risk area to control the identified risks  
in accordance with the stated risk appetite. 
The revised governance framework could misalign the level of constraint 
with the levels of risk appetite in different aspects of the Group’s 
operations, leading to the over and under control of risks in different  
areas of the business.
This would lead to exposure to unacceptable risks in areas requiring 
conservatism, potentially damaging shareholder value. Conversely,  
it may also prevent the acceptance of risks required in order to grow  
the Group’s business, hindering the ability to deliver an acceptable  
return on shareholder investment.
The ongoing review of governance is being 
conducted in accordance with established 
principles to ensure that it delivers a streamlined 
governance framework, facilitates appropriate  
risk taking, and drive improvements in  
performance through application of effective 
governance principles.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
The business issues 
experienced during 
2016 have 
highlighted areas in 
which improvements 
are required in the 
Group’s governance 
framework. During 
2017, the existing 
review process will be 
amended to ensure 
that a governance 
framework that is 
appropriate to the 
needs of the business 
is implemented.
13.  Inf ormation 
assurance security 
measures are 
insufficient to 
prevent data loss
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying operating 
profit
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Cash conversion
Cobham relies upon its IT systems to store and process its data securely.  
If consistent data control standards are not maintained across the Group 
in response to a growing level of cyber threats, the security of intellectual 
property as well as customer and employee data could be compromised. 
Corruption of embedded product data and data for external services 
would also become more likely.
Significant data breaches or losses could lead to litigation and fines  
for breaking data privacy law and other regulations. This would  
result in reputational damage and potentially the loss of new and  
existing contracts.
IT policy compliance is assessed on a quarterly  
basis to ensure that processes and procedures  
in place are reflective of all legal and regulatory 
requirements. Vulnerability to data compromise 
is reviewed monthly by both internal and 
external specialists with annual audits to  
verify compliance.
The Group is also in the process of 
implementing enhanced IT security.
Balanced
Increasing Risk
Information security 
measures continue to 
be strengthened to 
meet the increasing 
level of threats being 
experienced.
14.  T axation liabilities 
may be larger 
than anticipated
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
Cobham is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in 
which it conducts its business operations. Due to changes in tax laws and 
regulations, changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase 
in tax audits and challenges and the testing of interpretations through 
litigation, tax liabilities are being challenged and may ultimately be deemed 
inaccurate. T ax authorities may also pursue additional taxes based on 
retroactive changes to, and interpretations of tax laws.
This could lead to increased tax liabilities in excess of those provided in the 
balance sheet, worsening the financial outlook of the company and result 
in a substantial tax payment becoming necessary, and may also result in 
potential damage to the group’s reputation.
All major transactions are reviewed by Group 
and external advisors.
Known risk areas are monitored by the Group. 
Significant tax computations are reviewed by 
external advisors prior to submission.
Balanced
Unchanged
Tax authorities 
continue to assess 
and challenge 
significant taxation 
judgements.
15.  The deficit within 
the Cobham 
Pension Plan  
may change
Links to KPIs
 − Underlying operating 
profit
 − Underlying EPS growth
 − Free cash flow
 − Return on invested capital
The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan. The plan is closed to 
new entrants and future accrual, but the scheme contains a deficit which 
is being closed through additional deficit funding. The deficit may change 
as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, interest rates and other 
external factors.
Any increase in the deficit may require additional funding to be made 
available to the pension scheme.
The trustees of the Cobham Pension Plan seek  
to ensure that the scheme’s assets and liabilities 
remain matched, the most significant element 
of which involves the acquisition of insurance 
policies that match existing liabilities.
Balanced
Unchanged
The pension scheme 
deficit increased 
during 2016.
39
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
Acting responsibly 
and sustainably
activities. The implementation and effectiveness 
of the CECP is overseen by the Business Ethics & 
Compliance Committee, and ultimately the Board. 
The programme is underpinned by the Cobham 
Code of Business Conduct (COBC), which outlines 
the Group’s core values and the behavioural 
standards it mandates for all its officers, employees 
and representatives on a range of issues, including 
anti-bribery and corruption. Cobham has a clearly 
stated zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 
corruption in any form. All employees are required 
to receive training on the COBC and other ethics 
and compliance training, including anti-corruption. 
Completion of this training is closely monitored 
to ensure all employees are aware of the Group’s 
expectations. Cobham maintains an independent 
Ethics Helpline and website where suspected 
compliance violations can be reported. In 2016, it 
sought to improve the handling of concerns raised 
via the Ethics Helpline through a range of steps, 
including providing specialist training to a panel 
of newly appointed internal investigators. Further 
details on the Group’s approach to ethics and 
compliance can be found at www.cobham.com/the-
group/corporate-responsibility-and-sustainability/
performance-data-policies/policy-downloads/.
A related risk area is the use of third party 
intermediaries as a route to market. Failure of an 
intermediary to comply with laws and regulations  
or to complete appropriate intermediary due 
diligence can impact the Group’s reputation as  
well as lead to significant fines or debarments from 
government contracts and new business. Cobham’s 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy requires 
on the Group’s 2016 data (see page 80 for more 
information).
Training on various responsibility and sustainability 
topics, including business ethics and safety is 
received by employees, and the Board. 
The Group’s policies and assurance statements on 
all these issues are available at https://www.cobham.
com/the-group/corporate-responsibility-and-
sustainability/performance-data-policies/.
Economic dimension
Business ethics
The Group operates in specialist markets, a number 
of which are highly regulated. Compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations is a Group principal 
risk (refer to risk 11 on page 39). It is Group policy 
to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. 
The Group is also committed to sustaining an 
ethical culture, on the basis that acting responsibly, 
sustainably and in a legally compliant manner 
provides a number of demonstrable benefits.
The Cobham Ethics and Compliance Programme 
(CECP) has been developed to support this positive 
culture through a range of policies, processes and 
Cobham solves complex engineering 
problems from the depths of the ocean 
to deep space 
Cobham welcomes feedback 
on its corporate responsibility 
and sustainably approach at  
crs@cobham.com
Identifying material, corporate responsibility 
and sustainability issues
The Company has identified its material corporate 
responsibility and sustainability issues primarily by 
using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s 
(SASB) Materiality Map™ (http://www.sasb.org/
materiality/sasb-materiality-map/). The Materiality 
Map™ identifies likely material sustainability 
issues on an industry-by-industry basis. Using this 
methodology, Cobham has identified its issues by 
reference to the Materiality Map™ industry sectors 
relevant to its businesses: Aerospace and Defence, 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment, Electronic 
Manufacturing Services, Hardware, Semiconductors 
and Airlines. Cobham also identifies material  
issues using the results of investor, customer  
and employee feedback.
Prioritising material issues
The material issues have been prioritised according 
to Group’s strategic actions (see page 16 to 19).  
The results of this are contained in the table below. 
All material disclosures are verified internally, and 
external statements are reviewed by the Group’s 
auditors. Cobham also obtains limited external 
assurance on its recording of greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions. Bureau Veritas provided assurance 
Material issue
Strategic actions
Focus on 
customers
Improve 
operational 
performance
Invest in 
technology
Allocate 
capital for 
growth
Enhance  
skills and 
capabilities
Economic dimension
Business ethics •
Materials sourcing and supply chain management • • • •
Social dimension
Talent attraction, development and retention • •
Diversity and inclusion • •
Employee health and safety • • •
Human rights • •
Environmental dimension
Environmental sustainability • • • •
40
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com STRATEGIC REPORT
As set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 
on pages 6 and 7, although voluntary turnover was 
just under the target, the Group plans to review its 
reporting structures, including its internal processes 
and the allocation of responsibilities as these have 
become overly complex and unclear. In a number 
of instances the Group recognises that this has led 
to duplication, reduced accountability and slow 
decision making. This has contributed to the period 
of sustained operational and financial challenges  
and ultimately it has impacted employee morale. 
Diversity and inclusion
The Group operates in an increasingly global market 
place. The business environment is becoming 
increasingly competitive and Cobham must attract 
the best individuals to achieve its growth plans. Ageing 
populations and declining numbers of university 
graduates in its principal markets are leading to 
organisations from multiple sectors competing for 
the same talent, particularly in science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics subjects on which 
the Group substantially relies. Societal expectations 
with respect to equality, diversity and inclusion are 
also changing, with legislation such as the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017 requiring relevant UK employers with over 250 
employees to publicly disclose metrics on their gender 
pay gap on an annual basis. A lack of diverse talent 
and an inclusive working environment aligns with the 
Group’s principal risks on failure to execute strategy, as 
does having a shortage of appropriate skills and talent 
and failure to comply with laws and regulations (refer  
to risks 3, 6 and 11 on pages 37 to 39 respectively).
The Group strives to access the widest available 
talent pool. Cobham’s policy is to encourage the 
development of a diverse workforce, to value each 
employee’s differences and to provide everyone with 
equal access to opportunities. The Group looks to 
ensure that its workforce is representative of society, 
its key customers and those of its suppliers. 
Cobham sponsored classroom at Bournemouth  
& Poole College, UK 
intermediaries to undergo a comprehensive due 
diligence and approval process prior to engagement. 
In 2016 Cobham took steps to further improve 
its intermediary risk management process. 
Enhancements include increasing the range of 
counterparties subject to additional due diligence, 
and utilising technology to provide continuous  
real time due diligence monitoring.
Cobham measures the effectiveness of the CECP 
through a range of KPIs, including metrics designed 
to measure how implementation of the programme 
has improved year on year. A key KPI for the CECP 
is the completion of mandatory COBC training. In 
2016, 99.5% (2015: 100%) of Cobham employees 
completed COBC training.
Materials sourcing and supply chain 
management
Cobham is legally, and sometimes contractually, 
required to disclose certain information regarding 
its global supply chains. Compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations and changing contracting 
environment are principal risks (refer to risks 11 and 
2 on pages 39 and 36 respectively). The Group’s 
Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM) 
policy is to prefer suppliers that demonstrate 
responsible and sustainable business practices. The 
approach considers how suppliers address risks that 
could impact their ability to supply the Group or 
impact the Group’s reputation on a risk prioritised 
basis. These risks include bribery and corruption, 
human rights issues (e.g. modern slavery, human 
trafficking and conflict minerals), hazardous materials 
legislation and resource efficiency. Cobham’s RSCM 
policy is available at https://www.cobham.com/the-
group/corporate-responsibility-and-sustainability/
performance-data-policies/policy-downloads/. 
In 2016, the Group published a Supplier Code of 
Conduct on its website and expects all its suppliers  
to comply with this code which can be found at 
https://www.cobham.com/the-group/suppliers/
supplier-documents/. 
During 2016, Cobham invested in a third party 
technology solution that allows it to map and 
categorise its supply base. The solution will be used 
to conduct Group-wide compliance campaigns 
in 2017 with respect to bribery and corruption, 
anti-slavery, human trafficking and conflict minerals. 
This should significantly reduce the time required 
to prepare regulatory disclosures and to respond 
to customer information requests. It will also assist 
the Group in identifying suppliers that demonstrate 
responsible and sustainable business practices. 
Cobham will develop key performance indicators to 
measure the effectiveness of its responsible materials 
sourcing and supply chain management programme 
in 2017.
Social dimension
Attraction, development and retention  
of talent
Attracting and retaining talented and engaged 
employees is critical to the ability to execute  
strategic growth plans, deliver on key programmes 
and meet service level requirements. Failure to do  
so could result in a reduced ability to meet customer 
requirements and grow the business. Failure to 
execute strategy and a shortage of appropriate  
skills and talent are considered Group principal risks 
(refer to risks 3 and 6 on page 37).
The Group’s approach is to identify, attract and 
retain employees with the right skills and capabilities 
through strategic workforce planning, leadership  
and functional competency development, employee 
engagement, diversity and inclusion, and competitive 
reward practices. The talent and engagement 
programmes are overseen by the Board.
The Group has continued the development of 
functional career and competency frameworks for  
its core roles, and expanded its leadership, graduate 
and apprenticeship development programmes. At 
the end of 2016, the Group employed 4.2% (2015: 
3.7%) of its UK workforce as apprentices, graduates 
and undergraduate placements. It is on track to  
meet its 5% Club commitment by 2019 
(www.5percentclub.org.uk).
In addition, Cobham has continued to deploy its 
Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM) 
accredited Level 3 line management training 
programme throughout the year, and has also 
successfully launched its Level 5 ILM management 
development programme to support its senior 
management population.
The Group uses voluntary staff turnover to 
measure the effectiveness of its talent retention 
and employee engagement approach. In 2016, 
the Group’s voluntary employee turnover was 9.7% 
(2015: 11.2%). 
In 2016, the Group published a Supplier Code of Conduct 
on its website and expects all its suppliers to comply.
41
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued
Employee health and safety
Cobham endeavours to create a culture and 
framework within which its employees can operate 
in a safe, healthy and environmentally responsible 
manner. Failure to deliver consistently high standards 
of health and safety could lead to accidents or 
incidents resulting in prosecutions, fines, loss 
of assets, business interruption and widespread 
reputational damage. This aligns with the Group’s 
principal risks on significant events leading to 
business interruption and failure to comply with  
laws and regulations (refer to risks 9 and 11 on  
pages 38 and 39 respectively).
The Group’s workplace safety, health and 
environment (SHE) programme, called ‘Zero 
Harm’, promotes a continuous improvement 
health and safety culture that works to minimise 
injuries and illnesses occurring in the workplace 
and promotes employee wellbeing. Accountability 
for implementing the Group’s SHE approach rests 
with line management, monitored by a steering 
committee with Board oversight. T echnical expertise 
is provided through a Group SHE Council comprising 
senior Business Unit SHE professionals under the 
leadership of a dedicated Group SHE Senior Director.
Cobham enhanced its SHE programme during 2016. 
Newly documented SHE standards were rolled out 
across the Group during the second half of the 
year which set Group-wide expectations for risk 
management. Sites are now measured annually 
against the standards and the maturity of their 
associated processes. Sites are expected to achieve 
a minimum target of 50% compliance. T esting is 
through means of self-assessment, peer-to-peer 
auditing and external audit. In terms of 2016 
performance, 42 of 47 sites achieved or exceeded 
the new 50% minimum compliance target against 
the standards. The remaining five sites are tasked 
with achieving this target by the end of 2017.  
All other sites are required to demonstrate 
incremental year-on-year improvement against  
site-specific targets.
The Group also uses a combination of leading and 
lagging indicators to measure SHE performance 
on a quarterly basis. Leading indicators are used to 
drive correct behaviours, include safety training, risk 
assessments, workplace inspections and incident 
reporting while lagging indicators are used to 
measure effectiveness of the approach and these 
include the incidence and severity of workplace 
injuries and illness. All the leading indicators on 
training, risk assessment, workplace inspections and 
near miss reporting met their targets in 2016. With 
regard to lagging indicators there were again no 
fatalities in 2016 but the Group’s major accident 
incident rate (the number of cases resulting in 
three or more days lost time per 100,000 full 
time equivalent employees), deteriorated to 414 
(2015: 269). There are a number of causes for this 
performance deterioration, including improved 
reporting, and unfilled vacancies related to the loss 
of some key SHE personnel. The Group will look to 
improve this in 2017. 
The recordable injury and illness incident rate fell 
to its lowest level for more than seven years, 0.93 
(number of cases requiring more than first aid per 
100,000 full time equivalent employees) compared 
to 1.2 in 2015. Manual handling, minor hand injuries, 
slips and trips were the most common causes of 
injury or illness that resulted in lost time during  
2016. This is broadly consistent with prior years.
Further details on Cobham’s SHE policy, 
management standards and performance are 
at www.cobham.com/the-group/corporate-
responsibility-and-sustainability/performance-data-
policies/policy-downloads/.
Human rights
Human rights issues are increasingly important to  
the way in which businesses are run. There are 
growing requirements to comply with legislation  
and to respond to customer information requests  
on human rights issues such as modern slavery  
(e.g. Modern Slavery Act 2015) and conflict minerals 
(e.g. US Dodd-Frank Act). Compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations and a changing contracting 
environment are principal risks (refer to risks 11 and  
2 on pages 39 and 36 respectively).
Cobham supports the broad principles contained 
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
seeks to reflect these in the context of its business 
activities wherever possible. Cobham also respects 
the human rights of its employees as set down in 
the International Labour Organisation Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, such 
as freedom of association, non-discrimination and 
the elimination of forced or compulsory child labour. 
Cobham demonstrates its support and respect 
for basic human rights through the principles and 
policies contained in the COBC, the Corporate 
Framework and the Group’s policies and processes.
In 2016, the Group issued an Anti-Slavery and 
Human Trafficking Policy which opposes modern 
slavery and human trafficking in all its forms.  
Cobham is committed to implementing and 
enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure 
modern slavery does not take place anywhere in  
its own operations or in its global supply chains.  
This is being undertaken in a risk prioritised  
way based on meeting regulatory compliance 
obligations as well as managing geographic and 
industry sector risk.
In accordance with its legal obligations, the Group 
will publicly report on its progress in its annual  
Anti-slavery and Human Trafficking Statement  
which will be published annually on its website by  
the end of the first quarter, commencing in 2017: 
http://www.cobham.com/the-group/corporate-
responsibility-and-sustainability/performance-data-
policies/performance-data/.
Cobham believes that community issues are best 
addressed locally wherever possible. Individual sites 
are encouraged to manage their operations and 
activities with due consideration for the well-being 
of their neighbours and local communities. In 2016 
the Group donated £269,933 (2015: £228,976) to 
a range of good causes including armed services, 
rescue and health based charities, as well as local 
community interests. It is Cobham’s policy not to 
make political donations.
Environmental dimension
Environmental sustainability
Material environmental sustainability issues for 
Cobham include: 
 − Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from aircraft 
fuel combustion in its Aviation Services business;
 − GHG emissions from electricity and fuel use in 
the lighting, heating, ventilation and cooling  
of its facilities and supply chain Group-wide;
 − The impact of the size, weight and power 
efficiency of Cobham products upon the  
fuel burn and GHG emissions of customer 
aerospace platforms; and
 − Business interruption at its facilities, and those  
of its key suppliers due to adverse weather events 
(e.g. flooding, wildfire).
The materiality of these issues is expected to 
increase in the medium to longer term following 
the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change Paris Agreement entering into 
force on 4 November 2016 and the agreement 
of the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s 
(ICAO) Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme 
of International Aviation in October 2016. The 
Paris Agreement covers domestic aviation GHG 
emissions, while the ICAO agreement covers 
international aviation GHG emissions. The ISO14001 
environmental management standard has also been 
revised to include new and enhanced requirements. 
Gender Diversity in the Cobham Workforce
Females/Total (%) 2016 2015
2014
Board of Directors 2/9 (22%) 2/10 (20%) 2/9 (22%)
Senior Managers
1
21/113 (19%) 20/135 (15%) 24/154 (16%)
Senior Managers
2
24/138 (17%) 21/144 (15%) 18/129 (15%)
Total workforce 2,904/10,845 (27%) 3,649/12,658 (29%) 3,001/10,941 (27%)
1 
Statutory definition
2 
Cobham definition – Vice Presidents and above 
42
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com STRATEGIC REPORT
Failure to address environmental sustainability issues 
aligns with the Group’s principal risks of changing 
market characteristics (i.e. lack of differentiated 
technology and innovative products relative to 
competitors), failure to execute Group strategy 
(i.e. misalignment with increasing environmental 
expectations of investors), shortage of appropriate 
skills and talent as well as failure to comply with 
environmental laws and regulations (refer to principal 
risks 2, 3, 6 and 11 on pages 36 to 39).
The Group addresses environmental sustainability 
issues by:
 − Striving to reduce environmental impacts from  
its operations wherever practicable;
 − Reducing legacy aircraft fuel consumption and 
transitioning to more fuel efficient aircraft e.g. 
introduction of the next generation jet-engine 
Embraer 190 aircraft in the closed charter 
Australian fly-in fly-out market. The Australian 
operations of the Aviation Services Sector 
have set an annual aviation fuel consumption 
reduction target of 0.5 kg per hour for the aircraft 
under its operational control. Data is reviewed 
monthly. During 2016, the business achieved a 
reduction of 3.1 kg fuel per hour, or a saving of 
221 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This is equivalent 
to taking 43 cars off the road (http://www.
yousustain.com/footprint/);
 − Including a ‘Design for Environment’ approach 
to the Group’s engineering strategy. This 
approach seeks to reduce consumption wherever 
practicable with a corresponding reduction in 
environmental impacts;
 − Reducing GHG emissions across a number of 
operating sites through site rationalisation and 
practical energy efficiency measures, including 
upgrades to lighting, heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning. Facility energy intensity decreased 
by 18% in 2016 (2015: 5% increase). Factors 
contributing to this decrease include divestment 
of the energy intensive Metelics business, and 
implementation of energy efficiency measures. 
As previously stated, the Group’s focus will be 
on continuing to pursue reductions in GHG 
emissions that also reduce its operating costs;
Summary of 2016 CR&S KPIs
Target 2016 2015 2014
Key Performance Indicator
% Employees trained on Code of Business Conduct 100 99.5% 100% 99.9%
% Voluntary employee turnover <10% 9.7% 12.7% 9.9%
% Female representation in total workforce N/A 27% 29% 27%
Major accident incident rate
1
<400 414 269 423
Facility energy intensity
2
-10% -18% 5% 1%
1
 Number of cases of work related accidents resulting in 3 or more lost work days per 100,000 full time employee equivalents
2
  MWh per £1m revenue (includes Aeroflex acquisition in September 2014 and restated in 2015 due to incorrect data reported 
for Hauppage, NY)
 − Reinforcing business continuity measures 
and effective emergency response planning, 
in preparation for adverse weather events 
and natural disasters. All the Group’s principal 
manufacturing locations have maintained the 
highly protected risk status through compliance 
with insurers’ standards. This enables Cobham  
to mitigate risks associated with extreme  
weather events such as flooding; and
 − Aligning the Group’s environmental standards  
to ISO14001 and encouraging business units  
to certify to ISO14001 standards. 
The Group measures and publicly discloses 
its greenhouse gas emissions strategy, risks, 
opportunities and performance on (http://www.
cobhamsustainability.com/environment.aspx) and 
through the annual CDP investor climate change  
and customer supply chain surveys. 
Cobham achieved an A- Leadership rating from  
CDP based on its 2015 performance, placing it 
among the best in the UK aerospace and  
defence sector. 
Further details on the Group’s GHG emissions can be 
found in the Other Statutory Information report on 
pages 79 and 80.
The Australian Aviation Services business achieved a 3.1kg 
aviation fuel per hour reduction in 2016.
43
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT Board of Directors
Michael Wareing
Chairman
CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI
David Lockwood
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director
OBE, BA, FCA, RSA
(David) Jonathan Flint
Senior Independent Director
CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP
David Mellors
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
MA, ACA
44
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Birgit Nørgaard
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
Alison Wood
Remuneration Committee Chair
MA, MBA
Alan Semple
Audit Committee Chair
BA, CA
Michael Hagee
Independent Non-executive Director
45
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors continued
Role and focus
The Board’s main duties are to: 
 − Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable 
financial performance and long term shareholder value;
 − Review and agree the Group’s strategy;
 − Ensure that the necessary resources are in place;
 − Monitor management performance; and
 − Supervise the conduct of the Group’s activities within a 
framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
Chairman
Michael Wareing
CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI
Age: 63 
Appointed: Director December 2010, Chairman January 2017 
Skills and experience: Michael, alongside his role at Cobham, is currently  
the Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee Chair and member of  
the Remuneration and Nomination Committees at Intertek plc. He was  
previously a Non-executive Director, Audit Committee Chair and member  
of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees of Wolseley plc from 2009 
until 2014. Prior to these Board roles, he held a number of senior executive 
positions, including International Chief Executive Officer, at KPMG, where he 
worked from 1973 until 2009. He previously served as Audit Committee Chair 
for Cobham, and chaired Not For Profit organisations, including Business in the 
Community International, and two roles on behalf of the British Government, 
namely as the Prime Minister’s Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq,  
and the Economic Development Adviser to the Government of Afghanistan.  
External appointments: Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the  
Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees of Intertek Group plc. 
Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee. 
Executive Directors
David Lockwood
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director
OBE, BA, FCA, RSA
Age: 54 
Appointed: December 2016 
Skills and experience: David was formerly the Chief Executive of Laird plc, the 
FTSE250 global technology company, a position he had held since 2012. Prior 
to this, he was Vice President Global Defense and Security at BT Global Services. 
David has also held senior management positions with Thales Group, Intense 
Limited and BAE Systems plc. He has held Non-executive Director and Chairman 
positions with WFEL Limited, Photonix Ltd, and the Scottish Government’s 
T echnology Advisory Group, and was previously the Non-executive Chair  
of Knowledge Transfer Network Limited, a vehicle established to support the 
work of Innovate UK, the UK’s innovation agency which is sponsored by the 
UK Government Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS). David is 
an accountant (FCA) by training, holding a degree in mathematics from the 
University of York. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and Commerce 
(RSA) and in 2005 was awarded as the Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for 
T echnology. In the 2001 Queen’s Birthday Honours, David was awarded the  
OBE for services to industry in Scotland. 
External Appointments: Member of the Dunedin International  
Advisory Board.  
Committee membership: Chair of the Executive Directors Committee.
David Mellors
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
MA, ACA
Age: 48 
Appointed: January 2017 
Skills and experience: David was CFO of QinetiQ, the FTSE250 science and 
engineering group operating primarily in the defence, security and aerospace 
markets, a position he had held from 2008, and was interim Chief Executive for 
a period during 2015. Previously, he was Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Logica 
plc, Chief Financial Officer of Logica’s international division, covering operations 
in North America, Australia, the Middle East and Asia, and prior to that he was  
the Group Financial Controller. David formerly held various roles with CMG plc, 
Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse, now PwC. He is a Chartered Accountant, 
holding a degree in physics, from Oxford University. 
External appointments: None. 
Committee membership: Member of the Executive Directors Committee.
Senior Independent Director
(David) Jonathan Flint
CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP
Age: 56 
Appointed: May 2013 
Skills and experience: Jonathan was formerly CEO of Oxford Instruments plc, 
a position he held since 2005 and retired from in May 2016. Prior to this he was 
the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has also held management positions 
with BAE Systems plc and GEC Marconi Avionics. A physics graduate from 
Imperial College, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012.
External Appointments: None.
Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Board meeting attendance for 2016
14 Board meetings were held during the year, attended as follows:
John Devaney
Bob Murphy
1
Simon Nicholls
2
Jonathan Flint
3
Michael Hagee
Birgit Nørgaard
Mark Ronald
4
Alan Semple
Michael Wareing
Alison Wood
 
   
Attended Unable to attend
1
 Bob Murphy left the Board on 14 December 2016. 
2
 Simon Nicholls left the Board on 31 December 2016. 
3
 Jonathan Flint missed a short notice Board meeting due to other business commitments.
4
 Mark Ronald left the Board on 28 April 2016.
Board of Directors
Non-Executive
Chairman
12.5%
Executive Directors
25.0%
Independent Non-
Executive Directors
62.5%
46
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Changes to the Board of Directors
Mark Ronald Mark resigned as Independent Non-executive Director on  
28 April 2016
Robert (Bob) Murphy Bob resigned as Chief Executive Office on 14 December 2016
David Lockwood David became Chief Executive Officer on 14 December 2016
John Devaney John resigned as Chairman on 31 December 2016
Simon Nicholls Simon resigned as Chief Financial Officer on  
31 December 2016
(David) Jonathan Flint Due to Michael’s appointment to Non-Executive Chairman,  
Jonathan was appointed Senior Independent Director  
on 1 January 2017
David Mellors David became Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2017
Michael Wareing Due to John’s resignation, Michael was appointed 
as Non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2017
Birgit Nørgaard
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
 
Age: 58 
Appointed: April 2014 
Skills and experience: Birgit, a Danish national, currently holds a number  
of non-executive roles in the private and public sectors in the UK and overseas. 
Birgit’s last executive role was as both the Chief Executive Officer of Grontmij  
Carl Bro, the Danish engineering consultancy group as well as the Chief  
Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, the Dutch parent company. An economics 
graduate from Copenhagen Business School, Birgit has an MBA from INSEAD. 
External Appointments: Birgit is a Non-executive Director of IMI plc,  
WSP Global Inc, a global consulting engineering company listed in Canada, and 
DSV A/S, an international transportation company listed on the Copenhagen 
stock exchange. Birgit has been recommended for appointment as a Non-
executive Director of NCC AB at its AGM on 5 April 2017. She also holds board 
positions in private companies and public sector positions. 
Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration and  
Nomination Committees.
Alison Wood
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
 
Age: 53 
Appointed: July 2011 
Skills and experience: Alison was formerly Global Director Corporate 
Development & Strategy for National Grid plc. Previously, she was Group Strategic 
Development Director for BAE Systems plc responsible for corporate strategy, 
mergers and acquisitions, and strategic business development across the UK  
and US. She has held two previous Non-executive Directorships with BTG plc  
and THUS plc. 
External Appointments: Non-executive Director and Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee of Costain Group plc, TT Electronics plc and British 
Standards Institution, a Royal Charter company. Alison will cease to be the  
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee  
of e2v technologies plc when the sale of e2v is completed in Q1 2017.  
Committee Membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee and 
member of the Nomination Committee. 
Alan Semple
Independent Non-executive Director
BA, CA
 
Age: 57  
Appointed: February 2015  
Skills and experience: Alan was formerly CFO and a Director of John  
Wood Group plc, a role he had held since 2000 and retired from in May 2015. 
Prior to this, he held a number of senior finance roles in Wood Group from  
1996. Alan previously served as the Group Finance Director of GRT Bus Group  
plc from 1994 to 1995, one of two companies which merged to form FirstGroup 
plc. Between 1987 and 1994, he was Finance Director at Seaforth Maritime 
Group Limited.  
External appointments: Non-executive Director and member of the  
Audit Committee of T eekay Corporation.  
Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee and member  
of the Nomination Committee.
Non-executive Directors
Michael Hagee
Independent Non-executive Director
Age: 72 
Appointed: December 2008 
Skills and experience: Michael served in the US Marine Corps for almost  
39 years ending his career in 2007 as Commandant of the Marine Corps  
and a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. His numerous military assignments 
included Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, Deputy  
Director of Operations at the US European Command and Executive Assistant 
to the Director of Central Intelligence. He also served in a number of diplomatic 
missions including the presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia. Michael retired 
from his role as Non-executive Director of Remington Outdoor Company Inc.  
in February 2015.  
External appointments: President and CEO of the Admiral Nimitz  
Foundation in Fredericksburg, T exas, US, Co-Chairman of the Commission  
on Energy and Geopolitics, Non-executive Director of DynCorp International  
Inc., and Outside Manager on the Government Security Committee of the 
Special Security Agreement of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company. 
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Corporate Governance Index
1. Board of Directors 44
2. Corporate Governance Report 48
3. Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 53
4. Nomination Committee Report 54
5. Audit Committee Report 56
6. Directors’ Remuneration Report 62
7. Other Statutory Information 78
8. Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 81
47
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report
Fell short of expectations  
in many areas: demonstrates 
need to focus efforts in 201 7
Dear Shareholder
As noted in my earlier Chairman’s report, we have had an extremely difficult 
year, with disappointing operational performance post the rights issue, resulting 
in gearing levels that are still too high. Starting in the early part of 2017, we 
implemented operational actions to start the turnaround. There are some areas 
we can deal with quite quickly but the turnaround will take time. As your new 
Chairman, I am taking control of the Board evaluation in my early months and  
am using this time with my fellow Board members to consider the Board’s 
strengths and, more importantly, our weaknesses. We will be doing a lot of  
work around what and how we can learn from the events of the last year.  
I have already announced my intention to effect a rolling programme of  
material Board changes over the next two years. 
We have made good appointments at Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
level, with both of these individuals having the right background, experience 
and proven ability to turn the business around. The new Executive Directors will 
be instrumental in stabilising the business, bringing focus and enhancing the 
leadership team and culture within the business. We also recognise the need  
to improve our succession planning, at Board level and all levels down through 
the business. It is disappointing that so many of our recent senior appointments 
have been external. 
We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code (Code), however, 
we clearly have many operational issues to deal with and we have made  
a good start.
The Directors present their report and the audited Group and Parent Company 
Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. In accordance 
with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2016 and at the date of this Annual 
Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code, please refer to  
page 53 for further details. 
This part of the Annual Report describes how the Company has applied, and 
complied with, the Code. The Code is published by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) and is available from its website www.frc.org.uk. 
Responsibility statements
Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 81, and 
those relating to the auditors are on pages 86 and 132.
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors in 
relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given on page 78.
Whilst we have complied 
with the Code, we clearly 
have many operational 
issues to deal with; we have 
made a good start
48
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Financial reporting
At its February 2017 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that the 
Annual Report and Accounts for the 2016 financial year, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and the Board believes that the information 
contained provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee, supported by management, has adopted a process to 
enable the Board to take this view and this process was set out on pages 45  
and 55 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis, assuming the equity  
is raised as planned, in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as stated  
in the Financial Review on page 33.
Key events for 2016
 − Completed a £500m rights issue, strengthening the balance sheet, however 
trading since the rights issue has been disappointing;
 − A new CEO and CFO were recruited during the year. Although succession 
planning has been a prime objective and focus of the Board and within 
the business, the Board felt that, bearing in mind the Group’s position and 
financial performance during the year, very experienced individuals would 
be needed to instigate the changes necessary within the business. Internal 
candidates were considered for both roles but it was clear that external 
candidates would be better placed to make the changes needed. The focus 
for recruitment was therefore external. The succession plan for the senior 
management team, including the Sector teams, was fully reviewed during  
the year but needs to be replenished and strengthened; 
 − Continued oversight of the restructuring of the portfolio with planned 
disposals of businesses, which were no longer considered core to the Group, 
two transactions were completed in the year;
 − Both as part of ongoing knowledge growth and induction, the Board 
members visited four sites during 2016 as a Group, other Board members 
separately visited other sites;
 − Evaluated and approved two large contract bid submissions above authority 
limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside of the regular Board 
meeting schedule; 
 − Oversight of the relationship with one of our key customers in terms of new 
business opportunities and performance on development programmes; and 
 − Change of Chairman.
Priorities for 2017
As set out in the CEO statement on pages 6 and 7:
 − Oversight of the outcome of the balance sheet review, with particular 
attention placed on cash generation and the management of the cost base;
 − Oversight of the enhanced financial and operational disciplines and controls
 − Focus on customer intimacy and on execution;
 − Promote the reduction of complexity and duplication in the business; and
 − Replenish the succession plan and strengthen the quality of our human 
resource/talent.
Michael Wareing 
Chairman
2 March 2017
The Board composition
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman (John Devaney until  
31 December 2016 when he stepped down and was replaced by Michael 
Wareing, who previously acted as Senior Independent Director), a CEO (Bob 
Murphy until 14 December 2016, when he was replaced by David Lockwood), 
a CFO (Simon Nicholls until 31 December 2016 when he was replaced by David 
Mellors) and five other Non-executive Directors of whom Michael Wareing was 
the Senior Independent Director until 31 December 2016, when Jonathan Flint 
took over the role. All Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent 
and the Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment. They 
all held office throughout the year except Mark Ronald who stood down from 
the Board, having completed nine years as a Non-executive Director, at the 
conclusion of the 2016 AGM. 
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other 
significant commitments, are set out on pages 46 and 47. The attendance of 
Directors at Board meetings is set out on page 46 and attendance at principal 
Board Committee meetings as members of such committees during the year  
is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 55, 59 and 64. 
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in  
the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company 
Secretary. Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing  
a special resolution. The Directors and the Company (in the latter case by 
ordinary resolution) may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, 
either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director. 
All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time  
to meet their time commitments to the Group. Copies of their appointment 
letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available  
for inspection at the AGM. 
Notwithstanding the Chairman’s comments on page 5 around the Board 
refresh, no decisions have yet been made so in accordance with the Code, 
which recommends that all Directors of FTSE350 companies seek re-election by 
shareholders on an annual basis, all eligible Directors currently in office will retire 
and seek re-election at the AGM. The Chairman confirms to shareholders when 
proposing re-appointment that the individual’s performance continues to be 
effective and that the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the 
role. Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions relating  
to the removal of a Director.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings 
and leading the Board. The CEO’s responsibilities include operational 
performance, corporate social responsibility and the development and 
implementation of the Group’s strategy. He also focuses on long term growth 
and development of the Group, its people and customer relationships. The 
Board’s policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed by 
different people. 
The Senior Independent Director’s responsibilities include the provision of  
an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the  
Non-executive Directors. He also provides another point of contact for 
shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the normal 
channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or where these  
contacts are inappropriate. This channel was used extensively leading up  
to and following the rights issue in 2016.
49
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued
Board proceedings 
Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, were  
held six times during the year on a face to face basis and three were held  
by telephone. In addition, there were five short notice meetings to support  
Board decisions required prior to the next scheduled meeting and for  
approvals necessary to support the rights issue completed during the year.  
There is also contact between meetings to progress the Group’s business 
as required. Meetings are held in London and at other UK and international 
operational locations. 
In 2016, the Board visited sites in Wimborne and Marlow in the UK, and 
Davenport and Orchard Park in the US. In addition, members of the Board made 
individual trips to other sites, for example, Birgit Nørgaard visited the SA TCOM 
site in Denmark to increase her understanding of the changes impacting 
the business due to market conditions and David Lockwood visited several 
operational sites in Australia as part of his induction prior to joining the Group. 
Site visits help the Board to understand the business, its strategy, problems being 
faced and how they may be able to help. The Board is, by necessity, a diverse 
group of individuals, some with business backgrounds and others with more 
general management experience. We need this level of diversity to make sure  
the decisions made at this level have the right input and challenge. With only 
five Non-executive Directors, we recognise that we may be light on a number  
of disciplines so we are currently reviewing Board numbers and skill sets. It is also 
important for the Board to try to understand and influence the culture around 
the business, which cannot be achieved from inside the boardroom.
During 2017, we are planning site visits to two of our business units which are 
facing changing or difficult market conditions.
Michael Wareing, acting as the Senior Independent Director during 2016, held 
numerous meetings with the Non-executives, in the absence of the Chairman, to 
appraise the Chairman’s performance. The Chairman also held meetings with the 
Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors, and 1:1 performance 
appraisals with each Non-executive Director to discuss, amongst other matters, 
feedback from the Board evaluation exercise. 
The Nomination Committee were involved in the evaluation and subsequent 
promotion of Michael Wareing to the role of Chairman and Jonathan Flint being 
offered the role of the Senior Independent Director. 
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval. 
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by 
the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise. 
Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the 
Group’s business strategy, its three year financial plan, its consolidated budget, 
Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and 
removals from the Board. Authority is delegated to management on a structured 
basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring 
that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level. Matters 
delegated in this way include, within defined parameters: the approval of bids 
and contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements. 
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, 
including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is 
responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board on 
corporate governance matters. The Company Secretary is appointed, and can 
only be removed, by the Board.
If a Director were to have a concern that cannot be resolved this would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. On resignation, Non-executive Directors are 
invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the 
Board if they have concerns. No such statements were made during 2016.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed,  
noted and authorised. Procedures are in place and operating effectively to  
keep such disclosures up to date.
Board committees
The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees. Committee chairs provide 
oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board 
meeting. Information relating to the activities of each committee may be found 
on the pages that follow. All Board committees are provided with sufficient 
resources to undertake their duties.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee. 
The Executive Directors are the only members of this Committee, under the 
chairmanship of the CEO. The purpose is to assist the CEO in the performance of 
his duties and its terms of reference include: the discharge of obligations arising 
under the Company’s share plans; the determination of the remuneration of the 
Non-executive Directors; the approval of banking facilities; and the approval of 
bids and contracts above the limits delegated to the Sectors. This Committee 
met on 15 occasions during the year and, in addition, decisions were made as 
required to respond to business needs and market conditions, such decisions 
were subsequently ratified.
Through 2016, an executive Risk Committee, chaired by the CEO, and made 
up of all the members of the Group Executive, kept the corporate risk register 
under review and ensured that mitigating actions were kept in focus, ultimately 
culminating in the formulation of the principal risks for the Group. A Board 
appointed Risk Committee has been set up in 2017, to increase oversight in  
this important area, see page 5 for further detail. 
Since the end of the year, a Disclosure Committee, comprising of the Executive 
Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary, has been set up to deal 
with the establishing and implementing of internal policies, systems and controls 
to ensure that potential inside information is communicated to it, considered, 
verified and released to the market where required. This responsibility was carried 
out by the Executive Directors Committee during 2016.
Management committees
The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management 
committees are shown in the table below. In addition formal financial 
performance, business development and functional reviews were held  
on a quarterly basis during 2016.
Group
Executive
Risk
Safety, Health & Environment
Business Ethics & Compliance
Mergers & Acquisitions
Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability
Disclosure Panel
50
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Board evaluation actions
Observations Progress
Due to the importance of Private Venture (PV) investment in ensuring  
the Group grows sustainably, the Board needs to have a comprehensive  
understanding of the opportunities across the diverse portfolio to ensure  
PV is allocated to the greatest opportunities.
To be addressed as part of the strategic review to be undertaken by the 
incoming Executive Directors. Focus to be placed on placing PV increases 
where the Group can gain the best growth opportunity. 
The Board should, along with the Group Executive, review regularly the  
information on customer requirements and satisfaction. 
Customer feedback and satisfaction is measured and results monitored. 
Customer focus is a key priority for 2017. 
The Board should continue to monitor the resolution of the issues  
encountered in the initial implementation of the Cobham Business  
Operating System (CBOS).
Two sites have now had the CBOS system implemented, the roll out is 
managed by a Steering Committee who report in to the Group Executive 
(and report up to the Board). Future roll outs are under review, but likely  
to focus on parts of the business where there is a greater business need. 
The Board will oversee the plans to improve culture and staff attitudes  
and assist the Group Executive in communicating the strategy.
The SPIRIT values have been launched to the business but need to  
be embedded.
The planned staff survey for 2016 was deferred as business performance  
was the key focus during the year.
The Board plans to gain a deeper understanding of the timing and  
benefits of the Continuous Improvement (CI) programme to ensure,  
in the event of further revenue weakness, that there are plans to  
further reduce cost without putting the strategy at risk. 
CI benefits are regularly reported to the Board, improvements have been 
made during the year, but not to the level planned.
This will be a renewed focus in 2017, with an aim to reduce complexity  
and duplication in the business.
Board and committees performance evaluation 
The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis. During 
2015, the Board and its committees undertook an external evaluation. The 
evaluation contract was awarded to Armstrong Bonham Carter (ABC), following 
a full tender process, which included five other service providers, and was 
described in detail on page 47 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts. 
ABC collated all feedback collected and produced a series of recommendations 
to the Board, which were considered at their February 2016 meeting. The Board 
approved an action plan to address the recommendations. During 2016, the 
Board considered and agreed how to approach the results of the evaluation, 
however events during the year demanded focus on financial performance  
so these recommendations remain as work in progress, as highlighted below.
During the early months of 2017, the Chairman will be undertaking in-depth 
evaluation interviews with each individual Non-executive Director, to understand 
their thoughts and collate learning points to consider and agree with the full 
Board at its April 2017 meeting. The areas covered will include: assessment 
of what went wrong during 2016, including lessons learnt; how the Board can 
change, in terms of process and composition, to ensure better execution against 
plan is achieved by the business; how the Board can assist the new Executive 
Directors as they settle into role; and finally, to assess the performance of each 
individual Board member.
CAES SSA Governance 
As noted on page 34, CAES is involved with classified US Defense programmes.  
It therefore operates under a US DoD Special Security Agreement (SSA) as 
required by the US National Industrial Security Program. In order to protect US 
national security interests, the SSA is designed to ensure that foreign ownership, 
control or influence (FOCI) does not affect the way that CAES conducts its 
business affairs. 
The CAES Board is made up of: (i) the Cobham Group’s CEO and CFO (referred  
to as Inside Directors); (ii) the CAES CEO and CFO (known as Officer Directors); 
and (iii) a number of Non-executive Directors (known as Outside Directors) 
approved by the US Defense Security Service (DSS). 
Outside Directors and Officer Directors who are US nationals with appropriate  
US security clearances also make up the Government Security Committee (GSC) 
of the CAES Board. The SSA does not permit Inside Directors to be members  
of the GSC, which is responsible for overseeing security related matters.
The SSA restricts the level of participation that Cobham can have in certain CAES 
activities. For example, it gives the GSC exclusive access to certain US classified 
and controlled information as well as certain powers to ensure that FOCI does 
not affect the way that CAES conducts its business affairs.
Cobham maintains its involvement in CAES activities primarily through a series of 
shared services provided pursuant to an Affiliate Operations Plan (AOP) approved 
by the DSS and through Cobham’s CEO and CFO representing Cobham plc at all 
CAES Board meetings in their capacities as Inside Directors.
All CAES Board Directors have a fiduciary duty to perform their roles in the 
best interests of Cobham plc as shareholder and in a manner consistent with 
the national security interests of the US, as set out in the SSA. Cobham plc as 
shareholder retains the right to remove/replace any member of the CAES Board, 
subject to the consent of the DSS in the case of an Outside Director. In addition, 
the CAES Board cannot carry out any of the actions listed below without 
Cobham’s express approval:
 − Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of property or assets otherwise than in the 
usual course of business;
 − Merge, consolidate, reorganise, dissolve or wind up the business; or
 − T erminate the SSA itself.
The effectiveness of governance and assurance procedures between the Group 
and the CAES Sector are regularly reviewed.
51
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective two way 
communication programme with Cobham’s shareholders and potential 
shareholders. This approach assists investors’ understanding of the value drivers 
in the Group and allows the Board to understand shareholder views when 
formulating and discussing strategy, financing, Board composition and policies.
In previous years, Cobham has pursued an investor relations programme which 
has had the purpose of keeping investors regularly informed of its prospects, 
progress and, as appropriate, significant developments. This has been achieved 
in various ways, including through results day presentations by the CEO and CFO, 
which are also webcast live for shareholders unable to attend in person; regular 
face-to-face management meetings with investors; and through written content 
which is made available on the website and in the Annual Report and Accounts. 
This includes useful information on Cobham’s strategy, its businesses, historical 
financial information and governance. This has been supplemented by access 
to business unit managers with visits to Cobham sites, industry exhibitions and 
air shows, primarily highlighting the Group’s products and technology. Capital 
markets days have also been held, which have been used to give additional 
insight to selected Group businesses and personnel. The Board has, in turn,  
been kept regularly informed of investor and market views and received  
written and oral feedback from investor meetings.
The maintenance of an effective two way communication flow has been 
particularly important during the year, which has been characterised by the 
achievement of lower than expected profit and cash generation, resulting in 
higher than expected debt and a rights issue. There have also been changes to 
the Board with a change in Chairman, Senior Independent Director, CEO and  
CFO announced during the year. The shareholder relations programme in 2016 
has largely been driven by these events and, as a result, the Group has not held  
a capital markets day or arranged the usual programme of visits to Cobham sites. 
Instead, there has been a stronger focus on meeting shareholders individually 
or in small groups to explain developments, with a particular concentration 
of meetings in the lead up to the rights issue. This programme has included 
significant Chairman, Senior Independent Director, CEO, CFO and Investor 
Relations participation. Reflecting this, in total Cobham has undertaken 273 
(2015: 204) separate investor meetings during 2016.
Corporate Governance Report continued
Investor Relations activity during 2016
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
 
Interim results
2016
Q3 Trading 
Update
Q1 Trading 
Update; 
Rights Issue 
announced
CFO 
resignation
announced
Chairman 
resignation
announced
New CFO
appointment 
announced
CEO 
resignation
announced
Preliminary 
2015 results
Rights Issue 
completed
New Chairman 
appointment 
announced
New CEO 
appointment 
announced
52
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
A. Leadership
A1. The Board’s role
In 2016, the Board met nine times in order to review the Group’s performance 
and strategy against set objectives and a further five times outside of the normal 
sequence of meetings to deal with urgent Board decisions and the rights issue 
documentation. The Board’s role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation 
of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value, to 
approve the Group’s strategic plan, and to monitor management performance 
against plan. The Board also sets the Group’s risk appetite, and monitors the 
Group’s risk management processes. The Board has adopted a schedule of 
matters reserved for its specific approval, including a framework for those 
decisions which can be delegated to committees or otherwise. Further details 
can be found in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 48.
A2. A clear division of responsibilities 
The Board’s policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed 
by different people. The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly 
understood. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness  
of the Board, and the CEO is responsible for leading the day-to-day management 
of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
A3. Role of the Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, manages the meeting timetable 
and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings. 
A4. Role of the Non-executive Directors
The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding 
board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors 
where necessary. The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders, 
should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of 
communication has failed to resolve. 
The Chairman has held regular meetings with the Non-executives in the absence  
of Executive Directors, providing an opportunity for any concerns to be discussed. 
B. Effectiveness
B1. The Board’s composition
The Board currently consists of eight individuals: the Chairman, two Executive 
Directors and five independent Non-executive Directors. The composition of the 
Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure that there  
is an appropriate mix of skills, and a range of diverse experience. The Chairman 
has announced a rolling programme of material Board change over the next  
two years. Board members’ biographies are provided on pages 46 and 47 and 
identify the experience each Director brings to the Board. A table identifying  
the skills and experience of the Board members may also be found on page 55. 
The Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence 
of its members. Conflicts of interest are also monitored and updated at least 
annually and more frequently as and when required. 
B2. Board appointments
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination 
Committee. The Nomination Committee’s T erms of Reference, as published 
on the Company website, document their responsibility regarding Board 
appointments. The Committee consists of all the Non-executive Directors  
and the Chairman. Further details of succession planning, including the Board’s 
policy on diversity, including gender, can be found on page 55. 
B3. Time commitments
The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment 
and regularly evaluated. The Chairman gives consideration to new directorships 
which may impact existing time commitments.
B4. Training and development
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, which 
is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives. 
Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role on a committee 
and is otherwise available as required. Further details can be found in the 
Directors’ professional development section on page 55.
B5. Provision of information and support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all 
Board members receive accurate and timely information. All the Directors  
have access to independent professional advice, at the Company’s expense, 
where the Directors judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities. 
B6. Board and committee performance evaluation
The Board and the committees undertook an external evaluation in 2015, which 
was reported on during 2016. Details of the process undertaken, and a table 
of observations made at this evaluation are included on page 51. The Senior 
Independent Director also held a series of meetings with the Non-executives  
in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairman’s performance  
during 2016. 
B7. Directors re-election
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election, as appropriate, 
at the AGM.
C. Accountability
C1. Financial and business reporting
The Statement of the Directors’ Responsibility is set out on page 81, and the  
Independent Auditors’ Report commencing on pages 82 and 132. The Company’s 
business model is explained on pages 10 and 11.
C2. Risk management and internal control systems
The Board sets the Group’s risk appetite and conducts a robust assessment of the 
principal risks, along with an annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management, and internal control systems. The activities of both the Audit and 
Risk Committee (part of the Group Executive Committee during 2016), which 
assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk management, reporting 
and assurance, are set out on pages 34 to 39.
C3. Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and how the Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities during the year is provided in the Audit Committee 
Report on pages 56 to 61. The T erms of Reference for the Audit Committee are 
reviewed annually and are available on the Company website. 
D. Remuneration
D1. Levels and components of remuneration
The Board believes that the Group’s Remuneration Policy is appropriately 
designed to promote the long term success of the Company, while enabling 
the Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for 
the delivery of its business strategy. For further information, see the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, and the proposed Remuneration Policy, on pages 62 to 77. 
D2. Development of remuneration policy and packages
The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of Non-executive 
Directors only. The T erms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are 
reviewed annually and are available on the Company website. The Remuneration 
Committee has delegated authority for setting the remuneration of Executive 
Directors and the Chairman. The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors  
are determined by the Board, on recommendation from the Executive  
Directors Committee.
E. Relations with shareholders
E1. Shareholder engagement and dialogue
Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount 
importance to the continued success of the Company. The outgoing Chairman 
met with 18 shareholders during the year, at their request. The incoming 
Chairman met with 20 shareholders immediately prior to his formal appointment. 
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52. 
E2. Constructive use of general meetings
The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage 
with investors. Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask 
questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the formal 
business of the meeting.
53
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report
The composition and strength of the  
Board is under review, alongside a review  
of succession plans in the business
Dear Shareholder
The Committee has had a busy 2016. 
 
In January 2016, the Board announced that our then CFO, Simon Nicholls, would 
be moving on to perform the role of CFO for Wolseley plc, a FTSE50 company 
and a recruitment process started to replace him. In June 2016, David Mellors was 
announced as the new CFO, to join the Board. David was CFO of QinetiQ Group 
plc, the FTSE250 science and engineering company that operates primarily in the 
defence, security and aerospace markets. During his time at QinetiQ he played 
a leading role in the successful transformation of the group, strengthening their 
balance sheet and re-focusing the portfolio driving improved performance and 
positioning the group for growth. His background positions him well to face the 
challenges which we knew we were facing. David took up his new role on  
1 January 2017 and immediately commenced a balance sheet and major 
contracts review.
Mark Ronald stepped down from the Board in April 2016 after serving three, 
three year terms.
During August 2016, the Board announced the appointment of David Lockwood 
as CEO, following the stepping down of Bob Murphy to pursue other opportunities.  
David was CEO of Laird plc, the FTSE250 technology company providing 
products and solutions that protect electronics from electromagnetic 
interference and heat and which enable connectivity in mission-critical wireless 
applications. During his time at Laird, David built the company into a focused 
enterprise connectivity company with leading positions in the connected 
transport and consumer device markets, delivering sustained organic growth. 
He also had a strong background in the defence industry. David officially 
commenced in role on 14 December 2016 and is already putting his experience 
into play for us.
Then in November 2016, John Devaney informed the Cobham Board that he 
would be standing down as Chairman and Board member of Cobham plc with 
effect from 31 December 2016. Following a process led by the Nomination 
Committee, I took over as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2017, having  
served as Cobham’s Senior Independent Director and member of the 
Remuneration Committee until that point. Jonathan Flint took on the role  
of Senior Independent Director, also on 1 January 2017.
All new appointments were made with input from the Nomination Committee 
members, who met with the candidates before formal appointment.
The Committee and the Board feel the Company has sufficient breadth and 
depth in the new Executive Directors to move the Company forward and will be 
considering, through 2017, whether to strengthen Board membership further.
 
Role and focus 
The Nomination Committee’s main duties are to: 
 − Review the structure, size and composition of the Board; and
 − Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
Key events for 2016
 − Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board; 
 − Reviewed Committee structure and membership on Mark Ronald’s departure 
from the Board;
 − Oversight of the search for the new CFO;
 − Oversight of the search for the new CEO; and
 − Conducted a formal process and recommended the appointment of myself 
as Chairman on John Devaney’s departure from the Board. 
The Committee has 
been very involved in 
the recruitment process 
for the two Executive 
Directors and the 
Chairman during 201 6, 
but 201 7 needs to  
focus on the Board  
and succession plans  
in the business
54
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Priorities for 2017 
 − Review the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure 
competencies remain aligned with the strategic plan and is appropriately 
balanced;
 − Oversight of succession planning exercise for the key roles across the  
Group; and
 − Consider the role of this Committee and how it can be strengthened and 
used more productively.
The Committee’s T erms of Reference, which were reviewed during the year,  
are available on Cobham’s website or on application to the Company Secretary. 
Membership and attendance
One formal Committee meeting was held during the year, attended as follows:
John Devaney (Chair)
Jonathan Flint  
Michael Hagee 
Birgit Nørgaard
1
 
Mark Ronald
1
 
Alan Semple 
Michael Wareing 
Alison Wood  
   
Attended Unable to attend
1
Sent apologies due to other business commitments. 
There were a series of actions taken by this Committee outside of the formal 
scheduled meetings, and members were extensively involved in each of the 
above senior leadership changes. 
Directors’ professional development
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme  
in the course of which they receive information about:
 − The operations and activities of the Group; 
 − The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision; 
 − The Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures; 
 − Their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed public 
limited company; and
 − Specific duties as a member of one of the Board committees. 
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and presentations 
by, members of the senior management team. Both David Lockwood and David 
Mellors followed this model in undertaking their induction towards the end of 2016. 
Development for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by 
means of internal briefing from senior management or advisers and external 
courses. In addition, Directors’ knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment 
is updated through the provision of information by the Group’s advisers and by 
means of regular updates from the Company Secretary and the legal team.
As mentioned at page 50, site visits are considered critical to ensure that the 
Directors remain close to the business of the Group.
Diversity and inclusion
The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity when considering the 
composition of the Board. In recruiting for Board roles, targets are generally  
set around ensuring a proportion of female and ethnically diverse applicants  
are included in the candidate pool for Non-executive Director positions. The 
representation of women on the Board is currently 25%. 
Please refer to page 41 for details of diversity and inclusion initiatives within  
the business. 
Succession planning for Board members/senior management
Succession planning takes place on a regular basis to ensure that the Group is 
managed by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge. 
The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management 
resources in the Group. Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality  
in management, and robust processes are in place to help them in this task.  
The succession plan needs to be replenished and the process reviewed as the 
number of high performing individuals identified in role do not correlate with  
the performance of the business. There are some good people within the Group  
and some good technology/platform positions. Despite the results for the year, 
there is still pride in the Cobham business, and we need to build on this.
Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining  
a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board, and I have announced 
a Board refresh over a rolling two year period. The Nomination Committee 
actively manages Non-executive Director succession having regard to anticipated 
retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for  
Non-executive Directors as positions are required. 
2012 2017 2015 2007 2022 2027
Birgit 
Nørgaard
Alan
 Semple
Michael
 Hagee
Michael 
Wareing
Alison
 Wood
Jonathan
 Flint
1st term 2nd term 3rd term
The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors in 
terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically above.
Michael Wareing 
Nomination Committee Chair
2 March 2017
Skills and experience
Independence Years with Cobham Skills and Experience
UK Corporate 
Governance Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR
Michael Wareing 6 • • • • • • •
David Lockwood 0 • • • • • • •
David Mellors 0 • • • • •
Jonathan Flint • 3 • • • • • •
Michael Hagee • 8 • •
Birgit Nørgaard • 3 • • • • • •
Alan Semple • 2 • • • • • •
Alison Wood • 5 • • • • •
All of the Directors, Executive and Non-executive, have leadership, strategy and risk experience.
55
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report
Increased analysis of the Group’s 
balance sheet and internal 
control systems
Dear Shareholder
2016 was a very challenging year for Cobham overall, with performance issues  
in a number of areas contributing to the Group’s overall disappointing results. 
Cash generation was poor and despite the rights issue in June 2016, debt 
increased to levels outside the Board’s target range. These matters, which are 
covered in some detail elsewhere in this report, had a significant impact on  
the Committee throughout the year, and will continue to do so into 2017.
Key issues for 2016
The Audit Committee continued its focus on the Group’s financial reporting, 
risk management and internal control systems. With the knowledge that the 
incumbent Group CFO was leaving the business, we worked with the Board 
on appointing his replacement. We met with members of the broader finance 
team on specific issues, and throughout the year maintained our analysis of the 
Group’s long term development programmes. Given the issues that had arisen  
in 2016, management performed a rigorous review of the balance sheet, 
including carrying values of past acquisitions, given the disappointing 
performance during the year. 
Trading was behind the Board’s expectations for the first quarter of 2016, as 
noted in the Trading Update of April 2016. One reason for this was the financial 
and operational controls that had emerged in the Wireless business unit that 
resulted in a one off charge of £9m. The Audit Committee was presented with 
a detailed assessment of the issues that had emerged, including the remedial 
actions required to stabilise the Wireless control environment. Lessons learned 
from these issues were extensively considered by the Audit Committee and 
included a number of organisational changes, an internal project to improve 
controls within the business unit and increased level of corporate oversight  
and support. This also reinforced the need to implement an updated Group 
Finance Manual and the Minimum Standards of Financial Control Framework 
across the Group. 
In addition to the issues in the Wireless business, in April 2016 the Group also 
reported that headwinds in Aviation Services combined with increased costs in 
Advanced Electronic Solutions had adversely affected first quarter profitability. 
The impact of this was that there was an expectation that leverage could be 
close to the net debt/EBITDA covenant ratio of 3.5x at June 2016 and as a result 
the Board announced a rights issue. Consequently, the Audit Committee’s focus 
in the second quarter included a review of the first quarter performance included 
in the rights issue documentation. The Audit Committee continued monitoring 
the progress of issues in Wireless, considered financial information relating to 
major development programmes, including updates from management on the 
status of customer discussions and risk exposures in relation to these programmes. 
Into the second half, Group performance remained challenging with forecasts 
not being met in a number of businesses, most notably the SA TCOM, Wireless 
and Integrated Electronic Solutions business units and increased risk relating 
to the KC-46 programme, where commercial circumstances changed with our 
customer. These matters were noted in the Trading Update in October 2016.  
This guided trading profit down, and highlighted that discussions were taking 
place with our customer on KC-46 related commercial terms for the conformity 
and qualification phases of the contract. The Audit Committee requested 
ongoing updates on longterm, major development programmes, received 
external input on certain aspects, and into early 2017 performed a separate 
review on the status of risk and costs to complete on KC-46. In addition, 
increased scope and enhanced reporting was agreed with PwC for the  
planned 2016 year-end external audit. 
Key focus areas for  
the Audit Committee 
have been the Group’s 
financial control 
environment, the 
balance sheet review, 
and performance  
of the long term 
development 
programmes
56
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com The balance sheet review led by the new CFO identified a range of issues related 
to 2016 performance that had not been identified in our normal management 
reporting. These are described in some detail on page 29. The Committee 
engaged with management and PwC throughout the balance sheet review 
process and met to consider the circumstances that had led to the adjustments, 
their quantum, disclosure, and judgements applied. 
In addition, the Audit Committee:
 − Reviewed financial statements and associated reports throughout the year;
 − Reviewed management’s assessment of the potential impact of adopting 
new accounting standards, specifically revenue recognition and leasing; 
 − Reviewed all matters relating to External Audit including audit scope, 
independence, objectivity and effectiveness, and requested an enhanced 
level of reporting to the Committee; 
 − Reviewed the Non-audit Policy, and the transition of certain non-audit 
services from the external auditor, with the majority of tax and HR services 
transferring to other providers during the year; 
 − Reviewed reports from management on key governance, risk and compliance 
activities including progress in implementing the Minimum Standards of 
Financial Control; 
 − Increased our analysis of existing IT controls (including cyber security  
and disaster recovery), and the requirement for enhanced controls in  
certain areas; 
 − Continued to review and support the Internal Audit and Assurance Function 
with its increased, risk based scope including the Audit Plan, reports and 
effectiveness; and
 − Worked with the CAES Board, to ensure that, as far as possible within the 
confines of the SSA, satisfactory controls existed in the business.
Given the challenges in 2016, lessons were learned during the year and in the 
year-end balance sheet review, and the lessons learned process will continue into 
2017. The Group’s system of risk management and internal control has shown a 
number of weaknesses, albeit the controls and assurance mechanisms ultimately 
identified the issues arising, although in many cases in a less timely manner than 
should have been the case. 
Priorities for 2017 
2017 will be a period of transition for Cobham, with our new CEO and CFO 
becoming established in their roles. We will work to assist them and to 
support their initiatives to improve the risk management systems and control 
environment where required. It is important that the Group learn the lessons 
from Cobham’s recent under-performance, and from the adjustments identified 
as part of the year-end balance sheet review. The Audit Committee will focus  
on remediation of control issues identified and on actioning the standards of 
control we expect across the Group.
At the 2017 AGM, I and the fellow members of the Committee will be available 
to respond to any questions shareholders may wish to raise on this report or the 
Committee’s activities. 
Alan Semple
Audit Committee Chair
2 March 2017
57
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements  
and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them. The Committee identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2016  
financial statements with regard to the facts and circumstances then existing, on account of the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised  
by management.
Area of focus Key issue Role of the Committee Conclusion
Revenue/
contract 
accounting
Revenue and profit 
recognition on 
contracts (refer to 
note 1 of the Group 
Financial Statements)
The Committee considered accounting policies, judgements on 
material contracts and external audit reviews. 
A key focus for the Committee has been the revenue and profit 
recognition on the Group’s long term development programmes, 
such as KC-46, where the Committee had regular updates from 
management in the course of the year, received external input on 
certain aspects, and into early 2017 performed a separate review 
on the status of risk and costs to complete. Discussions with 
management addressed changing commercial circumstances  
into the second half of the year, the subsequent commercial 
settlement reached in early 2017. 
Changes in commercial circumstances in 
the second half of the year, and for KC-46 
the revised agreement with the client in 
early 2017, required a reassessment of 
anticipated performance and estimated 
costs to complete on key contracts, most 
materially KC-46. 
Notwithstanding the risks that remain in 
the completion of these contracts, the 
Audit Committee was satisfied that the 
position taken is appropriate. 
Goodwill 
and acquired 
intangible assets 
Goodwill and 
acquired intangible 
asset carrying value 
assessments and 
required impairment 
(refer to note 10 of 
the Group Financial 
Statements)
The Committee reviewed internal papers covering the basis 
and quantum of valuation and resulting impairments, including 
explanations for any significant changes from those used in 
previous years. Such changes included lower initial profits 
following disappointing performance in 2016 and more cautious 
future expectations given the experience of the last year. 
The Committee considered a modified basis of management’s 
assessment for 2016 using a three year horizon for detailed 
cash flow forecasts (previously five years). The Committee also 
reviewed the appropriateness of the growth rates assumed 
within the Cash Generating Units, the discount rate applied to 
the cash flows and received confirmation that the sensitivity 
analysis had been correctly modelled. 
The Committee was satisfied that the 
forecasts leading to the impairments 
were reasonable and appropriate, 
reflecting the current performance  
of the businesses and anticipated 
outlook, and that the disclosures  
made were appropriate. 
Inventory Accounting for 
inventory provisions 
(refer to note 13 of 
the Group Financial 
Statements)
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the Group’s 
policies for inventory provisions, taking into account the 
different nature of the businesses across the Group. Particular 
consideration was given to the impact of changing demand  
on the level of provision required along with specific areas  
where additional provisioning was appropriate. 
The Committee considered the outcome of certain inventory 
counts during the year and worked with management to 
introduce change to the frequency of inventory counting in 
the Group. An annual full inventory count was mandated in all 
business units in addition to the periodic cycle  
counts performed. 
The Committee considered that the 
provisions made for inventory were 
appropriate and properly accounted for. 
Presentation 
of adjusted 
performance 
measures
Identification and 
measurement  
of underlying 
trading profit, and 
the classification 
and disclosure of 
non-underlying costs 
(refer to note 2 of 
the Group Financial 
Statements)
The Committee reviewed a report from management, which 
explained the methodology used and the rationale for excluding 
items from statutory profit to arrive at underlying profit.
The Committee compared the treatment of non-underlying 
costs to prior years, and reviewed all non-underlying items. 
The Committee considered, in detail, the nature and quantum 
of exceptional items detailed in note 2 of the Group Financial 
Statements, assessing whether it was appropriate to recognise 
the adjustments, whether they had been measured appropriately 
and whether any indicated errors related to prior periods.
The Committee was satisfied that 
accounting and judgements were 
reasonable and appropriate and that no 
prior period corrections were required.
Tax Accounting for 
uncertain tax 
positions (and 
recoverability of 
deferred tax assets) 
(refer to notes 6 
and 20 of the Group 
Financial Statements)
The Committee reviewed explanatory papers from management, 
which included a review of the appropriateness of the tax 
provisions. Papers reviewed included the impact of changes in 
tax law and regulations, changes in interpretation of taxation 
regulation, increase in tax audits and challenges and testing of 
interpretations by tax authorities. This is more fully described 
in note 29 of the Group Financial Statements. In reaching its 
conclusion on material tax disputes, the Committee referred  
to external advice to support the position taken. 
The Group Tax Director also regularly attended Committee 
meetings to discuss how the Group manages its tax risks.
The Committee was satisfied that 
the judgements and estimates were 
reasonable and appropriate, and that 
risks associated with tax had been 
properly disclosed.
58
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Objectives and responsibilities
The Committee’s main objectives and responsibilities are set out in our T erms  
of Reference, which are available on Cobham’s website. The Committee’s T erms 
of Reference, were reviewed and updated in December 2016. In summary, the 
main objectives and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
Financial reporting 
 − Monitor the integrity of the Group’s Financial Statements and any formal 
announcements relating to its financial performance, and their compliance 
with statutory requirements; 
 − Review significant financial reporting judgements and accounting policies  
and compliance with accounting standards;
 − Ensure the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable 
and recommend their adoption by the Board; and
 − Review the assumptions or qualifications in support of the Going Concern 
Statement and the longer term Viability Statement.
Risk management and internal control
 − Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk  
management procedures; 
 − Ensure that a robust assessment of the Group’s Principal Risks  
has been undertaken; and
 − Review and monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. 
Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud
 − Monitor and review the Group’s policies and practices concerning business 
conduct and ethics, including helpline or whistleblowing arrangements.
External audit
 − Make recommendations on the appointment, terms of engagement and 
remuneration of the external auditors; 
 − Review and monitor the external auditors’ independence and objectivity  
and the effectiveness of the audit process; and
 − Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services. 
Internal audit and Assurance
 − Agree and assess the Internal Audit Plan; 
 − Monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit function; and
 − Consider the scope and the major findings of internal audit work done  
and management’s response thereto.
Composition
The Committee consists of independent Non-executive Directors only. The 
current members are Alan Semple, Jonathan Flint, and Michael Hagee. Following 
the 2016 AGM, Michael Wareing stepped down from the Audit Committee in 
order to join the Remuneration Committee, due to Mark Ronald’s departure from 
the Board. Biographical details for all of the Committee members may be found 
on pages 46 and 47. The membership of the Committee has been selected with 
the aim of providing the range of financial, risk and business expertise necessary 
to meet its responsibilities, the particular skills and experience of each member 
may be found on page 55. Given Alan Semple’s experience as a Chartered 
Accountant, and formerly as Chief Financial Officer of John Wood Group plc,  
the Board has designated him as the financial expert on the Committee for  
the purposes of the Code. 
Meetings
Five Audit Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows
Alan Semple (Chair)
Jonathan Flint
Michael Hagee
Michael Wareing
1
 
   
Attended Unable to attend
1
  Michael Wareing stepped down from the Committee following the 2016 AGM, to join the 
Remuneration Committee.
During the year, the Committee invited the Chair of the Board, the  
Non-executive members of the Board, CEO, CFO, Group Director of Financial 
Control, Head of Internal Audit (IA&A) and Assurance, the PwC lead audit partner,  
other representatives from PwC, and other key senior management to attend 
their meetings as appropriate. 
At least twice a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, the 
Committee meet separately with the PwC lead audit partner and the Head  
of Internal Audit and Assurance, to give them the opportunity to discuss  
matters without executive management being present.
Key issues and activities
Matters considered by the Committee during 2016 were:
Feb Apr May Jul Dec
Financial statements and reports
Full year results 
Half year results 
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
Rights issue prospectus
External audit
Independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the 
external auditor
Appointment recommendation to the Board
Policy on the provision of non-audit services 
Approval of non-audit fees
External audit scope and fees
External auditors’ full year report 
External auditors’ half year report 
Internal audit
Effectiveness review of Internal Audit
Internal Audit report
Annual Internal Audit Plan
Governance, risk and assurance
Risk management report
Risk management framework 
Internal controls
IT controls, including cyber security
LCM
Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud
Other
Updates on accounting and corporate  
governance developments
T erms of Reference 
Reports on major long term  
development programmes
Meetings with senior finance management  
(e.g. Sectors)
 −
59
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued
Risk management and internal controls 
The Board has ultimate accountability for the execution of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems, including the Group’s Risk Appetite. 
The Risk Committee, part of the Group Executive during 2016, is responsible for 
overseeing the execution of risk management throughout the Group. The Board 
has delegated responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems to the Audit 
Committee, who provide reports to the Board. 
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control. Sector 
Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, including the 
maintenance of business unit and Sector risk registers, exist to identify and 
manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments. The Risk 
Committee undertakes a top level review of significant risks and the CEO  
reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation. 
The Committee has continued to monitor the Group’s governance, risk and 
assurance activities throughout 2016. It is intended that we will continue to 
support the programme through 2017 with enhancements being planned  
by new management as a part of their review of governance processes. In  
2016 progress on a number of planned improvements was deferred due  
to management engagement in other areas, such as the rights issue. 
Further information on the Group’s Principal Risks and the risk management 
process may be found on pages 34 to 39.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been 
developed over time to meet the needs of the business and the risks and 
opportunities to which it is exposed, recognising differences in the nature  
and operation of each of the Group’s operations.
This process includes:
 − The preparation and consideration of the longer term strategic plan. The 
Board did not consider this in 2016 due to pressing operational issues; 
 − A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved 
by the Board;
 − The regular review and revision of financial forecasts for the year;
 − The monitoring of financial performance; 
 − The monitoring of project and programme management, through LCM; and 
 − The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management. 
It is not always possible or appropriate for acquisitions to be fully integrated 
immediately. As a result legacy control systems still exist and other key control 
processes, including IT, are not fully standardised and implemented across the 
Group. The implementation and operation of certain key controls is decentralised 
in the business units. Sector, functional and central oversight activities and 
controls are in place to support this. 
Elements of risk management and control processes have not performed as 
intended during the year, as described within this Annual Report and Accounts. 
This resulted in the late identification of a number of charges for 2016. Instances 
where the processes have not operated as intended included a range of 
weaknesses in detailed financial controls, inaccurate forecasting, weakness  
in controls over working capital, and project and management controls, 
particularly around the assessment of future contract profitability in changing 
commercial circumstances. 
Delegated authorities and other controls are contained in the Corporate 
Framework and the Group Finance Manual. Specifically with regard to the 
financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group Financial 
Statements, the system includes a semi-annual representation letter from all 
business units. Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that 
financial reporting is based upon reliable data, that there is compliance with the 
Group’s Minimum Standards of Financial Control and that the results are properly 
stated in accordance with Group policies. The Letter of Representation process 
has not highlighted any material weaknesses although exceptions have been 
identified where control enhancements are required and these are consistent 
with the theme of improving financial and operational disciplines outlined in  
both the Chairman’s and CEO’s statements..
The Committee’s review covers all material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and is 
designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and internal 
control policies and procedures, which are embedded in the business, have 
operated effectively in the review period. The three principle lines of assurance 
are outlined on page 34. The Committee receives assurance from the Inside 
Directors on the CAES Board on matters relating to the Advanced Electronic 
Solutions Sector. It should be noted that due to the restrictions of the SSA our 
assessment of the control environment in CAES differs from that operated 
elsewhere in the Group. In order to meet the requirements of the SSA and US 
DSS requirements, oversight is indirect and flows primarily through the Inside 
Directors. For the majority of 2016 the level of restriction on information 
increased from that of previous years. Further details on how governance 
procedures are maintained in the SSA may be found on page 51. 
Despite extensive control mechanisms, there have been control weaknesses 
identified relating to 2016 from which lessons must be learned. Where 
weaknesses were identified, plans for remedying them were developed and 
progress against the plans monitored. The year-end closing balance sheet 
exercise and adjustments highlighted a range of other issues to be addressed. 
The adjustments identified generally reflected a change in circumstances in the 
second half of the year, or since the year end, combined with a more prudent 
assessment by management. Whilst the control environment identified these 
matters, in many cases these should have been picked up prior to the balance 
sheet review. Our focus will continue into 2017 in order to rectify the control 
weaknesses identified , to achieve the standards of control we expect across  
the Group. 
External audit
The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the external auditors 
PwC, including the approving of fees, and makes recommendations to the Board 
on their appointment and re-appointment. The total fees paid to PwC in the year 
ended 31 December 2016 equalled £3.3m, with non-audit fees of £0.8m, which 
included £0.3m of other assurance services, represented 24.2% of the total. An 
analysis of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit 
work during the year can be found in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements. 
Included in the non-audit fees were amounts related to the rights issue, where 
the Committee elected to proceed with PwC, given it was determined that they 
held a differentiated position in the provision of this work, the work was allowable 
under independence rules and it was considered that it would not impact PwC’s 
independence. It should be noted that these fees include those relating to 
services that have now transferred to other professional services firms. 
Total fees paid to the external auditors (2016) 
Audit fees £2.5m (75.8%) Non-audit fees £0.8m (24.2%)
Total fees paid to the external auditors (2015) 
Audit fees £2.2m (61.1%) Non-audit fees £1.4m (38.9%)
PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Group 
accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the course of their 
audit work. None were found or reported in 2016. The Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the members of the Company can be found on pages 82 and 132.
60
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com PwC’s presentation of their audit plan to the Committee, set out the scope  
and objectives of the audit, together with an overview of the planned approach, 
an assessment of the Group’s risks and controls, and proposed areas of audit 
focus. The Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of responsibility 
and scope of the December 2016 year-end audit and requested that an 
enhanced level of reporting of matters identified in the audit be brought to  
the Committee’s attention. 
The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and 
monitoring of the Group’s policies on services from external auditors, which  
are designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditors. These policies set out the approach to be taken when using the  
external auditors for non-audit work and regulate the appointment by the  
Group of former employees of PwC. In addition to an independence review 
conducted by management, PwC has provided specific assurance and the 
Committee has considered the arrangements and safeguards that PwC has  
in place to maintain its independence and objectivity, including the use of 
separate teams where the provision of non-audit services has been approved. 
The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain the objectivity 
of the audit process; these stipulate a five-year rotation policy in relation to the 
senior engagement auditor. Pauline Campbell was appointed lead audit partner  
in 2014. The Committee continues to be satisfied that PwC, the external auditors, 
remain independent and objective.
In December 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the revised policy on 
the provision of non-audit services for recommendation to the Board. The policy 
was amended in a number of areas, including to reflect the implementation of 
EU legislation. The policy states, as a default position, that the external auditors 
will not be engaged to provide any element of non-audit services. However, the 
Committee recognises that there may be some non-audit services for which 
the Group might wish to use the external auditors. In these circumstances, the 
deciding factor is that there is a clear differentiation for the work concerned, 
between the audit firm and other potential providers of the work. Furthermore, 
the work must be permitted under the relevant regulations and must not impinge 
on the independence of the audit firm. A decision to use the audit firm for  
non-audit work must also be approved in advance of the use of the services, 
by: the CFO for fees up to £10,000, with the Chair to be advised at the time 
of approval; the CFO in conjunction with the Chair of the Committee for fees 
between £10,000 and £100,000; and the Committee, as a whole, for fees over 
£100,000. From 2017 the Committee will receive a summary at each meeting 
of all approved non-audit work undertaken by the Group’s external auditors. As 
a result of the new policy and the outcome of the external audit tender held in 
2015, the provision of non-audit services has progressively transitioned away 
from the external auditors, PwC, during 2016. 
PwC were reappointed as the Group’s external auditors by shareholders, 
upon the recommendation of the Committee, at the 2016 AGM following a 
comprehensive external audit tender process, as detailed in the 2015 Annual 
Report and Accounts. While the regulations surrounding auditor rotation 
would allow PwC to remain in post until the conclusion of the 2020 audit, the 
Committee’s current intention is to re-tender in 2018, for the 2019 audit, to 
coincide with the next rotation of the PwC lead audit partner. The Committee  
will not be inviting PwC to tender in 2018.
The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the external 
auditors, including feedback from the finance teams at many of the operating 
companies. 
Internal Audit and Assurance
In December 2016, the Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness 
of the Group’s Internal Audit and Assurance function, taking into account the 
views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, 
proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The Group Head of IA&A attended every scheduled Audit Committee meeting 
throughout 2016 and in addition, had ongoing contact with Members of the 
Audit Committee throughout the year with and without management present. 
With effect from November 2015 the direct reporting line of the Group Head  
of IA&A became the Committee Chair. 
The findings of each Internal Audit review are summarised and the Committee 
focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans in 
place to address them. The Internal Audit reports are also made available, in full, 
to the Committee separately. Particular areas of focus during 2016 included the 
implementation of Internal Audit recommendations by the businesses and key 
matters from the Internal Audit reviews. The Committee also received regular 
updates against the 2016 Internal Audit Programme throughout the year.
The Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2016, including the 
proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources. The 2017 Plan 
was prepared considering a number of factors, including the Principal Risks of  
the Group. The key points of focus in the 2017 Plan include: 
 − A continued focus on Internal Financial Controls Assurance; 
 − Lessons learned from 2016 balance sheet review;
 − Increased monitoring of controls and actions; 
 − Stronger alignment with the Group’s risks;
 − Continued improvement in the Group’s assurance mapping process across 
the three lines of assurance;
 − Increasing focus on working capital management, in particular inventory 
management; 
 − The development and implementation of an IT Assurance programme; and 
 − The continued implementation of a revised audit approach on Programmes 
and Projects, including LCM.
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, in the 
Committee’s opinion, the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced 
and understandable, to enable shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy. To assist this assessment, the Committee, 
supported by management, has adopted a process for the preparation and 
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
In reporting on Alternative Performance Measures, the Group followed the 
FRC recommendation to consider the Guidelines on Alternative Performance 
Measures, as published by the European Securities and Markets Authority. 
Account has also been taken of the disclosures of our peers, and current  
best practice. 
Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2016  
Annual Report and Accounts was representative of the year and presents 
a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business  
model and strategy. 
Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud
The Cobham Code of Business Conduct, which incorporates the Group’s 
whistleblowing policy, contains arrangements for an independent external  
service provider to receive, in confidence, complaints on suspected violations  
of the Code for reporting to the Committee as appropriate. Details of the  
Code, are provided in the CR&S section of this report, on page 40. The 
Committee regularly received reports providing details of these cases,  
their outcome, and the corrective actions taken. 
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee
An external review of the Committee was performed in 2015 in line with the 
external review of the Board. The Committee Chair initiated an internal review  
of the effectiveness of the Committee towards the end of 2016, the results  
of which will be addressed in early 2017. 
61
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors’ Remuneration Report
Remuneration decisions  
reflect unsatisfactory 
performance
Dear Shareholder
2016 has been a very disappointing and challenging year. This letter and the 
Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the Remuneration Committee has 
determined the outcome of remuneration decisions for the outgoing Executive 
Directors in addition to establishing appropriate competitive remuneration 
packages for the incoming CEO and CFO. 
The Committee has, throughout 2016, been very focused on the key issue of 
pay for performance and has applied this discipline by awarding no incentive 
payments to the outgoing Executive Directors, Bob Murphy and Simon Nicholls.  
In addition, any of their outstanding long term incentive awards (including 
deferred shares) have lapsed. 
Remuneration Policy review
Shareholders are being asked to approve a new Remuneration Policy at our AGM 
in April 2017 in accordance with the legislation as it has been three years since 
our current Remuneration Policy was approved.
However, due to the timing of the announced changes to the senior members  
of our executive team, the Committee is not proposing a significant overhaul 
of our Remuneration Policy. The small number of changes proposed, details of 
which are provided on page 65 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, are largely  
in adherence to best practice and to reflect the terms agreed for the new 
Executive Directors.
A more fundamental review of the Remuneration Policy will then be carried 
out during 2017 to ensure that the forward looking Remuneration Policy of the 
business is aligned to the priorities and targets agreed with the new executive 
team. It is the current intention that shareholders will be asked to approve  
a further revised Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM.
The key challenges and issues that the Committee addressed  
during the year
 − Exiting the existing Executive Directors with due consideration for ‘pay  
for performance’;
 − Establishing appropriate packages within our current Remuneration Policy 
to recognise the experience and calibre of the two new Executive Directors, 
balanced with shareholder expectations;
 − Review of the approach to the 2016 Annual Incentive Plan, recognising the 
current challenges facing the business; 
 − The introduction of a Medium T erm Incentive Plan, MTIP, for individuals 
below the Board which was designed to address the challenges of setting 
long term financial performance targets at present and focus individuals  
on reducing the net debt to EBITDA ratio over the medium term; and 
 − As far as possible, ensuring remuneration arrangements remain simple  
and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
How company performance during the year is reflected in the 
remuneration outcome
Overall trading in the year has been challenging and significantly below 
management’s and the Board’s expectations. This has been impacted by 
significant management, operational, execution and market issues. The impact 
on earnings and cash flow generation for operations from this, together with 
the ongoing investment requirement in long term development programmes 
principally related to next generation aerial refuelling, led to the Group carrying 
out a rights issue, during 2016, to reduce its indebtedness. However, even with 
the proceeds of the rights issue being used to pay down some debt, the balance 
sheet is not strong enough to properly support the Group’s operations.
No incentive awards  
have been made  
to the outgoing  
Executive Directors 
62
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com As a result, the financial targets were not met in respect of the 2016 AIP and 
the out-going CEO and CFO received zero pay-out. In addition, performance 
conditions in respect of the PSP awards made in 2014 with a performance  
period ending on 31 December 2016 were not met and awards lapsed in full.
Leaving arrangements for the departing CEO and CFO
Bob Murphy stepped down as CEO and ceased to be an Executive Director with 
effect from 14 December 2016. He ceased employment with the Company on 
31 January 2017.
Simon Nicholls stepped down as CFO and ceased to be an Executive Director on 
31 December 2016 and remained in the Company’s employment until the end  
of his notice period on 17 January 2017, in order to facilitate an orderly handover 
to his successor. 
As outlined above, recognising that recent performance has been at 
unacceptable levels, the Remuneration Committee determined that no AIP 
payments would be made to the Executive Directors in respect of 2016. In 
addition, no discretion has been exercised under the terms of the long term 
incentive arrangements and all outstanding deferred shares from BCP and PSP 
awards lapsed upon cessation of employment. Furthermore, the departure  
terms were aligned with the minimum provided for under the CEO’s contract. 
Full details of the departure terms are set out on page 76 of the Annual Report  
on Remuneration.
The intended remuneration arrangements for the current year
The remuneration packages for both the CEO and CFO are in accordance  
with the current Remuneration Policy. They consist of fixed pay (base salary, 
benefits and pension) an annual bonus of 150% at the same level of the  
previous Executive Directors and LTIP awards of 200% of salary for the CEO  
and 150% of salary for the CFO.
The remuneration packages for the incoming Executive Directors were subject  
to extensive discussion and review by the Remuneration Committee. Whilst 
cognisant of external benchmarks, the level of both packages was determined  
by the Board wishing to recruit the best people for the job given the operational 
challenges and restructuring required to restore the financial performance of the 
Group to acceptable levels for shareholders. 
The LTIP award to the CEO is higher than the awards to the previous CEO  
(150% of salary) which takes into account the overall market competitiveness  
of the total package as well as the introduction of an additional two year  
holding period and is provided for upon recruitment under the current 
Remuneration Policy. Shareholders are being asked to approve an increase  
to the normal maximum PSP award as part of the revised Remuneration  
Policy at the 2017 AGM. 
 
Further details of the on-going remuneration packages for the two Executive 
Directors are provided on pages 76 and 77 of the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. We have also agreed to a relocation payment to allow David 
Lockwood to relocate to Wimborne which the Board felt was an important 
change to have the CEO located at the heart of the business operations. We  
will be providing further disclosure when costs of the relocation are known. 
Both Executive Directors forfeited awards at their previous employer as a result of 
joining Cobham. The Remuneration Committee’s approach to assessing the value 
of any awards forfeited by them was to make sure that these are replaced with 
awards on a comparable basis to those of the forfeit arrangements and that the 
value awarded by Cobham does not exceed those of the forfeit arrangements, 
taking into account any performance conditions. The Company’s standard 
malus and clawback provisions will apply to all buy-out awards. In addition, the 
Committee may recover up to 100% of the buyout awards in the event the 
candidate gives notice within 24 months of joining.
It should be noted that David Lockwood, in light of recent developments at 
Laird plc, and in demonstration of his commitment to his new role as CEO of 
Cobham, has agreed that there will be no compensation for the buyout of his 
Laird 2014/15 long term incentive awards that he will forfeit as a consequence 
of joining Cobham. In addition, he will also receive no payment for his forfeited 
Laird 2016 annual bonus. The Remuneration Committee believes that this is fair 
and appropriate in line with pay for performance guidelines. 
Further detail on the buy-out of forfeited awards for the incoming CEO & CFO  
are on page 77. 
Fee levels for the new Chairman
As previously announced, John Devaney stepped down as the Company’s 
Chairman on 31 December 2016 and Michael Wareing the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director at that point became Chairman. Michael will receive  
a fee of £270,000 per annum, which is slightly below the fee level of £280,000 
paid to the outgoing Chairman.
Key future issues to be addressed by the Committee
Further review of the Remuneration Policy to ensure it provides a remuneration 
framework that supports the business going forwards as performance starts to 
turn around and is aligned to the medium to long term strategy of the Company.
With his appointment as Chairman, Michael Wareing has ceased to be a member 
of the Remuneration Committee and the composition of the Committee going 
forward will be addressed as part of the Board refresh. 
Comment on stakeholder engagement conducted
We have taken into account feedback from shareholders received in recent 
consultation and as a result have increased the disclosure and explanation 
of remuneration decisions taken in 2016. The Remuneration Committee will 
continue to seek feedback from shareholders, during the course of 2017, 
particularly as we continue to review the Remuneration Policy.
Conclusion
Throughout 2016, as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I have endeavoured 
to ensure that we exercise rigour and discipline in all remuneration decisions, 
recognising that the established incentive schemes have clearly failed to provide 
a framework for delivering a satisfactory outcome for both shareholders and the 
business. The priority for 2017 will be to establish a revised Remuneration Policy 
for the Executive Directors that supports the restructuring required and aligns 
with shareholder expectations.
Alison Wood 
Remuneration Committee Chair
2 March 2017
63
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Role and focus
The Remuneration Committee’s main duties are to: 
 − Make recommendations to the Board on the Group’s policies on Executive 
Directors’ remuneration and ensure alignment to the Group’s strategic plan; and
 − Determine, on the Board’s behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the 
Chairman, Executive Directors, Group Executive and Company Secretary.
Membership and attendance
Seven Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year, attended 
as follows:
Alison Wood (Chair)
Birgit Nørgaard
Mark Ronald
1
Michael Wareing
2 
Attended Unable to attend
1 
Mark Ronald left the Committee on 28 April 2016. 
2  
Michael Wareing joined the Committee on 28 April 2016, having attended the three previous 
meetings as an observer. 
With the appointment of Michael Wareing as Chairman he ceased to be a member 
of the Remuneration Committee, which remains quorate with two members and, 
in the interim until new NEDs are recruited, I will also consult with the SID and 
other Board members on key remuneration decisions.
Other attendees
Executive Vice President HR, Senior Vice President Compensation and Benefits, 
Deloitte LLP, and the Company Secretary. The CEO and the Chairman of the 
Board attend by invitation.
No individual is present in meetings relating to decisions around their own 
remuneration. The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website or on application to the Company Secretary.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Key issues and activities
Matters considered by the Committee during 2016 were:
Feb
Apr 
14
Apr 
28
Jun Jul Sep Dec
Compensation awards –  
previous year
Outgoing CFO remuneration
Incoming CFO remuneration
Outgoing CEO remuneration
Incoming CEO remuneration
Chairman remuneration review
Compensation awards –  
current year
LTI performance dashboards
AIP results
Chairman remuneration
Group Executive objectives
Remuneration strategy
AIP review/targets
LTI/Medium T erm Incentive review
Remuneration Policy
Other
Updates on corporate  
governance developments
T erms of reference 
Adviser T ender
Remuneration Report review
Approval of US Sharesave – new rules
Committee work planning/evaluation
During the year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive tender process 
for the provision of advice and support to them. For full details, please refer  
to page 76. 
64
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors, 
which Shareholders will be asked to approve at the AGM on 27 April 2017 and 
which will apply to payments made from this date is set out below. Until this time 
the Policy approved by Shareholders on 24 April 2014 will continue to apply. 
As set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s letter starting on  
page 62, we are not proposing a radical overhaul of the current Remuneration 
Policy which was approved by 98% of our shareholders in April 2014.  
Remuneration and policy (the policy table)
Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation
Maximum
potential value
Current performance 
measures
Base pay To provide fixed 
remuneration which  
is market competitive  
to attract and retain 
executives of the quality 
required to deliver the 
Group’s strategy, whilst 
taking into account an 
individual’s experience 
and personal contribution 
to the Group’s strategic 
plan.
Typically reviewed annually with changes effective  
from 1 March and paid monthly.
Consideration is given to a wide range of factors, 
including:
 − Individual and company performance;
 − General pay increases across the wider workforce;
 − The size and scope of the role; and
 − Pay levels of comparable roles in companies of  
a similar size and complexity to the Company.
To avoid setting the expectations  
of Executive Directors and other 
employees, no maximum salary is 
set under the Remuneration Policy.
However, base salary increases for 
the Executive Directors are applied 
in line with the outcome of the 
annual review and will typically be 
in line with the average increase  
(in percentage terms) for the  
wider workforce.
Increases may be made either 
above or below that received  
by the wider workforce to  
take account of individual 
circumstances, which may  
include but are not limited to:
 − A change in the scope  
of the role or increase 
in responsibility;
 − A significant change in the  
size and complexity of the 
Group; and
 − An individual’s development 
or performance in role (e.g. 
a newly appointed Executive 
Director being moved to be 
aligned with the market  
over time).
Not applicable
The changes proposed are largely in adherence to best practice and to reflect the 
terms agreed for the new Executive Directors. 
The table below provides a summary of the main changes that have been made 
to the Remuneration Policy:
Proposed change Rationale
 − Removal of Bonus Co-Investment Plan (BCP). − Awards under the BCP have not been made since 2014. 
 − It is recognised that matching plans are no longer considered best practice and its  
removal from the Remuneration Policy will simplify the overall remuneration framework.
 − Introduction of a two year holding period post  
the end of the three year performance period for  
LTI awards. 
 − To further align the long term interests of executives with shareholders.
 − Formal inclusion of the shareholding guidelines in the 
Remuneration Policy.
 − No change to the actual guidelines which will remain at 200% of salary for the CEO and 100%  
of salary for the CFO. However, will now be included in the Remuneration Policy as opposed  
to the Annual Remuneration Report to be aligned with best practice.
 − Increase in normal maximum award under the LTIP 
from 150% of salary to 200% of salary.
 − The normal maximum LTIP opportunity has been increased as part of providing an overall 
market competitive remuneration package for the new CEO. It is proposed the CEO will receive 
an annual LTIP award of 200% of salary and awards to the CFO will remain at 150% of salary.
 − Remove flexibility to offer a notice period in excess of 
12 months (which would subsequently reduce to one 
year) in the case of new appointments.
 − In line with market practice, Executive Directors’ service contracts are terminable on  
12 months’ notice by either party. 
 − Reflection of the new LTIP and other minor 
amendments.
 − The policy has been amended to reflect the new LTIP for which shareholder approval will  
be sought at the 2017 AGM. Other minor amendments have been made to aid administration  
of the policy. 
65
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation
Maximum
potential value
Current performance 
measures
Other
benefits
To provide fixed 
remuneration which  
is market competitive  
to attract and retain 
executives of the  
quality required to  
deliver the Group’s 
strategy, whilst  
taking into account  
an individual’s  
experience and personal 
contribution to the 
Group’s strategic plan.
The Company provides various market competitive 
benefits to Executive Directors, which may include:  
a company car (or cash equivalent), travel allowance, 
private medical and dental insurance, travel accident 
policy, life assurance and long term disability benefit.
Where appropriate, other benefits may be provided  
to take account of individual circumstances, such as  
but not limited to: expatriate allowances, relocation 
housing allowance and education support.
No maximum level of benefit  
is set under the Remuneration 
Policy and the Remuneration 
Committee sets the level it 
considers appropriate taking  
into account relevant market  
levels based on the nature and 
location of the role.
Level of benefits set are in line  
with those paid to other senior 
executives and with regard  
to the market and individual 
circumstances. 
None
Retirement 
benefits 
To provide fixed 
remuneration which  
is market competitive  
to attract and retain 
executives of the quality 
required to deliver the 
Group’s strategy, whilst 
taking into account an 
individual’s experience 
and personal contribution 
to the Group’s  
strategic plan.
The Company may make a payment into a pension 
scheme (e.g. a defined contribution plan) and/or  
make a cash allowance payment set as a percentage  
of salary.
Set at a level which the 
Remuneration Committee 
considers appropriate taking  
into account relevant market  
levels based on the nature  
and location of the role.
Contributions of up to 30%  
of base salary may be made. 
Annual
Incentive
Plan (AIP)
Drives and rewards annual 
performance against 
selected, financial and 
operational KPIs and 
individual objectives 
which are directly  
linked to the Group’s 
strategic plan.
Measured over a one year performance period with  
pay out levels determined by the Committee following 
the year end.
The Committee may adjust the bonus pay out, either up 
or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered 
not to reflect underlying business performance.
Up to 75% of any bonus is paid in cash and the balance is 
mandatorily deferred into Company shares for a period  
of three years.
The Committee may decide to pay the whole of the 
bonus earned in cash where the amount to be deferred  
is less than £10,000.
Malus and Clawback provisions are in place which give  
the Committee discretion to reduce awards or require 
repayment of cash paid to a participant in relation to 
annual incentives within the preceding 12 months for 
material misstatement of financial results, reputational 
damage to the Group, contravention of internal ethics 
standards or gross misconduct of the individual.
Deferred share awards may be released early on a change 
of control in line with the plan rules.
The Committee may make a dividend equivalent 
payment to reflect dividends that would have been paid 
over the deferral period on shares that vest. This payment 
may be in the form of additional shares or a cash 
payment equal to the value of those additional shares 
and may assume the reinvestment of dividends into 
shares on such basis as the Committee determines.
The maximum bonus opportunity 
for any Executive Director will not 
exceed 150% of salary. 
Performance  
is assessed  
over a financial  
year based on  
a combination  
of financial and 
individual metrics 
which are aligned  
to the strategic 
objectives of  
the Company.
The majority of the 
bonus is assessed 
against key financial 
performance metrics 
of the business and 
the balance based  
on individual 
performance.
 
For target 
performance,  
up to 50% of the 
maximum bonus 
opportunity will  
be received.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
66
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation
Maximum
potential value
Current performance 
measures
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
Incentivise sustainable 
profitable growth and 
sector out performance 
aligned with the Group’s 
strategic plan.
Reward share price  
and dividend growth, 
providing alignment with 
shareholders’ interests 
over the longer term.
Supports retention  
and promotes share 
ownership.
Awards are to be made under the rules of the LTIP which 
shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2017 AGM.
Awards will be made on an annual basis and will vest, 
subject to performance, after a period of at least three 
years. Following vesting, shares will be subject to a holding 
period of up to two years (although the Committee may 
permit the sale of shares to fund the payment of tax 
liabilities due on the vesting or exercise of the award).
The Committee may adjust the level of vesting, either up 
or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered 
not to reflect underlying business performance.
The Committee may make a dividend equivalent 
payment to reflect dividends that would have been paid 
over the vesting period and holding period on shares  
that vest. This payment may be in the form of additional 
shares or a cash payment equal to the value of those 
additional shares and may assume the reinvestment  
of dividends into shares on such basis as the  
Committee determines.
The Committee has the discretion to structure awards as 
“Qualifying LTIP Awards” comprising both an HMRC tax 
qualifying option and an ordinary LTIP award, with the 
vesting of the ordinary LTIP award scaled back to take 
account of any gain made on the exercise of the tax 
qualifying option.
Upon a change of control or other relevant event  
awards will vest to the extent determined in accordance 
with the rules of the LTIP, which take into account 
performance over the period to early vesting and other 
factors which the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, 
considers relevant and, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise, the proportion of the vesting period that has 
elapsed at the date of the relevant event.
Malus and Clawback provisions are in place which enable 
the Committee to reduce awards or require repayment  
of them for up to two years after vesting in appropriate 
circumstances which include (but are not limited to): 
 − a material misstatement of the Company’s financial 
results which results in the award being granted or 
vesting to a greater extent than would otherwise have 
been the case; 
 − the assessment of the performance condition being 
based on an error or on inaccurate or misleading 
information or assumptions which result in the award 
being granted or vesting to a greater extent than 
would otherwise have been the case; and 
 − gross misconduct on the part of the Executive 
Director. 
Conditional share awards or 
nil-cost options over shares with  
a value of up to 200% of base 
salary may be granted in respect  
of any financial year. 
Where an award is structured as  
a Qualifying LTIP award, the shares 
subject to the HMRC tax qualifying 
option are not taken into account 
for the purposes of these limits, 
reflecting the “scale back” referred 
to in the “Operation” column.
Performance is 
assessed over more 
than one financial 
year, usually at least 
three years against 
key financial  
and/or strategic 
metrics aligned  
to the Group’s 
strategic plan. 
The threshold level  
of vesting may be  
up to 16.7% of the 
maximum award. 
Executive 
Share Option 
Scheme 
(ESOS)
Incentivise sustainable 
profitable growth and 
sector out-performance 
aligned with the Group’s 
strategic plan.
Reward share price  
and dividend growth, 
providing alignment with 
shareholders’ interests.
Supports retention  
and promotes share 
ownership.
Awards are made under the rules of the ESOS, which  
were approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Awards under the ESOS are not currently made to 
Executive Directors. No awards will be made in any year  
in which an Executive Director receives an award under 
the LTIP.
The Committee may adjust the level of vesting, either up 
or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered 
not to reflect underlying business performance.
Options can become exercisable on a change of control 
of the Company, or with the consent of the acquiring 
company, a grant of equivalent rights may be made.
Annual awards may be made  
with an aggregate market value  
of 200% of salary.
Performance would 
be assessed over 
more than one 
financial year, usually 
at least three years 
against key financial 
metrics aligned  
to the Group’s 
strategic plan.
All employee 
share 
schemes
Provides all employees, 
including Executive 
Directors, the opportunity 
to voluntarily invest in 
Company shares.
The Company operates a SAYE scheme and a SIP scheme 
which are both HMRC qualifying arrangements.
Maximum limits are set in line  
with the limits in the applicable  
tax legislation.
None
67
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Notes to the Policy Table 
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally
The Company values its wider workforce and aims to provide a remuneration 
package that is based on a mixture of Group and personal performance. As 
the Group is worldwide and operates in different countries, employees are 
appropriately remunerated taking account of the market in the employees’ 
jurisdiction of employment. The following key principles of the Remuneration 
Policy outlined above are applied consistently across the employee population:
 − To offer a level of remuneration that is appropriate to attract, retain, motivate 
and reward employees to deliver the Group’s strategic plan without paying 
more than is necessary; and 
 − To seek to remunerate fairly, competitively and consistently for each role  
with due regards to the market place, internal consistency and the Group’s 
ability to pay.
When determining remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, 
the Committee takes into consideration, as a matter of course, the pay and 
conditions of employees throughout the Group. In particular, the Committee 
paid specific attention to the level of salary increases and the size of the annual 
bonus pool in the wider population, with particular reference to the year on  
year change to these figures. No consultation with employees takes place in 
relation to determining the Directors’ Remuneration Policy but employees’  
views are fed back through the Executive Vice President HR who attends the 
Remuneration Committee meetings.
Performance measures and targets setting
The annual bonus is assessed against both financial and individual targets 
determined by the Committee. This incentivises executives to focus on delivering 
the key financial goals of the Company as well as specific strategic objectives 
for each Director which are aligned to delivering the Group’s strategic plan and 
ensuring executives exhibit the right behaviours. Targets are set on an annual 
basis taking into account the budget forecast, external consensus and at a level 
which the Committee considers to be stretching.
Long term performance measures under the LTIP are chosen by the Committee 
to be aligned with the long term strategy of the business. They are selected  
to be aligned with the interests of shareholders and incentivise the delivery of 
strong, sustainable, financial performance. Targets are set at the time of grant 
taking into account internal and external forecasts and the market environment. 
Where TSR is selected as a performance measure, no awards will vest for below 
median performance.
Performance conditions may be amended or substituted by the Committee 
if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended 
or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not 
materially less difficult to satisfy.
Shareholding guidelines
Ownership guidelines require the CEO to acquire and retain ordinary shares  
with a value of two times salary and the CFO to acquire and retain ordinary  
shares with a value of one times salary. Shares subject to vested LTIP awards 
which have satisfied the performance condition and are subject to a holding 
period count towards this limit (on a net of assumed tax basis). 
Operation of share plans
The Committee retains discretion to operate the Company’s share plans  
in accordance with their rules, including the ability to adjust awards in the  
event of variations of capital (or other relevant event), to settle share  
awards in cash and to vest awards under the LTIP early in the event of an 
overseas transfer of the Executive Director as a result of which the Director  
will either become subject to tax in the country to which he or she is transferred 
and suffer a tax disadvantage on vesting or exercise following transfer, or will 
become subject to restrictions on acquiring shares on vesting or exercise or 
dealing with any such shares as a result of local laws.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Application of remuneration policy
The best way to demonstrate how our policy works is to provide examples 
of pay-outs under different scenarios. 
The charts below illustrate the application of the remuneration policy set out in 
the policy table for each Executive Director for 2017 under different scenarios:
CEO – David Lockwood
Maximum On-target Minimum
£3.32m
£1.65m
£0.9m
27%
31%
42%
55%
31%
14%
100%
Salary, pension and benefits
Annual bonus
Long-term incentives 
(Share options and 
performance shares)
CFO – David Mellors
Maximum On-target Minimum
£2.21m
£1.17m
£0.65m
28%
36%
36%
56%
33%
11%
100%
Salary, pension and benefits
Annual bonus
Long-term incentives 
(Share options and 
performance shares)
Assumptions
Maximum 
performance 
(Maximum)
Total fixed pay as minimum below, plus:
Assumes 100% pay out under the AIP (150% of base 
salary Assumes 100% pay out under the LTIP (200% 
of salary for David Lockwood and 150% of base 
salary for David Mellors).
On-target 
performance 
(Target)
Total fixed pay as minimum below, plus:
Assumes 50% of maximum pay out under the  
AIP Assumes 16.7% pay out under the LTIP  
(aligned with threshold performance).
Below threshold 
performance 
(Minimum)
Fixed elements of remuneration only – base salary, 
benefits and pension only (base salaries for the 
Executive Directors are salaries upon appointment. 
Pension allowances are 25% of salary for the David 
Lockwood and 20% of salary for David Mellors. 
Benefits have been based on assumed expenses  
of £40k for the CEO and £25k for the CFO.
Note:
As required by the regulations, the scenarios do not include any share price growth 
assumptions or take into account any dividends that may be paid.
68
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Policy table for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Component Approach of the Company
Chairman fees The Remuneration Committee and the Senior 
Independent Director determine the fee of the 
Chairman and set the fee at a level which reflect the 
skills, knowledge and experience of the individual, 
whilst taking into account appropriate market data.
The fee is set as a fixed annual fee and may be paid 
wholly or partly in cash or Company shares.
Non-executive 
Director fees
The Executive Directors Committee determines the 
fees of the Non-executives. Fees are set taking into 
account the size and complexity of the business and 
the expected time commitment and contribution 
for the role.
Fees are structured as a basic fee with additional  
fees payable for membership and/or chairmanship  
of a committee or other additional responsibilities.
The fees are set as a fixed annual fee and may be 
paid wholly or partly in cash or Company shares.
Benefits An additional allowance may be provided in respect 
of additional travelling time required to attend  
Board meetings for those Directors who are based 
outside of the UK. In appropriate circumstances,  
the Chairman and Non-executive Directors may  
also be eligible to receive further benefits such 
as travel costs which may include any tax liability 
associated with any such benefit. 
Approach to remuneration on recruitment 
When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director,  
the Committee will apply the following principles:
 − The package will be market competitive to attract and retain individuals  
of the calibre required to lead the business and deliver strategic goals.
 − Typically, the remuneration package will be aligned with the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy set out above. The Remuneration Committee has 
the discretion to include other elements which are not included in the 
Remuneration Policy should business needs require. However, this discretion  
is subject to the following principles and limitations: 
 − Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience 
of the Executive Director being appointed. This may include agreement 
on future increases up to a market competitive rate, in line with increased 
responsibilities and experience and subject to good performance, where 
it is considered appropriate;
 − Retirement benefits will be provided in line with the policy set out above. 
 − The variable remuneration that may be awarded will be subject to the 
limit set out below;
 − The discretion will not be used to make non-performance related 
incentive payments (for example, a golden hello); and 
 − Any movement from the policy outlined in the table above would  
only be considered where there is a commercial rationale for doing so, 
which will be disclosed in the following annual remuneration report.
 − To secure an appointment the Remuneration Committee may need to make 
awards to buy out an external candidate’s remuneration arrangements which 
are forfeited as a result of leaving their previous employer. In doing so, the 
Committee will take into account all relevant factors which may include the 
form and time horizon of awards, any performance conditions attaching to 
the awards and the likelihood of awards vesting. The Committee will typically 
seek to buy-out awards on a comparable basis to those which have been 
forfeited with the intention that the value awarded would be no higher than 
the expected value of the forfeited arrangements;
 − The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to  
a new Executive Director on appointment (excluding any buy out of  
forfeited awards discussed above) will be 350% of salary; and
 − For any internal candidates, remuneration commitments made prior to the 
appointment as Director may continue to be honoured, notwithstanding 
compliance with the Remuneration Policy set out above.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible 
under the Company’s existing share plans, if necessary, and subject to the limits 
referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside these plans as 
currently permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards  
to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-executive Director would 
be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-executive Directors.
Service contracts and payment for loss of office 
The Board’s policy for current and new Executive Directors is that service 
contracts have a notice period that should not exceed one year. 
Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment for the Company  
whereby their appointment may be terminated by a maximum of one  
month’s written notice.
The current Executive Directors’ service contracts are terminable on 12 months’ 
notice by either party and can be terminated for cause which is defined in  
the contract. The Company may elect to terminate Executive Directors’  
service contracts by making payments in lieu of notice which will not exceed  
12 months’ salary and benefits which can also include, but not limited  
to pension, outplacement and legal fees. The Company recognises and  
endorses the obligation of departing Directors to mitigate their own losses.
Any payment in respect of the AIP for the year of termination will be at the 
discretion of the Committee, taking into account the circumstances of the 
termination. Any payment will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the 
financial year worked and subject to performance achieved. Payments will 
ordinarily be made at the usual time (although the Committee retains discretion 
to make payments early in appropriate circumstances). The Committee retains 
discretion to pay the whole of any AIP award for the year of departure and/or  
the previous year in cash.
The treatment of unvested shares under the PSP and ESOS and of AIP awards 
deferred into shares will be as set out in the relevant plan rules. The table 
below provides details of the treatment that would apply under the plan rules 
depending on the reason for cessation of employment. To the extent that  
an award does not vest in accordance with these terms the award will lapse.
69
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Plan Reasons for leaving Treatment
LTIP Good Leaver provisions 
– death, ill health,  
injury or disability  
or redundancy.
Awards will usually vest at the 
ordinary time, although the 
Committee retains discretion 
to vest awards at the date 
of cessation in appropriate 
circumstances. In any case, the 
extent to which the award is 
vested will be determined by 
reference to the extent to which 
the performance conditions 
have been satisfied (as assessed 
by the Committee in the case 
of vesting before the end of the 
performance period) and, unless 
the Committee determines 
otherwise, the proportion of  
the vesting period that has 
elapsed at the date of cessation  
of employment.
Voluntary resignation/
any other reason.
Award will lapse unless the 
Committee determines to treat 
the participant as a good leaver  
as referred to above.
ESOS Good Leaver provisions 
– death, ill health, injury 
or disability, redundancy 
or retirement.
Award will become exercisable 
at the time and to the extent 
determined by the Committee 
after taking into account the 
extent to which the performance 
target to which it is subject has 
been met and the extent that the 
relevant period has elapsed at the 
date of cessation of employment. 
Awards are exercisable within six 
months of date of cessation of 
employment, with the exception 
of death where this period is  
12 months.
Voluntary resignation/
any other reason.
Award will lapse unless the 
Committee determines to 
preserve and vest all or part of the 
award on any terms it thinks fit.
AIP 
deferred 
share 
awards
Good Leaver provisions 
– death, ill health, injury 
or disability, redundancy 
or retirement.
Awards will usually vest at the 
ordinary time, although the 
Committee retains discretion 
to vest awards at the date 
of cessation in appropriate 
circumstances. Unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, 
the extent to which the award 
vests will be determined taking 
into account proportion of  
the deferral period that has 
elapsed at the date of cessation  
of employment.
Voluntary resignation/
any other reason.
Award will lapse unless the 
Committee determines to treat 
the participant as a good leaver  
as referred to above.
On cessation of employment for any reason during the holding period applying 
to shares acquired under the LTIP, the originally stipulated holding period will 
apply unless the Committee decides to end the holding period early.
Where a buy out award is made under the Listing Rules then the leaver provisions 
would be determined at the time of the award.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection 
with a Director’s cessation of office or employment where such payments are 
made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of 
damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement of any claim 
arising in connection with the cessation of a Director’s office or employment. 
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for 
outplacement assistance and/or the Director’s legal and/or professional advice 
fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
In doing so, the Committee will recognise and balance the interests of 
shareholders and the departing Executive Director, as well as the interests of  
the remaining Directors. Where awards which are permitted to vest are subject  
to performance conditions, these would only be assessed at the end of the 
relevant period(s).
For Non-executive Directors, discretion is retained to terminate with, or  
without, due notice or paying any payment in lieu of notice dependent  
on what is considered to be in the best interests of the Company in the 
particular circumstances. 
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is committed to regular and transparent communication with 
shareholders. We believe this ensures we understand shareholders views on our 
arrangements and are able to take their comments into consideration when 
reviewing our Remuneration Policy.
Major shareholders and representative bodies were consulted in respect of our 
proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy that shareholders are being asked 
to approve at the AGM in April 2017 and provided positive feedback on the 
proposed changes, we have added to our intended disclosures to take account 
of this feedback. 
Payments in relation to existing remuneration arrangements
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and/or 
payments for loss of office (including exercising any discretions available to it  
in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line  
with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: 
 − before the AGM held on 24th April 2014 (the date the Company’s first 
shareholder-approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy came into effect);
 − after the AGM held on 24th April 2014 and before the policy set out above 
came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent 
with the shareholder-approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy in force at  
the time they were agreed; or
 − at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company 
and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration 
for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. 
For these purposes “payments” includes the Committee satisfying awards  
of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms  
of the payment are “agreed” no later than at the time the award is granted.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
70
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com The annual report on remuneration 
Bob Murphy stepped down as CEO and ceased to be an Executive Director with 
effect from 14 December 2016. He ceased employment with the Company on 
31 January 2017. His successor, David Lockwood, joined on 12 December 2016, 
taking up the role of CEO as Bob stepped down. 
Simon Nicholls stepped down as CFO and ceased to be an Executive Director  
on 31 December 2016 and remained in the Company’s employment until the 
end of his notice period on 17 January 2017, in order to facilitate an orderly 
handover to his successor, David Mellors, who joined on 1 January 2017. 
Single total figure table 
£k
 Salary  
and fees
 Taxable  
benefits AIP LTI Pensions Total
Bob Murphy
2016 871 404 – – 243 1,518
2015 756 210 209 – 189 1,364
Simon Nicholls
2016 440 89 – 57 88 674
2015 435 21 58
1
73 87 674
David Lockwood
2016 40 10 – – 10 60
1
 Account taken for the deferred portion not paid.
Single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director  
(audited information)
2016 2016 2015 2015
Bob Murphy Simon Nicholls
2000
1500
1000
500
0 
£1,518
 
  
 
  
  
 Salary and fees
Taxable benefits
 AIP
LTI
Pensions
£k
£1,364
£674 £674
2016 2015
David Lockwood
£60
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of 
remuneration (audited information)
The Company has obtained written confirmation from each Director that they 
have disclosed all other items in the nature of remuneration. 
 Salary and fees
2014 Approved Policy: Reviewed annually with changes typically effective 
from 1 March. Maximum salary increases typically in line with the outcomes 
of the annual review and typically in line with the average increase for the 
wider workforce.
Bob Murphy’s employment terms and conditions were based on US law and his 
salary payments were made in US dollars and have been converted to sterling 
for tax purposes. These are the figures used in the above table. Bob’s 2016 salary, 
effective from 1 March 2016, was increased by 2.5% to US$1,187,534. The salary 
increase awarded in 2016 was in line with the average increase provided to the 
wider workforce.
Simon Nicholls’ 2016 salary was £440,000 per annum. No increase to Simon’s 
salary was awarded during the year as he was under notice on the review date  
of 1 March 2016.
David Lockwood joined the Company on 12 December 2016 and joined the 
Board and took up the role of CEO on 14 December 2016. His base salary was  
set at £690,000 and this will not be increased at the 1 March 2017 pay review. 
 Taxable benefits
The taxable benefit figures are as follows:
Benefit
Bob  
Murphy  
£k
Simon 
Nicholls  
£k
David 
Lockwood  
£k
Car and private petrol allowance 19 17 1
Private medical insurance, disability cover 
and life insurance 16 2 –
Expatriation allowance  147
1
– –
Allowance to cover financial/tax advice – 1 –
Outplacement and legal fees – 69
2
–
Travel expenses 22 – 9
3
Relocation 200
1
– –
Total 404 20 10
Notes:
  1
  Bob Murphy’s employment terms and conditions allow for annual expatriation allowance and 
for the reasonable costs of repatriation of him and his family back to the US at the end of his 
employment with the Company. 
2
  Outplacement services and legal support in line with the terms of the Remuneration Policy. 
3
  Travel expenses paid for Mr Lockwood’s spouse accompanying him on a business trip as part 
of his induction prior to joining the Company. 
 Annual Incentive Plan
2014 Approved Policy:
Cash bonus Maximum opportunity under the Policy is 150% of salary. 
For target performance, 50% of maximum bonus 
opportunity will be received.
Measured over a one year performance period based  
on a combination of financial and individual metrics.
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
Deferred 
bonus
75% paid in cash and up to 25% mandatorily deferred into 
company shares for a period of three years. 
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
As profit and cash were considered to be the key financial metrics of the  
business for 2016, the AIP measures were based on Operating Profit and 
Operating Cash Flow (adjusted for business restructuring costs) with each 
measure equally weighted and representing 80% of the value that could be 
earned by participants in the Plan. The remaining 20% were tied to achieving 
personal strategic objectives aligned with relevant business imperatives.
Measure Definition
Group Underlying 
Operating Profit 
as adjusted 
for business 
restructuring costs
Underlying Operating Profit before interest  
& tax at the Group level, as adjusted by costs 
incurred in respect of business restructuring projects 
that are typically declared after operating profit  
for internal reporting purposes. Limits will be set  
in absolute terms.
Group Underlying 
Operating Cash 
Flow as adjusted 
for cash flows 
related to business 
restructuring 
projects
Cash generation from operations after operating 
cash movements in working capital and cash  
flows from the purchase/disposal of property, plant 
& equipment and intangible assets at the Group 
level as adjusted by cash flows related to business 
restructuring projects and IT security remediation 
that are typically declared after operating cash flow 
for internal reporting purposes. Limits will be set in 
absolute terms.
71
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
As outlined in the table below, the threshold financial targets were not met.  
The Committee also considered that it was not appropriate for any bonus to 
be paid in respect of the personal strategic objectives for the two out-going 
Executive Directors. As such, no bonus payments were made to the Executive 
Directors in respect of 2016. 
Details of the AIP measures, weightings and targets as well as performance 
against each of the targets is provided in the table below: 
Full Year Targets Actual Performance 
Measure Threshold Target Maximum
Pay-out  
(% Maximum)
25% 50% 100% Nil
Operating  
Profit (£m)
264.69 296.14 319.73 186.50
Operating  
Cash Flow (£m)
231.68 246.20 275.25 126.70
*  In order to further incentivise focus on performance during the first half of the year  
half-year targets were also set for which a proportion of the bonus could be earned  
subject to threshold performance being achieved at the full-year. However, these targets 
were also not met.
 Long term incentives
2014 Approved Policy: PSP allows for conditional share awards or nil-cost 
options up to 150% of base salary may be granted annually. 
Threshold level of vesting is 16.7% of maximum award. 
Performance assessed over more than one year, usually three years, against 
key financial metrics. 
Malus and clawback provisions are in place.
The PSP is designed to drive sustainable profitable growth in shareholder value 
and align Executive Directors with shareholders’ interests.
PSP awards vesting in 2016
The performance targets for the PSP awarded in 2014 are set out below:
Metric Weighting % Performance
Award vesting at 
that level % Result
TSR 33.3
Threshold 
(Index)
16.7 Performance 
targets for the 
TSR have not 
been met
Maximum 
(Index +10%)
100
EPS 33.3
Threshold (3% 
per annum)
16.7
Performance 
targets for the 
EPS have not 
been met 
Maximum (10% 
per annum)
100
Cash 
Conversion 33.3
Threshold (90% 
per annum)
16.7
Performance 
targets for cash 
conversion 
have not  
been met
Maximum (Over 
or above 100% 
per annum)
100
EPS and cash conversion are defined in the definitions on page 144.
The performance targets for the PSP were not met for the three performance 
years ended on 31 December 2016 therefore none of the awards made in 2014 
will result in any payout and will lapse. 
TSR Peer Group
The companies in the TSR comparator group for awards granted in 2014 were:
BAE Systems L-3 Communications Smiths Group
Esterline Meggitt T eledyne T echnologies
Finnmeccanica Northrop Grumman Thales
FLIR Systems QinetiQ Ultra Electronics
Harris Raytheon
ITT Industries Rockwell Collins
There has been no change in the composition of the TSR Peer Group  
during the year.
Buy-out awards vesting in 2016
Simon Nicholls’ long term incentives figure covers the vesting of one award made 
to him as a buy-out award to compensate for forfeited equity from his previous 
employer, Senior plc, as a result of leaving to join Cobham. This award, which was 
disclosed in full in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, is set out below:
Awards 
vesting
Date of 
vest
Valuation (pence per 
share)
Amount 
vested (£k)
34,755 8 August 2016 163.0 57
The buy-out shares above have been valued at market price achieved on the 
date of vesting. Vesting was based on time only, there were no performance 
conditions attaching to this award. 
After settlement of statutory deductions, the resulting shares of 18,198 shares 
were retained against Mr Nicholls’ share ownership guidelines.
The original buy-out award of 29,535, which was due to vest on 1 May 2016,  
was increased to 34,755 by virtue of the terms of the 2016 rights issue and 
vested on 8 August 2016, when the Company came out of the closed period 
related to the rights issue and announcement of the interim results.
72
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Long term incentives awarded during the financial year (audited information)
The following table sets out the awards made under the LTI plans to Executive Directors during the year.
Type of award
Basis of which  
award is made Date of award
Face value of award  
(No. of shares awarded) Performance period
Bob Murphy PSP 150% of base salary 10 March 2016 £1,254,435
(658,032)
1 January 2016 to 
31 December 2018
Notes:
1
 The award has been made in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
2
  The face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the mid-market price of those shares for the three trading days immediately 
preceding the date of the award.
3
 The original PSP award of 559,192 was increased to 658,032 by virtue of the terms of the 2016 rights issue.
Performance conditions for the PSP awarded in 2016 are set out in 
the table below:
Metric Weighting % Performance
Award vesting at 
that level %
TSR 33.3 Threshold (Index) 16.7
Maximum (Index +10%) 100
EPS 33.3 Threshold (3% per annum) 16.7
Maximum (10% per annum) 100
Cash conversion 33.3 Threshold (over 90% per annum)16.7
Maximum (100% per annum) 100
Notes:
1
 EPS and Cash Conversion are defined in the definitions on page 144.
2
 The TSR Peer Group remains unchanged for the 2014 awards, see page 72.
 Pensions
2014 Approved Policy: The Company may make a payment into a pension 
scheme (e.g. a defined contribution plan) and/or make a cash allowance 
payment set as a percentage of salary.
The Company contributed to Bob Murphy’s retirement plan at the rate of  
20% of his base salary. This comprises participation in two plans noted below  
and the contributions to each are shown in the table:
 − A qualified 401k plan which has limits on the level of contribution which  
can be made to it; and
 − An executive retirement plan, non-qualifying.
£k 2016 2015
Contributions to 401k plan 11 7
1
Contributions to executive retirement plan 232 182
Total 243 189
Note: 
1
  Due to a spreadsheet error, last year’s contributions were reported at £16,000 
for Mr Murphy’s contribution to the executive retirement plan when it should 
have been £7,000, the figure reported in the table above is correct.
Simon Nicholls’ pension figure is a combined amount of £10,000 to an executive 
defined contribution plan (capped due to the annual allowance) and £78,000 
paid as a cash allowance in lieu of additional defined contribution arrangements. 
Together these payments represent a rate of 20% of his  
base salary.
David Lockwood’s pension contributions are paid as a cash in lieu amount,  
which equates to 25% of his base salary. The amount paid in December 2016,  
pro rated due to his joining on 12 December 2016, was £9,914. 
Non-executive Directors (audited information)
The 2016 remuneration and current fees of the Non-executive Directors, 
including the Chairman, are stated below:
Total payable
£k 2016 2015
John Devaney (Chairman) 278 270
Michael Wareing 68 69
Jonathan Flint 58 58
Michael Hagee 66 65
Birgit Nørgaard 58 58
Mark Ronald
1
22 62
Alison Wood 65 65
Alan Semple
2
70 58
Total 685 705
Notes:
1
 Mark Ronald stood down from the Board following the 2016 AGM.
2
 Alan Semple joined the Board in February 2015.
3
   Non-executive Directors only receive fees under their service agreement  
and do not have any other taxable benefits, annual or long term incentives  
or pension arrangements provided by the Company. Messrs Hagee, Ronald  
and Semple received a taxable benefit in kind for financial services (tax) advice 
for the amounts of £650, £1,100 and £850 respectively. 
4
  Non-executive Directors do not have a permanent place of work specified in 
their service contract, all reasonable and properly incurred expenses incurred  
in performance of duties as Board members are reimbursed by the Company.
5
  All of the above Directors are members of the Nomination Committee but do 
not receive any additional fees for this role.
The out-going Chairman’s fee was increased to £280,000 with effect from  
1 April 2016, this represented a £10,000 per annum, or 3.7%, increase in 
recognition of this being his first increase since appointment in 2010,  
and recognising the performance of the Group over the last six years. 
Non-executive Directors are paid a fee of £2,500 per annum for each Committee 
they sit on, £5,000 fee for Directors travelling from overseas locations, A £10,000 
per annum fee is paid to the Chair of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
and the Senior Independent Director.
Total aggregate Directors’ fees for the year, including the Executive Director 
fees as per the single figure table on page 71, amount to £2,659,000 (2015: 
£2,752,000).
73
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests  
(audited information)
The interests of the Non-executive Directors and their families in ordinary  
shares were:
31.12.16 1.1.16
John Devaney 45,000 30,000
Michael Wareing 30,000 20,000
Jonathan Flint 7,500 5,000
Michael Hagee 7,500 5,000
Birgit Nørgaard 7,500 5,000
Mark Ronald N/A 5,000
Alison Wood 7,500 5,000
Alan Semple 7,500 5,000
Non-executive Directors are required, within six months of election to the Board, 
to acquire and hold a shareholding of 5,000 ordinary shares.
All Non-executive Directors took up their rights under the Company’s rights  
issue on 16 June 2016.
Executive Directors’ share interests
The interests of the Executive Directors in share awards or share options at 
31 December 2016 are shown below, since that date all of these outstanding 
unvested share awards have lapsed due to the Directors’ departure from the 
Group, except for Bob Murphy’s BCP 2014, which was released on his departure, 
however, no match was granted:
Award
Share awards 
subject to 
performance 
conditions
Share awards 
subject to 
continued 
employment
Unvested  
options subject 
to performance 
awards
Bob Murphy PSP 2014 376,458 – –
BCP 2014 14,546 – –
PSP 2015 430,427 – –
PSP 2016 658,032
Deferred AIP 18,483 –
Total 1,479,463 18,483 –
Simon Nicholls PSP 2014 – – 237,557
Deferred AIP 
2014
– 4,497 –
PSP 2015 – – 245,180
Total – 4,497 482,737
Share ownership requirements
There is a requirement to retain a percentage of salary in shares, which must 
be built up from shares vesting from LTI plans. 
Ownership guidelines require the Executive Directors to maintain ordinary shares. 
These guidelines state that the CEO retain the value of at least two years’ salary, 
and the CFO retain the value of at least one year’s salary. In addition, the CEO and 
CFO are to retain a minimum of 50% of net vested PSP and BCP matching shares 
until the relevant shareholding level is met. There is no time frame over which 
the guidelines are required to be met and there is no requirement for Directors 
to hold these shares after leaving the Company. Both out-going Directors have 
retained the required shares resulting from LTI vests during the year and have 
complied with the guidelines in this respect.
Shares held by Executive Directors as at 31 December 2016 against 
share ownership
  Shares held outright
  Beneficially held shares
  Target share ownership
Bob Murphy
2016
2015
Simon Nicholls
2016
2015
Shares owned as percentage of Base Salary
100 200 050150 25 125 75 
45% 
22%
175 
54% 
25%
Holding for 2016 reduced as a percentage of salary due to salary and share price 
movement, the rights issue adjustment and no awards vesting during the year.
Interests at 2 March 2017 are no longer relevant as both Directors have left the 
Group’s employment and all outstanding LTI awards lapsed. 
The market price of the ordinary shares as at 31 December 2016 was  
163.7 pence per share and the closing price range during the year was 
 239.7 pence to 127.5 pence, all prices adjusted to account for the rights  
issue adjustment.
Dilution
The Company’s share schemes are currently funded through shares purchased in 
the market and have been since November 2010, prior to which they were funded 
through new issue shares. Funding of awards through new issue shares is subject 
to an overall dilution limit of 10% of issued share capital in any ten-year period. 
Of this, 5% may be used in connection with the Company’s discretionary share 
schemes. As of 31 December 2016, 5.1m (0.30%) and 4.2m (0.25%) shares have 
been issued pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in connection with 
all share schemes and discretionary schemes respectively. Awards that are made, 
but then lapse or are forfeit, are excluded from the calculations.
Payments to past Directors and payment for loss of office  
(audited information)
There were no payments made to past Directors or for loss of office during  
the year. 
74
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Historic CEO total remuneration
The table below shows historic CEO total remuneration, calculated on the same 
basis as that used in the single figure table on page 71.
Year CEO
CEO Single figure of 
total remuneration 
(£k)
Annual bonus 
payout against 
maximum 
opportunity % 
(£k)
Long term 
incentive  
vesting rates 
against 
maximum 
opportunity % 
(£k)
2016 CEO4  
David Lockwood
60 0 (Nil) N/A
2016 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
1,518 0 (Nil) N/A
2015 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
1,364 18.4 (209) N/A
2014 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
1,196 0.0 (Nil) N/A
2013 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
2,058 34.3 (280) N/A
2012 CEO3  
Bob Murphy
753 48.5 (182) N/A
CEO2  
Andy Stevens
1,283 45.0 (267) 58.0 (202)
2011 CEO2  
Andy Stevens
1,916 92.5 (555) 85.0 (546)
2010 CEO2  
Andy Stevens
1,478 33.5 (201) 87.0 (471)
2009 CEO1  
Allan Cook
1,496 93.0 (567) 100.0 (238)
Performance graph
The graph below illustrates the TSR performance (share price growth plus 
dividends) of Cobham against the FTSE350 Index over the past eight years. 
The graph shows the value of £100 invested over the eight-year period ending 
31 December 2016. The FTSE350 Index was chosen as it is a recognised broad 
equity market index of which Cobham was a member during 2016 and is 
currently, as at 1 March 2017, ranked at 175th.
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec 
2012
31 Dec 
2014
31 Dec 
2015
31 Dec 
2013
FTSE350 Cobham
Source: Deloitte LLP
TSR performance Cobham vs FTSE350
     
£
31 Dec 
2016
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
The following table shows the year-on-year change in respect of the three 
remuneration elements shown in table for the Bob Murphy, CEO until  
14 December 2016, as compared to that of UK employees generally:
Remuneration element CEO Average employee per capita figure
Salary 2.5% 2.5%
Benefits 92.0% 5.52%
AIP 0% 4.03%
The UK payroll has been chosen for comparison as this is the location of the 
head office. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below displays the relative expenditure of the Company on various 
matters, as required (in the case of Group employees’ pay and shareholder 
distributions) by the relevant remuneration regulations: 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
698
682.2
135.5
220.1
126.1
122.1
130.2
138.0
£m
Aggregate 
employment 
costs of Group 
employees
Underlying 
profit after tax
DividendsPV
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
The aggregate employment cost of Group employees is detailed at note 4 to the 
Group Financial Statements and includes employers’ social security and similar 
costs. Group underlying profit after tax is shown above as this is the measure 
used by the Board to monitor financial performance, refer to note 2. Dividends 
are shown at note 7. PV relates to the amount of profit the Group spends on 
research and development, refer to note 4. 
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the current 
financial year
The remuneration arrangements for the in-coming Executive Directors are set 
out on page 76. 
The Leaving arrangements for the departing CEO and CFO are detailed on  
page 76. 
75
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
Adviser Appointed by
Services provided 
to the Committee
Other services 
provided to the 
Company 
Deloitte LLP Remuneration 
Committee in 
November 2009, 
and reappointed 
following a tender 
exercise 
conducted in 
2016. See below
 − Remuneration 
strategy
 − Incentive 
design 
 − Market data
Tax and 
consultancy on 
the governance, 
risk and assurance 
initiative
The Committee received advice during the year from Deloitte LLP, who comply 
with the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group. The 
Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and 
independent. Deloitte’s performance was considered by the Committee as part 
of the tender process undertaken in the year. Total fees for advice provided to 
the Committee during the year amounted to £83,463 (2015: £98,000) and were 
provided on a time/cost basis. Additional advice was received from the Executive 
Vice President HR, Senior Vice President Compensation and Benefits, and the 
Company Secretary. 
Whilst proposals from the Committee take account of the advice received, the 
ultimate decision is made by the Committee and ratified by the Board in the 
absence of any advisers.
As Deloitte have been in post as adviser to the Committee since 2009, the 
Committee conducted a tender process during 2016 to be in place for the 
2016 review of the Remuneration Policy. The process involved the submission 
of a formal quote in response to a request for proposal, with four remuneration 
consultants, including the incumbent Deloitte, asked to tender for remuneration 
and compensation related services. 
The four advisers participating in the tender process were required to describe 
their capability to meet Cobham plc’s services requirements, with identified  
case studies or specific examples where these services have already been 
successfully provided. 
Comprehensive written proposals were submitted, which were scored 
and evaluated as part of a comparative weighted assessment covering key 
deliverables including value/cost as well as the capability, experience and 
expertise in understanding and delivering the specific executive remuneration 
support requirements of the Company. A final presentation was delivered and 
evaluated by a panel including the Committee Chair, the Company Secretary, 
the Executive Vice President HR and a senior member of his management 
team. The panel put forward their proposals to the rest of the Committee who 
unanimously agreed to re-appoint Deloitte as their advisers. In reaching this 
decision, the Committee was mindful that they should set a higher hurdle for 
the re-appointment of the incumbent advisers than for a new appointment, 
and believe that this was achieved through the rigorous approach to the tender 
process undertaken.
Termination payments for the out-going CEO and CFO
The termination payments made to the CEO and CFO were in line with their  
basic entitlements under their employment contracts as outlined in the table 
below. No payment will be made in respect of the 2016 annual bonus and  
all outstanding incentive awards lapsed on cessation of employment. Full  
details of the actual payments made will be provided in the 2017 Annual  
Report on Remuneration. 
Leaving arrangements for the 
departing CEO (Murphy)
Leaving arrangements for the 
departing CFO (Nicholls)
 − There was no annual bonus 
payment made for FY2016.
 − Any outstanding deferred 
shares, BCP matching or PSP 
awards lapsed on cessation  
of employment.
 − Upon cessation of employment, 
he was entitled to a payment in 
respect of 12 month’s annual 
base salary. 
 − In accordance with terms of 
his contract on appointment, 
the Company will reimburse the 
reasonable cost of relocating 
him and his family from the UK 
to the US, limited to a maximum 
of 50% of his salary.
 − There was no annual bonus 
payment made for FY2016.
 − Any outstanding deferred  
shares or PSP awards lapsed  
on cessation of employment.
 − He was provided with a 
payment of £69k in respect of 
outplacement services and legal 
support in line with the terms  
of the Remuneration Policy.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2017
Base salary
The base salaries of the CEO and CFO were set on appointment at £690,000 and 
£520,000 respectively and will not be increased as part of the company’s annual 
salary review effective 1 March 2017.
The salary for the new CEO has been set at c.11% lower than that received by 
the previous CEO. The salary for the new CFO is higher than received by the 
previous CFO but the Board believe that David Mellors brings with him a strong 
proven track record of restructuring at his previous employer and that his skills 
and experience will be essential to restoring sustainable performance at Cobham. 
The overall package Cobham agreed with David Mellors maintained but did 
not increase the expected value of his total remuneration as compared to his 
compensation at his previous employer.
Benefits 
Both the CEO and CFO will receive benefits in line with those provided for under 
the Remuneration Policy. For the CEO this will include a relocation payment 
to allow David Lockwood to relocate to Wimborne which the Board felt was 
an important change to have the CEO located at the heart of the business 
operations. We will be providing further disclosure when costs of the relocation 
are known.
Pension
The pension contributions for the CEO and CFO are paid as a cash in lieu amount, 
which equate to 25% of salary for the CEO and 20% of salary for the CFO, both 
of which are below the 30% maximum set under the Remuneration Policy. The 
pension provided to the new CEO is slightly higher than that received by the 
previous CEO but total fixed pay remains lower overall. 
2017 AIP
The maximum opportunities for the CEO and CFO will remain unchanged from 
the previous incumbents at 150% of base salary. Awards will be subject to the 
performance measures set out in the table below which are aligned to the key 
financial and strategic objectives of the company over the next 12 months:
Performance measure Weighting %
Group Operating Cash Flow 40
Group Revenue 20
Group Operating Profit 20
Individual Key Strategic Measures 20
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
76
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com 2017 PSP awards
PSP awards will be made to the CEO and CFO with a face value of 200% of salary 
and 150% of salary respectively and will be subject to an additional two year 
holding period following the end of the performance period. 
We plan to make LTIP awards in May 2017 following the completion of any 
equity raise. The Committee considers that the new CEO and CFO should  
have an incentive interest in Cobham shares from the earliest opportunity 
ensuring that their interests are aligned to shareholders. 
However, to ensure that the performance targets for the 2017 PSP award are 
aligned with Cobham’s forward looking strategy and aligned shareholder’s 
interests, the Committee believes that it is important to allow the new Executive 
Directors time to assess the business and provide their input into the formation 
of the long term strategic plan under their tenure. We therefore intend to wait 
until the outcome of this process before setting targets for the 2017 award, and 
we will revert to shareholders at this time. We expect this to be by the time of  
the interim results announcement in August
Buy-out awards for new CEO and CFO 
As outlined in the Chairman’s letter the newly appointed CEO and CFO forfeited 
a number of outstanding awards at their previous employer as a result of joining 
Cobham. The Remuneration Committee’s approach in providing compensation 
for these awards was to ensure that the value of any awards made did not 
exceed the value forfeit and were made on comparable terms. All buy-out 
awards will be subject to the Company’s standard malus and clawback provisions. 
In addition, the Committee may recover up to 100% of the buyout awards in the 
event the candidate gives notice within 24 months of joining.
CEO
In light of recent developments at his previous employer and in demonstration  
of his commitment to his new role as CEO of Cobham, David Lockwood has 
agreed that there will be no compensation in respect of his 2016 annual bonus, 
or his outstanding 2014 and 2015 long-term incentive awards.
As a consequence of joining Cobham, David Lockwood will forfeit the deferred 
share portion of his 2015 bonus which was due to vest in March 2019 (subject 
only to continued employment).  He will receive a restricted share award over 
Cobham shares with a face value of circa £66,000 that will vest in March 2019  
to compensate for the loss of this award.
The only buy-out award that will be made will be in respect of his 2016 LTIP 
awards which will be replaced by an award of equivalent value (2x his salary at 
his previous employer) in Cobham shares and will be subject to the achievement 
of Cobham performance targets, the timing and measures have yet to be 
determined and will be disclosed in due course. 
CFO
His bonus for the year ended 31 March 2017 forfeited as a consequence of 
joining Cobham will be valued based on the actual outcome of the bonus as 
reported by his previous employer and will be pro-rated for the period David 
Mellors worked for his former employer. We agreed an overall cap on this value 
of 9/12 of his 2016 bonus. The payment will be received 50% in cash in June 
2017 and 50% deferred into Cobham shares to be received half in June 2018  
and half in June 2019.
David Mellors will forfeit the 2013, 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards over shares in his 
previous employer totalling 879,264 shares. Taking account of performance and 
where awards are less than half-way through the performance period pro-rating 
for time reduces the total number of LTIP shares forfeited from 879,294 to circa. 
127,200 shares. The 127,200 shares forfeited by David Mellors will be replaced 
with awards over Cobham shares with the same value which will vest on the 
same time horizons.
2016 voting at the Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 28 April 2016, shareholders voted on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015. Below are the 
results in respect of that resolution, which required a simple majority (i.e. 50%)  
of the votes cast to be in favour in order for the resolution to be passed. The 
votes ‘for’ include discretionary votes given to the Chairman of the Board. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Votes for % Votes against %
22,843,101 97.37 616,734 2.63
Votes withheld 299,939
77
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dividends
The Group’s previous policy was to pay a progressive dividend increasing 
payments broadly in line with increases in earnings, with a view to rebuilding 
dividend cover over time. An interim dividend of 2.03 pence per ordinary share 
of 2.50 pence each in the capital of the Company (ordinary shares) (2015: 3.05 
pence) was paid in November 2016. However, in light of the disappointing 
trading and higher than expected net debt, the Board will not be recommending 
a final dividend payment in respect of financial year 2016. No dividend will be 
recommended in respect of 2017. Details of the total dividend paid out  
is covered in note 7 to the Group Financial Statements..
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Directors have the benefit of a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity 
arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The policy 
was in force through 2016, at the year-end and continues in force at the date  
of this report. The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at  
the Company’s expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
Directors’ interests
None of the Directors are or were materially interested in any significant contract 
during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of which are required to be 
disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. Details of Directors’ 
share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 74.
Share capital
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed 
income, representing 99.9% of the total issued share capital. 
In addition, 19,700 non-redeemable 6% second cumulative preference shares 
have been issued, which represent 0.1% of total issued share capital. 
At the AGM held on 28 April 2016, the Company was authorised to purchase  
up to 113,857,590 ordinary shares. This authority will expire at the conclusion  
of the 2017 AGM. A special resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM  
to renew the authority to make market purchases of the Company’s shares up  
to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company. 
The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares. These 
powers are exercised under authority of resolutions passed at the Company’s 
AGM. The Company launched a fully underwritten 1 for 2 rights issue of 
569,287,950 new ordinary shares at 89 pence per new ordinary share which 
closed on 17 June 2016. 
Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the holders of 
any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the 
Company may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such resolution 
or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision) as the Board may 
decide. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are 
corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights. Holders 
of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in the 
assets of the Company. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 
Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Subject to meeting certain thresholds, 
holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company  
or the proposal of a resolution at an AGM.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative preference shares are entitled 
to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum 
in priority to the payment of dividends on the ordinary shares. In addition, on 
a return of assets on the liquidation or otherwise of the Company, the assets 
available for distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 
6% second cumulative preference shares the amounts paid up on their shares. 
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares and 6% second 
cumulative preference shares of £1 each in the capital of the Company are  
set out in the Articles. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of shares 
present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote, and on a poll 
every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote 
for every £1 in nominal value of the shares of which he is the holder. None of the 
ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than:
 − Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws  
or regulations;
 − Pursuant to the Company’s Dealing Code including the requirement on 
the Directors and designated employees to obtain approval to deal in the 
Company’s shares; and
 − Where a person with an interest in the Company’s shares has been served 
with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with 
information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that  
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Significant arrangements – change of control
Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual arrangements  
with third parties in support of the Group’s business activities which may take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following  
a takeover bid. Such contractual arrangements include supply of equipment, 
goods and services to third parties, including research, design and production. 
Such contracts and arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one or 
more of the operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements 
considered to be essential to the operation of the business of the Group as  
a whole, apart from the following:
 − The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements with banks, 
and has issued senior notes under private placements. The total amount 
owing under such agreements at the year end date is shown in note 17 to 
the Group Financial Statements. All agreements contain clauses such that, in 
the event of a change of control, the Company can offer to or must repay all 
such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other sums owing 
as required by the individual agreements.
 − Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company must 
seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the Company. 
There is an ancillary aircraft lease agreement under which a change of control 
may result in the termination of the lease if such event is likely to have a 
material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to perform its obligations 
under the lease.
 − Under the FST A shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, a change 
of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the Company’s 
shares in FST A to the other shareholders.
 − Under contracts with Airbus for the supply of radio and audio integrated 
management systems, announced on 2 June 2016, and satellite 
communications systems, announced on 23 June 2016, if a change in 
control reasonably appears to the purchaser to materially affect the ability 
of the supplier to discharge its obligations under the contract or if such 
change in control is in favour of a party which is strategically unacceptable 
to the purchaser because of existing, latent or potential conflict of interest, 
the purchaser shall be entitled to terminate the contract and any order in 
connection therewith.
Employee share schemes – rights of control
If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP) will, on receipt of notice from the Company of any offer, compromise 
arrangement or scheme which affects shares held in the SIP, invite participants to 
direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares held 
by the trustee on their behalf and/or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to 
those shares. 
The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the SIP in respect of 
which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote in respect of any 
shares which are unallocated under the SIP. 
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust which holds ordinary shares to  
be used for settlement of long term incentives and share option schemes,  
waive all rights to vote in respect of any shares they hold within the Trust.
Further information relating to change of control under the LTI  
arrangements appears within the Remuneration Policy table available  
on the Company’s website. 
Other Statutory Information
78
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Major interests in shares
As at 31 December 2016, the Company had been notified of the following 
interests in the ordinary shares:
Number of shares 
at the date of 
notification 
Percentage at date 
of notification
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited
56,318,037 4,950
Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
57,508,406 5.051
Royal London Asset Management Limited
34,027,919 2.989
Massachusetts Financial Services Company
160,687,479 9.410
Blackrock, Inc
96,911,563 5.670
Silchester International Investors LLP
85,875,239 5.030
Since the year end and up to 1 March 2017, being a date not more than a month 
prior to the date of the AGM Notice, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests in the ordinary shares in accordance with DTR 5:
Number of shares 
at the date of 
notification 
Percentage at date 
of notification
Massachusetts Financial Services Company
85,343,080 4.997
Causeway Capital Management LLC
103,993,282 6.090
Lancaster Investment Management LLP
54,780,732 3.210
Financial instruments
Notes 14, 21 and 23 to the Group Financial Statements and note 11 to the 
Parent Company Financial Statements contain disclosures relating to the use 
of financial instruments. The Group uses derivative financial instruments in its 
management of financial risks and does not trade in financial instruments or  
use complex financial instruments.
People
Cobham is committed to providing its employees with equal opportunities  
in a workplace free from discrimination. 
Working within a rigorous competency framework, the Company evaluates 
candidates according to their skills and abilities, irrespective of age, race, gender, 
sexual preference, religion or disability. A PDR process standardised across the 
Group, coupled with development centres, where appropriate, ensure career 
development and progression is based solely on competency. 
With regard to employees who become disabled, the Company takes all 
reasonable steps to retain them, including retraining, to enable them to  
continue their employment and career development within Cobham.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and 
development, further details can be found on page 19. During the year, the 
Group expended £130.2m (2015: £138.0m) on non-customer funded research 
and development.
Events after the balance sheet date
On 16 February 2017, Cobham provided an update on KC-46, 2016 results and 
2017 guidance. Within this statement, we highlighted that the net debt/EBITDA 
ratio was 3.0x and that the Balance Sheet is not strong enough to properly 
support the operations of the Group, given the important role it plays in many 
customer programmes. 
Having considered its options, the Board has concluded that it is in the Group’s 
best interests to reduce its target net debt/EBITDA ratio from 2x to 1.5x and 
accordingly announced on 2 March 2017 that it has decided to raise new equity 
finance of £500m by way of a rights issue during the second quarter of 2017.  
The rights issue has been fully underwritten on a standby basis by Bank 
of America Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan Cazenove and Barclays Bank plc. The 
underwriting is subject to customary conditions, which allow the underwriters  
to not fund the equity in a number of circumstances including there being  
a material adverse change in the affairs of the Company or financial markets.
Political donations and expenditure
No contributions were made to political organisations during the current  
or prior year.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, 27 April 2017  
at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, UK.
The Company arranges for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent  
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The majority (88%) of the Group’s total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions come 
from its aviation activity (figure 1). Scope 1 emissions from aviation decreased 
in 2016 with a reduction in flight numbers because of a downturn in contracts. 
Total scope 3 emissions from third party aviation also reduced despite two 
additional aircraft having been added to the Qantas contract. 
Total emissions from non-aviation activities decreased from 2015 due to 
a number of factors. These factors included the divestment of the energy 
intensive Cobham Metelics business at the end of 2015; the consolidation of 
operations and closure of sites in several business units; less variation in ambient 
temperatures during the year resulting in a reduction in gas and electricity use at 
some sites; a reduction in production activities; and implementation of energy 
efficiency measures. 
Scope 3  76.3%
Non-aviation 6%
Aviation 94%
Scope 1  15.1%
Aviation 77%
Non-aviation 23%
Scope 2  8.6%
Aviation 0%
Non-aviation 100%
Figure 1 – 2015 GHG emissions (tCO
2
e %)
Year Aviation Non-aviation Total
Scope tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e
Scope 1 2016
1
71,960 89 9,050 11 81,011
2015
2
76,963 79 20,850 21 97,813 
Scope 2 2016
1
– – 46,775 100 46,775 
2015
2
– – 57,036 100 57,036 
Scope 3 2016 465,955 97 16,131 3 482,086
2015
2
476,813 94 28,251 6 505,064 
Total 2016 537,915 88 71,957 12 609,872 
2015
2
553,776 84 106,137 16 659,913
1
  Data extracted from Cobham’s Performance Summary Report, which was included within 
  Bureau Veritas independent limited assurance scope – see page 80.
2
  2015 data restated due to a reporting error in the Hauppauge site 2015 data.
79
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group’s GHG emission intensity (figure 2) across all scopes. Emissions 
decreased with the reduction in facility energy use, despite a decrease in revenue. 
Scope 3
Scope 2
Scope 1
Aviation Non-aviation
Aviation Non-aviation
Aviation Non-aviation
Figure 2 – Emissions intensity (tCO
2
e/£m)  
2015
2016
2015
2016
2015
2016
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Scope Year
Aviation 
tCO
2
e/£m
Non-aviation 
tCO
2
e/£m
Total 
tCO
2
e/£m
 % total 
change
Scope 1 2016 37 5 42 -13
2015 38 10 48
Scope 2 2016 – 24 24 -14
2015 – 28 28
Scope 3 2016 240 8 248 0
2015 234 14 248
The Group’s target is to reduce facility energy intensity by 10% year on year,  
with the baseline year set from 2015. In 2016, energy intensity decreased  
by 18%, meeting the target. 
Definitions
Scope 1 comprises direct emissions from Cobham owned and controlled plant 
and equipment, including: aviation fuel, natural gas, heating oil, non-automotive 
diesel, fugitive emissions, solvent emissions and automotive fuel. 
Scope 2 comprises indirect emissions from purchased renewable and  
non-renewable electricity using a location based calculation method and  
indirect emissions from purchased district heating. 
Scope 3 comprises indirect emissions from non-Cobham owned and controlled 
plant and equipment, including aviation fuel and business travel (train, air and car).
Methodology and data verification
The Group collects data annually, as per our financial year, on GHG emissions 
from its wholly owned operational subsidiaries. Cobham uses the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development, World Resources Institute Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol method as of 31 December 2014, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, 
the International Aerospace Environmental Group GHG Reporting Guidance 
for the Aerospace Industry, a supplement of the GHG Protocol and the Carbon 
Disclosure Standards Board to report its greenhouse gas emissions and defines  
its emissions boundary as those under its direct operational control.
Reported data excludes joint ventures not under the Group’s operational control, 
sites with fewer than five people, sites leased to tenants, vacant properties being 
disposed of, and any business units that have been closed or divested during the 
course of the year for which there is less than six months of reported data.
Further information is provided at https://www.cobham.com/the-group/
corporate-responsibility-and-sustainability/ 
100% of the Group’s wholly owned operations have been reviewed internally  
to identify omissions and significant variations from the prior year.
Data assurance
Bureau Veritas UK has been commissioned by Cobham to provide independent 
limited assurance using the ISAE 3000 assurance standard over scope 1 and 2  
GHG emissions and energy use for the reporting period of 1 January to  
31 December 2016. The reporting boundaries cover global operations. 
Having completed a verification process including site visits, documents review, 
testing of a selection of data points and interrogation of reporting systems, 
Bureau Veritas concludes that there is no evidence to suggest that the data 
within the scope of our work and presented here is not a fair and accurate 
representation of the Group’s performance.
A full verification statement including methodology, limitations and  
exclusions and the reporting criteria can be found on the Group’s website  
(www.cobham.com/the-group/corporate-responsibility-and-
sustainability/performance-data-policies/performance-data).
Bureau Veritas UK Limited
2 March 2017 
Compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.4 R
The majority of the disclosures required under Listing Rules 9.8.4R are 
not applicable to the Company. The table below gives the location of 
information required to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts  
that are applicable.
Listing Rule Information Response
LR 9.8.4 (12) Details of any arrangement under 
which a shareholder has waived or 
agreed to waive any dividends.
The trustees of  
the employee  
benefit trust have 
elected to waive  
dividends, except in 
circumstances where 
they may be holding 
shares beneficially 
owned by participants. 
Refer to page 78 for 
further details.
(13) Details of any arrangement under 
which a shareholder has agreed to 
waive future dividends.
As noted above. 
By order of the Board
Lyn Colloff
Company Secretary
2 March 2017
Other Statutory Information continued
80
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial 
Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 (FRS 101), Reduced Disclosure 
Framework. The Company transitioned from previous United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards) to 
FRS 101 for all periods presented. Under company law, the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of the 
profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 − Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 − Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 − State whether IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements 
respectively; and
 − Prepare the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the 
Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group Financial Statements and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 44 and 45, 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 − The Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
 − The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
Directors’ declaration in relation to relevant audit information
In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is 
approved, that:
 − So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information  
of which the Group’s auditors were unaware; and
 − He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken  
as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant  
audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware  
of that information.
The Responsibility Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 
1 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
David Lockwood
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2017
David Mellors
Chief Financial Officer
2 March 2017
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
81
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 82
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc
Report on the Group Financial Statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Cobham plc’s Group Financial Statements (the financial 
statements):
 − Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at  
31 December 2016 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended;
 − Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union; and
 − Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Emphasis of matter – Going concern
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we 
have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 1 to the financial 
statements concerning the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The matters explained in the Directors’ going concern assessment on page 33 
disclose that a shareholder vote is required in order to increase the share capital 
of the Company which is needed to raise additional capital through a rights  
issue and this has not yet taken place. The rights issue is fully underwritten on  
a standby basis, subject to customary conditions. These conditions, along with 
the other matters explained in note 1 to the financial statements, indicates the 
existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not 
include the adjustments that would result if the Group was unable to continue  
as a going concern.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts  
(the Annual Report), comprise:
 − The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016;
 − The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016;
 − The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; 
 − The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended; and
 − The Notes to the Group Financial Statements, which include a summary  
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial 
statements is IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
Our audit approach
Context 
During the past 12 months, the Group has made a series of announcements 
concerning the challenging trading conditions being experienced by some of 
its Business Units and the impact that was having on the Group’s profitability. 
The Group initially highlighted risks in connection with the Boeing KC-46 tanker 
programme on 24 October 2016 and further announced on 11 January 2017, 
based on the ongoing dialogue with the customer, that there was significant 
uncertainty over the outcome of negotiations with the customer. These 
developments heightened a number of financial reporting risks, which were  
the subject of focus during our audit including; contract profitability (including 
loss making contract provisions), risk of impairment of goodwill and intangible 
assets and recoverability of inventory. Further, in January 2017 the Board 
requested that management perform a closing balance sheet review to a lower 
level of materiality, including reviewing major contracts and asset carrying values. 
Adjustments resulted from this year-end close process, some of which have been 
disclosed as exceptional and excluded from underlying earnings. As part of our 
audit work on the presentation of non-underlying costs, we considered these 
adjustments from a recognition, measurement and disclosure perspective,  
as well any impact on prior period financial statements. Further details are  
set out in the areas of focus section below. 
Overview 
Materiality:
 − Overall Group materiality: £10m which represents 5.6% of underlying profit 
before tax.
Audit scope:
 − We conducted audit work in five countries covering 37 reporting units;
 − We performed an audit of complete financial information of 16 reporting 
units in the UK, Australia, France and Denmark;
 − Our work conducted in the US was executed at 13 reporting units where 
we completed audit procedures on specific line items such as revenue 
or inventory, and 8 further reporting units where we performed limited  
audit procedures.
Areas of focus:
 − Revenue and profit recognition on contracts;
 − Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments;
 − Inventory provisioning;
 − Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs (including 
exceptional items);
 − Accounting for uncertain tax provisions and recoverability of deferred  
tax assets.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of 
material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked 
at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect 
of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls,  
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors  
that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, 
including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of 
focus in the following table. We have also set out how we tailored our audit 
to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 83
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Revenue and profit recognition on contracts
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee Report) and page 92 (note 
1, Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation 
uncertainty – contract risk and programme execution).
For revenue from the sale of goods, we focused on cut-off around 
the year end because material revenue transactions can occur close 
to that date.
The Group also has a number of significant contracts which span 
more than one accounting period. These contracts were subject 
to a detailed review by management as part of the closing balance 
sheet review. In particular, we focused on complex development 
and production contracts including those on aerial refuelling aircraft 
such as KC-46 and A400M. The nature of much of the contracting 
work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent 
contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the 
ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain. Costs 
incurred can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception 
as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally 
assumed under the contracts. 
For the contracts detailed above, we focused on:
 − The recognition of significant revenue milestones which often 
involve judgement surrounding the achievement of those 
milestones;
 − The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from customer 
claims which are subject to commercial negotiation;
 − The estimation of costs to complete the contract;
 − Whether contracts with the same customer should be accounted 
for as separate or linked; 
 − Whether the profit recognised on revenue in the year is 
appropriate; and 
 − Whether associated assets held on the balance sheet (work  
in progress and accrued income) are recoverable or whether  
a contract loss provision should be recorded.
We tested the recognition of revenue transactions close to the period end to establish whether 
they were recorded in the correct period. This included agreement to external shipping evidence 
or authorised milestone documentation with customer acceptance where appropriate. No 
material misstatements were identified.
We assessed, through our audit of significant contracts, the basis of profit or loss recognition on 
the Group’s significant contracts, together with whether it is appropriate to account for them as 
separate or linked contracts.. We evaluated the accounting in the context of the Group accounting 
policies, contract terms and accounting standards. We found the accounting, in all material 
respects, to be in accordance with accounting standards and Group policies.. 
For significant new contracts, we read the key contract terms and for ongoing contracts, we 
understood any change clauses or amendments agreed in the year, considering whether any  
areas were subject to interpretation or dispute. We looked at the track record of customer 
behaviour, and any correspondence, in order to obtain evidence of how terms were being 
interpreted. We also evaluated documentation supporting the recent agreement with Boeing.  
We found the accounting, in all material respects, to be in accordance with our understanding  
of customer arrangements.
We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete by 
meeting with engineering staff to enquire about project estimates, checking the basis of overhead 
rates used and on a sample basis obtained purchase orders for materials. We also inspected risk 
registers and the process by which risk was included within the cost to complete estimate. We 
found the assumptions to be supported by the evidence we examined.
We agreed total contracted revenue to original signed customer contracts, approved change 
orders or to evidence of, customer discussions and agreements. We evaluated the reasonableness 
of estimated revenue through a review of, and discussion about, customer claims submitted to 
recover additional costs incurred and considered correspondence with the customer. No material 
exceptions were found.
We assessed the recoverability of the assets held on the Balance Sheet by reference to agreements 
with customers regarding payment or billing profiles. No material exceptions were found.
We agreed contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the procedures above in 
respect of the overall outcome anticipated on the contract. No material exceptions were found.
We read the disclosures relating to key estimates and judgements in these financial statements 
and are satisfied that the disclosures made were appropriate. 
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment 
assessments 
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee Report), page 92 (note 1, 
Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation 
uncertainty – impairment of goodwill), pages 105 to 107 (note 10, 
Intangible assets).
At the start of the year, the Group had goodwill of £1,147m and 
intangibles of £529m on its Balance Sheet. There is the risk that these 
balances cannot be supported by the future cash flows of the Cash 
Generating Units (CGUs). Management conducts an annual impairment 
test of goodwill balances and intangibles are reviewed whenever there  
is an indicator that an asset may be impaired. 
During 2016, the goodwill and intangibles relating to three out of the 
total of 10 CGUs were impaired as follows: 
 − £196m against the Wireless business unit within the 
Communications and Connectivity Sector. This unit includes part of 
the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014 and Axell Wireless acquired in 2013; 
 − £186m against the Integrated Electronic Solutions business unit, part 
of the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector. This unit includes the 
Lansdale business acquired in 2009, part of the M/A-COM business 
also acquired in 2009, the T rivec business acquired in 2011 and part 
of the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014; and
 − £192m against the Semiconductor Solutions business unit, also 
within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector. This unit includes 
part of the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014. 
These impairments were generated as a result of 2016 outturn  
below forecast, combined with lower growth expectations for 2017 
onwards. Further detailed disclosure is included in note 10 of the 
financial statements.
We assessed management’s impairment testing relating to all of the 10 CGUs by obtaining the 
supporting model and assessing the methodology and key assumptions made:
 − Future cash flow forecasts: we evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow forecasts and tested 
the underlying values used in the calculations by comparing the Directors’ forecast to the  
latest three year strategic plan, including risk overlays that reflect historic experience, approved 
by the Board; 
 − Discount rates: for assessing the discount rates used by the Directors, we used an internally 
developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing CGUs, which is based on our view of 
various economic indicators. We were satisfied that the discount rates used by the Directors 
fell within this range for all territories or were marginally above (resulting in a more prudent 
assessment of the value in use); and
 − Long term growth rates: we compared the rates applied by management to our own internally 
developed published rates. No inconsistencies were noted.
For the three CGUs where an impairment was identified, we compared the future cash flow 
forecasts to historic performance. We recalculated the impairment charge with no material 
difference noted. We compared the revised growth assumptions for these CGUs with the latest 
available three year plan, which was used for considering the viability of the Group, to ensure they 
fell within the range of possible outcomes. 
For the remaining CGUs we performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions in order to 
ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions required individually or collectively to result in 
an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. For those business units which were most sensitive, 
we discussed the basis for these cash flows with senior management and the Audit Committee. 
In particular we have focused on the recoverability of the goodwill and intangible assets of the 
SA TCOM business unit, which has not yet seen a recovery in the Marine SA TCOM market. SA TCOM 
has a goodwill balance at the year end of £212m. In addition we considered the CGUs for the 
KC-46 air-to-air refuelling contracts which had a goodwill balance at the year end of £92m. We 
are satisfied that the cash flow impact of the recent agreement was properly considered by 
management in concluding that no impairment is required.  84
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Inventory provisioning
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee Report), page 92  
(note 1, Accounting policies, management judgement  
and estimation uncertainty – inventory provisions) and  
page 109 (note 13, Inventories).
The nature of much of the Group’s business means that the products 
developed can become technically obsolete. It is also necessary to 
hold additional spare parts in order to support key customers and 
programmes should the products require replacement or servicing. 
The Group had gross inventory of £491m and provisions for 
obsolescence of £86m on its Balance Sheet. Inventory holdings and 
aging were a particular focus in management’s closing balance sheet 
review and a number of adjustments were made.
We focused on this area because inventory provisions include 
subjective estimates. They are influenced by assumptions concerning 
future realisable value and usage. Some businesses have experienced 
lower than expected demand and have had challenges with revenue 
forecasting. In addition, the methods used for this estimate vary 
between reporting units depending on the nature of the business 
and inventory.
We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the provision for slow 
moving, excess or obsolete items. This included comparing management’s calculations for 
consistency against those used in the prior year and, where forecast demands were used 
in the assessment, management’s historical forecasting accuracy. In situations where there 
was evidence that management forecasts had not been achieved, we assessed whether the 
provision had taken account of the likelihood of failure to meet future forecasts.
We also considered whether there was any indication of management bias such as manual 
overrides to the established methodology. Manual overrides are typically in respect of 
spares held for the servicing of products on aircraft which have a long service life or where 
the business has purchased ‘Last Time Buys’ for components which would no longer be 
available for purchase. Where overrides were material, we considered the appropriateness 
of management’s judgement based on historical usage and future usage expectations. 
Adjustments arising from our audit were made in the financial statements where there  
was insufficient evidence to support manual overrides. 
We understood adjustments proposed by management as part of the closing balance sheet 
review and challenged management to ensure there was sufficient evidence to support  
further write-offs. We were satisfied that the adjustments made were appropriate. 
No material misstatements were identified. 
Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs 
(including exceptional items)
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee Report), page 93  
(note 1, Accounting policies, management judgement and 
estimation uncertainty – definitions) and pages 98 to 99  
(note 2, Underlying measures).
The financial statements include exceptional items of £237m 
(excluding impairments) and non-operating business restructuring 
credit of £9m, which are disclosed as non-underlying and are excluded 
from underlying operating profit. We focused on this area because 
IFRSs do not define which items may be excluded from underlying 
operating profit and it therefore requires judgement around the 
justification for such exclusion.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items to be excluded from 
underlying operating profit is important to maintain comparability  
of the results year on year. 
In 2016, these costs relate primarily to the outcome of the closing 
balance sheet review which have been disclosed as exceptional and 
business restructuring activity.
We tested the presentation of non-underlying costs by assessing whether the classification 
was in line with the Group’s accounting policy on such items on page 93 of the financial 
statements. We considered management’s definition of “exceptional” and whether it had 
been appropriately disclosed, given it is a non-GAAP measure. We considered the classification 
of adjustments arising from both management’s closing balance sheet review and our audit 
procedures, to ensure they had been categorised between underlying and exceptional,  
as defined. 
We considered the evidence of the events occurring in 2016 which resulted  
in the adjustments being required. We considered whether there was evidence that 
adjustments should have been recorded in prior periods, together with considering whether  
a restatement of the comparative numbers would be required by accounting standards.  
We found there to be no material adjustments, individually or in aggregate, that would  
require a prior period restatement. 
For business restructuring, we testing a sample of the costs incurred to supporting evidence 
such as external purchase invoices, redundancy agreements and personnel costs for staff 
dedicated to these restructuring projects. We also checked that any releases to provisions no 
longer required that were originally recorded as non-underlying, were appropriately classified  
in the same manner upon release.
We reviewed the disclosures provided, particularly the nature of items adjusted and the 
reasons for management considering that they are “exceptional”. No material issues  
were identified. 
Accounting for uncertain tax provisions and recoverability 
of deferred tax assets
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee Report), page 92 and 93 (note 
1, Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation 
uncertainty – taxation), pages 115 to 116 (note 20, Deferred tax) 
and page 127 (note 29, Contingent liabilities).
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws 
in a number of jurisdictions. The Group has a number of open tax 
enquiries and has recognised a number of centrally held provisions 
against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of which is a highly 
judgemental area. Where tax positions are not settled with the tax 
authorities, the Directors take into account precedent and the advice 
of external experts. 
The Group has material deferred tax assets, principally in respect 
of losses. The Directors apply judgement in establishing whether 
deferred tax assets are recoverable. 
We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read correspondence 
from tax authorities and external legal counsel on open tax enquiries. We assessed the 
adequacy of the Directors’ taxation provisions by considering factors such as the risk profile 
of each matter and whether the provision addresses possible penalties and interest. We met 
with senior management and challenged the judgements made in relation to the likelihood of 
litigation from tax authorities by comparing management’s assessment against our own views 
based on our independent assessment of risk.
We assessed the recoverability of deferred tax assets, comparing the cash flow forecast used 
by the Directors in making that assessment against those used for the goodwill impairment 
review and viability assessment. We found that the judgements made by management were 
within an acceptable range.
We reviewed the disclosures made in respect of tax, in particular around estimates and 
uncertainties, as well as contingent liabilities, and are satisfied that the disclosures made  
were appropriate.  85
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work 
to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into 
account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and 
controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured along four reported Sectors, being Advanced Electronic 
Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity and Mission 
Systems. The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 68 reporting 
units within these Sectors, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and 
centralised functions. The Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector (CAES) operates 
under a Special Security Arrangement (SSA) which is required to carry on 
business with the US Department of Defence. The SSA places certain restrictions 
on access to, and communication of, information outside of the US borders.  
We planned our audit to ensure US personnel complete the audit work within 
the SSA. We also met, and agreed the audit plan with, our CAES audit team, in 
addition to agreeing the format and content of communications. There were  
12 reporting units within the SSA that were in our audit scope.
Of the Group’s 68 reporting units, we performed audits of their complete 
financial information at 16 reporting units in the UK, Australia, Denmark and 
France. 13 US reporting units required audit procedures on certain balances and 
transactions (typically including at least revenue and inventory which are areas 
of audit focus) rather than an audit of their complete financial information. At 
a further eight US reporting units we performed limited audit procedures. In 
addition to the above, we performed analytical procedures on the remaining 
37 reporting units to understand key balances and transactions in the year and 
performed additional procedures on any unusual balances identified. 
82% of the Group’s revenue is accounted for by reporting units where we 
performed audits of their complete financial information or performed specific 
audit procedures over revenue. 55% of the Group’s underlying profit before 
taxation is accounted for by the 16 reporting units where we performed audits 
of their complete financial information. In combination with the other work 
referred to above, together with additional procedures performed at Group 
level, including testing of significant journals posted within the Sector and Group 
consolidations and significant adjustments made to the financial statements,  
this gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole.
Where the work was performed by reporting unit audit teams, we determined 
the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting 
units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.  
This included attending the audit close meetings by conference call at which  
the outcome of each reporting unit audit was discussed and visiting a number  
of larger reporting unit audit teams during their planning or fieldwork. This 
included the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling development  
and production contracts. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set 
certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement 
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £10m (2015: £14m).
How we determined it
 
5.6% of underlying profit before tax. (2015: 5%)
Rationale for benchmark 
applied
Underlying profit before taxation is defined in 
the Annual Report on page 144. We believe that 
underlying profit before taxation represents an 
appropriate metric for assessing the performance 
of the Group and provides us with a consistent 
year on year basis for determining materiality.  
It is the amount reported by management both 
internally and externally to the market. We also 
considered our overall Group materiality in the 
context of the Group’s revenue, noting that it 
represents less than 0.5%.
Component materiality For each reporting unit in our audit scope, we 
allocated a materiality that is less than our overall 
Group materiality. The range of materiality 
allocated across reporting units was £871,000 to 
£5,000,000. Certain reporting units were audited  
to a local statutory audit materiality that was also 
less than our overall Group materiality.
The Audit Committee requested, and we agreed, that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £200,000 (2015: £500,000) as 
well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting 
for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set 
out on page 33, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything 
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement 
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to 
draw attention to other than the material uncertainty we have described in the 
emphasis of matter paragraph above. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that it 
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, 
for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. The 
appropriateness of the adoption of the going concern basis is dependent on the 
Parent Company’s ability to raise additional share capital. As part of our audit we 
have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate, 
although the Parent Company’s ability to raise additional share capital indicates 
the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, as explained in note 1 to the 
financial statements. However, because not all future events or conditions can 
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 − the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
 − the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in 
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its 
environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if 
we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report. We have nothing to report in this respect. 86
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc continued
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 − Information in the Annual Report is:
 − materially inconsistent with the information 
in the audited financial statements; or
 − apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of 
the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
 − otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions  
to report.
 − The statement given by the Directors on page 61, in 
accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), that they consider the 
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the 
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions  
to report.
 − The section of the Annual Report on pages 56 
and 57, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does 
not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions  
to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of 
the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity 
of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything 
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 − The Directors’ confirmation on page 53 of the Annual 
Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing 
material to add or to  
draw attention to.
 − The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe 
those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
 − The Directors’ explanation on page 35 of the Annual 
Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of 
the Group, over what period they have done so and 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or to 
draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer term viability of 
the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only 
consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting 
their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant 
provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent 
with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements  
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility set out 
on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: 
 − Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 − The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
 − The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report. 
With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report, we consider 
whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal 
requirements.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of 
Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
That report includes an emphasis of matter.
Pauline Campbell 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
2 March 2016 87
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Group Financial Statements Index
Consolidated Income Statement 88
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 88
Consolidated Balance Sheet 89
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 90
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 91
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies  92
2. Underlying measures 98
3. Revenue and segmental information 99
4. Operating costs 101
5. Finance income and costs 102
6. Taxation 102
7. Dividends 103
8. Earnings per ordinary share 103
9. Cash and cash equivalents and net debt 104
10. Intangible assets 105
11. Property, plant and equipment 108
12. Investment properties 108
13. Inventories 109
14. Financial instruments 109
15. Trade and other receivables 111
16. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 112
17. Borrowings 112
18. Trade and other payables 113
19. Provisions 114
20. Deferred tax 115
21. Derivative financial instruments 117
22. Retirement benefit schemes 117
23. Financial risk management 120
24. Share capital 123
25. Other reserves 124
26. Share based payments 124
27. Business divestments 125
28. Operating lease arrangements 127
29. Contingent liabilities 127
30. Related party transactions 127
31. Events after the balance sheet date 127
32. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings 128 88
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
£m Note 2016 2015
Revenue 3 1,943.9 2,072.0
Cost of sales (1,567.3) (1,408.2)
Gross profit 376.6 663.8
Selling and distribution costs (134.5) (130.1)
Administrative expenses (1,021.2) (521.7)
Operating (loss)/profit (779.1) 12.0
Finance income 5 4.1 5.2
Finance costs 5 (72.9) (57.0)
Loss before taxation (847.9) (39.8)
Taxation 6 52.8 2.1
Loss after taxation for the year (795.1) (37.7)
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (795.2) (37.8)
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1
(795.1) (37.7)
Earnings per ordinary share 8
Basic (52.8)p (2.8)p
Diluted (52.8)p (2.8)p
EPS for the comparative period has been restated for the impact of the rights issue in June 2016.
Underlying results are presented to assist with the understanding of the Group’s performance trends. These measures are defined on page 144 and reconciled to 
GAAP measures in note 2.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2016
£m Note 2016 2015 
Loss after taxation for the year (795.1) (37.7)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations 22 (42.6) 29.6
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 22 (1.2) –
Tax effects 6 8.9 (5.9)
(34.9) 23.7
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 25 41.3 (38.2)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values 25 1.6 1.1
Hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 25 (2.8) –
Tax effects 6 0.4 (0.2)
40.5 (37.3)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 5.6 (13.6)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (789.5) (51.3)
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (789.6) (51.4)
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1
(789.5) (51.3)
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2016 89
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
£m Note 2016 2015 
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 1,165.9 1,729.5
Property, plant and equipment 11 422.9 379.9
Investment properties 12 3.6 4.3
Investments in joint ventures and associates 3.6 3.0
Trade and other receivables 15 66.0 71.3
Other financial assets 14 6.1 6.1
Deferred tax 20 42.3 11.4
Derivative financial instruments 21 19.7 6.5
1,730.1 2,212.0
Current assets
Inventories 13 405.3 410.4
Trade and other receivables 15 409.8 366.0
Current tax receivables 3.1 8.6
Derivative financial instruments 21 8.5 9.1
Cash and cash equivalents 9 236.2 294.7
Assets classified as held for sale 16 – 16.8
1,062.9 1,105.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (60.9) (156.4)
Trade and other payables 18 (430.8) (398.1)
Provisions 19 (180.6) (74.3)
Current tax liabilities (149.5) (125.1)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (42.2) (30.6)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 16 – (12.7)
(864.0) (797.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (1,203.5) (1,345.1)
Trade and other payables 18 (31.5) (24.8)
Provisions 19 (57.3) (68.2)
Deferred tax 20 (27.6) (102.0)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (32.2) (13.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 22 (87.0) (56.7)
(1,439.1) (1,610.7)
Net assets 489.9 909.7
Equity
Share capital 24 44.6 30.4
Share premium 778.3 301.9
Other reserves 25 37.9 (0.3)
Retained earnings (372.0) 576.8
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 488.8 908.8
Non-controlling interests in equity 1.1 0.9
Total equity 489.9 909.7
The financial statements on pages 88 to 131 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 2 March 2017 and signed on its  
behalf by:
    
David Lockwood    David Mellors
Directors     
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2016 90
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
£m
Share  
capital
Share 
premium
Other 
reserves  
(note 25)
Retained 
earnings
Total 
attributable  
to owners of 
the parent
Non-
controlling 
interests
Total  
equity
Total equity at 1 January 2015 30.4 301.9 42.7 736.4 1,111.4 0.9 1,112.3
Loss for the year – – – (37.8) (37.8) 0.1 (37.7)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – 23.7 23.7 – 23.7
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – (37.3) – (37.3) – (37.3)
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – (37.3) (14.1) (51.4) 0.1 (51.3)
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – (24.9) (24.9) – (24.9)
Dividends (note 7) – – – (122.1) (122.1) – (122.1)
Share based payments (note 26) – – (3.0) – (3.0) – (3.0)
Transfer of other reserves to retained earnings – – (1.5) 1.5 – – –
T ax effects (note 6) – – (1.1) – (1.1) – (1.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments – – (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Total equity at 31 December 2015 30.4 301.9 (0.3) 576.8 908.8 0.9 909.7
Loss for the year – – – (795.2) (795.2) 0.1 (795.1)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – (34.9) (34.9) – (34.9)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – 40.5 – 40.5 – 40.5
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 40.5 (830.1) (789.6) 0.1 (789.5)
Issue of shares, net of costs (note 24) 14.2 476.4 – – 490.6 – 490.6
Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares – – – 2.3 2.3 – 2.3
Dividends (note 7) – – – (126.1) (126.1) – (126.1)
Share based payments (note 26) – – 3.8 – 3.8 – 3.8
Transfer of other reserves to retained earnings – – (5.1) 5.1 – – –
T ax effects (note 6) – – (1.2) – (1.2) – (1.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments – – 0.2 – 0.2 0.1 0.3
Total equity at 31 December 2016 44.6 778.3 37.9 (372.0) 488.8 1.1 489.9
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2016 91
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
£m Note 2016 2015 
Operating (loss)/profit (779.1) 12.0
Non-cash items: 
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates (0.2) (0.2)
Depreciation and amortisation 248.1 254.4
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 10 573.8 26.6
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.4 (1.4)
Business acquisition and divestment related items 1.7 27.3
Derivative financial instruments 21 39.3 18.8
Pension contributions in excess of pension charges (16.7) (17.8)
Share based payments 26 3.8 (3.0)
Operating cash movements:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 50.8 (34.6)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 21.9 19.1
Decrease in trade and other payables (9.7) (38.6)
Increase in provisions 87.9 7.4
Tax paid (20.1) (31.5)
Interest paid (74.7) (53.0)
Interest received 3.5 3.6
Net cash from operating activities 134.7 189.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (82.8) (97.8)
Purchase of intangible assets (9.1) (18.6)
Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets 10 (0.3) –
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.1 17.7
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash or debt acquired (1.4) (52.6)
Proceeds of business divestments 27 1.0 205.2
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (86.5) 53.9
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of share capital 490.6 –
Dividends paid 7 (126.1) (122.1)
Purchase of treasury shares – (29.3)
Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 2.3 4.4
New borrowings 9 9.9 257.9
Repayment of borrowings 9 (497.0) (271.0)
Net cash used in financing activities (120.3) (160.1)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (72.1) 82.9
Exchange movements 14.3 (13.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 294.0 224.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 236.2 294.0
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to the Balance Sheet and movement in net debt is detailed in note 9.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 92
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
1. Accounting policies
General information
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Cobham 
plc (the Company), a public company limited by shares, registered and domiciled 
in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries (the Group). 
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, 
interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee and those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under 
the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
Note 31 refers to the Group’s target net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.5x and intention 
to raise equity of £500m. If the equity raise of £500m were to not occur, it is 
likely that the Company would approach its lenders to seek an amendment to its 
key financing covenant of net debt/EBITDA to ensure that it would not breach 
its debt agreements. There can be no certainty that the Company would be 
able to secure such an amendment on acceptable terms or at all and in these 
circumstances if the Group’s net debt/EBITDA should exceed 3.5x, the Group’s 
lenders would be able to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings.
The Board has concluded that the resolutions which are necessary for the rights 
issue to proceed are likely to be passed and that the equity proceeds are likely  
to be raised in line with the timetable so that there will be no covenant breach.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks that may prevent the rights issue 
proceeding in line with the expected timetable or at all. There is a risk that 
sufficient shareholders will not vote in favour of the resolutions to enable  
the equity raise to occur and also a risk that the Financial Conduct Authority  
does not approve the rights issue prospectus. Note 31 explains that the rights 
issue is fully underwritten on a standby basis subject to customary conditions. 
These conditions allow the underwriters to not fund the equity in a number  
of circumstances including there being a material adverse change in the affairs  
of the Company or financial markets.
The Board believes that it is unlikely that the rights issue will not occur but the 
consequences of not being successful indicate the existence of a material 
uncertainty. This may cast significant doubt about the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern so it is appropriate to make full disclosure as required by 
accounting standards. The Board believes that adopting the going concern basis 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements is appropriate and the financial 
statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group were 
unable to continue as a going concern.
The auditors’ report on the financial statements contains an unmodified opinion. 
However, it includes an emphasis of matter in respect of going concern.
Principal accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied unless 
otherwise stated, are as set out below. 
Accounting developments
Annual Improvements 2014 have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2016. 
In addition, amendments to the following standards have been adopted with 
effect from 1 January 2016: 
 − Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, on acquisition of an interest  
in a joint operation;
 − Amendments to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38 Intangible 
assets, on depreciation and amortisation;
 − Amendments to IAS 27 Separate financial statements, on equity accounting;
 − Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and  
IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures, on applying  
the consolidation exemption.
No changes to previously published accounting policies or other adjustments 
were required on the adoption of these amendments. 
The Group elected to adopt the Disclosure Initiative – amendments to IAS 1, 
from 1 January 2015, earlier than the required effective date.
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use 
of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting policies 
and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based 
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The current 
economic conditions have been considered when evaluating accounting 
estimates and judgements, including the application of the going concern  
basis of preparation. Although estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ 
from those estimates.
The Board considers that the key assumptions concerning the future and other 
key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, which have  
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows:
Contract risk and programme execution 
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there 
are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that 
arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could 
materially impact the Group’s future reported earnings. 
In particular, on fixed price development contracts, costs incurred and 
anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as  
a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally agreed  
under the contracts. 
Revenue recognition in respect of these contracts may be impacted by  
customer claims and estimates of expected settlements for contract variations 
and other changes.
Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, 
the outcome of negotiations with customers and the amounts recoverable under 
these contracts.
The Group takes account of the advice of experts in quantifying the expected 
costs of future adverse outcomes. Due to the inherent uncertainty associated 
with such matters, the timing and determination of the total costs or amount  
of any payments under any claims could differ from the amounts provided.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (note 10)
A review of the carrying value of goodwill is completed at least once a year to 
ensure that it is not impaired. This requires estimation of the value in use of the 
cash generating units (CGUs) to which the goodwill is allocated. 
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if events occur which 
may indicate that these assets may be impaired. The carrying value of intangible 
assets is considered annually as part of the goodwill impairment exercise with 
reference to the value in use calculation of each CGU. 
Estimating value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected 
future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in 
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 
Inventory provisions (note 13)
The nature of much of the Group’s business means that inventory held can 
become technically obsolete. It is also necessary to hold additional spare parts  
in order to support key customers and programmes. Judgement is required  
in assessing the level of provision required for obsolete, slow moving and 
defective items of inventory, reflecting assumptions concerning future orders 
and revenue streams.
Taxation (notes 6 and 20)
The Group is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in which 
it conducts its business operations. Due to changes in tax laws and regulations, 
changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase in tax audits and 
challenges and the testing of interpretations through litigation, tax liabilities may 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements 93
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
be, and are being, challenged and may ultimately be deemed inaccurate by  
tax authorities. Areas of tax authority scrutiny include transfer pricing, EU 
State Aid and Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. Tax authorities may also pursue 
additional taxes based on retroactive changes to, and interpretations of, tax 
laws. The availability of interest deductions on the Group’s internal financing 
arrangements, principally as a result of various US acquisitions, has been 
challenged for some time. 
This could lead to increased tax liabilities, in excess of those provided in the 
Balance Sheet, worsening the financial outlook of the Group and result in a 
substantial tax payment becoming necessary. The Group has taken external 
advice and considers that it has strong support for its position. However, the 
timing and resolution of this issue is uncertain.
Retirement benefits (note 22)
The Group Financial Statements include costs and liabilities in relation to 
retirement benefit obligations. A number of assumptions are made in assessing 
the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities, which include  
discount rate, inflation and mortality rates. Comparatively small changes in 
the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Group’s financial 
statements. The Group uses published indices and independent actuarial advice 
to select the values of critical assumptions. These assumptions, with sensitivity 
analysis, can be found in note 22. 
Underlying measures (note 2)
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included 
within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including 
underlying operating profit and underlying earnings. These are considered  
by the Board to be the most meaningful measures under which to assess  
the true operating performance of the Group.
Definitions of the non-GAAP measures can be found on page 144.
The non-GAAP measures used are not defined terms under IFRS and therefore 
may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. They  
are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
Operating segments (note 3)
The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified 
as the Board. It reviews the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess 
performance and allocate resources. Details of the composition and purpose  
of the Board can be found on pages 44 to 52.
The Group reports four operating segments whose revenue and results are 
reported to the Board. These are Communications and Connectivity, Mission 
Systems, Advanced Electronic Solutions and Aviation Services. All operating 
segments meet the definition of reportable segments as defined in IFRS 8.  
The principal activities of these segments are described on pages 2 and 3. 
The Board assesses the trading performance of operating segments based on 
revenue and underlying operating profit as defined above. Finance income, 
finance costs and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the Board on 
a consolidated basis. Segment net assets are disclosed voluntarily in note 3 and 
include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, 
inventory, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and provisions. 
They do not include tax, net debt, derivative financial instruments, contingent 
consideration payable or retirement benefit obligations. 
Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements include the financial statements of the Parent 
Company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control, which is defined  
as the right to variable returns and the ability to affect those returns. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group 
until the date that control ceases. On derecognition, any amounts previously 
recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in respect of that entity 
are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets 
or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in OCI are 
reclassified to profit or loss.
The Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector operates under a Special 
Security Agreement (SSA) with the US Government due to the nature of its work 
on classified US DoD programmes. Whilst the day to day operation of this Sector 
is managed by the SSA Board, the Cobham plc Board retains the right to variable 
returns and the ability to affect those returns and therefore the results of these 
businesses are consolidated within these Group Financial Statements. 
Joint ventures are entities where the parties that have joint control have rights to 
the net assets of the arrangement. Associates are entities where the Group has 
significant influence. Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated but are 
accounted for using the equity method. The Group Financial Statements include 
the Group’s share of the post-acquisition change in net assets and the post-tax 
profit or loss of jointly controlled entities and associates from the date that joint 
control or significant influence commences until the date this ceases. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated  
on consolidation. 
Foreign currencies
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling. Most Group companies, 
including the Parent Company, use their local currency as their functional 
currency. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are 
translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at 
the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences 
arising are taken to the Income Statement. 
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations 
are translated at the closing exchange rates. Income statements of such 
undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an 
approximation for actual rates during the year. Exchange differences arising 
on these translations are accounted for in OCI and the translation reserve. On 
divestment, these exchange differences are reclassified from the translation 
reserve to the Income Statement.
Business combinations
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of 
accounting with effect from the date control passes. The excess of the fair value of 
consideration transferred over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Where a business combination is 
completed in stages, any previously held interests are remeasured to fair value  
at the date at which control is achieved. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised  
in the Income Statement. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, net of returns 
and other allowances.
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is recognised 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and effective control of 
the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery of the consideration is 
probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably. In 
the case of contracts with a long duration, including contracts with a funded 
development phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work 
performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract milestones 
which have been accepted by the customer. 
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11, Construction Contracts is 
not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of goods entered 
into by Group companies. Where long term contract accounting is applicable, 
revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion or milestone basis whereby 
a portion of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract costs incurred 
to date compared with total estimated costs at completion. 
Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with reference to 
the proportion of the service delivered to date. For ‘cost-plus’ contracts (typically 
with government departments and agencies), revenue is recognised to the extent 
of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated 
fee earned. For contracts where revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, 
revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
Revenue excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.  94
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Taxation including deferred taxation (notes 6 and 20)
The tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, using rates that  
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect 
of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements. 
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply 
to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. Tax is charged  
or credited to the Income Statement except when it relates to items recognised 
in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in  
OCI or in equity respectively. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes 
relate to the same fiscal authority.
Dividends (note 7)
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised. 
Intangible assets (note 10)
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit  
from that business combination. CGUs represent the lowest level within the 
Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. 
On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included in 
the determination of the profit or loss on divestment. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. These include 
customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, licences and 
patents. The only internally generated intangible assets are development costs 
which are capitalised as described below and internally developed software 
where asset recognition criteria are met. 
These intangible assets are amortised over the asset’s estimated useful life  
on a straight-line basis as follows:
Customer relationships   5 to 15 years 
T echnology based assets  5 to 15 years
Development costs   2 to 10 years
Order book and trade names  6 months to 10 years
Software and other    2 to 10 years
Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis, taking into account 
the specific characteristics of the asset. 
Research and development
Development costs are capitalised when it can be demonstrated that the 
conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets are met, 
paying particular attention to the requirements for the product to be technically 
feasible and capable of generating a financial return. At that point, further costs 
are capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available 
for use and is then amortised as described above. All development costs not 
capitalised are written off as incurred together with all research costs.
Property, plant and equipment (note 11)
Freehold and leasehold land and buildings, plant and machinery, and fixtures, 
fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase 
price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
All property, plant and equipment other than land and assets under construction 
is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the 
estimated useful lives. These lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings    50 years
Leasehold properties   Period to next break clause
Plant and machinery   3 to 15 years
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed annually 
and adjusted where necessary. Freehold land is not depreciated and is reviewed 
for impairment at least annually.
Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred to the appropriate 
category of property, plant and equipment once construction is complete and 
they enter into service. They are depreciated from this point in accordance with 
the policies described above.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the term of the relevant lease. 
Aircraft overhaul expenditure
Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred 
and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful 
economic life. Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft 
held under operating leases are provided for over the period between the 
scheduled maintenance events. 
Investment properties (note 12)
Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation, are stated at cost in the Balance Sheet. They are depreciated on 
a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful 
lives of up to 50 years. 
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Impairments 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets are reviewed at least 
annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. Where 
there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value 
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for 
which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset 
is lower than its carrying amount. All impairment losses are recognised in the 
Income Statement. 
An impairment loss, other than arising on goodwill, is reversed only after a change in 
the estimates used to assess recoverable amount is identified and only to the extent 
that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss 
had been recognised. Any reversal is recognised in the Income Statement.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 95
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Leasing (notes 11 and 29)
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases 
are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their 
fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each 
determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor 
is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so 
as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Finance charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits receivable as an 
incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
Inventories (note 13)
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition. Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out method.  
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated  
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution. Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving  
and defective items.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (note 16)
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are stated at  
the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal. No depreciation 
is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance sheet date. 
The asset or disposal group should be available for immediate sale in its present 
condition and actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value. 
Fair values
The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the balance sheet date. Fair value measurements are used  
on a recurring basis except where used in the measurement of net assets 
classified as held for sale and in the valuation of assets and liabilities in  
a business combination. 
The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been determined by 
the use of valuation techniques, primarily discounted cash flows, based on 
assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates. 
The fair values of non-financial assets and liabilities, which includes net assets 
classified as held for sale, are based on observable market prices or rates.  
These measurements fall within Level 2 of the IAS 39 fair value hierarchy.  
For non-financial assets, the fair value takes into account the highest and best  
use of the asset.
For financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in the Balance 
Sheet, the carrying values of these items are assumed to approximate to fair 
value due to their short term nature.
There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during the year. 
The Group’s policy is to recognise transfers in and transfers out of fair value 
hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change in circumstances that 
caused the transfer, although there have been no such transfers during the 
current or comparative periods.
Financial instruments (note 14)
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s Balance 
Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument and are initially recognised at fair value at trade date. Subsequent 
measurement is dependent upon the classification of the instrument which is 
determined at initial recognition with reference to the purpose for which the 
instruments were acquired and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
All financial assets and liabilities are classified as current or non-current 
dependent upon the maturity date of the instruments. Financial assets and 
liabilities are presented on an offset basis when there is a legally enforceable  
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on  
a net basis. 
Financial assets 
Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held for 
trading under IAS 39 and are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market. These include 
trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, assets categorised as loans and receivables are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets either 
designated by management as available for sale or not falling into any other 
category. Financial assets so categorised include equity instruments which do  
not have a quoted price in an active market and hence are measured at cost. 
None of the Group’s material financial assets fall into the held to maturity 
category of IAS 39, which are non-derivative financial assets with fixed maturity 
dates that the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are categorised as held for trading under IAS 39 and are 
subsequently held at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities, which  
are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Derivative 
financial instruments are categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced when 
there is evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due. 
All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for 
by reference to past default experience. The balance may be written off in full, 
generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old. Impairments are 
charged to administrative expenses in the Income Statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable  
on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
Cash Flow Statement. 
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount of 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Borrowing costs, net of amounts 
capitalised, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the Income 
Statement as incurred. Premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs are capitalised and amortised over the period of the facility. 
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to relevant property, plant and 
equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Trade payables
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value. 96
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date 
the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. 
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the 
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the  
item being hedged.
The Group currently utilises cash flow hedge accounting principles in relation to 
interest rate swaps, a limited number of specific foreign exchange contracts used 
to mitigate the Group’s exposure to changes in interest rates arising on floating 
rate debt and certain foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional 
currencies. Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging 
instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the transaction. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an 
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly 
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
Where interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are designated and 
qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value is 
recognised in OCI through the hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating to the 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance income or finance costs in the 
Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The majority of foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign 
exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies and inflation  
swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks are not accounted for using  
hedge accounting.
Foreign currency borrowings are also used to hedge the effects of changes in the  
Group’s net investment in foreign operations. These borrowings either provide a  
natural economic hedge through the use of intercompany debt or are designated 
as net investment hedges. Where net investment hedging applies, the borrowings 
are designated as fair value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to the 
foreign equity investment and the exchange differences arising are recognised in 
OCI and through profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or liability 
except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months. 
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of the 
derivative instruments are included in the Income Statement as part of operating 
profit. The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current 
asset or liability dependent upon the maturity date of the financial instrument. 
Provisions (note 19)
A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will 
be required and where the amount can be reliably measured. No provision is 
recognised where the existence of an obligation is possible but will only be 
confirmed by uncertain future events. 
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant 
products, at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the Group’s liabilities, based on past experience and industry averages for 
defective products. 
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the  
expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower  
than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant periodic 
maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on leased operational 
aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months. Costs are charged to the 
Income Statement on the basis of utilisation of the aircraft and are credited  
to the provision. The provision is then utilised by absorbing the actual costs 
incurred in carrying out the maintenance activity. Maintenance carried out on  
a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts contain 
specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on its return to 
the lessor at the end of the lease. The estimated cost associated with fulfilling 
these requirements is charged to the Income Statement on an aircraft utilisation 
basis. The provision is utilised on actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the 
expenditure required to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required 
by the lease before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under 
performance guarantees are recognised at management’s best estimate of  
the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liabilities. 
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk free rate when the impact  
is material.
Retirement benefit schemes (note 22)
For defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related to the 
administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit. Gains and losses 
on settlements and curtailments arising on a business divestment are included in 
profit on divestment. Past service costs are recognised in the Income Statement. 
The interest on net assets or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs. 
Actuarial remeasurements are recognised in OCI.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held 
separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds. 
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate 
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of 
equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations 
are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The 
resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face 
of the Balance Sheet.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the Income 
Statement as they fall due. 
Share capital (note 24)
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. Preference share capital is classified 
as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the 
preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends 
on preference share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the Income 
Statement as finance costs.
Treasury shares (note 24)
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, 
the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration paid, including 
commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total equity. 
The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or re-issued, net of 
commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in retained earnings and 
total equity.
Share based payments (note 26)
For grants made under the Group’s equity settled share based payment schemes, 
amounts which reflect the fair value of awards as at the time of grant are charged 
to the Income Statement over the relevant vesting periods, taking into account 
management’s best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The 
Group reviews and updates the vesting estimate, which includes progress against 
non-market related performance conditions, at each balance sheet date. 
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes model, 
modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance 
criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 97
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Future accounting developments
The following new standards have been published that are mandatory for future 
accounting periods:
 − IFRS 9, Financial Instruments; and
 − IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers including amendment. 
There are also a number of new standards, amendments to existing standards 
including Annual Improvements and interpretations which, once endorsed by  
the EU, will be effective from 1 January 2017 or later years. These include: 
 − IFRS 16, Leases;
 − Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for  
Unrealised Losses;
 − Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative;
 − Clarifications to IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers;
 − Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based 
Payment Transactions;
 − Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 
Insurance Contracts;
 − Annual Improvements 2014-2016;
 − IFRIC Interpretation 22, Foreign Currency Translations and Advance 
Consideration; and
 − Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property.
Based on an initial review, IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact  
on the results of the Group. 
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and clarifications
The Group will adopt IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, from  
1 January 2018. IFRS 15 introduces a five-step model to be applied to all 
contracts with customers. A detailed review of contracts has been performed 
during 2016 to determine the impact of this new approach. In addition a number 
of new disclosures will be required.
Contracts related to the sale of short-cycle catalogue items, mostly seen in the 
Communications and Connectivity Sector, are unlikely to be impacted by IFRS 15 
and revenue will typically be recognised at a point in time based on when control 
of the product passes to the customer.
Most of the revenue in Aviation Services is generated from providing services  
to customers. Revenue is recognised over time as the services are enjoyed.  
This is consistent with IFRS 15 and consequently there is not expected to be  
a significant impact on this Sector on the adoption of the new standard.
Within the Mission Systems Sector there are currently a number of long term 
development programmes. For these contracts revenue is recognised based 
upon the fair value of work performed to date assessed with reference to 
completed contract milestones. Under IFRS 15, revenue for these contracts will 
be recognised over time on a percentage of completion basis whereby a portion 
of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract costs incurred to date 
compared with total estimated costs at completion.
Mission Systems also generate revenue through the sale of products. Some 
of these products are customer specific and therefore may have no alternate 
use. For these contracts there is generally a right to payment and therefore 
revenue will be recognised over time. Cost is likely to be judged to be the most 
appropriate way of measuring progress in completing performance obligations.
The Group has a number of contracts with government bodies, including some 
within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, by which control is transferred 
to the customer as the product is being manufactured or as the services are 
being provided. For these contracts revenue will be recognised over time,  
typically using cost as the basis of measuring progress. For ‘cost-plus’ contracts 
(typically with government departments and agencies), revenue is recognised to 
the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the 
estimated fee earned.
Based on the review of current contracts, IFRS 15 will change revenue recognition 
methodologies for longer term contracts and for products where there is no 
alternate use and an enforceable right to payment. Currently revenue for some  
of these contracts is recognised on a contractual milestone basis or at a point in 
time on shipment or delivery to the customer.
As at 31 December 2016 amounts included in work in progress in respect of the 
impacted contracts is estimated to be approximately £120m. Under IFRS 15 this 
would be traded as revenue and included in trade receivables including margin. 
The impact of IFRS 15 on the 2017 results will depend on the contracts in 
force during that period. When IFRS 15 is adopted in 2018 comparatives will be 
restated using the fully retrospective approach. The year on year impact will also 
depend on the contracts in place.
IFRS 16, Leases 
IFRS 16, effective from 1 January 2019, requires all leases to be recognised on 
the Balance Sheet. Broadly the Group will recognise leases currently treated as 
operating leases, disclosed in note 28, as a lease liability and a right-to-use asset, 
after adjusting for extension periods that are reasonably certain to be taken  
and discounting using the rate implicit in the lease or the incremental cost 
of borrowing. 
The total operating lease cost, currently expensed to the Income Statement 
as incurred will be split into a financing element and an operating element. The 
financing element will create a front loaded expense in finance costs. Additional 
disclosures will be required to support the new accounting requirements.
Management are currently assessing the impact of adopting this standard.
None of the amendments to other standards effective from 1 January 2017 or 
later years are expected to have an impact on the Group’s financial reporting. 98
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
2. Underlying measures
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including underlying 
operating profit and underlying earnings. These are considered by the Board to be the most meaningful measures under which to assess the operating performance 
of the Group and provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders. The non-GAAP measures used do not include the impact of items 
described below which are not considered to reflect the day to day operating results of the Group. Underlying measures are therefore considered to provide  
a more comparable view year on year, having removed the distorting effects of the excluded items which are more clearly understood when presented separately. 
Definitions of the underlying measures can be found on page 144.
Underlying profit is derived from the operating result as set out below:
£m Note 2016 2015
Operating (loss)/profit (779.1) 12.0
Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes (8.7) 67.5
Derivative financial instruments 21 39.3 18.8
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 10 161.2 176.8
Other business acquisition and divestment related items
Loss/(profit) on divestments 27 1.3 (53.8)
Amounts provided related to businesses held for sale – 69.0
Pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written off – 9.3
Other M&A related costs 0.4 6.0
Exceptional items
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 10 573.8 26.6
Revisions of the carrying values of other assets 33.3 –
Estimates of fixed price contract profitability 179.1 –
Assessment of legal and other provisions 24.4 –
Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2
Underlying net finance costs (49.8) (51.8)
Underlying profit before taxation 175.2 280.4
T axation charge on underlying profit (effective rate 22.6%, 2015: 21.5%) (39.6) (60.2)
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 135.5 220.1
 2016
2015 
(Restated)
Weighted average number of shares million 1,506.3 1,333.2
Underlying basic EPS 9.0p 16.5p
Diluted weighted average number of shares million 1,508.1 1,337.8
Underlying diluted EPS 9.0p 16.5p
Underlying EPS figures for the comparative period have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue completed during the year. 
Adjusting items in the table above are as follows: 
Amounts related to prior years’ restructuring programmes were deemed as incremental to normal operations and non-recurring in nature. In 2016 and 2015, these 
relate to the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014. In 2016, this reflects a reassessment of the level of provisions required in respect of the IT 
integration and remediation costs resulting from the Aeroflex acquisition. 
Derivative financial instruments excluded from underlying measures includes changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial 
instruments together with gains and losses arising on dividend related foreign exchange contracts, as described further in note 21.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations such as customer lists, technology based assets and order book and trade names is not included  
in underlying measures. Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets such as software and development costs is included within underlying measures,  
see note 10.
Other business acquisition and divestment related items in 2016 include profits or losses on divestments and costs related to acquisitions in prior years. These follow 
the sale during the year of the Surveillance and Unmanned Systems businesses and reflect the difference between the agreed transaction price and the book value  
of assets prior to the divestments, as detailed in note 27.
For 2016 the following items are considered to be exceptional because of their size and non-recurring nature and are excluded from underlying measures. While 
these relate, in part, to ongoing activities, their impact is much larger than would normally be expected in any individual accounting period and reflect commercial 
events that are not expected to repeat. The Board have adopted a more cautious approach due to the current trading environment and associated risks. As a result, 
management consider these costs to be exceptional. To aid understanding items have been aggregated into the following categories based on similar business and 
control factors: 99
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 − An impairment provision totalling £573.8m booked against goodwill and other intangible assets as described in note 10; 
 − Revisions to the carrying values of other assets include £20.2m against the inventory balance reflecting ageing stock and lower demand forecasts; £3.9m against 
intangible assets no longer planned to be used; £3.9m tangible asset write down against plant and machinery and similar items no longer expected to be used; and 
£5.3m provision against aged receivables considered doubtful;
 − A charge of £179.1m has been taken against estimates of fixed price contract profitability including KC-46. This reflects increased estimates of costs to complete 
and, in some cases, lower recovery from customers. The Board recognises that making estimates on complex contracts is inherently judgemental and therefore 
whilst it has taken a reasonable view of contract positions at present, the final outcome of the contracts could be more or less favourable than the position taken. 
The charges booked can be broadly categorised as: £150.0m against KC-46; £18.5m on other development contracts within the Mission Systems Sector; £7.7m  
on development contracts within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector; and £2.9m within the Communications and Connectivity Sector; and
 − Legal and other provisions have been made to cover the estimated exposure on a number of legal, environmental, warranty and other regulatory matters across 
the Group. 
Adjusting items in the table above total £1,004.1m (2015: £320.2m) and are included in the Income Statement as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Cost of sales 208.7 –
Selling and distribution costs 0.6 –
Administrative expenses 794.8 320.2
1,004.1 320.2
Underlying administrative expenses, after adjusting for the reconciling items in the table above, amounted to £226.6m (2015: £201.5m), representing 11.7% (2015: 
9.7%) of revenue.
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow and operating cash flow as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Net cash from operating activities per Cash Flow Statement 134.7 189.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (82.8) (97.8)
Purchase of intangible assets (9.1) (18.6)
Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets (0.3) –
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.1 17.7
Business acquisition and divestment related costs paid 2.1 15.1
Free cash flow 50.7 105.5
Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes 39.8 48.2
Tax paid 20.1 31.5
Underlying net finance costs paid 71.2 49.4
Operating cash flow 181.8 234.6
3. Revenue and segmental information
Revenue
Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Revenue from sale of goods 1,445.0 1,585.4
Revenue from services 498.9 486.6
1,943.9 2,072.0
Revenue from services includes service contracts in the Aviation Services Sector together with logistics support, maintenance and repairs in other Sectors.   
Operating segments
Revenue Underlying operating profit Segment net assets
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Communications and Connectivity 690.2 771.8 60.0 108.4 573.7 844.0
Mission Systems 386.4 382.4 56.5 68.0 196.3 289.2
Advanced Electronic Solutions 511.6 538.0 60.2 80.5 686.1 996.0
Aviation Services 357.2 390.1 38.3 57.3 276.3 257.1
Head office, other activities and elimination  
of inter-segment items (1.5) (10.3) 10.0 18.0 47.0 19.9
Total Group 1,943.9 2,072.0 225.0 332.2 1,779.4 2,406.2
Interests in joint ventures and associates 3.6 3.0
Unallocated liabilities (1,293.1) (1,499.5)
Total net assets 489.9 909.7 100
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Underlying operating profit is reconciled to the loss before taxation as follows:
£m Note 2016 2015
Underlying operating profit 225.0 332.2
Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes 8.7 (67.5)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (39.3) (18.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 10 (161.2) (176.8)
Other business acquisition and divestment related items (1.7) (30.5)
Exceptional items 2 (810.6) (26.6)
Net finance costs 5 (68.8) (51.8)
Loss before taxation (847.9) (39.8)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles included in the calculation of underlying 
operating profit can be analysed by segment as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Communications and Connectivity 16.8 16.7
Mission Systems 5.9 5.3
Advanced Electronic Solutions 15.4 16.4
Aviation Services 33.5 36.1
Head office and other activities 8.9 2.7
Total Group 80.5 77.2
Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 4. 
Geographical information
Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographic location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown below. Non-current assets are 
analysed by the physical location of the assets and exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets. 
Revenue Non-current assets
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015
USA 941.9 985.1 862.0 1,156.8
UK 185.2 223.0 269.6 551.3
Other EU 312.1 305.2 289.6 275.4
Australia 213.9 226.6 151.4 106.2
Rest of the world 290.8 332.1 23.4 27.0
1,943.9 2,072.0 1,596.0 2,116.7
Revenue from customers located in the rest of the world includes £195.1m (2015: £230.4m) from customers in Asia. Revenue from customers in individual countries 
within the EU (except the UK) and the rest of the world is not considered to be individually material.
Included in non-current assets located in EU countries other than the UK are assets of £238.3m (2015: £232.0m) located in Denmark. 101
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. Operating costs
Operating costs include the following:
£m 2016 2015
Materials costs within cost of sales 615.1 664.0
Amounts related to prior periods restructuring programmes
Included within underlying profit 6.3 0.4
Non-underlying restructuring costs (8.7) 67.5
Company funded research and development 130.2 138.0
Employment costs and employee numbers
The aggregate employment costs are as follows: 
£m Note 2016 2015
Wages and salaries 614.2 604.9
Social security costs 44.9 49.5
Pension costs 22 35.1 30.8
Share based payments 26 3.8 (3.0)
698.0 682.2
Employee numbers, analysed by segment, are as follows:
Average number of employees As at 31 December
2016 2015 2016 2015
Communications and Connectivity 3,561 4,487 3,429 4,027
Mission Systems 1,588 1,556 1,618 1,595
Advanced Electronic Solutions 3,103 3,590 3,068 3,033
Aviation Services 2,316 2,468 2,240 2,430
Head office and other activities 330 426 337 420
Total Group 10,898 12,527 10,692 11,505
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Salaries and short term employee benefits 6.3 7.1
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2
Termination benefits 1.5 0.2
Share based payments 0.5 (1.4)
8.4 6.1
Audit fees
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates:
£m 2016 2015
Annual audit of the Parent Company and Group Financial Statements 1.4 1.0
Audit of the Company's subsidiaries 1.1 1.2
Fees payable for audit services 2.5 2.2
T ax compliance services 0.3 0.3
Other tax advisory services 0.2 1.0
Other assurance services 0.3 0.1
Fees payable for other services 0.8 1.4
Total fees payable to the auditors 3.3 3.6 102
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
5. Finance income and costs
£m Note 2016 2015
Bank interest 0.9 3.1
Other finance income 3.2 2.1
Total finance income 4.1 5.2
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (51.9) (52.8)
Interest on net pension scheme liabilities 22 (1.8) (3.1)
Other finance expense (19.2) (1.1)
Total finance costs (72.9) (57.0)
Net finance costs (68.8) (51.8)
Other finance expense for 2016 includes £19.0m of make-whole fees payable in connection with the early repayment of fixed term borrowings following the rights 
issue in June 2016. These costs are excluded from underlying earnings.
6. Taxation
£m Note 2016 2015
Charge for the year 45.1 39.8
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 4.5 (10.8)
Current tax 49.6 29.0
Credit for the year (107.6) (38.2)
Impact of change in tax rates 5.0 –
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 0.2 7.1
Deferred tax 20 (102.4) (31.1)
Total tax credit for the year (52.8) (2.1)
Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction. The total tax credit for the year  
includes a credit of £44.3m (2015: £9.2m) for the UK. As shown in note 2, the tax charge on underlying profit is £39.6m (2015: £60.2m) at an effective rate  
of 22.6% (2015: 21.5%).
The total tax credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting result as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Loss before tax (847.9) (39.8)
T ax thereon at the UK income tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.25%) (169.6) (8.1)
Impairment of goodwill 106.1 –
Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates (8.2) (12.3)
Impact of tax treatment of divestments 5.6 24.4
Impact of change in UK tax rates 5.0 –
Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief (1.3) (1.6)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 4.7 (3.7)
Impact of other items 4.9 (0.8)
Total tax credit for the year (52.8) (2.1)
On 1 April 2017 the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 20% to 19%. It will further reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020.  103
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In addition the following charges/(credits) have been included in OCI and equity: 
Included in OCI
£m 2016 2015
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial (loss)/gain on retirement benefit obligations (8.5) 5.9
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations (0.4) –
(8.9) 5.9
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (0.4) 0.2
Included in equity
£m 2016 2015
Share based payments 1.2 1.1
7. Dividends
£m 2016 2015
Final dividend of 8. 1 3p per share for 2015 (2014: 7 .746p) 91.6 87.7
Interim dividend of 2.03p per share for 2016 (2015: 3.05p)  34.5 34.4
Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 126.1 122.1
As announced on 11 January 2017, the Board does not recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
8. Earnings per ordinary share
2016
2015 
Restated
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent £m (795.2) (37.8)
Weighted average number of shares million 1,506.3 1,333.2
Basic and diluted EPS pence (52.8) (2.8)
When losses are made, potentially dilutive shares have no impact on EPS. 
EPS figures for the comparative period have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue, in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share. 104
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
9. Cash and cash equivalents and net debt
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net debt
£m Note 2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents per Cash Flow Statement 236.2 294.0
Bank overdrafts – 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents per Balance Sheet 236.2 294.7
Borrowings – current liabilities 17 (60.9) (156.4)
Borrowings – non-current liabilities 17 (1,203.5) (1,345.1)
Net debt at 31 December (1,028.2) (1,206.8)
Details of the offsetting of overdrafts with cash and cash equivalents and other financial instruments can be found in note 14. 
Bank term balances totalling £7.1m (2015: £6.1m) have been pledged against the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020.
Reconciliation of movements in net debt
£m 2016 2015
Net debt at 1 January (1,206.8) (1,222.7)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year per Cash Flow Statement (72.1) 82.9
New borrowings (9.9) (257.9)
Repayment of borrowings 497.0 271.0
Foreign exchange adjustments (236.4) (80.1)
Net debt at 31 December (1,028.2) (1,206.8) 105
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. Intangible assets
Arising on business combinations
£m Goodwill
Customer 
relationships
Technology 
based assets
Order book and 
trade names
Development 
costs
Software and 
other Total
Cost
At 1 January 2015 1,328.7 602.8 358.6 63.0 2.0 67.9 2,423.0
Additions – – – – – 16.9 16.9
Business divestments (65.9) (49.1) (12.0) – – (0.6) (127.6)
Reclassified as held for sale (81.3) (11.0) (7.5) – – (3.3) (103.1)
Derecognitions – (13.7) (65.7) (15.3) (1.7) (2.1) (98.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments 19.1 16.2 5.1 0.5 – 0.3 41.2
Reclassifications – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 1 January 2016 1,200.6 545.2 278.5 48.2 0.3 79.5 2,152.3
Additions – – – – – 8.2 8.2
Additions – internally generated – – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Business divestments (32.3) (1.0) (19.1) – – (0.5) (52.9)
Derecognitions and disposals – – (13.1) (43.9) (0.1) (0.9) (58.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments 150.1 79.7 32.8 0.8 – 8.1 271.5
Reclassifications – – – – – 5.0 5.0
At 31 December 2016 1,318.4 623.9 279.1 5.1 0.5 99.4 2,326.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2015 63.0 141.6 124.0 24.3 1.7 27.6 382.2
Amortisation charge for the year – 82.2 63.2 31.4 0.2 3.8 180.8
Eliminated on business divestments – (10.9) (5.5) – – (0.4) (16.8)
Impairment provision 71.4 – 1.2 – – 1.2 73.8
Reclassified as held for sale (81.3) (11.0) (7.5) – – (3.3) (103.1)
Derecognitions – (13.7) (65.7) (15.3) (1.7) (2.1) (98.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 5.1 (1.4) 0.1 (0.1) 0.4 4.4
At 1 January 2016 53.4 193.3 108.3 40.5 0.1 27.2 422.8
Amortisation charge for the year – 105.2 50.0 6.0 0.1 13.9 175.2
Eliminated on business divestments (32.3) (0.8) (18.3) – – (0.5) (51.9)
Impairment provision 530.6 23.0 20.2 – – – 573.8
Derecognitions and disposals – – (13.1) (43.9) (0.1) (0.7) (57.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 41.5 34.2 13.4 0.4 – 5.9 95.4
Reclassifications – – – – – 3.0 3.0
At 31 December 2016 593.2 354.9 160.5 3.0 0.1 48.8 1,160.5
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2016 725.2 269.0 118.6 2.1 0.4 50.6 1,165.9
At 31 December 2015 1,147.2 351.9 170.2 7.7 0.2 52.3 1,729.5
At 1 January 2015 1,265.7 461.2 234.6 38.7 0.3 40.3 2,040.8
Amortisation charged during the year relating to intangible assets recognised on business combinations was £161.2m (2015: £176.8m). This has been excluded from 
underlying profit in note 2. In addition, the impairment provision of £573.8m and £3.9m of amortisation of software have been included within exceptional items in 
note 2. All amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses in the Income Statement. 
Customer relationships represent customer lists, customer contracts and the associated benefits of customer relationships recognised on acquisition. T echnology 
based assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology, and know-how recognised on acquisition. Other intangible assets represent 
purchased patents, licences and trademarks. Intangible assets recognised on business combinations are derecognised when they have been fully amortised. 106
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Goodwill and annual impairment review
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately 
recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group. The carrying value of goodwill is allocated to the 
following cash generating units:
£m 2016 2015
SATCOM (Communications and Connectivity) 211.8 222.0
Microelectronic Solutions (Advanced Electronic Solutions) 142.3 99.7
Davenport (Mission Systems) 91.9 88.3
Integrated Electronic Solutions (Advanced Electronic Solutions) 57.4 220.0
Helicopter services (Aviation Services) 50.8 50.8
Semiconductor Solutions (Advanced Electronic Solutions) 46.0 214.9
Avionics (Communications and Connectivity) 41.1 36.9
Wireless (Communications and Connectivity) – 152.9
Other 83.9 61.7
Total 725.2 1,147.2
The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit (CGU) annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be 
impaired. CGUs are typically considered to be Business Units.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise. Businesses held for sale 
are assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment. 
The calculation of recoverable value for CGUs based on value in use includes the following key assumptions:
 − Cash flow forecasts prepared as part of the annual strategic planning process and approved by management, updated where appropriate for more recent 
forecasts. These forecasts take into account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as continued uncertainty within certain 
markets in which we operate. For 2016, forecasts for the following 3 years have been used to reflect the recent performance of the CGUs and the uncertainty  
of medium term market conditions, compared to a five year forecast used in 2015. Cash flow projections do not include benefits or costs expected to arise  
from future restructuring or initiatives to enhance performance which have not yet commenced;
 − Growth rates assumed after this period are based on long term GDP projections of the primary market for each business. The long term projections used are  
in the range 1.2% to 2.5% (2015: 1.2% to 2.5%); 
 − Cash flows are discounted using the Group’s WACC, adjusted for country, cash flow and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates. 
These pre-tax discount rates are within the range 8.3% to 10.1% (2015: 9.2% to 11.0%);
 − Cash flows include the impact of working capital and fixed asset requirements; and
 − Cash flows include management charges which allocate central overheads to the CGUs.
Following the 2016 review the following impairments were made: 
£m Goodwill
Other intangible 
assets
Wireless (Communications and Connectivity) 152.9 43.2
Integrated Electronic Solutions (Advanced Electronic Solutions) 185.7 –
Semiconductor Solutions (Advanced Electronic Solutions) 192.0 –
Total 530.6 43.2 107
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs and those considered to be individually significant, as described below: 
Wireless includes part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014 and Axell Wireless acquired in 2013. This CGU has generated lower revenues than expected during 
2016, due to market pressures, site integration issues and delayed product launches.. Cash flow projections, using 2016 as a baseline, were discounted at 9.5% and 
terminal growth of 2.1% was applied after 3 years. The calculated value in use was insufficient to support in full the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets 
arising on business combinations. Therefore goodwill related to this CGU has been impaired in full. £43.2m was written off other intangible assets leaving a balance  
of £25.5m.
Integrated Electronic Solutions includes the Lansdale business and some of the former M/A-COM businesses acquired in 2008, the Trivec business acquired in 2011 
and part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014. This CGU has been impacted by the end of production on some long term programmes. Projected cash flows 
for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 2.0%, have been discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.2%. This resulted in an impairment charge of 
£185.7m which reduces the carrying value of goodwill related to this CGU to £57.4m. Cash flow projections assume programme wins that are fully funded by US 
defence budgets with successful product developments. If the contract wins are lower than expected and cashflows fall by 10% then further impairment losses of 
£15m would arise. The pre-tax discount rate applied to forecast cash flows was 9.2% and further impairment losses of £22m would arise if this increased to 10.2%.  
The long term growth rate is assumed to be 2.0%. If the long term growth rate was reduced to 1.0% then further impairment losses of £17m would arise. 
Semiconductor Solutions includes part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014. This CGU has not performed in line with expectations driven by lower volume. 
Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 1.9%, discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.2% have resulted in an impairment 
charge of £192.0m. This reduces the carrying value of goodwill related to this CGU to £46.0m. Future growth relies on commercial satellite market advances and 
penetration of new markets in medical and industrial devices. If the expected cashflows fall by 10% then further impairment losses of £31m would arise. If the long 
term growth rate was reduced to nil then further impairment losses of £61m would arise.
As noted above, for the three CGUs impaired in the year, future deterioration in the underlying assumptions could result in the need for further impairment.
SA TCOM goodwill arose primarily on the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane in 2012. Cash flow projections assume a recovery in the marine SA TCOM markets.  
If cash flows reduced by 10% or more then impairment losses of £0.1m would arise. If the pre-tax discount rate, assumed to be 8.6%, was 9.6% then impairment 
losses of £10m would arise, or if the growth rate fell from 1.3% to zero, then impairment losses of £12m would arise. 
Microelectronic Solutions goodwill includes part of the Aeroflex business acquired in 2014, some of the former M/A-COM businesses acquired in 2008 and the 
REMEC business acquired in 2005. Cash flow projections assume continued funding of established US defence platforms. If cash flows reduced by 20% there  
would be no impairment losses. If the pre-tax discount rate, assumed to be 9.2%, was 10.2% or if the growth rate fell from 2.0% to zero, then no impairment losses 
would arise. 
Davenport goodwill arose on the acquisition of Carleton T echnologies in 1987, Conax in 1998 and Koch in 2005. Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with 
subsequent growth assumed at a rate of 2.0% were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.2%. If cash flows reduced by 20%, the discount rate was 10.2% or if the growth 
rate was zero, then no impairment losses would arise.
Helicopter Services goodwill arose on the acquisition of the FB Group in 2013. Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at  
a rate of 2.1% were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.5%. If cash flows reduced by 20%, the discount rate was 10.5% or if the growth rate was zero, then no 
impairment losses would arise.
Avionics goodwill arose on the acquisition of a number of smaller businesses. Projected cash flows for the next 3 years, with subsequent growth assumed at a rate  
of 1.4% were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 9.8%. If cash flows reduced by 20%, the discount rate was 10.2% or if the growth rate was zero, then no impairment 
losses would arise. 108
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings Plant and 
machinery 
(including aircraft 
and vehicles)
Fixtures,  
fittings,  
tools and  
equipment
Payments on 
account and  
assets under 
construction Total £m Freehold Long leases Short leases
Cost
At 1 January 2015 105.1 35.4 8.5 661.9 93.8 23.1 927.8
Additions 2.7 1.2 0.3 42.9 4.0 47.9 99.0
Business divestments (7.0) (1.0) (5.1) (24.4) (5.5) (0.2) (43.2)
Disposals (9.9) (2.3) – (24.4) (4.0) – (40.6)
Reclassified as held for sale (0.4) (2.1) (0.1) (9.7) (5.9) – (18.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.9 0.9 0.3 (5.8) 0.4 0.7 (1.6)
Reclassifications 1.3 – – 5.4 1.4 (9.5) (1.4)
At 1 January 2016 93.7 32.1 3.9 645.9 84.2 62.0 921.8
Additions 1.8 1.3 0.1 50.3 10.7 17.3 81.5
Business divestments – – – – (2.5) – (2.5)
Disposals (3.6) (2.3) (0.4) (43.5) (4.9) (0.2) (54.9)
Foreign exchange adjustments 14.2 2.8 0.7 69.3 12.2 9.5 108.7
Reclassifications 3.4 – – 12.5 4.7 (18.5) 2.1
At 31 December 2016 109.5 33.9 4.3 734.5 104.4 70.1 1,056.7
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 31.5 17.9 6.2 414.5 67.7 – 537.8
Depreciation charge for the year 4.1 2.7 0.7 61.0 4.5 – 73.0
Eliminated on business divestments (2.9) – (4.3) (12.8) (3.4) – (23.4)
Eliminated on disposals (2.7) (2.1) – (21.6) (3.9) – (30.3)
Reclassified as held for sale (0.2) (0.8) – (7.2) (5.8) – (14.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 0.5 – (2.5) (0.1) – (1.6)
Reclassifications 0.3 (0.1) – (0.6) 0.8 – 0.4
At 1 January 2016 30.6 18.1 2.6 430.8 59.8 – 541.9
Depreciation charge for the year 5.6 1.5 0.5 54.4 10.2 – 72.2
Eliminated on business divestments – – – – (1.6) – (1.6)
Eliminated on disposals (3.4) (0.7) (0.3) (36.4) (3.6) – (44.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments 5.0 2.3 0.5 45.7 7.8 – 61.3
Reclassifications (0.1) – – 4.7 (0.2) – 4.4
At 31 December 2016 37.7 21.2 3.3 499.2 72.4 – 633.8
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2016 71.8 12.7 1.0 235.3 32.0 70.1 422.9
At 31 December 2015 63.1 14.0 1.3 249.4 24.4 27.7 379.9
At 1 January 2015 73.6 17.5 2.3 247.4 26.1 23.1 390.0
Included in the depreciation charge for the year is £2.0m which has been included within exceptional items in note 2. At 31 December 2016 the Group had 
commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of £14.3m (2015: £29.3m). Comparatives for 2015 include a reclassification between plant and 
machinery and assets under construction.
12. Investment properties
£m 2016 2015
Carrying amount at 1 January 4.3 10.4
Disposals – (6.0)
Depreciation (0.7) (0.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments – 0.1
Carrying amount at 31 December 3.6 4.3
Included in the depreciation charge for the year is £0.5m which has been included within exceptional items in note 2. The fair value of the Group’s investment 
properties has been assessed to be £6.2m (2015: £6.6m). These values are based on management estimates using observable market data, taking into account current 
lease terms. Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to £0.7m (2015: £1.2m), which is net of all direct costs associated 
with the leasing of the properties except depreciation. The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms of 10, 11 and 25 years which 
commenced between 1998 and 2013. 109
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13. Inventories
£m 2016 2015
Raw materials and consumables 210.7 187.2
Work in progress 238.2 220.1
Finished goods and goods for resale 42.5 51.9
Allowance for obsolescence (86.1) (48.8)
405.3 410.4
Exceptional items detailed in note 2 include £34.8m in respect of inventories, of which £19.5m relates to additional obsolescence provisions reflecting ageing stock 
and lower demand forecasts, £14.6m relating to the derecognition of contract related work in progress and £0.7m relating to spares inventory. 
Work in progress includes £58.4m (2015: £58.5m) which relates to customer funded engineering development contracts.
During the year £36.3m (2015: £18.5m) was provided, £5.2m (2015: £4.6m) was utilised and £6.4m (2015: £10.5m) of the allowance for obsolescence was reversed. 
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary. The amounts are generally 
determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand. Subsequent events may give rise to these estimates being revised and, consequently,  
to the reversal of amounts previously provided.
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses. Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating to long term contracts 
expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to £29.2m (2015: £17.1m).
14. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are categorised as follows: 
£m Note
Loans and 
receivables
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss Amortised cost
Derivatives used 
for hedging 
Total 
carrying amount Fair value
Financial assets 
Trade receivables 15 307.5 – – – 307.5 307.5
Other receivables 15 129.0 – – – 129.0 129.0
Cash and cash equivalents 9 236.2 – – – 236.2 236.2
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – 9.3 – – 9.3 9.3
Other financial assets – – 6.1 – 6.1 6.1
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 17 – – (1,264.4) – (1,264.4) (1,348.3)
Trade payables 18 – – (155.8) – (155.8) (155.8)
Accruals 18 – – (129.5) – (129.5) (129.5)
Other financial liabilities 18 – – (43.3) – (43.3) (43.3)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – (54.0) – – (54.0) (54.0)
Hedging instruments
Assets 21 – – – 18.9 18.9 18.9
Liabilities 21 – – – (20.4) (20.4) (20.4)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2016 (960.4) (1,044.3)
Financial assets
Trade receivables 15 286.3 – – – 286.3 286.3
Other receivables 15 114.7 – – – 114.7 114.7
Cash and cash equivalents 9 294.7 – – – 294.7 294.7
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – 11.2 – – 11.2 11.2
Other financial assets – – 6.1 – 6.1 6.1
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 17 – – (1,501.5) – (1,501.5) (1,604.1)
Trade payables 18 – – (145.9) – (145.9) (145.9)
Accruals 18 – – (121.7) – (121.7) (121.7)
Other financial liabilities 18 – – (42.6) – (42.6) (42.6)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 21 – (40.2) – – (40.2) (40.2)
Hedging instruments
Assets 21 – – – 4.4 4.4 4.4
Liabilities 21 – – – (4.3) (4.3) (4.3)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2015 (1,138.8) (1,241.4) 110
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Borrowings are held at amortised cost which equates to fair value except for the Group’s fixed rate borrowings. At 31 December 2016 the fair value of those 
borrowings was £932.8m (2015: £976.1m) compared to their book value of £848.9m (2015: £873.5m). The fair value of the fixed rate borrowings and derivative 
financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices and rates.
Other financial assets relate to Cobham plc’s investments in connection with the Voyager (FST A) project which are held at cost, totalling £6.1m (2015: £6.1m).
Gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are shown in note 21. The total interest income and expense for financial 
assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is shown in note 5. 
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the Balance Sheet include overdraft balances on currency cash pooling accounts which have been offset as the accounts will 
be settled on a net basis as described in note 23. Master netting agreements also cover all bank balances and derivative balances with the same counterparty. These 
do not meet the criteria for offsetting because the right to offset is only enforceable on the occurrence of future events such as a default and amounts presented in 
the Balance Sheet are therefore presented on a gross basis. 
If full offsetting by counterparty were to be applied, the resulting net amounts would be as follows:
£m
Gross amounts 
before set off
Amounts  
set off in the 
Balance Sheet
Amounts as 
presented in the 
Balance Sheet
Amounts  
not set off  
in the  
Balance Sheet Net amount
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 826.8 (590.6) 236.2 (3.9) 232.3
Derivative financial assets 28.2 – 28.2 (25.7) 2.5
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (590.6) 590.6 – – –
Derivative financial liabilities (74.4) – (74.4) 29.6 (44.8)
At 31 December 2016 190.0 – 190.0 – 190.0
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 778.8 (484.1) 294.7 (6.1) 288.6
Derivative financial assets 15.6 – 15.6 (12.8) 2.8
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (484.8) 484.1 (0.7) 0.7 –
Derivative financial liabilities (44.5) – (44.5) 18.2 (26.3)
At 31 December 2015 265.1 – 265.1 – 265.1 111
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. Trade and other receivables
Current
£m 2016 2015
Trade receivables (net of provision for impairment) 307.5 286.3
Accrued income 41.8 28.1
Loans and other receivables 21.2 15.3
Prepayments 39.3 36.3
409.8 366.0
Non-current
£m 2016 2015
Accrued income 38.0 37.8
Loans and other receivables 28.0 33.5
66.0 71.3
Impairment of trade receivables
£m 2016 2015
Trade receivables 318.0 289.6
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (10.5) (3.3)
Net trade receivables 307.5 286.3
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables during the year are as follows: 
£m 2016 2015
At 1 January 3.3 7.7
Additional provisions 9.2 1.8
Utilisation of provisions (0.8) (3.7)
Unused amounts reversed (1.4) (2.5)
Business divestments (0.4) (0.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.6 0.2
At 31 December 10.5 3.3
Additional provisions recognised in the year include £5.8m which have been included within exceptional items in note 2. In addition, £32.8m related to contract 
accrued income was derecognised and included in exceptional items. 
A significant proportion of the Group’s business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where credit risk 
is considered to remain low. Information concerning management of credit risk is shown in note 23. 
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: 
£m 2016 2015
Amounts not yet due and not impaired 242.4 219.0
Amounts past due but not impaired 59.2 64.8
Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 16.4 5.8
318.0 289.6
Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows: 
£m 2016 2015
Less than 1 month overdue 42.2 41.2
1 month overdue 10.6 11.8
2 months overdue 2.9 5.0
3 or more months overdue 3.5 6.8
59.2 64.8
Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets, other than a loan of €10m which was advanced in 
connection with the divestment of the Unmanned Systems business. This is held at fair value which is assessed to be nil.  112
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
16. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
At 31 December 2015 the following assets and liabilities of the Group’s Surveillance businesses were classified as held for sale and were measured on a non-recurring 
basis at fair value, based on the agreed selling price of US$10m less costs to sell:
£m 2015
Inventories 3.9
Trade and other receivables 12.9
Total assets classified as held for sale 16.8
Trade payables and other liabilities (11.5)
Provisions (1.2)
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (12.7)
Total non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 4.1
There are no non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2016.
17. Borrowings
£m 2016 2015
Bank overdrafts – 0.7
Bank loans – 100.7
Senior notes 60.7 54.9
Finance leases 0.2 0.1
Total current borrowings 60.9 156.4
Bank loans 475.7 471.8
Senior notes 727.5 872.9
Finance leases 0.3 0.4
Total non-current borrowings 1,203.5 1,345.1
Total borrowings 1,264.4 1,501.5
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and accrue interest at floating rates. Bank loans comprise the following:
Amount drawn Undrawn facilities
£m Agreement date Maturity date 2016 2015 2016 2015
Fixed rates
US$75m credit agreement December 2008 December 2019 60.7 50.9 – –
Floating rates
US$360m multi-currency revolving credit 
agreement comprising: October 201 1
US$90m October 2016 – 49.8 – 11.4
US$270m October 2018 190.5 149.1 28.0 34.1
EUR70m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2018 48.4 41.6 11.4 10.0
DKK525m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2018 – – 60.3 51.8
AUS$90m multi-currency revolving facility February 2014 October 2018 28.5 29.0 24.2 15.4
US$185m facility agreement May 2015 October 2018 – 125.5 – –
EUR1 31m and US$40m loan agreements May 2015 May 2020 144.2 123.7 – –
EUR4m loan agreement May 2015 May 2022 3.4 2.9 – –
475.7 572.5 123.9 122.7
Floating rate bank loans accrue interest at LIBOR or other appropriate benchmark plus margin.
The US$185m facility was repaid and cancelled in August 2016 following the rights issue completed in June 2016. Under the US$75m agreement, which expires  
in 2031, the lender has a series of put options exercisable every three years from December 2019. 11 3
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At 31 December 2016, senior notes with a total principal value of US$974.0m (£788.2m) (2015: US$1,367.5m, £927.8m) are outstanding as set out below:
£m Issue date Maturity date 2016 2015
US$81m fixed rate March 2009 March 2016 – 54.9
US$50m floating rate * May 2010 May 2017 – 33.9
US$105m floating rate * January 2010 February/March 2018 – 71.2
US$157 .5m fixed rate * March 2009 March 2019 – 106.9
US$44m fixed rate October 2012 October 2020 35.6 29.9
US$930m fixed rate comprising: October 2014
US$75m October 201 7 60.7 50.9
US$180m October 2019 145.7 122.1
US$250m October 2021 202.3 169.7
US$425m October 2024 343.9 288.3
788.2 927.8
Senior notes with a face value of US$312.5m (marked * above) were repaid in September 2016 following the rights issue completed in June 2016. 
The loan and note subscription agreements include both financial and non-financial covenants but do not contain any provisions for charges over Group assets.  
The terms of the financial covenants are based on adjusted IFRS results and are shown on page 31. There have been no breaches of the terms of agreements  
or defaults during the current or comparative periods.
18. Trade and other payables
Current liabilities
£m 2016 2015
Payments received on account 67.0 59.4
Trade payables 155.3 145.9
Other taxes and social security 28.2 23.5
Deferred income 19.2 12.8
Accruals 123.5 117.8
Other liabilities 37.6 38.7
430.8 398.1
Non-current liabilities
£m 2016 2015
Payments received on account 2.7 5.2
Trade payables 0.5 –
Deferred income 16.6 11.8
Accruals 6.0 3.9
Other liabilities 5.7 3.9
31.5 24.8
Additional current liabilities recognised in the year include £5.8m which have been disclosed as exceptional in note 2. 114
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
19. Provisions
£m 2016 2015
Current liabilities 180.6 74.3
Non-current liabilities 57.3 68.2
237.9 142.5
Movements in provisions during the year are as follows: 
£m
Provisions related 
to businesses 
divested
Restructuring 
provisions Warranty claims
Contract loss 
provisions
Aircraft 
maintenance 
provisions Other Total
At 1 January 2016 15.5 60.9 10.2 26.8 3.7 25.4 142.5
Additional provisions in the year – – 10.4 146.5 2.4 17.2 176.5
Utilisation of provisions (4.8) (15.2) (3.8) (26.8) (1.2) (4.2) (56.0)
Provisions released (4.1) (29.3) (1.2) (5.0) (2.3) (1.1) (43.0)
Disposed with undertakings – – (0.2) – – (2.0) (2.2)
Reclassifications – – (0.3) 2.1 0.2 – 2.0
Foreign exchange adjustments – 7.0 1.9 3.4 0.5 5.3 18.1
At 31 December 2016 6.6 23.4 17.0 147.0 3.3 40.6 237.9
Additional provisions in the year include £110.7m in respect of KC-46 contract loss provisions, £20.0m of contract loss provisions on other contracts, £5.3m for 
warranty claims and £15.7m of other provisions, which have been included within exceptional items in note 2. 
Provisions related to businesses divested relate to longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 2005. Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing  
of settlement of these items, they have been disclosed as current liabilities. 
Restructuring provisions relate to prior years’ restructuring programmes in respect of the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014. In 2016, provisions 
released reflect a reassessment of the level of provisions required in respect of IT integration and remediation costs. Amounts carried forward primarily relate to 
onerous lease provisions which are not expected to be fully settled until 2025. 
Provisions for warranty claims are expected to be utilised within two years. 
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable 
cost of meeting the obligations under the contract. These provisions are expected to be utilised within three years although where there are uncertainties surrounding 
the timing of utilisation, they have been disclosed as current liabilities. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions relate to significant periodic maintenance costs as well as return conditions for leased aircraft and are anticipated to crystallise  
within five years. 
Other provisions include amounts provided in respect of legal claims and environmental obligations and are mostly expected to be settled within one year. 11 5
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. Deferred tax
£m 2016 2015
Deferred tax assets (42.3) (11.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 27.6 102.0
(14.7) 90.6
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and the movements thereon:
£m Intangible assets
Property,  
plant and 
equipment
Retirement  
benefit  
obligations Tax losses Other Total
At 1 January 2015 216.2 23.6 (20.5) – (95.3) 124.0
(Credit)/charge to Income Statement (37 .0) (18.0) 3.3 – 20.6 (31.1)
Charge to OCI – – 5.9 – 0.4 6.3
Charge to reserves – – – – 1.5 1.5
Business divestments (11.0) (0.6) – – (0.8) (12.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments 6.9 – – – (3.9) 3.0
Reclassifications – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
At 1 January 2016 175.1 5.0 (11.3) – (78.2) 90.6
(Credit)/charge to Income Statement (37.7) 16.5 2.4 (28.9) (54.7) (102.4)
Credit to OCI – – (8.5) – (0.8) (9.3)
Charge to reserves – – – – 1.6 1.6
Business divestments (0.2) (2.4) – – – (2.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments 26.8 5.5 – – (24.9) 7.4
At 31 December 2016 164.0 24.6 (17.4) (28.9) (157.0) (14.7)
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities shown above include balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, accruals, deferred compensation, 
share based payments and derivative financial instruments.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance sheet 
purposes are analysed as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Deferred tax liabilities fall due:
Within one year 0.5 25.8
After one year 27.1 76.2
27.6 102.0
Deferred tax assets are recoverable:
Within one year (24.9) (8.5)
After one year (17.4) (2.9)
(42.3) (11.4) 116
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, deferred tax balances are as follows:
£m Intangible assets
Property, 
 plant and 
equipment
Retirement  
benefit  
obligations Tax losses Other Total
Deferred tax assets – – (17.4) (28.9) (163.2) (209.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 164.0 24.6 – – 6.2 194.8
At 31 December 2016 164.0 24.6 (17.4) (28.9) (157.0) (14.7)
Deferred tax assets – (5.1) (11.3) – (101.6) (118.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 175.1 10.1 – – 23.4 208.6
At 31 December 2015 175.1 5.0 (11.3) – (78.2) 90.6
Tax losses arising in the UK during the year have been recognised on the basis of forecasted future taxable profits. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused capital losses of £66.3m (2015: £63.0m) potentially available for offset against future capital profits in certain 
circumstances.  No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future qualifying profit streams. These losses 
can be carried forward indefinitely.
The unprovided tax on unremitted earnings as at 31 December 2016 is considered to be immaterial.
The rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020. As this had been substantively enacted prior to  
31 December 2016, UK deferred taxes have been calculated at 19% or 17% where the liability is expected to crystallise after 1 April 2017 or 1 April 2020 respectively. 1 17
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
£m
Interest  
rate swaps 
 Foreign exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
Non-current assets – 19.7 – 19.7
Current assets – 8.5 – 8.5
Current liabilities (0.6) (40.2) (1.4) (42.2)
Non-current liabilities (1.2) (30.6) (0.4) (32.2)
Fair value at 31 December 2016 (1.8) (42.6) (1.8) (46.2)
Non-current assets – 6.5 – 6.5
Current assets – 9.1 – 9.1
Current liabilities (0.5) (28.9) (1.2) (30.6)
Non-current liabilities (1.8) (10.9) (1.2) (13.9)
Fair value at 31 December 2015 (2.3) (24.2) (2.4) (28.9)
The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the year are as follows:
£m
Interest  
rate swaps 
 Foreign exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
At 1 January 2015 (3.3) (13.6) (3.0) (19.9)
(Loss)/gain through income statement – not hedged – (10.9) 0.4 (10.5)
Gain reclassified to income statement 1.1 – – 1.1
Loss through OCI – hedged items (0.3) (0.3) – (0.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 0.6 0.2 1.0
At 1 January 2016 (2.3) (24.2) (2.4) (28.9)
(Loss)/gain through income statement – not hedged – (16.7) 1.0 (15.7)
Gain reclassified to income statement 1.1 0.5 – 1.6
Loss through OCI – hedged items (0.2) (2.2) – (2.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.4) – (0.4) (0.8)
At 31 December 2016 (1.8) (42.6) (1.8) (46.2)
Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and hedge accounting is applied. In addition, a small number of specific foreign exchange 
derivatives with a fair value at 31 December 2016 of £0.3m (2015: £2.4m) are designated as cash flow hedging instruments or as hedging instruments for  
net investment hedging purposes, and hedge accounting is applied. There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges to be reported through the  
Income Statement.
The majority of foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted for using hedge accounting. Movements in fair values are recorded in the Income 
Statement within administrative expenses and are excluded from underlying profit in note 2. Also excluded from underlying profit are losses of £23.6m (2015: 
loss £8.3m) arising from the movement in fair values of currency swaps which offset movements in currency balances held, and gains and losses arising on foreign 
exchange derivatives related to dividend flows within the Group. 
Full details of the Group’s financial instrument accounting policies and risk management strategies, objectives and policies are set out in the accounting policies  
in note 1 and in note 23, financial risk management.
22. Retirement benefit schemes
Retirement benefit obligations per the Balance Sheet consist of:
£m 2016 2015
Defined benefit scheme assets 790.0 663.9
Defined benefit obligations (877.0) (720.6)
(87.0) (56.7)
Pension expense included in employment costs in note 4 are as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Defined benefit schemes 1.6 2.7
Defined contribution schemes 33.5 28.1
35.1 30.8 118
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit schemes (where benefits are based on employees’ length of service and average final salary), the most 
significant being the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP).  The assets of all of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of 
trustees.  All defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members since 2003 and the UK schemes were closed to future accrual from 1 April 2016. The  
Group also manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements, where the Group’s contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees’ pay.
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to a number of risks, as described below:
 − Volatility of investment returns. If the investment return is lower than the discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields then the scheme deficit  
will increase;
 − Inflation risk. Pensionable salaries, deferred pensions and pensions in payment are subject to inflationary increases. A higher inflation rate will lead to higher 
defined benefit obligations;
 − Changes in bond yields. Volatility in the financial markets can have a significant impact on corporate bond yields which are used to generate a discount rate 
assumption. Lower corporate bond yields will lead to higher defined benefit obligations;
 − Life expectancy risk. The schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member and therefore increases in life expectancy will lead to higher 
defined benefit obligations.
The trustees seek to mitigate these risks and have invested in liability driven investments that mitigate bond yield, inflation and investment risks. The remaining assets 
include significant investment in diversified growth funds which seek to manage investment risks. In addition there have been a number of buy-in arrangements 
where assets are transferred to an insurance company in return for a qualifying insurance policy which provides an income stream equivalent to the obligations to 
pensioners covered by the arrangement. The most significant buy-in arrangement relates to pensioners of the CPP as at 1 July 2013. The insurance contract assets  
are measured at a value equal to the related liabilities, mitigating the risks associated with those liabilities.
Actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP are carried out on a triennial basis by qualified independent actuaries; the 
most recent valuation was as at 1 April 2015. Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at regular intervals as required by the applicable country 
regulations. The actuarial valuations were updated by qualified independent actuaries for accounting purposes to 31 December 2016. In the UK, within 15 months  
of each triennial valuation, the employer and the trustees are required to agree a schedule of contributions to ensure that the Plan is fully funded over time on  
a suitably prudent basis. The Group expects to contribute £18.7m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2017 and £18.7m in 2018. Thereafter the current 
schedules of contributions require £8.8m of contributions each year through to 2022.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2016 or 2015 for the defined benefit schemes. £0.4m (2015: £0.7m) was outstanding in respect  
of defined contribution schemes but not due for payment at 31 December 2016.
The principal financial assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows:
2016 2015
UK  
schemes
USA  
scheme
UK  
schemes
USA  
scheme
Rate of increase in salary costs 3.70% 3.70% 3.45% 3.45%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment unless overridden by specific scheme rules 3.45% 3.45% 3.20% 3.20%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.45% 2.45% 2.20% 3.20%
Discount rate 2.65% 3.95% 3.80% 4.13%
Inflation assumption 3.45% 3.45% 3.20% 3.20%
The mortality assumptions used for the CPP are based upon actuarial tables which reflect actual recent mortality experience and also allow for future mortality 
improvements. The mortality tables used to estimate life expectancy are known as ‘SAPS CMI 15’ (2015: SAPS CMI 14). In practical terms, this is demonstrated  
in the table below:
Year of birth Year age 65
Further life 
expectancy
Male 1951 2016 22.6 years
Female 1951 2016 24.6 years
Male 1980 2045 25.2 years
Female 1980 2045 27.3 years
At 31 December 2016 it has been assumed that members will commute on average 25% (2015: 25%) of their pension for cash at retirement.
The sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in certain key assumptions, after adjusting for liabilities covered by insurance contracts, is provided below:
Change in assumption Change in liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 1.0% -9%
Inflation rate Increase by 0.5% +3%
Life expectancy Increase by one year +2%
If the change in assumptions were in the opposite direction to that shown above, the impact would be approximately symmetrical.  119
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A summary of the movements in the net liability and the amounts recognised in the Income Statement and OCI are as follows:
2016 2015
£m
Scheme 
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Scheme  
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Current service cost included in administrative expenses – (1.6) (1.6) – (6.9) (6.9)
Past service cost included in administrative expenses – – – – (7.1) (7.1)
Gain on curtailment included in administrative expenses – – – – 9.8 9.8
Gain on curtailment included in business restructuring – – – – 1.5 1.5
Scheme administration expenses (0.2) – (0.2) (0.7) – (0.7)
Amounts recognised in operating profit (0.2) (1.6) (1.8) (0.7) (2.7) (3.4)
Net interest 25.1 (26.9) (1.8) 23.5 (26.6) (3.1)
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance expense 25.1 (26.9) (1.8) 23.5 (26.6) (3.1)
Actual return less interest income on pension scheme assets 112.3 – 112.3 (26.3) – (26.3)
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities – (1.0) (1.0) – 12.2 12.2
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial 
assumptions – (163.6) (163.6) – 38.1 38.1
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions – 9.7 9.7 – 5.6 5.6
Amounts recognised in OCI 112.3 (154.9) (42.6) (26.3) 55.9 29.6
Employer contributions 18.5 – 18.5 22.7 – 22.7
Member contributions 0.4 (0.4) – 1.8 (1.8) –
Benefits paid (33.0) 33.0 – (28.7) 28.7 –
Amounts included in Cash Flow Statement (14.1) 32.6 18.5 (4.2) 26.9 22.7
Exchange differences 3.0 (5.6) (2.6) 1.0 (1.5) (0.5)
Net movement in the year 126.1 (156.4) (30.3) (6.7) 52.0 45.3
Net liability at start of year 663.9 (720.6) (56.7) 670.6 (772.6) (102.0)
Net liability at end of year 790.0 (877.0) (87.0) 663.9 (720.6) (56.7)
UK schemes 770.9 (842.2) (71.3) 649.2 (692.8) (43.6)
US scheme 19.1 (34.8) (15.7) 14.7 (27.8) (13.1)
Net liability at end of year 790.0 (877.0) (87.0) 663.9 (720.6) (56.7)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in OCI since transition to IFRS is £248.8m (2015: £206.2m). Of the actuarial losses recognised in the year,  
the changes in financial assumptions are primarily driven by the movements in the discount rate.
The actual return on scheme assets was £137.4m (2015: £2.8m loss). The weighted average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 17 years.
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets, is as follows:
 2016 2015
£m % £m %
UK equity instruments 66.9 8.5% 55.7 8.4%
Overseas equities 31.2 3.9% 26.7 4.0%
Emerging markets equities 21.2 2.7% 18.1 2.7%
Liability driven investments 79.0 10.0% 60.9 9.2%
Corporate bonds 85.6 10.8% 4.8 0.7%
Private credit 14.7 1.9% – –
Diversified growth funds 146.1 18.5% 160.5 24.2%
Insurance contracts 318.4 40.3% 287.6 43.3%
Other assets including cash 26.9 3.4% 49.6 7.5%
790.0 100.0% 663.9 100.0%
Scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group. 120
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Other retirement benefit schemes
The assets and liabilities of other immaterial retirement benefit schemes are as follows:
 2016 2015
£m Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
French indemnity schemes – (5.6) – (4.0)
German based schemes 1.0 (1.5) 3.3 (3.4)
US based schemes – – 1.8 (2.2)
1.0 (7.1) 5.1 (9.6)
The actuarial loss for these schemes in the year to 31 December 2016, recognised in OCI, was £1.2m (2015: £nil). The net liabilities are included in other liabilities in 
note 18. The German based schemes are substantially covered by insurance policies.
23. Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks which include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, 
interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of 
the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt and other instruments, including interest rate swaps. Other derivative financial instruments may be used 
from time to time to manage exposures such as inflation risk. The financial risk management policies agreed by the Board have not changed during the year and are 
summarised below. The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is based in the UK, reports in sterling and has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, Australia and other European countries. As a result, 
the Group’s Balance Sheet, including the net debt position, can be affected by movements in these countries’ exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to reduce, or 
eliminate where practical, both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk and, consequently, the net foreign exchange gains and losses included in the Income 
Statement amounted to a loss of £26.1m (2015: £12.1m gain). All currency exposures are reviewed regularly and all significant foreign exchange transactions are 
approved by Cobham plc management. 
The Group has the following exposure to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities in the Balance Sheet, translated into sterling at the 
relevant year-end exchange rates:
2016 2015
£m
Monetary  
assets
Monetary 
liabilities
Monetary  
assets
Monetary  
liabilities
US dollars 377.8 (1,290.8) 340.9 (1,569.7)
Euros 116.4 (163.2) 100.2 (143.5)
Australian dollars 40.3 (43.8) 30.6 (42.0)
Danish kroner 24.1 (68.2) 4.1 (53.9)
Other currencies 42.6 (8.2) 30.4 (8.4)
601.2 (1,574.2) 506.2 (1,817.5)
Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 110.8 (186.7) 225.8 (108.6)
712.0 (1,760.9) 732.0 (1,926.1)
Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange differences arising from the Group’s overseas net assets. The Group 
typically borrows in the currency of the acquisition. Monetary liabilities in the table above include US dollar borrowings of £1,061.8m (2015: £1,330.2m) and Danish 
krone borrowings of £48.4m (2015: £41.6m) which match exposures arising from currency denominated net assets. Foreign currency contracts are also used to 
manage exposure to currency risks. 
On consolidation, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries (which include the monetary assets and liabilities shown in the table above) are translated at closing 
exchange rates and exchange differences arising are accounted for in OCI and through the translation reserve (note 25).
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in the income statement where individual subsidiaries hold non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and 
when an operating unit makes sales and purchases in currencies other than its own functional currency. The Group undertakes a formal process to actively manage 
and mitigate this exposure through a combination of matching non-functional currency revenues and costs, matching non-functional currency monetary assets and 
liabilities and through the use of forward contracts.
Group policy is that at least 80% of the next 12 months’ forecast cash flows in non-functional currencies are covered by forward foreign exchange contracts, except 
on the shorter cycle businesses where the profile of hedging is based off customer commitments when approved by the Group CFO. Where forecasted currency cash 
flows do not arise this will result in increased income statement exposure to foreign currency exchange differences. These are however managed at a Group level and 
mitigating action is taken where possible. 121
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The sterling/US dollar and Danish krone/US dollar exchange rates are the most important for the Group. The Group has the following forward foreign currency 
contracts outstanding for net sales of US dollars for sterling and Danish kroner:
US$m amount
Average US$: £ 
exchange rate
2016 2015 2016 2015
Expiring within one year 141.8 108.9 1.42 1.53
Expiring within one to two years 40.2 62.4 1.43 1.52
Expiring after two years 34.7 37.0 1.52 1.57
US$/sterling contracts outstanding at 31 December 216.7 208.3 1.43 1.53
 
US$m amount
Average US$: DKK 
exchange rate
2016 2015 2016 2015
Expiring within one year 95.1 148.5 6.16 5.65
Expiring within one to two years – 95.1 – 6.16
Expiring after two years 1.7 1.7 6.07 6.07
US$/DKK contracts outstanding at 31 December 96.8 245.3 6.15 5.85
The latest expiry date of forward foreign currency contracts for sales of US dollars is July 2022 and it is the Group’s current belief that the net dollar receipts by its 
subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitments.
Sensitivity analysis
Financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional currency in which they are measured create exposure to foreign currency exchange rate 
risk. These financial instruments include the monetary assets and liabilities and the forward foreign currency contracts shown in the tables above. The sensitivity 
arising on these financial instruments from a weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currency at the balance sheet date is set out below, with a negative 
number indicating a reduction in profit after taxation or total equity.
2016 2015
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars to sterling 11% (20.7) (20.7) 8% (13.9) (13.9)
US dollars to Danish kroner 11% (7.0) (7.0) 12% (16.5) (16.5)
Euros to sterling 11% (7.4) (7.4) 8% (4.9) (4.9)
The sensitivities used represent management’s assessment of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, based on experience over the previous five years. 
However these potential changes are hypothetical and actual rates in future may differ significantly as a result of developments in global financial markets. This 
sensitivity analysis has been based on the assumption that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant. 
Interest rate risk
The Group has long and short term borrowings at both fixed and floating rates of interest. In managing its borrowing costs, the Group monitors its exposure to 
movements in interest rates, having regard to prevailing market conditions and, where necessary, uses interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk.
 
£m 2016 2015
Senior notes 788.2 822.7
Bank loans at fixed rate 60.7 50.8
Bank loans swapped to fixed rate 22.7 24.1
Fixed rate borrowings 871.6 897.6
Bank loans and overdrafts 392.3 498.3
Senior notes – 105.1
Finance leases 0.5 0.5
Floating rate borrowings 392.8 603.9
Total borrowings 1,264.4 1,501.5
All floating rate borrowings have regular repricing dates. 122
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, have been used to mitigate the interest rate exposure arising on selected floating rate debt. 
Interest rate swaps outstanding at the year end are as follows: 
Period of swap contract 2016 2015
Hedged item Fixed rate from to
Currency  
value £m
Currency  
value £m
Australian dollar loans 6.3% May 2006 January 2020 AUS$33.3m 19.5 AUS$41.5m 20.5
6.4% January 2007 January 2020 AUS$5.5m 3.2 AUS$7.2m 3.6
22.7 24.1
The Group does not currently hold any fair value hedging instruments such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
Surplus funds are placed on short term fixed rate deposit and as such also give rise to interest rate exposure. There was no material sensitivity to changes in interest 
rates at the year end.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing liquidity risk throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long term borrowings with lenders. Overdraft and 
revolving credit facilities provide short term flexibility whilst the revolving credit facilities provide longer term committed funding. 
As shown in note 17, at 31 December 2016 undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £123.9m (2015: £122.7m) were available to the Group in various currencies.
At an operating level, the Group has a positive cash flow from operating activities and where practical the funds generated by business units are managed on a 
regional basis. In the UK and USA, most business units utilise local banking facilities within a UK or US group arrangement. This allows a balance to be maintained 
between continuity of funding, security and flexibility. 
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s borrowings and other financial liabilities. The amounts shown are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which include interest, analysed by contractual maturity. The difference between the contractual cash flows and the carrying amount of 
these liabilities reflects the effects of interest not included in the carrying amount and discounting applied in assessing fair value.
£m
Within  
one year 1–2 years 2–5 years
Over  
5 years Total
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings 102.6 301.6 667.4 388.8 1,460.4
Trade and other payables 310.0 3.0 3.2 6.0 322.2
At 31 December 2016 412.6 304.6 670.6 394.8 1,782.6
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.9 0.6 0.3 – 1.8
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows 724.9 66.1 41.5 6.1 838.6
Gross cash inflows (683.8) (58.5) (36.9) (4.8) (784.0)
Inflation swap 1.4 0.4 – – 1.8
At 31 December 2016 43.4 8.6 4.9 1.3 58.2
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings 206.6 163.2 837.0 513.5 1,720.3
Trade and other payables 292.8 2.4 2.9 2.5 300.6
At 31 December 2015 499.4 165.6 839.9 516.0 2,020.9
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.9 0.7 0.8 – 2.4
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows 459.4 140.6 25.3 10.4 635.7
Gross cash inflows (430.5) (131.8) (24.8) (9.7) (596.8)
Inflation swap 1.2 0.9 0.3 – 2.4
At 31 December 2015 31.0 10.4 1.6 0.7 43.7 123
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has a conservative policy towards the credit risk related to liquid funds and derivative financial instruments with balances currently spread across a range  
of reputable financial institutions. The levels of credit risk are monitored through the Group’s ongoing risk management processes, which include a regular review of 
the banks’ credit ratings. Risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level for term deposits with any one counterparty.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Customers are typically large 
global companies or government agencies with long term trading relationships. The Group also has in place procedures that require appropriate credit checks on 
potential customers before sales are made. Existing customer accounts are monitored on an ongoing basis and appropriate action is taken where necessary to 
minimise any credit risk. At 31 December 2016, additional provisions were made following the balance sheet review exercise as described in note 2. The Board do  
not believe there is any further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impaired receivables shown in note 15.
Group management monitor the ageing of receivables which are more than one month overdue and debtor days on a regular basis. At 31 December 2016, 9.5% 
(2015: 9.6%) of gross trade receivables were overdue by one month or more.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2016 is the fair value of each class of receivable as disclosed in note 15.
In the UK and the USA, the Group has master netting arrangements in respect of bank balances. In the normal course of business, these bank accounts are settled on 
a net basis within each currency and as such are presented net in the balance sheet as shown in note 14. In the event of an automatic enforcement event, the bank 
balances are set off against each other to achieve a net position. Derivatives can also be offset by counterparties in the event of a default; net amounts that result on 
this basis are shown in note 14.
Inflation risk
The Group’s exposure to inflation is considered to be a general business risk which is mitigated through normal commercial activity. The Group has one swap contract 
which was designed to manage the inherent inflation risk in a specific operational contract. The fair value of this swap contract is included in derivative financial 
instruments shown in note 21.
Capital risk management
Group policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain stakeholder confidence and to sustain future development of the business. 
Following the Group’s announcement on 16 February 2017, the Board has confirmed their intention to raise further equity of £500m in order to achieve the target 
net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.5.
Capital is defined as total equity excluding non-controlling interests and amounted to £488.8m at 31 December 2016 (2015: £908.8m). Within this overall policy, 
the Group seeks to maintain an appropriate finance structure through a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding needs are reviewed periodically and also 
each time a significant acquisition or business divestment is made. A number of factors are considered which include the net debt/EBITDA ratio, forecast trading 
requirements, future funding needs (usually potential acquisitions) and proposed dividend levels. Group banking arrangements are also considered; these include 
financial covenants which are based on adjusted IFRS results as outlined on page 31. 
As a result of these considerations a rights issue was completed in June 2016 as detailed in note 24 raising net proceeds of £490.6m which were applied to existing 
debt, strengthening the balance sheet and improving the net debt/EBITDA ratio. The Board continued to review the position on a regular basis during the year and 
the Group’s policy was updated in respect of the impact of foreign currency movements on the net debt/EBITDA ratio.
Furthermore, in January 2017 it was announced that no dividend would be paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
24. Share capital
Number  
of shares
2016  
£m
Number  
of shares
2015  
£m
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of par value 2.5p 1,783,815,575 44.6 1,214,527,625 30.4
Following a 1 for 2 fully underwritten rights issue 569,287,950 ordinary shares of 2.5p each were issued on 17 June 2016 at an issue price of 89p per share.  
Net proceeds of £490.6m were realised, net of costs of £16.1m.
As at 31 December 2016 88,587,855 (2015: 89,634,016) ordinary shares were held in treasury including 12,636,131 (2015: 13,682,292 ) shares held in the Cobham 
Employee Benefit Trust. At 31 December 2016 the market value of treasury shares was £145.0m (2015: £253.8m), including shares with a market value of £20.7m 
(2015: £38.7m) held by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2016 treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and options under the Group’s share based payment schemes. The net cost  
of treasury shares after receipts from option exercises is deducted from retained earnings and total equity. 
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc can be found on page 78. 124
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
25. Other reserves
£m Note
Translation  
reserve
Hedge  
reserve
Share based 
payment reserve
Total other 
reserves
At 1 January 2015 13.6 (0.7) 29.8 42.7
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (29.2) – – (29.2)
Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operation (9.0) – – (9.0)
Movements on cash flow hedges – interest rate swaps 21 0.2 (0.3) – (0.1)
Movements on cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts – 0.1 – 0.1
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to Income Statement – 1.1 – 1.1
Transfer of share based payment reserve on exercise – – (1.5) (1.5)
Share based payments recognised in reserves 26 – – (3.0) (3.0)
Tax effects – (0.2) (1.1) (1.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2016 (24.4) (0.1) 24.2 (0.3)
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 34.6 – – 34.6
Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operations 27 6.7 – – 6.7
Movements on cash flow hedges – interest rate swaps 21 (0.4) (0.2) – (0.6)
Movements on cash flow hedges – foreign exchange contracts 0.1 (2.3) – (2.2)
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to Income Statement – 1.6 – 1.6
Transfer of share based payment reserve on exercise – – (5.1) (5.1)
Share based payments recognised in reserves 26 – – 3.8 3.8
Tax effects (0.1) 0.5 (1.2) (0.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments – 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2016 16.5 (0.3) 21.7 37.9
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries whose functional currencies differ from 
the Group’s reporting currency together with foreign exchange movements arising on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
The hedge reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives as detailed in notes 21 and 23. 
The share based payment reserve includes the cost of awards as assessed under IFRS 2 and detailed in note 26, together with related deferred tax provided under  
IAS 12. The appropriate proportion of this reserve is transferred to retained earnings following vesting or exercise.
26. Share based payments
The Group offers a number of long term incentive schemes which provide a mix of performance based incentive and retention based awards as described below and 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 67. All schemes are equity settled and the total amount included in the Income Statement arising from share based 
payment schemes is as follows:
£m 2016 2015
PSP 1.7 2.1
RSP 1.3 1.3
Other schemes 0.8 0.7
Release of amounts charged in previous years – (7.1)
3.8 (3.0)
During the year ended 31 December 2015, £7.1m charged to the Income Statement in previous years was released, reflecting actual vesting experience and  
a reassessment of the expected future vesting of outstanding awards, based on non-market related performance conditions.
The PSP scheme is offered to senior executives across the Group and allows for annual grants of conditional shares and nil-cost options with vesting conditions based 
on the Group’s financial performance, taking into account both market based conditions such as TSR growth and non-market based measures such as EPS growth or 
cash conversion. The scheme includes retention awards granted from time to time to specific personnel and buy-out awards granted to key new starters, both vesting 
after a maximum of three years conditional only upon continued employment within the Group.
RSP awards provide conditional shares based solely on continued employment within the Group over a maximum of four years.
Awards granted in 2016 include medium term awards under both the PSP and RSP plans which vest based on performance over an 18 month period to  
31 December 2017. 
Charges for other schemes relate to share options which were last awarded in 2013 and 2014 to senior executives under the ESOS and BCP schemes respectively,  
and under the Group’s ShareSave scheme, which is open to all UK employees. 125
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The number of awards outstanding at 31 December are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2016 2015
PSP 9,998 10,026
RSP 3,618 1,317
ESOS 3,794 4,031
BCP 17 22
ShareSave 7,612 5,979
At 31 December 25,039 21,375
Details of movements in the awards under the PSP scheme are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2016 2015
At 1 January 10,026 10,380
Awards granted 4,100 3,591
Effect of rights issue 1,314 –
Awards forfeited or cancelled (3,909) (3,713)
Exercised (1,489) (88)
Expired (44) (144)
At 31 December 9,998 10,026 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of PSP awards outstanding 1.09 years 1.24 years
Number of PSP awards exercisable at 31 December (thousands) 23 87
Awards under the PSP schemes were granted in March and August 2016, with an average fair value of £1.602 (2015 awards: £2.835). Fair values are calculated  
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the likely impact of market related performance conditions.  
The weighted average inputs into the models were as follows:
2016 2015
Weighted average share price £1.646 £3.058
Expected life 2.16 years 2.98 years
Expected employee cancellation rate 4.0% 4.4%
Risk free rate 0.6% 0.6%
The expected lives used in the models have been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability and behavioural 
considerations. The expected employee cancellation rates are based on assessments of historic rates of voluntary cancellations of contracts by employees. 
Participants of the PSP schemes receive the benefit of dividend payments and therefore dividend yields are not taken into consideration in the valuation models.
The fair values of ShareSave awards granted in the year are significantly lower than for PSP, RSP and BCP awards due to the effect of the exercise price which  
is set based upon the market value of the Company’s ordinary shares around the date of grant.
27. Business divestments
The divestment of the Group’s Surveillance businesses, part of the Communications and Connectivity Sector, was announced on 15 January 2016. These businesses 
were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2015 as shown in note 16. 
In addition, the divestment of the Unmanned Systems business, previously included within the Cobham Mission Systems Sector was completed on 6 October 2016. 
The loss on these divestments has been excluded from underlying measures as disclosed in note 2 and is analysed as follows:
£m Surveillance
Unmanned 
Systems Total
Gross consideration 6.6 0.3 6.9
Net assets at date of divestment (2.0) (6.6) (8.6)
Expenses of sale (3.2) (0.2) (3.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments (2.1) (4.6) (6.7)
Loss on divestments completed during the year (0.7) (11.1) (11.8)
Profit on divestments completed in prior years 10.5
Net loss on divestments before tax (1.3)
T ax charge on net loss on divestments (5.6)
Net loss on divestments after tax (6.9) 126
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
The profit on divestments completed in prior years includes the repayment of a loan note previously written off following a divestment in 2013, together with the 
release of a provision related to a business divested in 2005. 
The net cash impact of the divestments during the year is as follows:
£m Surveillance
Unmanned 
Systems Total
Cash consideration 6.6 0.3 6.9
Cash disposed – (1.9) (1.9)
Expenses of sale (3.4) (0.2) (3.6)
Net cash impact of divestments in current year 3.2 (1.8) 1.4
Net cash relating to divestments completed in prior years (0.4)
1.0
The net assets divested during the year were as follows:
£m Surveillance
Unmanned 
Systems Total
At date of divestment
Intangible assets – 1.0 1.0
Property, plant and equipment – 0.9 0.9
Deferred tax – 2.6 2.6
Inventories 3.9 4.5 8.4
Trade and other receivables 12.9 0.3 13.2
Cash and cash equivalents – 1.9 1.9
Trade and other payables (13.6) (2.4) (16.0)
Provisions (1.2) (2.2) (3.4)
Net assets 2.0 6.6 8.6
At 31 December 2015
Intangible assets – 3.1 3.1
Property, plant and equipment – 0.8 0.8
Deferred tax – 1.1 1.1
Inventories 3.9 2.5 6.4
Trade and other receivables 12.9 2.6 15.5
Cash and cash equivalents – 1.4 1.4
Borrowings – (0.1) (0.1)
Trade and other payables (11.5) (11.1) (22.6)
Provisions (1.2) (2.3) (3.5)
Net assets/(liabilities) 4.1 (2.0) 2.1 127
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Within one year 30.3 27.7
Between one and two years 27.7 24.9
Between two and three years 25.1 23.0
Between three and four years 16.6 20.9
Between four and five years 14.0 14.8
After five years 45.5 61.1
159.2 172.4
Operating lease payments during the year totalled £32.3m (2015: £30.1m) including rental costs of £7.8m (2015: £7.5m) relating to operational aircraft used in the 
Group’s service businesses; the remainder primarily relates to the rental of office and operating facilities.
Operating lease commitments include £23.8m (2015: £20.0m) related to onerous leases which have been provided for at the balance sheet date.
29. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2016, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising 
in the ordinary course of business. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made within the Group 
Financial Statements.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to various legal proceedings and claims and management do not anticipate that the 
outcome of these, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.
As previously notified, the Group identified one, more significant, contractual breach dating back some years, in respect of goods provided into a geographic market 
representing only a small amount of revenue for the Group. The resolution of this matter remains uncertain at the year end however no further information is 
disclosed as it could be prejudicial.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that 
arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could materially impact the Group’s future reported earnings. In particular, on fixed 
price development contracts, costs incurred and anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the 
specifications originally agreed under the contracts. Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, the outcome of negotiations 
with customers and the amounts recoverable under these contracts. The Group takes account of the advice of experts in making these judgements and believes  
that the outcome of negotiations will result in an appropriate recovery of costs. In the case where the Group is undertaking development activity on a PV basis but 
has given performance undertakings to the prospective customer then a liability for losses consequent upon the failure to meet such undertakings could exist.
The Group is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in which it conducts its business operations. Due to changes in tax laws and regulations, 
changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase in tax audits and challenges and the testing of interpretations through litigation, tax liabilities may be, 
and are being, challenged and may ultimately be deemed inaccurate by tax authorities. Areas of tax authority scrutiny include transfer pricing, EU State Aid and 
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. Tax authorities may also pursue additional taxes based on retroactive changes to, and interpretations of, tax laws. The availability of 
interest deductions on the Group’s internal financing arrangements, principally as a result of various US acquisitions, has been challenged for some time. This could 
lead to increased tax liabilities in excess of those provided in the Balance Sheet, worsening the financial outlook of the Group, and result in a substantial tax payment 
becoming necessary. The Group has taken external advice and considers that it has strong support for its position. However, the timing and resolution of this issue  
is uncertain. 
30. Related party transactions
There were no material transactions between Group entities and related parties during the current or previous year other than £0.6m (2015: £nil) of goods sold  
to and £0.9m (2015: £0.5m) of goods purchased from joint ventures and associates. Group policy is for all transactions with related parties to be made on an arms 
length basis and no guarantees have been given to, or received from, related parties. No expense has been recognised for bad or doubtful debts in respect of 
amounts owed by related parties. 
Details of the compensation of key management personnel (the Group Executive Committee as referred to on page 50) can be found in note 4.
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. Details of Directors’ 
remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 77.
31. Events after the balance sheet date
On 16 February 2017, Cobham provided an update on KC-46, 2016 results and 2017 guidance. Within this statement, the Group highlighted that the net  
debt/EBITDA ratio was 3.0x and that the Balance Sheet is not strong enough to properly support the operations of the Group, given the important role it plays  
in many customer programmes. 
The Group is targeting a net debt/EBITDA gearing ratio of around 1.5x. This should be an appropriate capital structure given the requirement for balance sheet 
strength. The route to get to this target needs to be accelerated to give the Group’s customers, suppliers and employees confidence that Cobham’s credit is good and 
the risk of doing business with the Group is as low as practical. Having considered the cash required to complete its ongoing development programmes, including the 
impact of the provisions taken at the year end, and to strengthen its Balance Sheet position, the Board has concluded that it is in the Group’s best interests to raise 
new equity finance of £500m by way of a rights issue during the second quarter of 2017. The rights issue has been fully underwritten on a standby basis on customary 
market conditions.  128
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
32. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings
The Group operates through a number of subsidiary undertakings and a full listing of these at 31 December 2016 is provided below. The Group owns 100% of the 
share capital of all subsidiaries with the exception of TEAM SA (98.7% owned).
The Group also has interests in a small number of joint ventures and one associated undertaking which are included in the list below. The joint ventures and associates 
all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are indirectly held, and the country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of 
operation. No further disclosures are provided concerning the assets and results of the joint ventures or associated undertaking on the basis of materiality.
Name of undertaking Address of registered office or equivalent
Aedion Investments Unit Trust 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3RA
Aeroflex Asia Ltd. Unit 7-8, 1 3/F , Progress Commerical Building, 9 Irving Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong
Aeroflex Colorado Springs, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Aeroflex Control Components, Inc. CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service (Company), 601 Abbot Road, East Lansing, MI 48823, USA
Aeroflex France SAS Villa G, 8- 10 rue du Bois Sauvage, 91000, Evry, France
Aeroflex GmbH Gutenbergstr. 2–4 85737 Ismaning, Germany
Aeroflex Holding Corp. Wilmington, USA
Aeroflex Incorporated Wilmington, USA
Aeroflex Innovations (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 1008- 1009, No76, Pujian Road, 10F , You You International Plaza, Shanghai 200127 , PRC
Aeroflex Ireland Limited Adelphi Plaza (Ground Floor) George's Street Upper, Dún Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, Ireland
Aeroflex Japan KK 16F Fukoku Seimei Bldg., 2-2-2 Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-001 1, Japan
Aeroflex Limited Stevenage, England
Aeroflex Microelectronic Solutions, Inc. CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service (Company), 601 Abbot Road, East Lansing, MI 48823, USA
Aeroflex Plainview, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Aeroflex RAD Europe Limited Stevenage, England
Aeroflex RAD, Inc. Corporation Service Company, 80 State Street, Albany, New York 12207-2543, USA
Aeroflex Singapore Pte. Ltd. 21 Media Circle, Infinite Studios, #06-04 & #05-01, Singapore 1 38562, Singapore
Aeroflex Systems Private Limited 602, 6th Floor, Raheja Paramount, Residency Road, Bangalore – 560025, Karnataka, India
Aeroflex Technology Service (Beijing) Co. Ltd. CircleNo. 38 T aikang Building Block 1, Unit 1501-03, & 1507 , Chaoyang District, Beijing, PRC
Aeroflex Test Solutions Limited Wimborne, England
Aeroflex Wichita, Inc. Wilmington, USA
AFI Flight Inspection GmbH Hermann-Blenk-Straße 8a, 38108 Braunschweig, Germany
AFI Holdings GmbH Hermann-Blenk-Straße 8a, 38108 Braunschweig, Germany
Air Précision SAS 5 avenue Denis Papin, BP 36, 92353 Le Plessis Robinson, France
Asia Pacific Airlines (Papua New Guinea) Pty Limited Blake Dawson, 4th Floor, Mogoru Motor Building, Champion Parade, Port Moresby, National Capital District, 
Papua New Guinea
Asia Pacific Airlines Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Atlantic Microwave Corporation Wilmington, USA
Avenue 64 Limited Wimborne, England
Aviation Défense Service SA (45% joint venture) 
2 
Zone Aéroportuaire Nîmes Arles Camargue, 30800 Saint Gilles, France
A-xell Wireless AB Torhamnsgatan 30F , 164 40 Kista, Sweden
Axell Wireless Asia Pte Limited 21 Media Circle, Infinite Studios, #06-04 & #05-01, Singapore 1 38562, Singapore
Axell Wireless Israel Limited 6 Bareket St., Petah-Tikva 49002, Israel, P .O.BOX: 2506 4912501, Israel
Axell Wireless Limited Wimborne, England
Axell Wireless, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc Wilmington, USA
Carleton Technologies, Inc Wilmington, USA
Chelton Antennas SA 7 chemin de Vaubesnard, 91410 Dourdan, France
Chelton Avionics, Inc Wilmington, USA
Chelton Limited Wimborne, England
Chelton Technologies Canada Limited PO Box 10424, Pacific Centre, 1 300-777 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver V7Y 1K2, Canada
Chelton Telecom and Microwave SAS 31 avenue de la Baltique, 91 140 Villebon sur Yvette, France
Chelton, Inc Corporation Service Company d/b/a CSC-Lawyers Inco, 21 1 E. 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 78701, USA
Cob Finance LLC Wilmington, USA
Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Mexico,  
S.A. de C.V. Baker & McKenzie Abogados, S.C., Pedregal 24, Lomas Virreyes, 1 1040 Ciudad de México, D.F ., Mexico
Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham AES Holdings Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham Aviation Services Engineering Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia 129
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of undertaking Address of registered office or equivalent
Cobham CTS Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Defence Communications Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Defense Products, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham Flight Inspection Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Gaisler AB Kungsgatan 12, SE-41 1, 19 Göteborg, Sweden
Cobham Holdings (US) Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham Holdings Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham India Private Limited 4th Floor, Statesman House, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi – 1 10001, India
Cobham Leasing Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Management Services Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham Mission Equipment Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham Properties Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham SAR Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Cobham Slip Rings Naples Inc. Wilmington, USA
Comant Industries Incorporated CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA
Continental Microwave and Tool Co, Inc. Corporation Service Company, 84 State Street, Boston, MA 02109, USA
European Antennas Limited Wimborne, England
FB Heliservices Kenya Limited PO Box 764, 00606, Nairobi, Kenya
FB Heliservices Limited Wimborne, England
FB Leasing Limited Wimborne, England
FBH Cyprus Limited 12 Kennedy Avenue, Kennedy Business Centre, 2nd Floor, Office 203, P .C. 1087 , Nicosia, Cyprus
FBS Limited Wimborne, England
Fleet Support Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Flight Refuelling Limited 
1 
Wimborne, England
FR Aviation Group Limited Wimborne, England
FR Aviation Limited Wimborne, England
FR Aviation Services Limited Wimborne, England
FR Investments Inc. Wilmington, USA
Glyndale Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Groupement Troyen d'Electronique Rue Catherine et William Booth, 10000 Troyes, France
Hyper-Technologies SAS 28 rue des Dames, 78340 Les Clayes sous Bois, France
IFR Finance Inc. 10200 West York Street, Wichita, KS 67215-8999, USA
IFR Finance Limited Partnership 
3
Stevenage, England
IFR Systems, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Jet Systems Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Label SAS 10 allée de Montréal, 74108 Annemasse, France
Lock Financing Limited Suite 6, Rineanna House, Shannon Free Zone, Co. Clare, Ireland
Lockman Denmark Financing S.à r.l 20 rue des Peupliers, L -2328, Luxembourg
Lockman Denmark Holdings A/S Lundtoftegårdsvej 93 D, DK-2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark
Lockman Electronic Holdings Limited Wimborne, England
Lockman Finance Limited Wimborne, England
Lockman Financing Limited Wimborne, England
Lockman Financing S.à r.l 20 rue des Peupliers, L -2328, Luxembourg
Lockman Investments Limited Wimborne, England
Lockman Properties Limited Wimborne, England
Lockwash Investments LLC Wilmington, USA
Lockwash US Limited Wimborne, England
Manlock Investments Limited Wimborne, England
Mastsystem International Oy Muovilaaksontie 8, 821 10 Heinävaara, Joensuu, Finland
Micro-Mesh SARL 35 rue de Montlhéry, BP 20191, 94563 Rungis, France
Multiphase Pumping Systems Limited Wimborne, England
NAS Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
NAT Seattle Inc. Wilmington, USA
National Air Support Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
National Investments Asia Pacific Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
National Jet Express Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
National Jet Operations Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia 130
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
Name of undertaking Address of registered office or equivalent
National Jet Systems Ground Handling Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
National Jet Systems Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Northern Airborne Technology Limited PO Box 10424, Pacific Centre, 1 300-777 Dunsmuir Street, Vancouver V7Y 1K2, Canada
Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC CT Corporation System, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801, USA
(50% joint venture)
Omnipless Manufacturing (Pty) Limited Westlake Drive, Westlake Business Park, Westlake 7945, South Africa
Philtech Co., Ltd (associate owned 30%) Sujeong-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea
Precision Aviation Industries SARL 5 avenue Denis Papin, BP 36, 92353 Le Plessis Robinson, France
Sargent Fletcher Inc. Wilmington, USA
Satori Air Services Inc 4105 Cousens Street, Saint-Laurent, Quebec H4S 1V6, Canada
Sea Tel, Inc CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA
Sivers Lab AB Torhamnsgatan 30F , 164 40 Kista, Sweden
Société de Marquage et Signalisation SAS 1 74- 1 78 Quai de Jemmapes, 75010 Paris, France
Surveillance Australia Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
TEAM SA 35 rue de Montlhéry, BP 20191, 94563 Rungis, France
Thrane & Thrane A/S Lundtoftegårdsvej 93 D, DK-2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark
Thrane & Thrane Aalborg A/S Industrivej 30, DK-9490 Pandrup, Denmark
Thrane & Thrane Inc. CT Corporation System, 4701 Cox Road, Suite 285, Glen Allen, VA 23060, USA
Thrane & Thrane Norge A/S Cort Adelers gate 16, 0254 Oslo, Norway
Trivec-Avant Corporation CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA
Vector Fields Incorporated Wilmington, USA
Dormant entities
Aeroflex Asia Pacific Limited Stevenage, England
Aeroflex Bloomingdale, Inc. Corporation Service Company, 80 State Street, Albany, New York 12207-2543, USA
Aeroflex Burnham Limited Stevenage, England
Aeroflex Cambridge Limited Stevenage, England
Aeroflex SRL Via Comaggia 10, c/o Studio Legale Tributario, Milan 20123, Italy
Aeroflex Tech., SA Europa Empresarial, Rozabella, 6 Edif, Paris, 28230 Laz Rosas, Madrid, Spain
Aeroflex Test Solutions India Pvt Limited 602, 6th Floor, Raheja Paramount, 1 38 Residency Road, Bangalore, Karnataka-560025, India
Chelton Aviation Corporation Corporation Service Company d/b/a CSC-Lawyers INCO, 21 1 E. 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin, TX 78701, USA
Chelton Satcom, Inc. Wilmington, USA
Cobham Aviation SDN BHD Level 8 Symphony House, Block D1 3 Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A/46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, 
Malaysia
Cobham Aviation Services International Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Communications and Connectivity Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Fluid Systems Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Group Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Helicopter Services Trinidad 5-7 Sweet Briar Road, St Clair, Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago
Cobham Mission Systems Limited Wimborne, England
Credowan Limited Wimborne, England
CTS Patents Limited Wimborne, England
Cobham Whiteley Limited Wimborne, England
Falcon Special Air Services SDN BHD Level 8 Symphony House, Block D1 3 Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A/46, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, 
Malaysia
FB Heliservices Curacao N.V. Kaya W.F .G. (Jombi), Mensing 36, Curacao
Grenedere Limited Wimborne, England
ML Aircraft Services Limited Wimborne, England
ML Aviation Limited Wimborne, England
National Jet Regional Services Pty Limited Adelaide, Australia
Racal Antennas Limited Wimborne, England
SeaTel Europe, Inc. CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N, Sacramento, CA 95833, USA
Smart Chemical Developments Limited Wimborne, England
Strabor (Aircraft) Limited Wimborne, England
Strabor Investments Limited Wimborne, England
W.E.S. (Manufacturing) Limited Wimborne, England
W.E.S. Investments Limited Wimborne, England
Wallop Holdings Limited Wimborne, England 131
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Full registered office addresses are:
Wimborne, England Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset BH21 2BJ, England.
Stevenage, England Longacres House, Six Hills Way, Stevenage, Hertfordshire, SG1 2AN, England.
Wilmington, USA Corporation Service Company, 271 1 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, DE 19808, USA. 
Adelaide, Australia National Drive, Adelaide Airport SA 5950, Australia.
1
 Issued shares in Flight Refuelling Limited are held by Cobham plc. Otherwise shares are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc.
2
 The 45% investment in Aviation Défense Service SA is treated as a joint venture because the governance structure means that the Group has joint control with its partner.
3
  Advantage has been taken of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements to prepare and publish audited 
accounts for IFR Finance Limited Partnership. 132
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Cobham plc
Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements
Our opinion  
In our opinion, Cobham plc’s Parent Company Financial Statements (the parent 
company financial statements):
 − Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s affairs as  
at 31 December 2016;
 − Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 − Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Emphasis of matter – Going concern
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we 
have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 1 to the financial 
statements concerning the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. The matters explained in the Directors’ going concern assessment  
on page 33 disclose that a shareholder vote is required in order to increase the 
share capital of the Company which is needed to raise additional capital through 
a rights issue and this has not yet taken place. The rights issue is fully underwritten 
on a standby basis, subject to customary conditions. These conditions, along 
with the other matters explained in note 1 to the Group’s financial statements, 
indicates the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant 
doubt about the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.  
The financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result  
if the Parent Company was unable to continue as a going concern.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
 − The Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016;
 − The Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
 − The Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial 
statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, 
Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 − the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
 − the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in 
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Parent Company 
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to 
report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report. We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)) 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is:
 − Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 − Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent  
with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or
 − Otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and  
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 − We have not received all the information and explanations we require for 
our audit; or
 − Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 − The financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out 
on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Parent Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: 
 − Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 − The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
 − The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements. We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary 
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report. With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report, we 
consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable 
legal requirements.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Cobham plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2016. That report includes an emphasis of matter.
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
2 March 2016 133
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
£m Note 2016 2015
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in Group and other undertakings 6 787.3 789.6
Other investments 6 6.1 6.1
Derivative financial instruments 11 35.0 11.3
Other receivables 7 18.3 18.3
846.7 825.3
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments 11 35.2 15.0
Trade and other receivables 7 2,645.8 2,376.2
Cash and cash equivalents 204.7 101.8
2,885.7 2,493.0
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 8 (60.7) (215.3)
Trade and other payables 9 (510.5) (510.2)
Provisions 10 (8.0) (6.6)
Derivative financial instruments 11 (46.4) (31.6)
(625.6) (763.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 8 (1,203.2) (1,344.7)
Derivative financial instruments 11 (33.3) (12.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 12 (36.8) (22.4)
(1,273.3) (1,379.9)
Net assets 1,833.5 1,174.7
Equity
Share capital 13 44.6 30.4
Share premium 778.3 301.9
Other reserves 13.5 13.3
Retained earnings 997.1 829.1
Total equity 1,833.5 1,174.7
Profit for the financial year 
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of Cobham plc has not been separately 
presented in these financial statements. The Company’s profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 was £304.6m (2015: £143.9m).
The financial statements on pages 133 to 139 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 2 March 2017 and signed  
on its behalf by:
    
David Lockwood    David Mellors
Directors 
Parent Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 December 2016 134
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Other reserves
£m
Share 
capital 
Share 
premium
Hedge 
reserve
Share based 
payment 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Total equity at 1 January 2015 30.4 301.9 (2.6) 20.1 825.6 1,175.4
Profit for the year – – – – 143.9 143.9
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – – 5.1 5.1
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – 0.3 – – 0.3
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 0.3 – 149.0 149.3
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – – (24.9) (24.9)
Dividends (note 2) – – – – (122.1) (122.1)
Share based payments (note 5) – – – (3.0) – (3.0)
Transfer of share based payment reserve – – – (1.5) 1.5 –
Total equity at 31 December 2015 30.4 301.9 (2.3) 15.6 829.1 1,174.7
Profit for the year – – – – 304.6 304.6
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – – (17.9) (17.9)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – 1.5 – – 1.5
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1.5 – 286.7 288.2
Issue of shares, net of costs (note 1 3) 14.2 476.4 – – – 490.6
Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares – – – – 2.3 2.3
Dividends (note 2) – – – – (126.1) (126.1)
Share based payments (note 5) – – – 3.8 – 3.8
Transfer of share based payment reserve – – – (5.1) 5.1 –
Total equity at 31 December 2016 44.6 778.3 (0.8) 14.3 997.1 1,833.5
  
The share based payment reserve includes the cost of awards granted to employees of the Company and Group as assessed under IFRS 2. Where awards which gave 
rise to charges under IFRS 2 have vested or been exercised, the appropriate proportion of the reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
Distributable reserves at 31 December 2016 amounted to £967.8m (2015: £801.1m).
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2016 135
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
1. Parent Company accounting policies
These financial statements are the financial statements for Cobham plc,  
the parent company of the Cobham plc Group, which operates as a group 
holding company. 
Accounting convention
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101). The  
financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, under  
the historical cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of derivative 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss and in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In respect of going concern, the Board draw attention to note 1 of the Group 
Financial Statements which highlights that a material uncertainty exists. This 
matter affects both the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under 
FRS 101: 
 − a cash flow statement and related notes (IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows  
and paragraph 10(d) of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements);
 − paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements comparative 
period reconciliations in respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1 (number  
of shares outstanding);
 − capital management disclosures required by paragraphs 134-136 of IAS 1;
 − the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors concerning the effects of  
new but not yet effective IFRSs;
 − details of compensation of key management personnel required by 
paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures; and
 − the requirements in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions entered  
into between two or more members of a group. 
In addition, as the consolidated financial statements of Cobham plc include  
the equivalent disclosures, the following exemptions under FRS 101 have also 
been taken: 
 − share based payment disclosures under paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of  
IFRS 2, Share Based Payment in respect of group settled share based 
payments; and
 − financial instrument information required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures and paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement. 
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and 
judgements that affect the application of accounting policies and reported 
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. These estimates and 
judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances. The current economic conditions 
have been considered when evaluating accounting estimates and judgements, 
including the application of the going concern basis of preparation. Although 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event  
or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation 
uncertainty at the balance sheet date, which have a significant risk of causing a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next 
financial year, relate to retirement benefit obligations. A number of assumptions 
are made in assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and 
liabilities, which include the discount rate, inflation and mortality rates. The 
Company uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to select  
the values of critical assumptions. 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, are  
as set out below.
Dividends 
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are  
fully authorised. Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders’ right  
to receive payment has been established.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Company operates and participates in the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP) and 
the Cobham Executive Pension Plan (CEPP). The plans are funded defined benefit 
schemes and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The assets 
and liabilities of the CPP have been allocated to the contributing companies 
based on the proportional number of members. The Company also operates  
and contributes to a defined contribution scheme.
For the defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related to the 
administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit. Past service costs 
are recognised immediately in the income statement. The interest on net assets 
or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs. Actuarial remeasurements 
are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income (OCI).
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate 
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of 
equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations 
are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.  
The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on  
the face of the balance sheet.
For the defined contribution scheme, the amount charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits are the 
contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable 
in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either accruals or 
prepayments in the balance sheet.
Current and deferred taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid using rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect 
of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
periods in which the asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis and deferred tax assets are 
only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will  
be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates 
to items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the tax is also 
recognised in OCI or directly in equity respectively. Tax assets and liabilities  
are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same  
fiscal authority. 
Investments in Group and other undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision 
for impairment in value and include the fair value at the date of grant of share 
based payment awards to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts 
recovered as management charges.
Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will be 
required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Share capital
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. 
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific 
date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments  
are not discretionary. Dividends on preference share capital classified as liabilities 
are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.  136
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
Treasury shares
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, 
the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration paid, including 
commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. 
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are translated at the exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at 
the balance sheet date. Non-monetary items (such as investments) that are 
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency (such as some derivative financial 
instruments) are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value was determined.
All exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement. 
Financial instruments 
The policies disclosed in note 1 to the Group Financial Statements on page 95 
for the recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments are 
applicable to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries are recognised at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method and are reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, 
net of direct issue costs and subsequently held at amortised cost. Interest is 
accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement. Premiums payable 
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are capitalised and amortised 
over the period to which the facility relates. 
Share based payments
For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Group’s equity share 
based payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of awards as 
at the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the vesting 
period, taking into account management’s best estimate of the number of 
awards expected to vest. The vesting estimate, which includes progress against 
non-market related performance conditions, is reviewed and updated at each 
balance sheet date. The fair value of awards made to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges, is recognised 
as a capital contribution and recorded in investments.
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes model, 
modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance 
criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
2. Dividends
£m 2016 2015
Final dividend of 8. 1 3p per share for 2015 (2014: 7 .746p) 91.6  87.7 
Interim dividend of 2.03p per share for 2016 (2015: 3.05p)  34.5 34.4
Total dividend authorised and paid during the 
year 126.1 122.1
3. Employees  
The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year was 162 
(2015: 162). All staff were employed in administrative functions. Costs for these 
employees were as follows:   
       
£m 2016 2015
Wages and salaries 12.9 12.9
Social security costs 1.0 0.9
Pension costs 9.6 9.7
Share based payments 0.7 (1.5)
24.2 22.0
Disclosures in respect of the emoluments of Directors and key management 
personnel can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 62  
to 77 and in note 4 of the Group Financial Statements respectively. 
4. Audit fees
The audit fee in respect of the Parent Company Financial Statements was 
£47,000 (2015: £49,000). 
5. Share based payments
Employees of Cobham plc participate in equity settled share based payment 
schemes which are operated by the Group for senior executives and also in the 
Group’s ShareSave scheme which is open to all UK employees.
At 31 December, the following awards were outstanding under each scheme:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2016 2015
PSP 3,242 3,050
RSP 388 123
ESOS 180 474
BCP 17 22
ShareSave 696 364
4,523 4,033
Options outstanding under the ESOS scheme had a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 1.7 years (2015: 2.3 years) and exercise prices which range 
from £1.56 to £1.98 (2015: £1.56 to £1.98 as adjusted for the bonus impact  
of the rights issue). Options outstanding under the ShareSave scheme had  
a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.1 years (2015: 3.1 years)  
and exercise prices which range from £1.26 to £2.05 (2015: £1.26 to £2.05).
Exercises of awards under the ESOS and ShareSave schemes were made at 
various times throughout the year. The average share price in that period was 
£1.842p (2015: £2.964p).
Further details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 67 and in note 26 to the Group Financial Statements.  
  137
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Investments in Group and other undertakings
£m Shares
Share based 
payments Total
Cost and net book amount
At 1 January 2016 777.3 12.3 789.6
Share based payment awards granted 
to employees of Group undertakings 
net of recoveries – 1.7 1.7
Other movement (4.0) – (4.0)
At 31 December 2016 773.3 14.0 787.3
In the opinion of the Directors the value of investments in subsidiary 
undertakings is not less than the aggregate amount at which they are  
shown above.
A list of all subsidiaries is provided in note 32 to the Group Financial Statements. 
The market capitalisation of the Group as a whole is given in the Group Financial 
Record on page 140.
The Company has minority shareholdings in two companies in connection with 
the FST A programme. The total amount invested is £6.1m (2015: £6.1m) and this 
is held as a trade investment.
7. Trade and other receivables
Current assets
£m 2016 2015
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,621.4 2,360.4
Deferred tax 15.2 6.9
Prepayments and accrued income 9.2 8.9
2,645.8 2,376.2
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. 
All such balances, excluding trading balances, are interest bearing.
The net deferred tax asset can be analysed as follows:  
£m 2016 2015
Derivative financial instruments 7.5 1.8
Retirement benefit obligations 7.4 4.5
Share based payments 0.2 0.5
Accelerated capital allowances 0.1 0.1
15.2 6.9
Movements in the net deferred tax asset are as follows:
£m
At 1 January 2016 6.9
Charge to reserves 3.9
Charge to income statement 4.4
At 31 December 2016 15.2
Non-current assets
£m 2016 2015
Loan notes 18.3 18.3
The loan notes relate to the FST A programme, are interest bearing and due for 
repayment in 2035.
8. Borrowings 
Current liabilities
£m 2016 2015
Bank overdrafts – 59.7
Bank loans – 100.7
Senior notes 60.7 54.9
60.7 215.3
Non-current liabilities
£m 2016 2015
Bank loans 475.7 471.8
Senior notes 727.5 872.9
1,203.2 1,344.7
Further details of the Company’s principal borrowing facilities are disclosed in 
notes 14 and 17 to the Group Financial Statements.
The loans falling due after more than one year are due for repayment as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Between one and two years 267.4 41.6
Between two and five years 204.9 427.3
After five years 3.4 2.9
475.7 471.8
Senior notes falling due after more than one year mature as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Between one and two years – 84.8
Between two and five years 383.6 330.1
After five years, maturing between 2021 and 2024 343.9 458.0
727.5 872.9
Following the rights issue completed in June 2016, senior notes with a face value 
of US$312.5m were repaid in September 2016.
9. Trade and other payables
£m 2016 2015
Trade payables 2.4 2.3
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 488.2 484.6
Corporation tax payable 3.3 1.2
Other tax and social security 1.3 1.7
Accruals and deferred income 15.3 20.4
510.5 510.2
Interest is charged on amounts owed to Group undertakings at rates varying 
between 0.25% and 9.0%. These amounts are unsecured and are repayable  
on demand.  138
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
10. Provisions  
£m
Legal  
claims
Other 
provisions Total
At 1 January 2016 – 6.6 6.6
Charge to income statement 1.4 – 1.4
At 31 December 2016 1.4 6.6 8.0
Other provisions of £6.6m (2015: £6.6m) relate to longer term warranties given 
on divestments completed in 2005. All amounts have been determined based on 
the Directors’ current estimates of likely outcomes and the timing of any claims 
remains uncertain. 
11. Derivative financial instruments  
The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign 
currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses foreign exchange 
contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does 
not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Other derivative 
financial instruments may be used from time to time to manage exposures such 
as inflation risk.
     
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows, these are 
financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, or financial liabilities 
categorised as held for trading:  
    
£m
Interest  
rate  
swaps 
Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
Non-current assets – 34.6 0.4 35.0
Current assets – 33.8 1.4 35.2
Current liabilities (0.6) (44.4) (1.4) (46.4)
Non-current liabilities (1.2) (31.7) (0.4) (33.3)
At 31 December 2016 (1.8) (7.7) – (9.5)
Non-current assets – 10.1 1.2 11.3
Current assets – 13.8 1.2 15.0
Current liabilities (0.5) (29.9) (1.2) (31.6)
Non-current liabilities (1.8) (9.8) (1.2) (12.8)
At 31 December 2015 (2.3) (15.8) – (18.1)
The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the 
year are as follows: 
    
£m
Interest  
rate  
swaps 
Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
At 1 January 2015 (3.3) (8.0) – (11.3)
Loss through income 
statement – not hedged – (7.6) – (7.6)
Gain reclassified to income 
statement 1.1 – – 1.1
Loss through OCI – hedged 
items (0.3) (0.2) – (0.5)
Foreign exchange 
adjustments 0.2 – – 0.2
At 1 January 2016 (2.3) (15.8) – (18.1)
Gain through income 
statement – not hedged – 7.1 – 7.1
Gain reclassified to income 
statement 1.1 0.4 – 1.5
(Loss)/gain through OCI – 
hedged items (0.2) 0.6 – 0.4
Foreign exchange 
adjustments (0.4) – – (0.4)
At 31 December 2016 (1.8) (7.7) – (9.5)
Hedge accounting is applied for interest rate swaps and a small number of 
specific foreign exchange derivatives with a fair value at 31 December 2016 of 
£18.5m (2015: £1.5m) which are designated as cash flow hedging instruments. 
There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges to be reported through 
the income statement.
The majority of foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted 
for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are recorded in the 
income statement. 
The most significant assumptions in valuing the derivatives are the exchange 
rates for GBP: USD, GBP: DKK and GBP: EUR.  
 
12. Retirement benefit obligations
Retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet comprise:
£m 2016 2015
Defined benefit scheme assets 415.7 349.0
Defined benefit obligations (452.5) (371.4)
(36.8) (22.4)
Defined benefit pension schemes   
The Company operates and participates in the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP) and 
the Cobham Executive Pension Plan (CEPP). The plans are funded defined benefit 
schemes (where benefits are based on employees’ length of service and average 
final salary) and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The plans 
have been closed to new members since 2003 and have been closed to future 
accrual from 1 April 2016.      
  
Details of actuarial valuation processes and risks, assumptions and sensitivities 
relating to the CPP and CEPP are not significantly different to those disclosed in 
note 22 to the Group Financial Statements on page 118.
The Company expects to contribute £8.5m to its defined benefit pension 
schemes in 2017 and £8.5m in 2018. There were no significant contributions 
outstanding at the end of 2016 or 2015.
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
£m 2016 2015
At 1 January 349.0 275.0
Interest 13.1 10.9
Actuarial gains 62.3 67.0
Scheme administration expenses – (0.2)
Contributions by members – 0.1
Contributions by employers 8.7 8.6
Benefits paid (17.4) (12.4)
At 31 December 415.7 349.0
      
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
     
£m 2016 2015
At 1 January 371.4 310.8
Current service cost – 0.1
Past service cost – 0.2
Interest cost 13.8 12.2
Actuarial losses arising from changes in 
financial assumptions 89.7 64.9
Actuarial gains arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions (5.0) (4.3)
Contributions by members – 0.1
Gain on curtailment – (0.2)
Benefits paid (17.4) (12.4)
At 31 December 452.5 371.4 139
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
PARENT COMPANY 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The actual return on scheme assets was £75.4m (2015: £77.9m). The weighted 
average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 17 years.
 
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total 
scheme assets, is as follows:
2016 2015
£m % £m %
UK equity instruments 27.7 6.7% 23.6 6.8%
Overseas equities 16.1 3.9% 13.7 3.9%
Emerging markets equities 11.0 2.6% 9.3 2.7%
Liability driven investments 40.8 9.8% 31.3 9.0%
Corporate bonds 41.3 9.9% – –
Private credit 7.6 1.8% – –
Insurance contracts 181.9 43.8% 163.0 46.7%
Diversified growth funds 75.4 18.2% 82.6 23.6%
Other assets 13.9 3.3% 25.5 7.3%
415.7 100.0% 349.0 100.0%
Scheme assets do not include any of the Company’s own financial instruments, 
nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Company. 
Defined contribution pension schemes
The Company also operates and participates in the Cobham Personal Pension 
Plan, a defined contribution scheme. The assets of the scheme are held 
separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds.  
The pension cost charged represents contributions payable by the Company 
to the funds and amounted to £1.0m (2015: £0.9m). No contributions were 
outstanding at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil).    
   
13. Share capital 
£m 2016 2015
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Equity
1,783,815,575 (2015: 1,214,527 ,625)  
2.5p ordinary shares 44.6 30.4
Non-equity
19,700 (2015: 19,700) 6% second cumulative 
preference shares of £1 – –
Preference shares with a value of £19,700 are classified as borrowings. 
Following a 1 for 2 fully underwritten rights issue, 569,287,950 ordinary shares  
of 2.5p each were issued on 17 June 2016 at an issue price of 89p per share.  
Net proceeds of £490.6m were realised, net of costs of £16.1m.
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc, including changes resulting 
from treasury shares, can be found on page 78 and in note 24 to the Group 
Financial Statements.
 
14. Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual 
performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of 
business entered into for, or on behalf of, certain Group undertakings. 
As the conditions of the above guarantees are currently being met, no obligating 
event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been made at the year end.
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil).
15. Related party transactions
During the year the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course 
of business, with related parties that are part of the Cobham plc Group or 
investees of the Group. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
under paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101 from disclosing related party transactions with 
its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings. The only transactions with non-wholly 
owned subsidiaries relate to the receipt of management and brand charges 
totalling £1.3m (2015: £1.0m) from TEAM SA which is 98.7% owned. No amounts 
were outstanding at the current or prior year end.
There were no material transactions with the Directors, their close family 
members or other connected parties to be reported during the year other than 
arising from Directors’ service agreements. Details of Directors’ remuneration  
are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 77. 140
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Group Financial Record
£m 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Revenue 1,749.4 1,789.7 1,851.7 2,072.0 1,943.9
Underlying profit before taxation 300.2 288.0 257.0 280.4 179.1
Profit/(loss) before taxation for the year 204.0 126.6 24.3 (39.8) (847.9)
Taxation (32.2) (12.1) 4.7 2.1 52.8
Profit/(loss) after taxation 171.8 114.5 29.0 (37.7) (795.1)
Net assets employed
Intangible assets 1,102.1 1,162.2 2,040.8 1,729.5 1,165.9
Property, plant and equipment (including investment properties) 315.5 360.7 400.4 384.2 426.5
Investments 15.8 3.1 3.1 3.0 3.6
Other non-current assets 60.3 43.3 75.3 95.3 134.1
Current assets 877.9 849.9 1,101.6 1,105.6 1,062.9
2,371.6 2,419.2 3,621.2 3,317.6 2,793.0
Current liabilities (576.4) (574.8) (707 .4) (797.2) (864.0)
Non-current liabilities excluding retirement benefit obligations (667.4) (712.9) (1,699.5) (1,554.0) (1,352.1)
Net assets excluding retirement benefit obligations 1,127.8 1,131.5 1,214.3 966.4 576.9
Retirement benefit obligations (73.4) (87.3) (102.0) (56.7) (87.0)
Net assets including retirement benefit obligations 1,054.4 1,044.2 1,112.3 909.7 489.9
Financed by
Ordinary share capital 28.9 28.9 30.4 30.4 44.6
Reserves 1,024.9 1,014.5 1,081.0 878.4 444.2
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 1,053.8 1,043.4 1,111.4 908.8 488.8
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.9 1.1
Total equity 1,054.4 1,044.2 1,112.3 909.7 489.9
Net debt (359.9) (453.4) (1,222.7) (1,206.8) (1,028.2)
Operating cash flow 339.3 268.5 207.9 234.6 181.8
Operating cash conversion 104% 85% 73% 71% 81%
pence
Dividend paid per ordinary share 8.60 9.04 9.94 10.80 10.16
Earnings per ordinary share – underlying 19.1 18.3 15.7 16.5 9.0
Earnings per ordinary share – basic 13.5 9.1 2.2 (2.8) (52.8)
Earnings per ordinary share – diluted 13.5 9.0 2.2 (2.8) (52.8)
Net assets per ordinary share 91.3 90.4 91.6 74.9 27.5
£m
Market capitalisation as at 31 December 2,549 3,169 3,934 3,440 2,920
 
EPS figures for prior years have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue, in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share. 141
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
 
OTHER INFORMATION
Shareholder Information
Analysis of shareholders
Analysis of ordinary shareholders on the register at 31 December 2016:
Size of holding
Number of  
registered holders
Percentage of  
registered holders
Number of  
ordinary shares 
held
Percentage of  
ordinary shares
Up to 1,000 1,326 27.61 628,412 0.04
1,001–10,000 2,327 48.45 8,577 ,756 0.48
10,001–50,000 682 14.20 14,342,399 0.80
50,001–250,000 208 4.33 25,063,241 1.40
250,001–1,000,000 121 2.52 64,333,934 3.61
1,000,001 and above 139 2.89 1,670,869,833 93.67
Total 4,803 100.00 1,783,815,575 100.00
Source: Equiniti Group plc
At 31 December 2016, there were 4,803 ordinary shareholders on the register, compared with 5, 142 at 31 December 2015. The total includes Treasury shareholding  
of 75,951,724 shares.
Registrars 
Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should, in the first instance,  
be addressed to the Company’s registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA (telephone: 0371 384 2163* 
or +44 (0)121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK). Shareholders should 
promptly notify the registrars of any change of address or other particulars. 
The registrars provide a range of shareholders’ services online. The portfolio 
service provides access to information on investments including balance 
movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividends and 
also enables address and mandate details to be amended online. For further 
information and practical help on transferring shares or updating your details, 
please visit www.shareview.co.uk. The share dealing service enables shares to 
be sold by UK shareholders by telephone, post or over the internet. For telephone 
sales please call 0345 603 7037 between 8am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday.  
For postal sales, please send your completed documentation to the address 
above. For internet sales, please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
The registrars also offer an ISA for Cobham shareholders. Further information 
may be obtained by visiting www.shareview.co.uk, or telephone  
0345 300 0430 (or +44 (0) 121 415 0105 if calling from outside the UK).
You should bear in mind that investments, both their value and the income 
they provide, can go down as well as up and you might not get back what you 
originally invested.
Capital gains tax
For the information of shareholders who held Cobham plc ordinary shares on 
31 March 1982, the market value, adjusted for capitalisation and rights issues, 
of the Company’s ordinary shares on that date for capital gains tax purposes, 
unadjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005, was 86.02p.
ShareGift
Do you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell? You may want 
to consider donating it to ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686), a charity 
that specialises in the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to good  
causes. You can find out more by visiting www.sharegift.org or calling  
+44 (0) 207 930 3737.
Shareholder Security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares, or offers of free reports about the Company. Details of any share dealing 
facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on 
our website. If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct 
name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately 
authorised by the FCA by visiting www.fca.org.uk. You can also call the FCA 
Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 (or +44 (0) 20 7066 1000 if calling  
from outside the UK).
Financial calendar
AGM     27 April 2017
Interim results    3 August 2017
Registered Office
Brook Road,  
Wimborne,  
Dorset,  
England  
BH21 2BJ 
T el: +44 (0)1202 882020
Fax: +44 (0)1202 840523 
Internet: www.cobham.com
Registered Number in England: 30470
*  Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm; excluding Public Holidays 
in England and Wales. 142
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Term Full name Description
737NG Boeing 737 Next Generation Part of the Boeing 737 family of twin engine narrow-body commercial 
airliners. Boeing 737 Next Generation models include the -600, -700, 
-800 and -900ER.
A320neo Family Airbus A320neo A single-aisle aircraft product line
A400M Airbus A400M A versatile large military aircraft that performs three differing duties: 
short-medium range flights; long range flights; and the ability to provide 
aerial refuelling capabilities.
AMSA Australian Maritime Safety Authority A statutory authority whose principal functions are promoting 
maritime safety and protection of the marine environment; preventing 
and combating ship-sourced pollution in the marine environment; 
providing infrastructure to support safety of navigation in Australian 
waters; providing a national search and rescue service to the maritime 
and aviation sectors. 
Aviator 200S Aviator 200S The AVIATOR S series provides SATCOM solutions for airline fleets for 
the purpose of air traffic control and aircraft operation control. The 
AVIATOR S enables secure data communication, Internet Protocol (IP)
connectivity and multiple voice capabilities. 
B717 Boeing 71 7 A narrow-body passenger aircraft designed for short-haul, 
high frequency commercial use.
C-130 Lockheed Martin C- 1 30 A tactical airlifter. C- 1 30 variants are also used for special operations, 
aerial refuelling, close air support, search and rescue and personnel 
recovery. 
CI Continuous improvement Continuous improvement is the ongoing improvement of products, 
services or processes through incremental and breakthrough activities.
 
CL-604 Bombardier Challenger CL -604 aircraft A business jet being modified by Cobham. 
COMAC C919 COMAC C919 A narrow-body passenger aircraft currently being developed 
by the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China (COMAC). 
COSO ERM Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission, Enterprise 
Risk Management
An integrated framework which helps businesses assess and enhance 
their internal control systems. The framework is used to control 
activities and to better achieve established objectives.
Dassault Rafale Multirole fighter aircraft A twin engine, multirole fighter aircraft
EA-18G Boeing EA- 18G Growler A variant of the F/A- 18F Super Hornet, the EA- 18G Growler is an  
airborne electronic attack platform that provides tactical jamming  
and electronic protection.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning An IT system which integrates all business processes, including 
manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and 
marketing, purchasing, distribution, and inventory into one central 
cohesive repository. It allows businesses to run more efficiently,  
with real time access to data across many business functions.
Eurofighter Typhoon Multirole fighter aircraft A twin engine, multirole fighter aircraft 
Glossary 143
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
 OTHER INFORMATION
Term Full name Description
F-# US Air Force designated fighter aircraft Designation for aircraft used for air-to-air combat or for multiple roles, 
including ground support missions.
FYDP Future Years Defense Program A US Department of Defense centralised report providing data on 
current and planned resource allocations, providing visibility over 
projected defence spending. 
GX Inmarsat Global Xpress A global satellite service which is the world’s first to offer mobile 
broadband coverage. Global Xpress provides increased data speeds 
and bandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and 
aeronautical sectors.
idDAS Intelligent Digital Distributed 
Antenna Systems
An in-building wireless coverage solution allowing mobile operators  
to dynamically allocate capacity around a facility to locations only 
where and when it is needed. 
Ka-band Ka-band Used in satellite communications, Ka-band offers higher bandwidth 
than alternative frequencies allowing greater data transfer rates. 
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the 
US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC- 1 35 Stratotankers. 
Saab Gripen Multirole fighter aircraft A single engine, multirole fighter aircraft
SAILOR 100 GX SAILOR 100 Global Xpress An advanced 3-axis stabilized Ka-band antenna system designed for 
the Inmarsat GX satellite network.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables fixed and mobile communications such as telephone calls, 
television or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer 
data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare 
Improvement Program
An evolutionary series of enhancements to the US Navy’s AN/SLQ-32 
electronic warfare system for surface ships.
SwiftBroadband-Safety SwiftBroadband-Safety Inmarsat’s flight deck communications platform designed for global, 
high-speed, secure, IP connectivity for the cockpit
TeraVM TeraVM A fully virtualised IP test and measurement solution that can emulate 
and measure millions of unique application flows as a means to test 
wireless networks. 144
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
Definitions
KPI definitions
Group organic revenue growth
Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding the 
incremental effect of acquisitions and divestments.
Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates
The year-on-year increase in underlying profit after taxation, stated at  
constant translation exchange rates, divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares.
Operating cash conversion
Operating cash flow as a percentage of underlying operating profit, excluding  
the share of profit from joint ventures and associates.
Return on invested capital
Underlying operating profit as a percentage of the average invested capital 
during the year.
Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, retirement 
benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current and deferred tax, 
provisions and other financial assets. Intangible assets recognised on business 
combinations are grossed up to their original cost before amortisation and an 
adjustment is also made to reinstate the historic goodwill previously written  
off directly to reserves.
PV investment
Private Venture (PV) or company funded Research and Development (R&D) 
measures exclude Aviation Services, where there is no R&D activity.
Voluntary staff turnover
The number of voluntary leavers divided by the number of employees  
at the start of the period, excluding employees who became redundant,  
were dismissed or retired.
On time to promise
Number of complete orders delivered on time as a percentage of the total 
number of orders promised for delivery in the same period..
Further Financial Definitions
Underlying measures 
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included 
within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including 
underlying operating profit (previously called trading profit) and underlying profit. 
All underlying measures include the operational results of all businesses including 
those held for sale until the point of sale. The non-GAAP measures used do not 
include the impact of items described below which are not considered to reflect 
the day to day operating results of the Group. Underlying measures are therefore 
considered to provide a more comparable view year on year, having removed the 
distorting effects of the excluded items which are more clearly understood when 
presented separately.
Underlying operating profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing 
operations excluding the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related 
activity and business restructuring costs as detailed below. Also excluded are 
changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial 
instruments, gains and losses arising on dividend related foreign exchange 
contracts and other items deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional,  
non-operating nature including impairment of intangible assets..
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from underlying 
operating profit and underlying profit include the amortisation of intangible 
assets arising on business combinations, gains or losses arising on business 
divestments, adjustments to businesses held for sale, the writing off of the 
pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition, revaluation 
gains and losses arising on the original equity interests on stepped acquisitions, 
other direct costs associated with business combinations and terminated 
divestments, and adjustments to contingent consideration related to previously 
acquired businesses.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio 
which are incremental to normal operations. Where restructuring costs are 
incurred as a result of the on-going execution of Group strategy, such costs  
are included within administrative expenses and are not excluded from 
underlying results. 
In 2016 additional exceptional items excluded from underlying results due  
to their unusual size and incidence arose out of the January 2017 Balance  
Sheet review and include revisions to the carrying value of assets, changes  
in estimates of fixed price contract profitability and the assessment of legal  
and other provisions.
Underlying profit before taxation is defined as underlying operating profit less 
net underlying finance costs, which exclude business acquisition and divestment 
related items and non-recurring finance costs (such as costs associated with the 
early repayment of senior notes following the June 2016 rights issue).
Free cash flow and operating cash flow 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus dividends 
received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the purchase or disposal 
of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets but excluding payments 
relating to business acquisition and divestment related activities. Operating cash 
flow is free cash flow before payment of tax, interest and restructuring costs. 
Net debt 
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents  
at the balance sheet date. 
Geographical sectors
When providing sectoral analysis by geography, US revenue includes revenue  
to US based customers on programmes which could be designated as export  
and is therefore UK, RoW defence/security from a market analysis perspective. 
  Designed and produced by: 
Addison Group 
www.addison-group.net
Printed by:  
Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its 
Environmental Management System is certified  
to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% 
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, 
on average, 99% of any waste associated with this 
production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Amadeus coated  
50 silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre (25%  
post consumer and 25% pre consumer) and 50% 
virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, 
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product 
is bleached using an elemental chlorine free  
(ECF) process.
When you have finished with this report, please pass 
it on to other interested parties or remove  
the cover and dispose of it in your recycled  
paper waste.
Investor information and share price performance
www.cobhaminvestors.com 
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
www.cobhamsustainability.com
Products and service offerings
www.cobham.com
Find more online
Our website provides further information including 
shareholder services and governance, details of our 
products and services, corporate responsibility and 
sustainability, and more at:
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com Cobham plc
The most important thing we build is trust
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK
T: +44 (0)1202 882020
F: +44 (0)1202 840523
