 10 years  
of delivery
Connect Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 
2016
Connect Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Connect Group PLC
Ten years of delivery
Since 2006 Connect Group has been 
delivering market leading services 
to our industry partners. 
Combining four market focused 
divisions the Group has national 
reach and a portfolio of operations 
that leverage our scale, skills and 
competencies. Adding value 
across our supply chains, the 
Group’s specialist distribution 
businesses are underpinned 
by scale efficiencies, bespoke 
technology and industry expertise.
Entering our second decade as an 
independent PLC the Group is focused 
on further growth and expansion. 
Strategic report
01 Highlights 2016
02 Group overview
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Business model
08 Our Strategy
11 Key performance indicators
12 Risk Management
14 Group Chief Executive’s review
16 Divisional reviews
 16 Connect News & Media
 20 Connect Parcel Freight
 22 Connect Education & Care
 24 Connect Books
26 Financial review
28 Corporate responsibility
Governance
34 Board of Directors
35 Group Executive
36 Introduction by the Chairman
37 Corporate governance
43 Audit Committee report
47 Nominations Committee report
49 Directors’ remuneration report
64 Other statutory disclosures
66 Directors’ responsibilities statement
Financials
67 Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Connect Group PLC
71 Group income statement
71 Group statement of comprehensive income
72 Group balance sheet
73 Group statement of changes in equity
74 Group cash flow statement
75 Notes to the accounts
107 Group income statement
107 Group balance sheet
108 Company balance sheet
109 Statement of charges in equity
110 Notes to the company balance sheet
112 Shareholder information
114 Glossary of terms Connect Group PLC
01
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Highlights 2016
Solid Group performance 
in line with expectations 
Good progress on strategic 
and operational priorities
 – Continued strong performance of Tuffnells
 – Growing scale and capability in Pass My Parcel
 – Delivered £7m of business efficiencies across the Group
 – Investing in core capability and capacity
 – Closer collaboration between Smiths News and Tuffnells
£60.7 m
Adjusted PBT
+7.4%
£49.6m
Free cash flow
+24.6%
19.8p
Adjusted EPS
+0.5%
9.5p
Dividend  
per share +3.3%
£1,907 m
Total revenue
+1.7% Connect Group PLC
02
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group overview
Group at a glance
Connect Group PLC is a UK based specialist 
distributor operating in a range of large 
and complex markets. 
The Group has four operating divisions; 
each a leader in its field. Every day we 
connect thousands of suppliers to their 
customers, with efficiency, market 
knowledge and sector expertise.
£174.4m
Revenue
£15.0m
Operating profit
 Page 16 for more information
 Page 20 for more information
A leading provider of business-
to-business freight specialising 
in items of irregular dimension 
and weight.
Focusing on small and medium 
enterprises, Tuffnells Parcels Express 
plays a critical role as the supply 
chain partner for its 4,700 customers. 
Its network of 37 depots provides 
national reach and the necessary 
flexibility to meet the needs 
of complex and time 
sensitive deliveries.
£1,471m
Revenue
£42.4m
Operating profit
A leader in newspaper and 
magazine distribution, with 
recent expansion into the 
growing Click & Collect market.
The division comprises:
 – Smiths News, the UK’s largest 
news wholesaler. 
 – DMD, serving the specialist needs of 
airlines and travel points worldwide.
 – Pass My Parcel, a growing presence 
in the Click & Collect market. Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
03
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
£64.8m
Revenue
£195.9m
Revenue
£7.8m
Operating profit
£2.5m
Operating profit
 Page 22 for more information
 Page 24 for more information
A specialist supplier of 
consumables to schools, 
nurseries and care homes.
Offering a range of over 40,000 
products we aim to meet the 
comprehensive needs of our 
customers. Our catalogues and 
industry leading websites use 
careful product selection and 
targeted promotions to make 
buying easy for our customers. 
A leading distributor of books to 
retailers and libraries with a fast 
growing direct to consumer offer 
through Wordery.
The division operates in four distinct 
markets: wholesale, direct to consumer, 
UK libraries and International libraries. 
Since it’s launch in 2012 Wordery has 
been one of the fastest growing 
UK Booksellers.
The Group manages its portfolio to 
achieve long term profit growth and 
substantial cash generation that supports 
strong returns for shareholders and 
investment for further growth. Connect Group PLC
04
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s statement
Solid performance with good 
progress on operational priorities
I am pleased to confirm 
the Group has delivered 
another solid performance 
across the year, increasing 
profit and developing 
new revenue streams 
for the future. 
In what has been a turbulent period 
for the wider economy and the political 
environment, the Group’s clear focus and 
relatively stable markets have underpinned 
our financial results. More broadly, the 
Group’s strategic investments for growth 
have made good progress as has our 
strategy to leverage the capabilities 
of our portfolio. 
The financial performance of the Group is 
in line with market expectations, delivering 
another year of profit growth. Statutory 
profit before tax of £41.9m is up by 45% 
(FY15:£29.0m), and Statutory earnings per 
share is up 47% to 13.7p. Group Adjusted 
profit before tax of £60.7m is up by 7.4% 
and Adjusted earnings per share is up by 
0.5% to 19.8p. These results benefit from 
strong growth and a full year of trading in 
our Parcel Freight division and a solid 
performance by the News & Media and 
Education & Care divisions, which together 
account for 96% of the Group’s Adjusted 
operating profit.
Looking to the performance of our 
divisions in more detail, News & Media 
returned adjusted operating profit of £42.4m, 
down 3.0% (FY15: £43.7m) including the 
impact of the losses incurred in Pass My 
Parcel. Parcel Freight, incorporating Tuffnells, 
continues to show strong growth, winning 
market share in the business-to-business 
freight sector; Adjusted operating profit of 
£15.0m is up 4.9% on a 52 week basis, after 
increased investment in the business this 
year. Our two largest divisions have also 
begun to explore and develop opportunities 
to collaborate that are expected to deliver 
cost efficiencies. 
This cooperation between Smiths News 
and Tuffnells, providing national coverage for 
parcel distribution, is an important strategic 
step forward. 
Education & Care generated adjusted 
operating profit of £7.8m, flat to the 
previous year (FY15: £7.8m) but representing 
an increase in market share in what has been 
a tough year for education spending, and 
positioning the business well for FY17 when 
we expect market conditions to improve. The 
Books division contributed adjusted operating 
profit of £2.5m, down 3.8% on the previous 
year (FY15:£2.6m) as a consequence of 
extremely difficult conditions in the library 
supply markets and new costs, offsetting an 
improvement in high street sales and the 
continued strong progress in Wordery. 
The Group’s long term strategy is 
clear: we plan to grow and diversify in 
specialist distribution markets that align to 
our core capabilities, delivering competitive 
advantage through scale, efficiencies and 
expertise. In the ten years since becoming 
an independent PLC we have made excellent 
progress, expanding from a single business 
operating in one sector, to become a broader 
based distributor with greater capability and 
range of opportunities. Our divisions are all 
leading players in their sectors, giving us a 
firm foundation from which to develop new 
revenues that will complement our 
core markets.
The Group’s financial position remains 
strong. Free cash flow increased by 25% 
to £49.6m (FY15:£39.8m). The Group’s net 
debt of £141.7m is down by £12m and, at 
1.7x EBITDA, it remains comfortably within 
our banking covenants. Our progressive 
dividend policy aims to ensure a proportion 
of profit growth is passed to shareholders; a 
final dividend of 6.5p, up 3.2%, has therefore 
been proposed, making a full year dividend 
of 9.5p up 3.3% on last year. Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
05
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Every year brings its challenges, and never 
more so in what is a growing and developing 
business. As ever, our people have risen to 
meet them; not only with a daily dedication 
to the needs of our operations, but also to 
the less tangible requirements of business 
integration and cultural change. I would like 
to thank them for the essential role that their 
commitment and positivity plays in our 
success at every level.
The Group is and has always been committed 
to ensuring our staff work at all times across 
all divisions in a safe environment with clear 
processes, regular training and a culture 
of attention to safety in all that we do. It is 
therefore with great sadness that I must 
report a fatality at Tuffnells’ Brierley Hill depot 
in January 2016. We are assisting the Health 
& Safety Executive in its investigation which 
is ongoing. Due to the uncertainties over the 
potential outcome and timing of this process 
and having regard for the circumstances 
surrounding the incident, the Board considers 
it appropriate to make a financial provision 
in relation to this matter (see Note 24 of 
the financial statements). This tragic event 
reinforces our determination to continue 
making improvements in Health & Safety 
across the Group and further investment 
will continue to be made in the next year 
to support this goal.
My colleagues on the Board have also 
provided vital support, enhanced by the 
insight and candour of the Group Executive 
led by Mark Cashmore. Their approach to 
teamwork, underpinned with an intellectual 
rigour, has made my first full year as Chairman 
enjoyable and challenging in equal measure. 
On 1 October 2016, we welcomed David 
Bauernfeind to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer and I am looking forward to drawing 
on his experience and fresh perspective. 
In the meantime, I would like to thank his 
predecessor, Nick Gresham, for his valuable 
contribution over six years with the Group.
Embarking on our second decade as a 
PLC, the Group is as ambitious as ever. 
Our divisions have clear plans for growth, 
supplemented by a range of opportunities 
for cross-Group collaboration and innovation. 
We will continue to review acquisition 
opportunities especially those that will 
create further efficiencies and leverage 
our infrastructure to create competitive 
advantage. Above all, we remain committed 
to delivering long term value to shareholders.
I am confident of our future success and look 
forward to reporting on progress.
Gary Kennedy
Chairman Connect Group PLC
06
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
   Chosen markets
Specialist services
Industry expertise
Long term 
partnership
the Group
Leveraging
insight
Market distribution
Market focused
technology
Smart
Scale
efciency
V alue
creation
Core Values underpin our approach to doing business
Business model
Adding value 
Connect Group PLC is a specialist distributor, operating 
in large and complex markets. We add value to suppliers 
and customers by providing efficient and market focused 
services, backed with leading industry expertise. 
The Group has four operating divisions, each serving a distinct  
and carefully chosen market. In managing this portfolio, the Group  
is able to leverage the combined skills and competencies of its core 
businesses, adding value and creating new opportunities for revenue 
and profit growth.
Trusted Service
We win by giving 
outstanding 
service.
Fresh Thinking
We have the 
courage to embrace 
change and try 
new things.
A Better Way
We are determined 
to get better at 
what we do, and 
how we do it.
Mutual Respect
We show and earn 
respect, acting 
with integrity in 
all that we do.
Partnership
We are in it 
together – building 
stronger working 
relationships for 
shared success. Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
07
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chosen markets
The Group’s markets are characterised by 
a large number of suppliers, a complex to 
manage product range, and a diverse and 
dispersed customer base. This combination 
of customer and product fragmentation 
supports the role of an industry specialist, 
and encourages long term partnerships 
with industry stakeholders. 
Value creation
Specialist services
The Group’s operating companies provide a 
range of specialist services which enhance 
the distribution of physical products. Our 
expertise and industry knowledge adds 
value for suppliers and customers, with 
additional services tailored to the needs 
of our particular markets. 
Industry expertise
The Group’s divisions and key operating 
businesses are acknowledged experts in the 
supply chains of their respective industries. 
We have a long term commitment to 
our suppliers and customers, investing 
in systems and infrastructure which 
enhance our service and expertise, while 
simultaneously supporting their success. 
Long term partnerships
Partnership is key to our 
business model, providing 
the foundation for investment 
and further development of our 
specialist services. Working 
closely with suppliers and 
customers means our 
services and technology 
become integral to their supply 
chains. This, in turn, facilitates 
further value creation through 
jointly developed services and 
strategic planning.
Scale efficiency
Our scale and cost 
efficiency supports a high value 
and timely distribution service 
that underpins our competitive 
advantage. By working across 
our supply chains we are able 
to deliver even greater 
efficiencies and share the 
benefits with customers 
and suppliers.
Smart technology
We operate some of the 
largest and most sophisticated 
customer information and 
marketing systems in our 
chosen industries. This provides 
an overarching market insight 
which individual suppliers or 
customers cannot replicate. 
We use technology to support 
value creation in areas such 
as the efficient allocation of 
supplies, targeted product 
selection, returns processing 
and demand forecasting.
Market focused distribution
The Group’s specialist services 
are developed and tailored to 
sector and customer needs. 
We offer suppliers and 
customers a range of options 
which include: stockholding and 
product consolidation; multiple 
and complex product picking; 
returns processing; market 
data and forecasting, ultra-time-
sensitive distribution; track and 
trace technology. Working 
together we can plan for 
peaks and troughs and manage 
complex requirements, which 
more generic distributors would 
be less able to handle.
Market insight 
The Group’s market insight 
is essential to value creation, 
underpinning our partnership 
with suppliers and customers. 
In what are complex and 
fragmented markets, our 
oversight of sales and 
customers gives a unique 
breadth and depth of 
understanding, leading 
to better supply allocation 
and promotional targeting. 
The market information we 
hold drives efficiency and 
encourages a higher return 
than is typical of a more 
limited wholesale model of 
consolidation and distribution.
Leveraging the Group 
As the Group grows, 
the combined skills 
and competencies of our 
businesses provide the 
opportunity for entry into new 
and emerging markets. Building 
on our existing infrastructure 
and technology, the Group has 
a clear opportunity to enhance 
its scope of operations in 
response to demand for new 
services. We are committed to 
investing in these opportunities 
and to building long term 
propositions that leverage our 
abilities and complement our 
existing operations. Connect Group PLC
08
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Our Strategy
Measuring our success
CAREFULLY 
CHOSEN 
MARKETS
DELIVERING 
GROWTH
PEOPLE AND 
VALUES
The Group operates in carefully selected 
markets, in which the supply chain is 
fragmented and there is a clear role 
for a specialist distributor of scale. 
Within our chosen markets we aim to 
be a leading player and critical supply 
chain partner, valued by our customers 
and suppliers. 
To achieve this we exploit our core 
competencies with a differentiated 
proposition backed by trusted service 
and operational efficiency.
We aim to deliver growth through a mix of:
 – Market growth (in line with or ahead 
of increases in £GDP).
 – Market share gain and consolidation 
to drive scale.
 – Cost savings from scale and operational 
competency.
 – Commercial, supply chain and operating 
synergies across the Group.
Core values underpin our approach to 
doing business.
We aim to create an environment that is safe 
and rewarding, and which enables our people 
to deliver exceptional service. Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
09
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Our Strategy continued
Progress against our goals
PROFITABLE LONG TERM  
GROWTH
PROGRESS 2016
Enhance our market leading proposition, strengthening our 
supply chain relationships and customer service standards. 
Developing, attracting and retaining profitable new business.
Our success will be measured by:
 – Growing PBT and EPS to create long term 
shareholder value.
 – Growing organic revenue streams which enhance 
Group diversification and long term returns.
 – Adjusted PBT increased 7.4% in the period to £60.7m, 
benefiting from a full year of Tuffnells and underpinned 
by solid performances from both the News & Media and 
Education & Care divisions, despite a challenging year in 
the Books division.
 – This was reflected in an Adjusted EPS of 19.8p up 0.6% 
on the prior year, with a Statutory EPS of 13.7p up 47.3% 
on the prior year.
 – Our progress and experience this year in Pass My Parcel 
reinforces our confidence in the opportunity for the Group 
in the Click & Collect market We are accelerating our 
investment. In FY17, we are targeting an increase in the 
number of retail clients and we will also launch an online 
portal that will open up Pass My Parcel’s network to the 
thousands of small businesses selling on marketplace sites 
such as eBay. These initiatives will support our plan to grow 
volumes to 3 million parcels in FY17 – a six fold increase from 
FY16, that will establish Pass My Parcel as a scale operator. 
PROGRESS 2016 FURTHER EFFICIENCIES 
ACROSS THE GROUP
 – We have delivered £7m of planned and targeted business 
efficiencies, £5m of which were in Smiths News.
 – The synergy and integration plan is on track and across 
a range of opportunities we are starting to leverage the 
combined skills and competencies of Tuffnells and Smiths 
News, as well as driving benefits from the increased scale 
of the Group.
Continue to optimise the cost base through network and 
operational efficiencies across the Group. Further optimising the 
Group and divisional operating model, achieving synergies and 
leveraging Group scale and strengths. 
Our success will be measured by:
 – Identifying and developing clear plans for sustainable cost 
reduction beyond FY16 of at least £5m per annum.
 – Delivering planned synergies from the acquisitions of 
Tuffnells and the enlarged Group.
PROGRESS 2016 STRONG CASH GENERATION  
AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
 – We have delivered strong cash performance in FY16, with 
the Group generating £49.6m in free cash flow, an increase 
of 25% over the prior year. 
 – Net debt closed the period at £141m, which was in line with 
our expectations. 
 – Net debt and our net debt/EBITDA ratio have both 
improved year on year as a result of strong free cash 
flow generation, even after exceptional items. This has 
enabled a £12m reduction in net debt while delivering 
£22.7m in dividend payments.
Continuing to focus on strong cash generation to support our 
progressive dividend policy.
Our success will be measured by:
 – Returning free cash flow higher than in prior years. 
 – Deleveraging and reducing our net debt/EBITDA ratio.
 – Developing a return on capital metric to track total returns.
We have made good progress against both our strategic and operational goals, supporting 
performance of the divisions and positioning the Group for future growth. Connect Group PLC
10
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
PROGRESS 2016 LEVERAGING THE 
GROUP’S CAPABILITY
 – The Group has continued to implement its use of a shared 
services model. Centralisation of certain functions has allowed 
divisions to benefit from maximising the efficiency of a Group 
operating model.
 – In Smiths News and Tuffnells, the businesses have  
benefited from working closely together as part of the Group.
 – After running a successful proof of concept trial, Smiths 
News is now partnering with Tuffnells at three locations, 
providing drivers and vehicles to deliver Tuffnells parcels 
outside of the newspaper and magazine delivery windows. 
This arrangement allows us to flex capacity at low cost and is 
expected to increase as we approach Tuffnells’ peak trading 
period which takes place in the Spring. 
 – In addition, Tuffnells is now making deliveries for Pass My 
Parcel. Currently operating from 11 depots, the partnership 
gives Pass My Parcel national reach and delivers a flexible 
and cost effective solution to reaching those areas beyond 
the Smiths News territorial footprint.
Capitalising on the increased scale and scope of the Group’s 
activities to find additional commercial opportunities. Exploring 
and implementing opportunities for cross-Group working that 
enhance the capabilities and competitive advantage of individual 
divisions and their operating businesses. 
Our success will be measured by:
 – The extent and growth of shared services and efficiency 
of the Group’s operating model.
 – The achievement of UK national coverage across a greater 
range of distribution services. 
PROGRESS 2016 DEVELOPING ORGANIC 
REVENUES IN NEWS & MEDIA
 – We remain focused to developing organic revenue 
opportunities across the Group to address the structural 
challenges faced in the print media market.
 – In the period, our investment and net costs in Pass My Parcel 
were £4m as we launched a mobile enabled returns service 
with ASOS, the online clothes retailer, and delivered a fully 
national network through the developing partnership with the 
Parcel Freight division.
 – By routing deliveries through Tuffnells as well as Smiths 
News, we have increased our territorial reach and can now 
offer retailers a complete solution of deliveries and returns 
across the whole of mainland UK.
 – To support business growth this year, we are planning for 
total costs to increase, however, the anticipated uplift in 
volume and revenue will reduce the net impact on the P&L to 
around £2.5m, and result in positive contribution thereafter.
 – Jack’s Beans, our vended coffee offer has expanded to over 
400 stores. With revenue of £1.3m from coffee sales and 
rental income it is now having a modest but positive impact 
on operating cash flows.
Investing in commercial initiatives that grow and further diversify 
the Group’s revenues on an organic basis. While primarily 
focused on News & Media, staying alert to opportunities in 
other divisions. Balancing a medium term contribution and 
return on investment with a long term view of opportunity and 
market positioning.
Our success will be measured by:
 – A more balanced portfolio of revenue in the News & Media 
division over time. 
 – Expanding our territorial reach, winning new clients and 
adding new services in the Click & Collect market. 
 – A positive contribution from investments within 
targeted timescales.
PROGRESS 2016 COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE  
THROUGH OUR PEOPLE
 – We relaunched our approach to employee engagement, by 
running an annual survey in partnership with a new supplier, 
with focus on more pragmatic and effective tools. 
 – This change in approach underpins a plan to create a cultural 
shift with an ambition for engagement to be more focussed 
on the activity that happens throughout the year. 
 – We continue to invest in the skill building and the development 
of our employees. We regularly refresh our internal training 
curriculum and have delivered over 95 face to face 
programmes in the last year with over 87% of participants 
rating their experience as ‘Very Good’ or ‘Excellent’.
 – We remain committed to the development of market leading 
distribution skills and have made plans to deliver an 
‘academy’ focused on developing internal talent.
Recruiting and retaining market leading engaged people to 
deliver the Group’s vision. Developing and strengthening a 
culture of excellence that supports the growth and retention 
of talent, further enhancing our supply chain relationships and 
reinforcing the Group’s Values. 
Our success will be measured by:
 – Staff retention and turnover figures. 
 – Staff engagement surveys.
Our Strategy continued Connect Group PLC
11
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
TOTAL GROUP REVENUE £M
2016
1,906.5
2015
1,875.1
2014
1,808.5
2013
1,806.9
2012
1,803.9
Description We aim to combine organic growth and 
acquisitions to offset the expected decline in newspapers 
and magazines.
ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX £M
2016
60.7
2015
56.5
2014
50.0
2013
49.9
2012
47.5
Description We aim to grow proﬁtability by combining 
top line revenue growth, delivering efﬁciencies 
and acquisitions.
ADJUSTED EPS PENCE
2016
19.8
2015
19.7
2014
19.6
2013
19.0
2012
17.9
Description We aim to return value to shareholders 
by growing earnings per share in line with underlying 
proﬁt growth.
FREE CASH FLOW £M
2016
49.6
2015
39.8
2014
37.2
2013
32.6
2012
27.2
Description We aim to continue investing in our business 
to achieve long term sustainable proﬁt growth, whilst 
being able to generate strong levels of free cash ﬂow.
DPS PENCE
2016
9.5
2015
9.2
2014
8.8
2013
8.4
2012
7.8
Description We aim to return value to shareholders 
by growing dividend per share in line with underlying 
proﬁt growth.
NET DEBT RATIO %
2016
1.7
2015
1.9
2014
1.4
2013
1.5
2012
1.6
Description We aim to continue investing in our 
business to achieve long term, sustainable proﬁt growth, 
whilst returning cash to shareholders and reducing our 
leverage ratio. 
Key performance indicators Connect Group PLC
12
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Risk Management
The directors’ assessment of the Group’s 
principal risks is aligned to the strategic 
business planning process. Across the Group, 
each division holds a quarterly Internal Risk 
Committee which is responsible for 
identifying, assessing and monitoring its own 
risks. Key risks are plotted on risk maps with 
descriptions, owners and mitigating actions, 
with each division reporting against a level of 
materiality consistent with its size.
The Internal Audit team assesses and 
consolidates the divisional risk maps, 
calibrating risks for impact and likelihood to 
produce the Group’s principal risk map which 
is reviewed and challenged quarterly by the 
Group Executive and Audit Committee, 
including the appropriateness of mitigating 
actions. Additional risk management support 
is provided by external experts in areas of 
technical complexity to complete our 
bottom-up and top-down exercise. No 
significant failings of internal control were 
identified during the year and the Internal 
Audit team has confirmed that the Risk 
Management Framework is adequate to 
enable key risks to be identified, reported and 
managed across the Group. During the year 
we engaged KPMG LLP to conduct a review 
of the effectiveness of Internal Audit which 
confirmed the presence of a robust and 
effective framework across the Group. 
In producing the principal risk table for 
this year, the Group has considered the 
performance of the Group, its markets, 
the changing regulatory landscape and the 
Group’s future strategic plans. The impact 
of the UK’s vote in June 2016 to leave the 
European Union does not appear as a 
separate risk, but has been considered within 
a number of separate risks within the review 
process and the table below. Movements 
include combining two risks that reflect the 
trading environment of our markets, excluding 
the risk of cyber-attacks (which remains on 
our register, but not at a level to report within 
this section) and the inclusion of a new health 
and safety risk acknowledging the ongoing 
strategy to embed and promote strong health 
and safety standards, processes and practices 
consistently across the Group.
The Group has a clear framework in place to continuously identify and 
review its principal risks. This includes, amongst others, an annual risk 
appetite review performed by the Board, self-assessments performed by 
functional directors in each division and regular reporting to and robust 
challenge from the Audit Committee.
Group Executive Committee
Group Executive Committee review  
of summarised risk map and register.
Audit Committee
Audit Committee oversee framework  
of internal controls and risk management.
Connect Group PLC Board
Overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk 
management and internal control systems.
Corporate and Functional  
Department Risks
Detailed risk assessments at all department levels.
News & 
Media
Books
Education 
& Care
Parcel 
Freight
Business Units
Risk management embedded 
through all business units.
Principal Risk
Movement of risk compared  
with FY15 Risk Map Potential Impact Mitigating actions and assurance
Development of new 
technologies and demographics 
drives change in customer 
behaviour and supply chain 
dynamics resulting in structural 
market changes being deeper 
and quicker than predicted, 
including migration from print 
to digital. 
No structural 
changes across 
our markets. Risk 
remains consistent 
with FY15.
Sales decline in newspapers and 
magazines are worse than expected 
(forecasted expectation of a -3% to 
-5% range) and/or the Books market 
is impacted, each resulting in lower 
profit and negative market sentiment 
related to printed media.
A consistent pattern and clear view of market volumes 
ensures more accurate forecasting and combines with an 
expectation of continued declines for newspapers and 
magazines. Management continues to identify efficiencies 
to compensate for market declines. The Parcel Freight 
division is a significant financial contributor toward the 
Group’s overall results, mitigating market declines for 
newspapers, magazines and books. The Group’s organic 
strategy, including Pass My Parcel, seeks to further protect 
the Group from over exposure to individual market risks.
Change in Government policy, 
including the uncertainty of 
the impact of Brexit, economic 
conditions and/or competitive 
environment could adversely 
impact current and/or projected 
business performance above 
that included in the business 
planning and review process. 
Improved macro-
economic climate 
pre-Brexit has been 
negated by Brexit. 
Risk remains 
consistent with 
FY15.
Reductions in discretionary 
spending may impact sales of 
newspapers, magazines or books and/
or see a reduction in parcel volumes. 
Reductions in Government spending 
may also be seen, potentially reducing 
consumables budgets in schools. 
Uncertainty from Brexit may affect the 
Group in both the short and medium 
term on trade arrangements, future 
capital investment strategies, 
resourcing costs, availability and 
government strategy on public 
services/schools.
Annual budgets and quarterly forecasts take into account 
potential macro market and competitive impacts when 
setting expectations internally and externally, allowing for 
or changing objectives to meet short and medium term 
financial targets. Management has a track record of 
delivering revenues and efficiencies to compensate 
for market impacts.
Major supplier or customer loss/
consolidation or dominance 
changes the trading relationship, 
impacting current and projected 
business performance.
Customer/supplier 
management in 
News & Media is 
strong. Likelihood of 
risk reduced whilst 
impact remains the 
same as FY15.
Impact on supply of product or route 
to market may erode margin and/or 
increase cost to serve.
In News & Media, publishers typically award five year 
contracts supporting the market structure. The Books, 
Education & Care and Parcel Freight divisions operate 
in very fragmented markets with fewer key significant 
suppliers or customers. Strong relationships across the 
supply chain help the Group to understand and demonstrate 
its strengths for the benefit of its suppliers and customers.
No change
Increased
Decreased
New Risk NEW Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
13
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Principal Risk
Movement of risk compared  
with FY15 Risk Map Potential Impact Mitigating actions and assurance
Failure to deliver business plans 
and/or financial returns on recent 
acquisitions or new initiatives or 
a failure to identify new organic 
growth opportunities or 
acquisitions impacts external 
confidence and shareholder 
perception, bringing into 
question the future strategic 
direction of the Group and 
confidence in its delivery.
The volatility and 
uncertainty of key 
profit drivers in Pass 
My Parcel and the 
Parcel Freight 
division suggests the 
likelihood of risk has 
increased but at a 
lower impact level 
compared to FY15.
Sales and/or profit expected from 
acquisitions/organic growth may not be 
met and/or the Group’s reputation and 
support for future acquisitions are 
challenged. Cultural change for 
diversification results in reduced 
performance and financial returns. 
Uncertainty from Brexit may affect the 
Group in both the short and medium 
term on trade arrangements, future 
capital investment strategies, resourcing 
costs and availability and government 
strategy on public services/schools.
Financial and operational metrics are considered along 
with risk assessments and impact on management before 
decisions are made. Performance to plans are reviewed 
monthly with post investment analysis producing a more 
thorough review of each acquisition within 12 months after 
completion. Detailed integration process, governance and 
support framework ensures effective and timely adoption 
of standards and process into recent acquisitions. 
Legislative changes or 
interpretation impacting the 
engagement of employees and 
delivery contractors result in an 
increase in the number of 
employees and/or costs, 
including the uncertainty of the 
impact of Brexit.
Known increasing 
employment costs 
are largely taken into 
account in the latest 
budgets. Future 
impact of Brexit on 
employment risks 
unknown, therefore 
likelihood increased 
while impact remains 
the same.
Increased number of employees or 
cost per employee increases the cost 
base and potentially creates greater 
redundancy liabilities from future 
efficiency programmes. Brexit 
uncertainty over the continued 
availability of EU workforce and/or 
treatment of current EU workers in 
the UK could result in the short and 
medium term shortage of labour and/
or increased labour costs.
Self-employed delivery contractors have clearly articulated 
agreements defining tasks they are contracted to provide 
to News & Media with annually set commercial terms. 
The introduction of the National Living Wage (and future 
anticipated increases) impacts only a limited proportion of 
employees, when assessed across the Group as a whole. 
The associated knock-on impact of the National Living 
Wage to maintain wage differentials across grades will 
continue to be monitored. Regular checks are carried out 
by Internal Audit across the Group network ensuring 
understanding and compliance.
Breach of airside security at DMD 
exposes the business to 
penalties and/or reputational 
impact, leading to increased 
costs and potentially loss of 
contracts.
Continued strong 
security controls and 
monitoring. Risk 
remains consistent 
with FY15.
Costs could increase through 
additional security requirements and/
or penalties, with severe reputational 
damage potentially causing the loss 
of contracts for our media business.
External security advice supports internal staff to review 
DMD’s exposure, measure effectiveness of controls and 
recommend new controls if required. In addition, insurance 
is taken out to cover the Group from major risks.
Major business disruption 
incurred through operational 
events (e.g. contractor/
employee disputes, increasing 
reliance on centralised system 
solutions and complex 
operations, including single 
sites) are not supported by 
robust Business Continuity 
Planning and Disaster Recovery 
solutions to prevent disruption 
outside of expected tolerances.
Robust processes 
are embedded in 
central solution and 
operates within a 
business as usual 
environment. Risk 
remains consistent 
with FY15.
Trading capability, customer 
experience and sales/margin 
performance impacted through 
inability to operate due to systems 
outages, location access or 
employee/contractor strikes.
Investment is made to provide disaster recovery capability 
across the Group for all essential systems. Expertise is 
used to provide guidance and the Group operates an 
external disaster recovery facility. In addition, a 
programme led centrally ensures business continuity 
planning procedures and standards are embedded 
across the divisions. 
Loss of key executives and 
subsequent loss of knowledge 
and skills impacts current and 
future business performance.
Reassessment of 
likelihood and impact 
suggests likelihood is 
lower than previously 
considered.
Loss of key skills and leadership 
impacts the capability of the Group to 
deliver its strategic goals.
Performance and capability management processes are 
in place, reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and 
Group Executive. Succession planning for critical roles and 
development plans for key individuals is also reviewed by 
the Nominations Committee. 
3 year strategic business plan is 
jeopardised by constraints on 
capacity and/or increasing costs 
of divisional premises and 
equipment/systems to meet 
growth plans.
Latest 3 year 
plan budgets 
capital investment/
operating expenditure 
and lease 
commitments to 
deliver growth. 
Therefore, likelihood 
reduced while impact 
remains the same.
Inability of warehousing/operational/IT 
and support systems to meet growth 
expectations of the Group, creates 
poor customer experience, increased 
investment costs and reduced 
profitability.
The annual business and strategic planning process 
ensures appropriate investment is budgeted to ensure 
growth targets are achieved. 
Effort required for organisational 
change in new and established 
organisations is increased due to 
lack of appropriate skills. Creates 
excessive demands on new and 
existing staff. Results in loss of 
key people, lack of engagement 
and loss of in-depth knowledge/
specialist skills. Impacting both 
current and future business 
performance.
Investment in new 
roles and skills and 
embedding new 
management, results 
in no change to the 
risk rating.
Management’s focus on current 
business operations and performance 
is distracted by organisational change 
and new initiatives. Management 
become overstretched and 
demotivated by demands of the 
Group and exit, taking valuable skills 
and knowledge with them.
Organisational and cultural change is a key imperative, 
leading to investment in resources and skills that are 
required to deliver the successful integration and 
development of new businesses and business critical 
initiatives, including investment in expert skills in change 
management and project management.
Failure to embed and promote 
health and safety standards in 
current and recently acquired 
businesses, results in serious 
injury to employees and/or the 
public. Reputational impact and 
breach in regulatory standards 
leads to loss of operating 
license, significant financial and 
personal penalties. 
NEW Operational and 
cultural integration of 
the Parcel Freight 
division and incidents 
in the year justify a 
new principal risk.
Health and safety practices are not 
embedded within the Group resulting 
in serious incidents, reputational 
impact and/or loss of regulatory 
licences (e.g. operator’s licence).
Group oversight is led by the Group Head of Health & Safety 
to ensure good practice standards are embedded across the 
divisions as standard operating practices. Current strategies 
exist for divisions to manage/train health and safety 
standards, with dedicated roles assigned. The Parcel Freight 
division continue to focus on execution of key deliverables 
and areas identified for further improvement, with clear 
action plans and dedicated resources allocated. Significant 
continued investment is budgeted for health and safety 
improvements across the estate in FY17. Connect Group PLC
14
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group Chief Executive’s review
Ten years of delivery
Our results this year  
are a continuation of  
the progress we have 
made since 2006.
Group overview
For over ten years we have built on our 
heritage in news wholesaling to become 
a leading specialist distributor, delivering 
growth and strong, sustainable returns to 
shareholders, and offering satisfying careers 
to our staff. As we start our second decade 
we are well placed to accelerate this progress 
and take full advantage of the skills and 
capabilities of our people.
Despite challenging conditions in some of 
our markets, overall Adjusted profit before tax 
has increased in line with our expectations, 
underpinned by operational progress in all 
divisions. Continued strong cash generation 
supports our plans for further investment in 
opportunities that help to diversify our future 
profit streams.
The Group also continues to create value 
and deliver strong returns to shareholders. 
Adjusted profit before tax is £60.7m, up 
7.4% (FY15: £56.5m). Statutory profit before 
tax is up 44.5% to £41.9m (FY15:£29.0m). 
Free Cash Flow of £49.6m is up 24.6% 
supporting a proposed full year dividend of 
9.5p, up 3.3%.
While all parts of the Group have made 
important contributions to these results, two 
areas require mention as being particularly 
important. In our first full year of ownership, 
the Parcel Freight division has continued to 
reinforce its growth and leadership in the 
market for business-to-business freight. 
Meanwhile, Smiths News, still the largest 
business in the Group, has again achieved a 
combination of cost control and resilient 
revenue performance that underpins the 
overall Group’s profit and cash generation. 
The progress of these, our largest two 
businesses, has established a powerful 
dynamic that we expect to increasingly 
generate value for the Group.
Operational progress 
In what has been a challenging year for 
several of the markets in which we operate, 
the Group has continued to perform well, 
maintaining commercial and operational 
progress on our strategy for growth.
The News & Media division delivered a solid 
result, with the performance of Smiths News 
and DMD, supporting continued investment in 
Pass My Parcel, which has strengthened its 
position in what is a growing market with 
significant potential. The performance of 
Smiths News has been driven by a 
combination of continued resilience in 
printed media and the achievement of 
planned operational efficiencies that are 
delivering sustainable long term savings. 
Further contract renewals for Smiths News 
mean that 94% of our publisher revenues at 
current levels are now secured through to at 
least 2019 and over 70% to 2021. DMD, our 
specialist supplier to airlines and travel points, 
grew sales by 9%, resulting from new 
contracts and increased volumes from existing 
UK newspaper and magazine publishers.
Our investment in Pass My Parcel, since 
its launch in October 2014, is testament to 
our belief in the wider potential of the Group’s 
capabilities. The demand for Click & Collect 
services is growing rapidly, driven by 
consumer expectations of online retail 
services; over time we intend to develop 
Pass My Parcel into a significant revenue and 
profit stream. This year, we have expanded 
the service with a convenient paperless 
returns offering in partnership with online 
clothing retailer ASOS, our service capability 
has been proven and awareness of the brand 
is increasing. We have also, in readiness for 
the 2016 Christmas peak trading period, 
expanded the reach of our national network 
by using Tuffnells’ depots to deliver parcels 
in areas outside of the Smiths News territorial 
footprint. Having proven our ability to deliver 
a quality service as judged by consumers, 
the challenge now is to develop broader brand 
awareness and further enhance our pace 
and flexibility in new client implementation. 
In doing so, we can expect to expand our 
range of retail clients and then grow our 
volumes and market share. 
The Parcel Freight division had another 
strong year, growing revenue and profit as 
a result of increases in both volumes and 
prices, supplemented by increasing net new 
customers by 11%. Improved service, driven 
by a rigorous measurement of KPIs, has 
reduced rectification costs and increased 
customer satisfaction, again leading to  Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
15
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
repeat business and the attraction of new 
customers. More broadly, the demand for 
business-to-business freight has remained 
buoyant, despite recent uncertainty in the 
wider economy. The division has also made 
good progress in exploring partnerships with 
other areas of the Group; trials are progressing 
to confirm a number of cost and revenue 
opportunities from collaboration between 
Smiths News and Pass My Parcel operations.
The Education & Care division has 
maintained its performance in what 
have been challenging conditions across 
the education market. Continued growth 
in Early Years and Primary confirms our 
strength in these sectors, and contract wins 
from International sales has helped partially 
to offset the more difficult Secondary 
Education sector. Our performance relative 
to competitors indicates we are winning 
market share, positioning us favourably once 
the market returns to growth. Investment in 
client facing E-Commerce is at the forefront 
of our strategy to win new business and drive 
efficiencies. Over 35% of orders are now 
placed online, reducing our dependency 
on printed catalogues and giving us greater 
opportunity to use tactical pricing 
and promotions.
Finally, the Books division had a difficult year. 
Having stabilised the business in FY15, the 
benefits of progress in Wordery and a good 
recovery in UK Wholesale, have been offset 
by further contraction of the library markets 
and new cost pressures that could not be 
fully mitigated in the period. In the public 
library sector, we were unable to renew 
a number of contracts at commercially 
sustainable rates – this has had an adverse 
impact on revenue in the year. Despite these 
conditions, the business has responded well 
in other areas, with a pleasing improvement 
in operational performance and customer 
service. The continued progress of Wordery 
is a highlight of the year, with sales of £49m 
and growth of 26%. Profit this year was also 
adversely affected by a number of cost base 
issues including increased postage charges 
and the introduction of the National Living 
Wage which had a disproportionate impact 
on the division. Action has been taken to 
help mitigate these impacts and establish 
a stronger platform for a return to growth.
Strategy and future growth
In ten years as a PLC, the Group has evolved 
from a news and magazine wholesaling 
business, to become a leading specialist 
distributor with interests in a range 
of sectors. 
Our operating model varies slightly across the 
divisions, but is united by a common thread of 
adding value to complex supply chains with a 
combination of scale efficiencies and market 
expertise which benefits both suppliers and 
customers. Our commitment to service and 
investment underpins long term commercial 
partnerships, facilitating relatively stable 
revenue streams that allow for the 
development of new and market 
leading initiatives. 
The Group’s success in growth and 
diversification has been driven by three 
clear strategies: 
 – winning new business in our existing 
markets by investing in service 
propositions that deliver tangible value 
to customers and suppliers;
 – broadening the range of our interests and 
reducing reliance on printed media, 
through the acquisition of carefully 
selected targets; and
 – investment to create new revenue 
streams that leverage our skills and 
respond to emerging opportunities 
and new markets.
Looking ahead, we foresee greater 
opportunity to leverage the scale and 
assets of our divisions in ways that 
create efficiencies and new commercial 
opportunities. While each division will 
continue to focus on its particular market, 
we will continue to explore opportunities to 
apply our collective capabilities in ways that 
enhance our service. During the last year, 
Smiths News started making ‘last mile’ 
deliveries on behalf of Tuffnells, helping 
to manage capacity by fulfilling smaller 
deliveries more efficiently than would 
otherwise be possible; meanwhile Tuffnells 
began delivering on behalf of Pass My Parcel, 
expanding our territorial footprint while 
maintaining the cost efficiencies that create 
competitive advantage. There is clear 
opportunity to develop more and similar 
initiatives across the Group.
The result of the UK Referendum in 
June 2016 on leaving the EU (‘Brexit’) 
has affected business confidence and the 
long term impact on the UK economy remains 
uncertain. The vast majority of our revenues 
are derived from trade that takes place 
within the UK, meaning we are potentially 
less affected than businesses with greater 
dependency on EU trade. However, we are 
not immune to any wider impact on the 
economy and the possibility of further 
cuts to Government spending may directly 
impact some of our markets. We will monitor 
developments carefully, but do not currently 
envisage any change to our strategy arising 
from the UK’s decision to leave the EU.
Developing our people 
and culture
The Group’s achievements are founded on the 
skills and determination of our people; their 
passion for success has embraced a level of 
change and challenge that was unforeseeable 
at the start of our journey. Our progress this 
year would not have been possible but for 
their exceptional commitment.
I am determined that we match their efforts 
with investment that develops skills at all 
levels, providing career opportunities for all: 
from young people at the start of their 
careers, through to our most experienced 
senior managers. Maintaining our success 
will require new skills and fresh thinking, but 
there is much we can learn from each other, 
and I am delighted to see an increasing 
number of our people gaining experience 
across the divisions. 
This year, we completed the first staff 
engagement survey to embrace the entire 
Group. The results confirmed the many 
positive aspects of the way we work 
together, highlighting the common values and 
aspirations we share across the divisions. The 
survey also demonstrated there is scope for 
positive change and we are working hard to 
make a difference. Feedback sessions are 
empowering teams to take local actions, 
as well as shaping our understanding of 
improvements we can make to broader 
organisational design.
Health & Safety
Across the Group, we work round the clock to 
manage the movement of goods and vehicles, 
often under extreme time pressure. In these 
conditions, the safety of our workforce must 
be paramount. It was therefore deeply 
distressing that in January 2016 a fatal 
accident took place at Tuffnells’ Brierley Hill 
depot. Our thoughts of course have been with 
the family affected and we have worked hard 
to support our colleagues at the depot too.
Since the incident we have been assisting the 
Health & Safety Executive in its investigation 
and are making every effort to learn from the 
circumstances and root causes of this tragic 
event. I have been reassured by the response 
of our colleagues to this tragic event and their 
collective determination to raise standards still 
further and to ensure our workplaces are as 
safe as they can possibly be.
In the period since acquiring Tuffnells we 
have invested heavily in training, facilities and 
our vehicles in order to reduce hazards and 
accidents. This programme of investment 
will continue as the Board and the Group 
Executive are steadfast that the health and 
safety of people across all parts of the Group 
is a key priority and a matter on which we will 
not compromise.
Ten years of delivery
In reporting on our progress, I am grateful 
for the support and constructive challenge 
of all my colleagues on the Group Executive 
and the Board and would like to thank them 
for the invaluable contribution they have made 
to the business this year. I am also especially 
conscious that it is the people at the frontline 
of our businesses who are the driving force 
behind our ambitions and successes. It is a 
privilege to lead a company that demonstrates 
such talent and determination on a daily basis. 
As we begin our next ten years of delivery, 
I believe we are better placed than ever 
to build on the progress we have 
made together.
Mark Cashmore
Group Chief Executive Connect Group PLC
16
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Divisional reviews/Connect News & Media
The News & Media division has 
again delivered a solid performance, 
maintaining profit in the core Smiths 
News and DMD businesses, while 
supporting increased investment in Pass 
My Parcel and absorbing the impact this 
year of the introduction of the National 
Living Wage. Adjusted operating profit 
of £42.4m is down 3.0% (FY15: £43.7m) 
after including the impact of these 
investments. Excluding increased losses 
in Pass My Parcel and removing the 
benefit of the UEFA European football 
championship sticker album sales in 
2016, profit for the division would be 
marginally down year on year. 
The strategic progress of Pass My Parcel, 
together with a growing demand for new 
delivery solutions, reinforces our confidence 
in its long term potential. This year, we 
expanded our territorial coverage, launched 
a returns solution and achieved high levels 
of customer satisfaction which confirm our 
operational capability. The business is well 
prepared for the forthcoming seasonal peak 
and we plan to expand the range of services 
and client channels in the current year. 
Smiths News
Markets show resilience
The newspaper and magazine market 
continues to demonstrate resilience, with 
a stronger than expected performance 
from newspapers and monthly magazines. 
Newspaper sales were down 3.2% on a like 
for like basis, with price increases helping to 
offset volume declines. Combined sales of 
all magazine categories were down by 4.3%. 
Monthly titles continued to perform relatively 
strongly compared to recent years, after 
showing signs of improvement in FY15. 
The UEFA European football championship 
boosted sales of stickers and albums by 
an additional £9m this year.
Looking ahead, our plans for Smiths News 
remain based on our medium term strategic 
forecast, which anticipates a decline in 
revenue of between 3% and 5% per year, 
in line with historical trends. 
News
400
Jack’s Beans  
outlets
£9m
sticker sales 
UEFA 2016
70%
of revenue 
secured to 2021
94%
of revenue  
secured to 2019
£10m
savings planned 
in next two years
£5m
savings in 2016
£1.3m
Jack’s Beans  
revenue
Jonathan Bunting
Managing Director Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
17
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Core operations 
In Smiths News, targeted operating 
efficiencies of £5m in the year were 
achieved in full and without impact on service. 
The achievement of these sustainable cost 
savings is essential to our strategy, helping to 
offset the expected decline in core sales. The 
benefits of this year’s cost savings will flow 
through to the future, and we are targeting a 
further £5m annual savings in each of the two 
financial years FY17 and FY18, mitigating the 
impact of our medium term sales forecasts. 
In independently conducted surveys, our 
service was rated as best in industry by 
both publishers and retailers for the 9th year. 
Delivering a high quality daily service remains 
a top priority of our publishers and retailers; it 
improves efficiency by minimising rectification 
costs and facilitates expansion into new 
ventures, such as Jack’s Beans and Pass 
My Parcel.
This year, we rationalised the packing and 
distribution of product at a number of depots 
including Crawley, Slough, Southampton, 
Reading, Plymouth and Newport. Our ‘hub 
and spoke’ strategy is now well established 
with eight magazine locations strategically 
positioned across the UK, supported by a 
further 33 distribution centres that facilitate 
the last mile deliveries and packing 
of newspapers. 
Our track record in delivering efficiencies is 
driven by a culture of continual improvement, 
with a well-established process of piloting 
ideas, followed by speedy roll out of those 
that prove successful. Further consolidation 
and process opportunities have been 
identified for the coming year, giving 
us high levels of confidence in meeting 
our efficiency targets. 
Contract gains secure future 
revenue and territories
This year we secured a new agreement 
with Northern & Shell (publisher of, amongst 
others, the Daily Express and Daily Star 
newspapers and OK! magazine) across all 
our existing territories through to 2021. Other 
contract renewals included Topps Direct, a 
leading producer of stickers and collectables. 
This brings the percentage of publisher 
revenues, at current values, secured to at 
least 2019 to 94%, with 70% secured to 
2021. Further gains with regional publishers 
were also made. In addition to the relative 
predictability these long term agreements 
bring to our future revenues, the clarity over 
our operating territories allows us to identify 
additional areas for consolidation, further 
supporting our efficiency targets.
In the spring of 2016, we experienced 
disruption to service at both of our 
Birmingham and Oxford depots, as a result 
of a withdrawal of services by a number 
of our self-employed delivery contractors. 
These isolated incidents were the result 
of local disputes over contract rates. Our 
contingency planning minimised the impact 
on customers and full service was swiftly 
restored; however the ongoing contractual 
disputes led to the need for wider and more 
sustained cover for potential disruption, 
impacting costs this year. The issues are 
now fully resolved and operations have 
returned to normal. Further detail is included 
in our assessment of risk on page 12. 
Cooperation with Parcel Freight
This year we have been working with 
Tuffnells, piloting the opportunity to fulfil 
smaller customer deliveries using capacity 
from Smiths News outside of the news 
wholesaling time window. Early trials have 
proved successful at three locations across 
the Tuffnells network and we will be 
expanding the arrangement in FY17. It is 
clear that, with similar networks, there is 
tangible opportunity for shared services and, 
potentially, infrastructure too over time. We 
plan to explore these opportunities, while 
maintaining the discreet expertise and 
customer focus of each operation. 
Other new revenues
Jack’s Beans, our vended coffee solution 
is now available in over 400 outlets. This 
year, we have developed our understanding 
of the most profitable retailers and operating 
models that has helped to attract new 
customers. Jack’s Beans has now sold 
over 1.5 million cups of Fairtrade coffee, 
delivering £1.3m revenue in the year, and 
brand awareness is growing as we improve 
the quality and density of our retail locations. 
Future plans
Our plans for Smiths News are 
well established. The newspaper and 
magazine markets, though declining, 
continue to provide a solid and relatively 
predictable base for the business. Our recent 
contract wins give further certainty over our 
territories, boosting our ability to achieve 
annual efficiencies that will help mitigate 
declining core sales for years to come. 
The strong cash generation of the business 
supports continued investment in new 
revenue initiatives and the potential for 
a closer integration with Tuffnells is an 
exciting opportunity to leverage the skills 
and infrastructure of both divisions. Connect Group PLC
18
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Divisional reviews/Connect News & Media continued
DMD 
Markets 
The supply of newspapers and magazines 
to airlines and travel points has seen strong 
demand from publishers and travel operators. 
Revenue for DMD was £27.6m, up 8.9% on 
last year (2014: £25.4m). Demand for in-flight 
digital media continues to grow steadily, and 
we have made further progress in this area 
during the year.
DMD has also benefited from strong 
demand from UK publishers targeting 
distribution to international airline and 
travel point passengers. Sales increases 
were predominately driven by increased 
promotional activity from UK newspaper 
publishers. Efficiency initiatives, including the 
automation of magazine packing and better 
utilisation of network capacity helped to 
improved operating margin.
Contract wins and renewals 
This year we opened a number of airline and 
airport platforms to support our publishers’ 
goal to reach more airline customers. 
The airside ‘media wall’ concept successfully 
launched in FY15 at Gatwick was extended to 
both Glasgow and Edinburgh airports. Media 
walls display complimentary newspaper and 
magazine titles to a potential readership of 
hundreds of thousands of passengers 
every week. We anticipate strong publisher 
demand for placement on the media wall 
concept through FY17, and will be working 
to secure expansion of the concept to 
overseas locations.
On the digital side of our business we have 
made a number of gains, including new and 
extended agreements with Eurostar, Virgin 
Trains and Cathay Pacific. Across these and 
other contracts, the digital content we now 
manage includes news and magazines, 
movies, TV, and HTML5 games. 
Future plans
The core service proposition of DMD is 
strong and stable and we see opportunity 
to expand in the UK and internationally. 
Investment in building our capabilities, 
particularly in selected global markets 
will continue in FY17. 
We expect demand for digital services 
to continue to grow, albeit steadily rather 
than as a step change move from print. The 
continual enhancement and development of 
our digital press and entertainment offer, 
will underpin our marketing plans for FY17. 
Working through the in-flight entertainment 
content service provider side of our business 
(DMD Phantom), we will seek to build on the 
important gains this year with airlines and 
international and high speed train operators. 
Media Wall
Media
Extended contracts 
News UK
London  
Glasgow 
Edinburgh
£27.6m
total revenue
+8.9%
strong sales Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
19
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Pass My Parcel
Pass My Parcel is our consumer parcel 
delivery and returns service, partnering 
with a range of online retailer clients. 
Offering up to twice daily deliveries and 
a paperless returns process, Pass My 
Parcel combines the convenience of a local 
pick up point, with some of the fastest 
available times from click to collection.
The Click & Collect market continues to grow 
strongly, with industry analysts predicting 
the option of local customer collection will 
soon become essential to any major online 
retailer offer. The speed and scale of the 
increased demand for Click & Collect has 
led to a wide range of solutions across the 
marketplace, all of which are evolving as 
providers and retailers learn and respond to 
the most popular and cost effective models. 
Serving our network of parcel shops, 
we delivered half a million parcels this year, 
meeting some of the fastest turnaround times 
for online consumers. The vast majority of 
customers report that they are extremely 
satisfied and would recommend Pass My 
Parcel to others. In a survey we conducted 
with Amazon, 92% of customers said they 
intend to use Pass My Parcel again, achieving 
a Net Promotor Score of over 60%, all of 
which confirms our capability to deliver a 
quality service for the Click & Collect market. 
In what is a fast paced environment, we 
have also made progress with our goals of 
increasing the range of clients and services 
we offer, and expanding our coverage of UK 
postcodes. The total number of parcel shops 
has varied over the year as a consequence of 
actively managing our shop estate to ensure 
we are best placed to meet demand, 
continually reviewing the quality of our offer 
and territorial coverage. As at 31 August 2016, 
we have over 3,300 parcel shops contracted 
with us, with more targeted to come on 
stream before the season peak.
Pass My Parcel deliveries are now serviced 
by 38 Smiths News depots, with a further 
11 Tuffnells depots extending our coverage 
to new areas beyond our newspaper and 
magazine delivery footprint. This arrangement, 
in combination with our network of parcel 
shops, means we can now offer retailers a 
complete solution for delivery and returns 
across the whole of mainland UK.
In April 2016, we announced a new 
partnership with ASOS, the online clothing 
retailer, offering a unique mobile enabled 
returns process. Entry into the returns market 
is an especially important development for 
Pass My Parcel, with industry estimates 
showing that two thirds of all parcels handled 
through Click & Collect retailers are returns 
to online suppliers. We are excited about this 
development and will be investing to increase 
consumer awareness of the speed and 
convenience of sending returns through 
Pass My Parcel.
This year we have incurred a total loss of 
£4m in supporting Pass My Parcel, and we 
expect to continue incurring losses as we 
grow our share of the market. Our strategy 
acknowledges that the development of 
retailer clients and services will take time; 
and that new clients require sophisticated 
technology, operational integration and 
marketing solutions. We are pleased with 
progress to date and have a pipeline of 
interest from new clients, together with 
developments that will increase the scale 
and scope of Pass My Parcel over time. 
Our ongoing investment strategy reflects 
our confidence that the medium term 
opportunity is significant and that the 
Group has established capabilities that 
support our competitiveness in this market. 
£6.5bn
Click & Collect UK 
market forecast 
by 2018
500k
parcels delivered
99%
of deliveries  
on time Connect Group PLC
20
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Divisional reviews/Connect Parcel Freight
Tuffnells continues to perform well, 
with revenue and profit growth reflecting 
a combination of strong demand and 
service improvements that are attracting 
new customers. Revenue of £174.4m is up 
by 7.3% and Adjusted operating profit of 
£15.0m is up by 4.9% on a comparable 
12 month period. Growth has been 
broadly consistent across all regions 
and we have experienced record 
volumes of daily consignments 
following investment in the network 
that has increased our capacity.
 
Sustained growth
Demand for next day mixed freight has 
remained buoyant across the year, with only 
minor impact being felt in the second half of 
the year following the uncertainty surrounding 
the future of the UK economy in the light of 
Brexit. In this respect, it is helpful that the 
majority of our customers are medium sized 
enterprises operating and trading wholly in 
the UK. 
Customer churn is a feature of the parcel 
freight market, as businesses continually 
seek the best prices and most competitive 
deals. It is therefore pleasing to report that 
we have attracted a net 11% increase in 
customers across the full year. Customer 
attraction has been driven by improved 
service, combined with a number of our 
competitors introducing supplementary 
charges for outsize consignments as they 
move away from unconventional and 
irregularly sized freight.
Expansion of the network following new 
depots in Norwich (September 2015) and 
Leicester (November 2015) has increased 
our capacity, in turn facilitating consignment 
growth. Total consignments grew by 5.8% 
year on year. Managing capacity is an 
ongoing challenge with the goal of greater 
flexibility across regions leading to improved 
net profitability of operations. We will be 
focusing our network and fleet investment 
on areas that will improve the quality of 
revenues as well as increasing our 
overall capacity. 
13m
consignments 
per annum
97%
of deliveries  
completed on time
4,700
customers
37
depots
Leicester  
Norwich 
11% customer 
growth
New depots 
FY16
FY16
£15m
Planned investment 
in FY17
Chris W ard
Managing Director Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
21
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Improved service and strong underlying 
demand enabled the introduction of a 
rate change, implemented without loss 
of business. The new rate card takes 
greater account of local market movements, 
allowing us to adjust customer pricing 
accordingly. This, together with adopting 
a more consultative sales model, and 
establishing a robust offer for weight 
based packages, has been a further 
factor in increasing the revenue received 
per consignment.
This year’s performance includes the 
absorption of increases in the cost base of the 
business. These include the implementation 
of the National Living Wage, additional costs 
for driver attraction and retention (which is 
believed to be an industry-wide issue), and a 
programme of improvements to infrastructure 
to address historical underinvestment in 
the network. 
Safety first
Improving the safety of operations in 
our Parcel Freight division has been a 
priority for the Group since acquiring 
Tuffnells in December 2014. In addition to 
the improvements already made, we will, 
over the next three years, continue to 
implement a rolling programme of 
upgrades to site facilities, supporting this 
with improvements in reporting processes 
and training at all levels. In what will always 
be a fast moving and physical environment we 
are determined to take every possible step to 
minimise risks and ensure the safety of our 
staff, contractors and customers.
Building on service
The current levels of market growth, 
together with our good position in the niche 
for items of irregular dimension and weight 
(IDW), provides us with the confidence to 
invest in Tuffnells as a key driver of growth in 
shareholder value in the medium term. 
Managing the balance of delivering a quality 
service, mitigating cost base pressures, 
integrating into the wider Group, and 
investing for growth, is an ongoing 
management challenge. A suite of KPIs 
through which we manage the business 
ensures we are on track, and performance 
over the year has further improved from 
what was already a strong position. On Time 
Delivery (a material KPI in the industry) has 
averaged over 97%, a critical element in 
delivering the high levels of service which 
reduce rectification costs as well reinforcing 
the quality of Tuffnells’ customer proposition. 
Leveraging Group opportunities
The on-boarding of Tuffnells to the Group is 
now complete. Without compromising our 
focus on bedding in the business and 
securing growth, we have enhanced the 
management team and begun to leverage 
skills and resources by working more closely 
with the other divisions. 
This year, working with the News & Media 
division, we have successfully launched two 
strategic partnerships, unlocking benefits 
from Group synergies that enhance service 
and reduce cost. At three locations, Tuffnells 
is drawing on flexible capacity of Smiths 
News to make early morning, last mile 
freight deliveries. We plan to expand this to 
ten locations by December 2016. In parallel, 
at 11 depots Pass My Parcel is using Tuffnells’ 
infrastructure and delivery vehicles to extend 
the reach of the proposition into new delivery 
areas. These initiatives demonstrate the 
potential to share resource and expertise and 
to deliver cost effective services that would 
not otherwise be possible in isolation.
Opportunities to leverage cost efficiencies 
and expertise are also being pursued in 
the Group support functions. The Group’s 
expertise in fleet and property management 
is being brought to bear, with day to day 
responsibility for these activities moving 
to the central Group Service team. In the 
technology arena, we are working to upgrade 
operational and customer communications 
that will further enhance and differentiate our 
offer. And, in Human Resources, the inclusion 
of Tuffnells in the Group’s engagement survey 
has improved our understanding of the impact 
of cultural change investment; investment in 
training and staff communication has also 
been increased. 
Future direction
The business model of Tuffnells as a 
specialist distributor of next day IDW 
freight is clear and the quality of our offer is 
increasingly differentiated in the market. This 
year, we have targeted our investment and 
operational plans on improving service and 
winning new customers, reinforcing the 
strength of our offer with greater capacity 
and beginning to develop closer partnerships 
across the Group. 
The economic outlook gives us confidence 
of steady growth in the market for mixed 
freight. The consequences of Brexit on our 
markets remains unclear but, given the wide 
spread of our business and its intra-UK profile, 
we currently believe the impact is likely to 
be gradual and indirect. We will continue to 
pursue opportunities across all sectors and 
are confident that, in addition to capitalising 
on economic growth, Tuffnells can continue 
to succeed in its chosen market in the 
year ahead. Connect Group PLC
22
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Divisional reviews/Connect Education & Care
The Education & Care division has 
sustained its profitability and grown 
share despite currently challenged 
markets. Adjusted operating profit 
of £7.8m is in line with last year (FY15: 
£7.8m) representing a good performance 
relative to our competitors. 
Throughout the year our E-Commerce 
strategy has built momentum, with over 
35% of orders now placed online, up from 
25% last year, and on track for our 
medium term target of 50%. 
Markets
The demand for education consumables has 
been weaker this year, despite the underlying 
demographics which support our confidence 
that growth will return in the medium term. 
We estimate the market to have been down 
by circa 6%, impacted by one-off increases in 
teacher pension and National Insurance costs 
that had to be absorbed by school budgets 
this year. In this context, the business has 
performed extremely well, outperforming its 
competitors, and developing its customer 
channels to support further gains as the 
market returns to growth.
Full year like for like sales across all education 
categories were down by 2.8%. Continued 
strong performance in Early Years up 6.4% 
confirms our strength in this sector, now 
showing an overall compound annual rate 
of growth of 12% across the division since 
acquisition. The mainstream education sector 
has been more challenging, although our 
sales to Primary schools have performed 
more strongly and are flat on FY15. Sales 
from the Care sector, which represents only 
6% of our revenues, were down by 7.8%.
40,000+
products 
Catalogue, telephone, 
online
35%
of orders online
Early Years 
Primary 
Secondary
Glenn Leech
Managing Director
Catalogue Telephone Online Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
23
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
This year, we have renewed our framework 
contracts for Wales and Dorset and seen 
further growth in orders from Scotland. 
International sales are also up by 24%.
Building strong relationships
Over recent years, schools have 
become increasingly sophisticated in 
their procurement processes. While this 
has put pressure on the market, it provides 
opportunity for the division to win share 
through its strong overall customer 
proposition which is backed by high 
quality service. 
The improvements we made to warehouse 
management and capacity in FY14 and FY15 
have been instrumental in improving service 
and building stronger relationships. Availability 
of key demand lines has improved and ‘On 
Time and In Full’ delivery has increased over 
the year with a strong performance over the 
seasonal peak. These are critical measures, 
directly impacting customer satisfaction. 
Building stronger relationships with 
customers based on service and value 
remains central to our strategy. The new 
mobile optimised websites are easy to search 
and navigate, with smart product suggestions 
highlighting appropriate offers. Our goal of 
‘easy buying’ for customers is enhanced by 
best in class online functionality and our 
integration with popular school financial 
management systems.
To enhance our offer further we have 
developed content that aids teachers with 
lesson plans and classroom activities, linking 
these to products where appropriate. Working 
with Scholastic, and other content partners, 
we have received excellent feedback from 
schools on this innovative approach which 
helps them to deliver outstanding education 
that meets the requirements of the 
national curriculum.
Sales to Care homes are down by 7.8% due 
to the termination of unprofitable contracts 
and continued price pressure in the sector 
driven by the cost of implementing the 
National Living Wage in care homes. Care 
represents only 6% of divisional sales. 
Future direction
Our strategy is well established and on 
track. Despite recent uncertainty over 
budgets in the education sector we maintain 
our confidence that the investments and 
progress we have made will bring rewards as 
the market returns to overall growth. We plan 
to maintain our investment in E-Commerce, 
continually enhancing our offer and building 
strong relationships, based on value and 
service, which position us as the first 
choice supplier for our customers.  Connect Group PLC
24
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Divisional reviews/Connect Books
Connect Books experienced a challenging 
year with mixed fortunes across the 
sectors in which we operate. Wordery 
continues to perform very strongly and 
Bertrams wholesale has also shown good 
growth. These performances were offset 
by continued weakness in the library 
markets, exacerbated by cost increases, 
mix and margin challenges. Adjusted 
operating profit of £2.5m is therefore 
down 3.8% on last year (FY15:£2.6m) 
despite an increase in revenue of 3.1%.
Markets and trading
The division operates in four distinct 
sectors of the Books market, with 
the respective business units having 
accountability for sales, profit and service. 
These encompass: UK Wholesale (serving 
booksellers and internet retailers), Wordery 
(serving consumers directly), Libraries 
(serving UK academic and public libraries, 
including digital services), and International 
(serving European and Worldwide academic 
and corporate customers). 
Independent data shows the UK 
Consumer Books Market increased 
by 8.9% over the period. Connect 
Books’ UK sales outperformed the 
market with Wholesale sales up 8.9%, 
and Wordery sales up by 26.7%. Our 
overall share of the UK consumer books 
market grew from 5.6% to 5.7%. 
Wordery sales have grown to £49m p.a. 
up 26.7% on last year. Its continued strong 
performance in both platform sales and 
Wordery.com, which now accounts for 
23% of sales, has been driven by continued 
investment in marketing and innovation. We 
are exploring opportunities to accelerate the 
international development of Wordery, which 
we believe offers further exciting potential 
for growth.
Books
+8.9%
UK consumer 
books market
+9%
UK Wholesale  
total sales
+26%
Growth in Wordery 
sales in FY16
£49m
Wordery total sales
International
Erasmus 
Houtschild
Justin Adams
Managing Director Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
25
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The Bertrams business, serving the UK 
wholesale market, has grown sales to £91m, 
up 8.9% on last year, driven by growth in all 
channels including the independent bookseller 
channel where we have worked hard to 
improve our service offer. Whilst the market 
remains highly competitive, if we deliver agile 
cost effective and entrepreneurial solutions to 
customers, we expect opportunities will 
continue to present themselves.
Offsetting this progress, the UK library 
markets (encompassing both the public 
and academic sectors) have remained very 
challenging. Independent statistics for these 
markets are not available but it is clear that 
budget cuts and austerity measures are 
having a continued impact, compounded by 
a migration of spend from printed books to 
digital publishing and journals. In this regard 
we have continued to invest in our core 
DawsonEra and Dawson Enter digital 
solutions and improve our service levels. 
Last year, we made the strategic decision 
to withdraw from a number of public 
library contracts and only bid for new 
ones at sustainable rates, so this part of 
our business has therefore contracted. 
To help mitigate this, we have restructured 
our library operations to maximise 
efficiency and effectiveness.
Our overseas library operations have fared 
more strongly, though, again with mixed 
results. Erasmus and Houtschild, based in 
Amsterdam and serving European institutions 
have continued to perform well; our Dawson 
operations in France and Spain have suffered 
from greater weakness in their markets, and 
again we have restructured accordingly.
Operations and service
The improvement of customer service 
has been central to our strategy to win and 
retain customers. Despite the tough trading 
conditions we have continued to invest in 
service, making good progress that has 
contributed to our revenue and share gains. 
A change in parcel carriers resulting from a 
review last year has improved our ‘On Time 
and In Full’ deliveries to consistently over 
98% and has delivered a step-change in the 
quality and regularity of customer deliveries, 
especially over the peak Christmas period. 
We have also sought to improve the 
availability of key titles and whilst 
managing our working capital. 
In parallel to these improvements in 
warehouse operations, we continue to evolve 
our commercial organisation to become 
more customer-centric, agile and efficient. 
Increased costs 
The profile of our warehouse operations has 
meant the introduction of the National Living 
Wage has had a disproportionately greater 
impact compared to other businesses in the 
Group. Increases in postal costs for Wordery, 
and parcel rates for trade orders, have also 
had a significant impact on direct costs. 
The contractual nature of many of our trade 
relationships and the competitiveness of the 
markets we operate in means there is limited 
ability to recover these costs through buying 
and pricing. As a consequence, while we 
have worked hard to mitigate the increases, 
profit performance has inevitably 
been impacted. 
Outlook and future priorities
Whilst we have seen many of the benefits 
of our more customer centric strategy, the 
outlook for growth in the Books division 
remains challenging. The continued progress 
of Wordery, along with our core Bertrams 
wholesale business in a more buoyant 
consumer market gives us positive 
momentum in our direct-to-consumer and 
trade sales. In contrast, we expect to see 
continued fragility in the UK library markets, 
challenges to margins and the full year of 
impact of cost increases which will dampen 
expectations of growth over the next twelve 
months. Subject to market conditions, 
ongoing progress in implementing our 
strategy and the efficiency benefits of a 
planned investment in packaging automation, 
we would expect to see improved 
performance in the medium term. Connect Group PLC
26
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial review
Solid financial performance
In FY16, the Group has delivered another solid 
performance – increasing profit in line with 
expectations and making progress on all our 
key financial metrics.
Financial measure FY2016 result and narrative Guidance FY2017
Adjusted Results
Further reference
Note 2, page 81.  
 – Adjusted operating profit of £67.7m was up 6.2% (FY15: £63.8m), as FY16 performance 
benefited from a full year of Tuffnells ownership.
 – Adjusted profit before tax of £60.7m is up 7.4% (FY15: £56.5m) benefitting from a full 
year of Tuffnells ownership.
 – Basic adjusted earnings per share of 19.8p is up 0.5% (FY15: 19.7p). 
 – Fully diluted adjusted earnings per share of 19.5p is up 2.6% (FY15: 19.0p).
Despite challenging markets 
and increased investment in our 
business, we are confident of 
delivering a robust performance 
in the current financial year 
and are confident in our longer 
term prospects
Finance Cost
Further reference
Note 7, page 88. 
 – Net finance costs were £7.0m (FY15: £7.3m). 
 – Net bank interest and related charges were £5.5m (FY15: £5.8m) which were lower as a 
result of lower average borrowings. 
Finance costs in FY17 are expected 
to remain at a similar level to FY16, 
as the Group has the majority 
of its debt protected by interest 
rate hedges.
Exceptional items
Further reference
Note 4, page 83. 
 – Exceptional items after tax totalled £14.9m (FY15: £24.0m).
 – Network and reorganisation costs were £4.4m (FY15: £4.5m), acquisition and disposal 
costs £3.8m (FY15: £15.1m) include £1.9m of anticipated deferred consideration for 
Tuffnells and Wordery and £1.9m incurred on external fees relating to acquisition and 
disposal activity in the period.
 – A £1.1m pension credit relates to Education & Care adjustments to reduce discretionary 
increases on The Consortium Care scheme.
 – The largest item in the year, at £10.2m, was the non-cash amortisation of intangibles 
resulting from previous acquisitions. The net book value of the acquired intangibles of 
£55.2m will continue to be amortised over future years.
 – Legal provision of £1.5m for a potential fine and related legal costs arising from the 
outcome of the Health & Safety Executive’s investigation into the fatality at Parcel 
Freight’s Brierley Hill depot in January 2016 (FY15: £nil).
 – The total cash cost in the year was £10.8m (FY15: £8.2m), a proportion of the 
exceptional items are accrued at year end and will be paid subsequently.
The Group expects to incur network 
and reorganisation costs in FY17 at a 
similar level to FY16.
The cash impact is expected to be in 
line with the profit impact of network 
and reorganisation.
Statutory Results
Further reference
Note 10, page 89.
 – Statutory profit before tax of £41.9m is up 44.5% (FY15: £29.0m) largely as a result of 
acquisition related costs incurred in the prior period not repeating and a full year of 
Tuffnells ownership. 
 – Basic earnings per share of 13.7p is up 47.3% (FY15: 9.3p).
 – Fully diluted earnings per share of 13.5p is up 50.0% (FY15: 9.0p).
The Group expects the year-on-
year movement of statutory results 
performance to be consistent with 
adjusted results performance before 
the impact of any future acquisition 
and disposal activity.
Taxation
Further reference
Note 8, page 88.  
 – The adjusted tax charge was £12.4m (FY15: £11.1m), the adjusted effective tax rate was 
20.4% (FY15: 19.7%), which is a result of the FY16 adjusted effective tax rate being 
adversely impacted by re-measurement of the deferred tax assets due to the future 
reduction in the UK tax rate from 20% to 18%.
 – The statutory tax charge was £8.5m (FY15: £7.6m), the statutory effective tax rate was 
20.3% (FY15: 26.3%) with a tax credit on Exceptionals of £3.9m in FY16 compared to a 
credit of £3.5m in FY15.
The Group expects its future tax 
charges to be broadly in line with 
standard UK corporation tax rates.
Dividend per share
Further reference
Note 9, page 89. 
 – The interim dividend per share of 3.0p up 3.4% (FY15: 2.9p) was paid on 8 July 2016.
 – The proposed final dividend of 6.5p is up 3.2% (FY15: 6.3p) and will be payable to 
shareholders who are on the register at 13 January 2017 on 10 February 2017.
 – The total proposed dividend for FY16 of 9.5p is up 3.3% (FY15: 9.2p).
The Group has a progressive dividend 
policy, expecting to grow future 
dividends as the Group achieves 
future profit and cash growth.
David Bauernfeind
Chief Financial Officer Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
27
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial measure FY2016 result and narrative Guidance FY2017
Cash and debt
Further reference
Note 19, page 94. 
Group cash flow 
statement, page 74.
 – The Group continues to deliver strong free cash flows reporting £49.6m (FY15: £39.8m), 
up 24.6%. 
 – This included a working capital inflow of £nil (FY15: outflow of £8.0m), capital 
expenditure £13.9m (FY15: £9.2m), net interest paid £4.9m (FY15: £5.8m), taxation 
£8.5m (FY15: £8.7m), pension funding £5.3m (FY15: £5.4m) and other cash inflows 
of £1.1m (FY15: £1.5m).
 – As at 31 August 2016 net debt was £141.7m (FY15: £153.4m). Net debt is a combination of 
£150.8m of gross debt and £9.1m of cash held in local entities to finance local operations. 
 – The Group borrowings fluctuate during the financial year resulting in FY16 average 
borrowings being £21.3m higher than the closing position and maximum borrowings in 
the period of £193.5m.
The Group expects to deliver free 
cash flow in FY17 more in line with 
those achieved in FY15, as a result 
of increased investments. 
The Group expects FY17 net debt 
to remain at similar levels to FY16, 
before considering the impact of 
any corporate activity that may or 
may not take place.
The Group targets net debt to 
decrease from FY18 onwards.
Covenants – The Group remains comfortably within each of its banking covenants.
 – Net debt/adjusted EBITDA was 1.7x (FY15: 1.9x) versus a covenant limit of 2.75x.
 – Interest charge cover was 14.5x (FY15: 15.0x) versus a covenant minimum of 3.0x.
 – Fixed charge cover was 3.1x (FY15: 3.3x) versus a covenant minimum of 2.0x.
 – Guarantors’ cover exceeded the required standard set by the Company’s banks of at 
least 80% of the annual consolidated turnover, gross assets and pre-tax profits.
The Group expects to remain 
comfortably within its banking 
covenants throughout FY17.
Bank Facilities
Further reference
Note 20, page 95.
 – The Group has £250m of committed bank and Treasury facilities in place as at 31 August 
2016 through to November 2018 (FY15: £250m).
 – The facility comprises a term loan of £100m with limited repayment over the term 
period and a revolving credit facility of £150m, which expires in November 2018.
 – Interest rate hedges, used to manage exposure to interest rate fluctuations, covered 
65% of the Group’s core borrowings as at 31 August 2016.
The Group expects to continue 
to have headroom within these 
facilities in line with those seen 
in FY16.
Pensions
Further reference
Note 6, page 84.
 – The Group operates four defined benefit schemes, four are closed to new entrants 
and two are closed for future accrual.
 – The Smiths News section of the WH Smith pension trust has assets of £641.5m and an 
actuarial deficit of £23.0m as at June 2013. As at 31 August 2016 the IAS19 surplus of 
£151.3m (FY15: £135.6m) was not recognised in the accounts as the amount available 
on a reduction of future contributions is £nil. 
 – The Group recognises the present value of the agreed schedule of future contributions 
as a pension liability of £10.3m on the balance sheet (FY15: £13.8m).
 – The Consortium defined benefit schemes have combined assets of £17.7m and a 
combined actuarial deficit of £1.5m as at December 2013. As at 31 August 2016 the 
IAS19 deficit was £7.9m.
 – The Tuffnells defined benefit scheme has assets of £12.7m and an actuarial deficit 
of £2.5m as at 1 April 2013. As at 31 August 2016 the IAS19 deficit was £3.0m.
 – The total cash contribution of defined benefit schemes and expenses in the cash flow 
statement for FY16 was £5.3m (FY15: £5.4m).
The Group expects cash 
contributions for FY17 to be 
slightly lower than FY16, pending 
the agreement of the March 2015 
triennial valuation being finalised.
Shares
Further reference
Note 10, page 89.
 – As at 31 August 2016 the weighted average basic number of shares issued was 243.4m 
(FY15: 230.9m).
 – As at 31 August 2016 the fully diluted number of shares was 247.2m (FY15: 238.5m).
 – Fully diluted shares include 2.3m for employee incentive schemes (FY15: 4.1m) and 
1.5m shares (FY15: 3.5m) being the weighted impact of future share schemes and shares 
allotted in relating to the deferred consideration arising out of the Tuffnells acquisition.
The Group expects the deferred 
consideration from acquisitions 
which is to be settled in shares and 
future employee incentive scheme 
requirements to further increase 
weighted shares to 247m in FY17.
Acquisitions
Further reference
Note 12, page 91.  
 – There were no acquisitions in the period.
 – In the prior year, the Group acquired The Big Green Parcel Holding Company 
Limited (which operates as Tuffnells) for a total consideration of £114.0m, with a further 
potential deferred consideration payable of £15.3m. Deferred consideration for Tuffnells 
of £5.1m has been paid in cash in the year and £1.1m has been fully accrued for year 
2 and 3 deferred consideration. 
 – In the prior year, the Group also completed the acquisition of the 49% minority interest 
in Wordery for an initial cash consideration of £5.2m and further potential consideration 
of £3.3m. Deferred consideration for Wordery of £0.8m has been fully accrued in 
the year. 
The Group will continue to pursue 
its stated strategic ambition of 
delivering sustainable shareholder 
returns, which includes potential 
acquisition and disposal activity.
Critical Accounting 
Policies
Further reference
Note 1, page 75.
 – The directors believe that the accounting policies below represent those which require 
the greatest exercise of judgement. The directors have used their best judgement in 
determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of 
judgements could result in material changes to our reported results.
 – Retirement benefit obligations.
 – Goodwill and impairment assessments.
 – Revenue recognition.
 – Property contracts.
 – Taxation judgements.
 – Provision estimates.
Going Concern 
& Viability 
Assessment 
Further reference
Note 1, page 75.
Note 19, page 94.
 – The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities of up to £250m. The Group’s forecasts, taking into account the Board’s future 
expectations of the Group’s performance, indicate that there is sufficient headroom 
within these bank facilities and the Group will continue to operate well within the 
covenants attaching to those facilities.
 – Considering the principal risks discussed in the Strategic Report, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due for both in the foreseeable future and for the 
period of the three year viability assessment. Thus, the Group continues to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Connect Group PLC
28
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate responsibility Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
29
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
In seeking to make an active difference in 
each of these areas, we pay careful attention 
to developments in our markets, as well as 
changes to legislation and overall best 
practice in the management of corporate 
responsibility. More widely, we work with 
our industry partners to support responsible 
practice and make progress across our supply 
chains that would not be possible on a 
standalone basis.
The Group’s community link-up programme 
is now in its fourth year. The scheme 
encompasses fundraising for charities, 
community volunteering and support for 
good causes which are important to our 
people. Through the link-up programme we 
encourage individuals and teams to become 
involved in their communities; this year, they 
have supported a wide variety of community 
and charity events – from participating in fun 
runs and bake-offs to the organisation and 
sponsorship of charity music festivals. 
Whatever the activity, the enthusiastic 
involvement of colleagues reflects the 
goodwill this creates both within and 
beyond the business. 
Across the Group we manage corporate 
responsibility with a focus on four areas: 
Workplace (including health & safety), 
Marketplace, Community and Environment. 
In addition to Group-wide policies and 
initiatives, each division has an active 
programme that relates to its 
particular market. 
Wherever practical, we encourage 
the integration of corporate responsible 
policies and goals into our day to day activity, 
reinforcing our view that responsible practice 
is integral to our operating model and 
competitive differentiation. 
An active & integrated 
approach
The Group operates to a well-established 
foundation of responsible practice, embracing 
an awareness of our impact on industry 
stakeholders, the wider communities in which 
we operate, our workforce and the environment.  Connect Group PLC
30
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate responsibility continued
Environment
The Group has continued its progress in reducing the 
Carbon Emissions from operations and has achieved a 
carbon footprint reduction of 3.9% on a like for like basis. 
The roll out of energy efficient lighting has 
continued with 12 sites completed in the 
Parcel Freight division this year and a further 
eight identified for the next phase of activity. 
The impact of this programme across the 
Group has helped achieve a 7% reduction in 
the Group’s scope 2 emissions on a like for 
like basis.
We have made further progress in the 
management and monitoring of energy and 
recycling. The Group met the Energy Saving 
Opportunity Scheme deadline and notified 
the Environment Agency of its compliance 
covering all subsidiaries. The Parcel Freight 
division was also included in our reporting 
for the Carbon Reduction Commitment.
Since 2012, the Group has, in partnership 
with Biffa, successfully introduced waste 
management strategies that have increased 
recycling levels of operational waste in the 
News & Media division, where costs of waste 
management have reduced by 40% in the 
period. Parcel Freight’s levels of recycling are 
lower than the Group average, representing 
an important area of opportunity. A recent 
trial at its depot in Sheffield, which applied 
the Group’s best practice, saw recycling levels 
improve by 100%. We therefore plan to apply 
these ways of working across the full Parcel 
Freight estate by the end of FY17.
Carbon Emissions data
Fuel Type/Scope
1 March 2013 
– 28 Feb 2014 
Tonnes of CO
2
e
1 March 2014 
– 28 Feb 2015 
Tonnes of CO
2
e
1 March 2015 
– 28 Feb 2016 
Tonnes of CO
2
e
Scope 1 5,046 4,006 3,616
Scope 2 6,372 5,141 4,778
Scope 3 13,702 14,726 14,549
TOTAL 25,120 23,872 22,943
Excluding the Parcel Freight division
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratios
Intensity Ratios Reporting Year
CO
2
e tonnes per 
£1m turnover
CO
2
e tonnes per 
employee
CO
2
e tonnes per 
square metre 
of premises
1 March 2013 – 28 Feb 2014 13.96 6.18 0.17
1 March 2014 – 28 Feb 2015 13.55 6.24 0.17
1 March 2015 – 28 Feb 2016 13.25 6.22 0.15
Intensity Ratios exclude the turnover, employees and square metres of premises of the 
Parcel Freight division.
Notes:
The data collected for this report is in respect of the period 1 March 2015 to 28 February 2016, being the period that 
the Group previously reported for the Carbon Trust Standard certification. The Carbon Emissions data comparisons 
are made on a like for like basis for the period of 1 March 2014 to 28 February 2015, excluding the Parcel Freight 
division and its trading business Tuffnells. The Group acquired Tuffnells on 19 December 2014; prior to this Tuffnells 
was not subject to a comparable reporting regime for carbon emissions and did not have processes in place 
appropriately to record and monitor usage. It has not been practical to compile historical data based on manual 
records which we consider to be potentially inaccurate. The Group has addressed this issue and expects to be 
in a position to report a complete like for like comparison for the period 1 March 2016 to 28 February 2017. 
The Group does not collate data in respect of its overseas operations as these are immaterial in relation to the 
Group’s overall carbon footprint. 
Using an operational control approach, the Group has assessed its boundaries to identify activities and facilities 
for which it has responsibility for the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from Scope 1 and 2. The Group has also 
decided voluntarily to report on selected Scope 3 emissions, namely, the News & Media division’s subcontracted 
mileage (where possible to obtain) and employee business travel. Total GHG emissions were calculated following 
ISO-14064-1:2006 standards and using DEFRA (2015 and 2012) emissions factors. 
Scope 1 (gas and fuel) emissions relate primarily to the consumption of gas to heat the Group’s distribution locations 
and the fuel consumed by our company cars and commercial vehicle fleet. Scope 2 emissions consist of the 
electricity used in our offices and depots. Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
31
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Policies and governance of 
Corporate Responsibility
The Group Executive sets objectives 
and targets for the areas of corporate 
responsibility covered in this report. These 
are considered and reviewed by the Board and 
progress is monitored throughout the year by 
the Group Executive and executive teams in 
each division. Relevant policies are updated 
in response to initiatives and/or legislation and 
significant changes are noted and discussed. 
Health and safety performance is reviewed 
regularly by the Board and Group Executive 
throughout the year. 
The Group works to ensure a culture that 
is free from discrimination and harassment 
in any form. Proper consideration is given 
to people with disabilities and, should 
employees develop a disability while 
working for the Group, every effort is made 
to continue their employment and provide 
retraining if required. We are committed to a 
culture and environment in which workplace 
concerns can be raised and addressed 
without recrimination; we supplement this 
with confidential whistleblowing procedures 
that are well communicated throughout 
the organisation.
The initiative focuses on supporting 
employees with advice on physical 
and mental health and wellbeing, as 
well as giving advice on safety in the 
working environment.
As well as being a platform for 
advice the campaign encourages active 
participation on healthy pursuits. In our 
Stockport depot the initiative has led to a 
successful health awareness partnership 
with the local council.
Health Week
After a successful launch 
in 2015, Connect Group’s 
Health Week took place 
again in June this year. 
Woo Fest is a family oriented festival, 
featuring music from a variety of bands 
and with all proceeds donated to a local 
hospice. The festival was conceived, 
launched and managed by our staff at 
Worcester, and Community Link-Up 
has supported with volunteering time, 
publicity and sponsorships. In just two 
years Woo Fest has raised over £14,000 
and next year’s event is already in 
the planning.
Woo Fest annual 
festival
Woo Fest is a great example 
of colleagues supporting 
good causes in partnership 
with the Group’s Community 
Link-Up programme. Connect Group PLC
32
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate responsibility continued
Workplace Diversity and 
Human Rights
The Group actively supports diversity in the 
workplace in all its forms and is committed 
to improving gender composition over time. 
The current gender composition is:
Male % Female %
All employees 4,772 73% 1,768 27%
Board of 
Directors 6 86% 1 14%
Senior  
managers* 24 75% 8 25%
* Senior Managers comprises the Group Executive 
and its four divisional executive committees, each 
of whom has responsibility for planning, directing 
or controlling the activities of the Company, or a 
strategically significant part of the Company
The Group fully supports the human rights 
of our employees and our policies are built 
on a commitment to mutual respect, fairness 
and integrity throughout the Group. These 
principles are reflected in our Company 
Values, which are integral to our Employee 
Relations policies and, more broadly, to the 
ways in which we work together. The Group 
has in place ethical trading standards and a 
commitment to combating modern slavery, 
each of which are endorsed by the Board and 
which we expect our supply chain partners 
to adhere to in our commercial relationships. 
To encourage staff to raise any matters of 
concern across what we do, the Group 
operates a confidential ‘speak-up’ line.
Employee engagement 
In March 2016, we conducted the first 
Engagement Survey to encompass every 
business and employee in the Group. Working 
with an industry specialist we designed an 
independently conducted survey to measure 
and understand ‘what matters’ to our 
colleagues. The results were transparently 
communicated, and feedback sessions were 
held with every team and location to identify 
issues and opportunities together.
The results confirmed the deeply felt 
commitment and goodwill of our colleagues 
– as well as highlighting many areas for 
potential improvement at a central and 
local level.
Headlines included:
 – Overall all key engagement indicators 
rated positively, at 65% or above.
 – 62% of colleagues responded to the 
survey and 39% participants rated as fully 
engaged – rating a positive score against 
all the key engagement factors.
 – Only 1% of colleagues rated as 
‘disengaged’. 
 – Organisational pride is high – 90% of 
colleagues are proud to work for their 
business and 75% are also proud to work 
for the Group.
 – Roles and contribution are rated highly – 
83% of colleagues enjoy their jobs, and 
over 95% say they are clear on how their 
work makes a difference to the 
Group’s success.
 – Colleague relationships, a friendly 
atmosphere and flexible working are 
widely celebrated in the feedback.
To support the action planning from our 
survey, we have invested in building skills that 
help managers get the best from their team 
feedback sessions. Activity has continued 
throughout the year as teams continue with 
their conversations, considering ideas and 
identifying changes that help us become 
more effective and engaged in the workplace. 
We plan to repeat the survey in March 
2017 and will be measuring our year on year 
progress as well as identifying new areas for 
improvement. We also plan to introduce more 
online surveys to improve participation levels. 
Our commitment to employee engagement 
is part of an ongoing objective to ensure our 
businesses are great places to work, with 
a supportive culture that helps all colleagues 
to be at their best. 
The Group is committed to involving our 
employees in change and listening to their 
feedback on ways to improve the business. 
In each of our divisions, we have employee 
forums to share developments, take feedback 
and respond to ideas. We consult with 
employees on a regular basis so that their 
views can be taken into account in making 
decisions that are likely to affect their interests. 
To encourage further involvement and 
engagement in the Company’s performance 
we operate an employees’ share scheme, 
enabling employees at all levels to benefit 
from the progress of the Company.
Workplace Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
33
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
RIDDOR TOTALS BY DIVISION AND YEAR
2013–14 2014–15
LFL
2015–16
LFL
2015–16
93
93
2012–13 2011–12
2
3
45
40
9
1
36
26
4
37
22
11
5
15
4
6
1
27
15
11
 News & Media Books Education & Care Parcel Freight
RIDDOR TOTALS BY TYPE AND YEAR
2013–14 2014–15
LFL
2015–16
LFL
2015–16
Tuffnells
93
2012–13 2011–12
45
36 37
15
27
10
83
45
4
32
4
33
15
24
3
 Lost time incidents Major injury incidents
2016
News & 
Media Books
Education 
& Care
Parcel 
Freight
Group Totals
LFL2 Group
Major Injuries 0 0 0 10 0 10
Injuries resulting in over 
3 days absence from work/
hospitalisation 4 6 5 83 15 98
All RIDDORs
1
 4 6 5 93 15 108
2015 
2015 
LFL
2
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
2010 
LFL
3
2009
Major Injuries 12 3 4 4 0 2 1 1 2
Injuries resulting 
in over 3 days 
absence from work/
hospitalisation 78 24 33 32 45 53 70 43 40
All RIDDORs
1
90 27 37 36 45 55 71 44 42
1 RIDDOR: Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
2 LFL: excludes the impact of the acquisition of the Parcel Freight division in 2014 to compare on a like for like 
basis with previous years.
3 LFL: excludes the impact of the new contract areas and depots acquired in 2009 to compare on a like for like 
basis with previous years.
Approval
This Strategic report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Gary Kennedy
Chairman
18 October 2016
Health & Safety
The Group is focused on maintaining the 
highest standards of health and safety, so 
as to protect our employees, customers 
and contractors. 
The Board and Group Executive are 
committed to delivering further improvements 
in our health and safety culture, performance 
and practice. A Group Health & Safety report 
is provided to the Group Executive each 
month and the Audit Committee and Board 
each conduct regular reviews of incidents, 
trends and overall performance. Each division 
is responsible for the management of health 
and safety risks, supported by dedicated 
Health & Safety teams that provide advice, 
guidance, training and support. While there 
is some commonality in the nature of the 
risks that are present across the Group, 
the strategies and annual health and safety 
initiatives of each division will reflect its 
particular risks and priorities. The result is a 
clear focus on health and safety throughout 
the Group.
We are deeply saddened to report this 
year that one of our employees in the Parcel 
Freight division was fatally injured whilst at 
work. Following the incident we have sought 
to understand what happened, to determine 
the root causes, support the impacted 
family and colleagues, and to learn 
lessons that need to be applied in our 
businesses to continue to drive health 
and safety improvements.
The like for like safety performance in the 
Books, Education & Care, and News & Media 
divisions have all improved, with no ‘major 
injury’ RIDDORs occurring in the year. 
In the Parcel Freight division the number 
of RIDDORs has increased and it is with 
deep regret that there was also a fatal 
incident. We have actively worked to create 
a more open culture around safety matters 
and believe the increase in RIDDORs is, in 
part, due to improved reporting practices. At 
the same time, we are in no way complacent 
in our determination to raise standards still 
further and to ensure our workplaces are as 
safe as they can possibly be. As a result, the 
Board and Group Executive remain committed 
to increasing our efforts, supported by further 
investment, to ensure that progress is made 
at pace and that the health, safety and 
well-being of our colleagues remains 
paramount in what we do.
The Health & Safety plan across the Group 
for the coming year focuses on the most 
common causes of RIDDOR incidents, 
further training of management and frontline 
employees and contractors, and the review 
and updating of risk assessments and safe 
systems of working practices and processes. Connect Group PLC
34
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Board of Directors
Gary Kennedy
Chairman N A R 
Mark Cashmore
Group Chief Executive
Andrew Brent
Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director A N R
Jonathan Bunting
Managing Director, Connect 
News & Media
Colin Child 
Independent Non-executive 
Director A N R
David Bauernfeind
Chief Financial Officer
Denise Collis 
Independent Non-executive 
Director R A N
Committee membership:
A Audit Committee
N Nominations Committee
R Remuneration Committee
Bold denotes Chair of the Committee
Year of appointment
2015
Year of appointment
2006
Year of appointment
2008
Year of appointment
2010
Year of appointment
2015
Year of appointment
2016
Year of appointment
2015
Background and experience
Gary was formerly Group Director of 
Finance and Enterprise Technology 
at Allied Irish Banks plc from 1997 to 
2005, following executive positions 
at Nortel Networks and Deloitte. 
He has also previously been a 
non-executive director of Elan 
Corporation plc and Irish Bank 
Resolution Corporation Limited, 
as well as having served on the 
Board of the Industrial Development 
Authority of Ireland for ten years. 
Other current appointments
 – Greencore Group plc, Chairman
 – Green REIT plc, Chairman
Background and experience
Prior to joining, David was Chief 
Financial Officer and executive 
director at Xchanging PLC, a 
position he held 2011 until its 
takeover and delisting in June 2016. 
Before joining Xchanging in 2001, 
David held management roles in 
BAE Systems PLC and Johnson 
Matthey PLC.
Other current appointments
None
Note: Nick Gresham served as Chief 
Financial Officer during FY16 and 
stepped down from the Board on 
1 October 2016 to pursue other 
opportunities. David Bauernfeind 
was appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer on the same date.
Background and experience
Andy was most recently Chief 
Customer and Marketing Officer 
at Barclays Bank and prior to that 
held senior marketing positions in 
a number of leading companies 
including BSkyB, Alliance Boots Plc, 
Burger King Inc., Iceland Frozen 
Foods Plc and Proctor and 
Gamble Inc.
Other current appointments
None
Background and experience
Jonathan joined WH Smith News 
in 1994. He rose through the 
organisation in a variety of sales and 
marketing managerial roles before 
being promoted to the executive 
management team in 2001. In April 
2014, Jonathan became Managing 
Director of the Connect News & 
Media division. 
Other current appointments
None
Background and experience
Colin is a chartered accountant and 
has extensive financial experience 
having previously been Chief 
Financial Officer at De La Rue plc 
from June 2010 until July 2015 and 
prior to that Group Finance Director 
at each of DTZ Holdings plc, Stanley 
Leisure plc, Fitness First Plc and 
National Express Group PLC. 
Other current appointments
 – fastjet plc, Chairman and 
non-executive director
Background and experience
Mark started his career with 
Pernod Ricard before moving to 
United News & Media in 1989. 
Between 1989 and 1999 he held 
senior positions in a number of 
news distribution businesses, 
including Sales Director of United 
Magazine Distribution, USM and 
Seymour. He joined WH Smith 
News in 1999 and was appointed 
Magazine Sales Director in 2001 
and Managing Director in 
June 2006.
Other current appointments
None
Background and experience
Denise was Chief People Officer 
at Bupa, the global healthcare 
business, from May 2010 until 
December 2014. Prior to that, she 
held senior HR roles at a number 
of leading organisations including 
3i Group plc, EY, Standard Chartered 
Bank and HSBC. 
Other current appointments
 – SThree PLC, non-executive 
director, Chair of Remuneration 
Committee and member of 
Nominations Committee
 – British Heart Foundation, Chair 
of Remuneration Committee 
and member of Nominations 
Committee and Advisory Council
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
Length of tenure as Board 
directors
Gary Kennedy 
Andrew Brent
Colin Child
Denise Collis
Mark Cashmore
Jonathan Bunting
David Bauernfeind
Executive director 
Non-executive director
Chairman
Group Chief Executive
Non board role Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
35
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group Executive
Justin Adams
Managing Director, 
Connect Books
Sarah Miles
Group Human Resources 
Director
Glenn Leech
Managing Director, Connect 
Education & Care
Chris Ward
Managing Director, Connect 
Parcel Freight
Max Livingstone-
Learmonth
Group Strategy Director
Richard Webb
Group IT & Services Director
The Group Executive  
committee comprises of:
Mark Cashmore
Group Chief Executive
David Bauernfeind
Chief Financial Officer
Jonathan Bunting
Managing Director, Connect 
News & Media
See previous page for biographies. 
Nick Gresham stepped down from 
the Group Executive on 1 October 
2016 at the same time as he was 
replaced by David Bauernfeind as 
Chief Financial Officer.
Year joined
2014
Year joined
2013
Year joined
2004
Year joined
2015
Year joined
2011
Year joined
1987
Background and experience
Prior to joining, Justin was the Chief 
Executive Officer at Sealskinz. Prior 
to that, he sat on the Greene King 
plc board and spent over five years 
as the Managing Director for the 
Brewing Division. Before joining 
Greene King, he worked for Diageo, 
where he had responsibility for 
Guinness Germany, and Maxxium 
Worldwide where he was Managing 
Director UK & Ireland. 
Background and experience
Prior to joining, Sarah led the 
Chartered Institute of Personnel 
and Development’s expansion into 
Asia. Prior to that, she spent 12 
years at PepsiCo in a variety of HR 
leadership roles, most recently as 
Senior HR Director of PepsiCo’s UK 
Manufacturing & Logistics divisions 
where she also had HR responsibility 
for finance, IT and special projects. 
Before joining PepsiCo she worked 
for Pearson and Marks and Spencer. 
Background and experience
Glenn joined WH Smith News in 
2004 as Human Resources Director. 
Prior to joining WH Smith News, 
Glenn spent seven years at Ford 
Motor Company, during which time 
he held a number of managerial 
positions in employee relations, 
HR business operations and as 
an HR project manager. He was 
appointed Group Human Resources 
Director on 1 September 2011 and 
Managing Director, The Consortium 
on 26 October 2013. In April 2014, 
Glenn became Managing Director 
of the Connect Education & 
Care division. 
Background and experience
Chris has a wealth of operational 
experience, spanning a number 
of blue chip companies, including 
Accenture, Boots UK and most 
recently B&Q, where he was the 
Chief Operating Officer (Business 
Transformations) with responsibility 
for operational functions across 
supply chain, logistics, IT and 
property as well as strategy and 
organisational change.
Background and experience
Max joined the Group in 
March 2011 as Head of Corporate 
Development. Max has 15 years 
of strategy and corporate 
acquisitions experience and prior 
to joining the Group was a director 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers. He 
was appointed Group Strategy 
Director and joined the Group 
Executive on 1 September 2014.
Background and experience
Richard Webb joined WH Smith 
News as a graduate recruit in 
1987. Richard worked in a variety 
of roles at warehouse locations 
and regional level before moving 
to head office in 1994 to join the 
Information Systems Department. 
He was appointed Information 
Systems Director in 2004 and 
Group Information Technology 
Director on 1 September 2011, 
assuming responsibility for Group 
Services on 1 May 2013. Connect Group PLC
36
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Introduction by the Chairman
Against this sound governance backdrop, 
we embraced and adapted to the changes in 
our Board membership during the year. Our 
non-executive director succession planning 
process was completed and we were pleased 
to welcome Colin Child and Denise Collis to 
the Board on 1 December 2015. After having 
served over nine years with the Company 
since the demerger from WH Smith PLC in 
2006, John Worby and Anthony Cann each 
retired from the Board at the conclusion of 
the 2016 Annual General Meeting, when 
Andrew Brent also succeeded John Worby 
as Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director. More recently, we have welcomed 
David Bauernfeind to the Group following the 
resignation of Nick Gresham (Chief Financial 
Officer) after six years with the Group. 
I would like to thank John, Anthony and 
Nick for the immense contributions they 
have made to the Company and on behalf of 
the Board we wish them well for the future 
and welcome David to the Board. 
In February 2016, John was succeeded 
as Chair of the Audit Committee by Colin. 
Building on the improved and streamlined 
compliance and controls environment, Colin 
led the Committee through the second half 
of the year, overseeing the strengthening of 
our Parcel Freight division’s Health & Safety 
Strategy and ongoing Operating Environment 
Upgrade project together with the Board’s 
review of the impact of the UK’s decision to 
leave the European Union following the UK’s 
referendum vote held on 23 June 2016. 
As part of the Board’s responsibility to 
maintain sound risk management, we have 
considered both of these matters within the 
Group’s risk matrix as reflected in our updated 
principal risks section of this report set out 
on pages 12 and 13. The Committee also 
reinforced its commitment to auditor 
independence as explained further in the 
Audit Committee report on page 46 and 
welcomed Anna Marks as the new audit 
partner at Deloitte LLP.
Further, in February 2016, Anthony was 
succeeded as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee by Denise. Following the 
appointment of New Bridge Street as the 
Committee’s advisers on 1 August 2015, 
a remuneration policy review was initiated 
with the aim of simplifying the structure of 
executive remuneration and to ensure its 
alignment with the Group’s long term 
business strategy and direction. Denise 
subsequently led the consultation with 
our major shareholders and investment 
community in respect of the proposed 
changes (outlined further in our Remuneration 
report on pages 50 and 51) which is being 
presented to shareholders at our forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting and will be subject 
to a binding vote.
On joining the Board, both Colin and Denise 
received an extensive and tailored induction 
programme to ensure a smooth transition into 
the business. The refreshing of the Board has 
introduced new competencies, skills and 
experience as well as a more diverse insight 
into our Board discussions. Diversity was one 
of the key considerations in our recruitment 
process and accordingly, we are pleased to 
have achieved our Statement of Ambition to 
increase female non-executive directors to 
25%. We acknowledge however that there is 
further work to be done on diversity in our 
Group Executive and senior management 
population (as disclosed in our Corporate 
Responsibility report on page 32) which we 
will continue to keep addressing. 
With the new composition of the Board 
in place I am pleased to report that this year 
we also undertook an externally evaluated 
review of the Board and its Committees. 
Whilst we are not a FTSE350 company 
we nonetheless remain committed to 
implementing and driving good corporate 
governance practices, with the external board 
evaluation being one of the prime examples 
of our intent. Furthermore, we are pleased 
this review concluded that ours is a highly 
functional Board, peopled with strong-minded 
– but also team-minded – directors combined 
with a healthy balance of restraint and a 
frank questing for new opportunities. I am 
confident that the Board possesses the skills 
needed in its task of promoting the future 
direction and long term interests of the Group.
Good governance principles are evident in 
our corporate culture and expressed through 
our Company Values, which are cascaded 
throughout all levels of our divisions. We are 
committed to strengthening governance 
across our wider business, enabled through 
improved systems and processes including 
our new intranet and policy repository, which 
were introduced for our employees during 
the year. We look forward to maintaining this 
focus for the coming year.
Gary Kennedy
Chairman
I am pleased to present this 
year’s report on the governance 
of our Board. We remain 
committed as a Board to 
implementing and driving good 
corporate governance practices 
throughout our business and 
embedding these principles into 
the culture of our organisation.
2016
Key Board activities 
included
External Board 
evaluation
Non-executive  
director succession, 
recruitment and 
induction
Strengthening 
governance 
and controls 
environment Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
37
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance
Governance framework 
The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is outlined in the diagram below. The Group’s risk management framework 
along with the Group’s principal risks are described in the Strategic report on pages 12 and 13.
Chairman – Gary Kennedy
Responsible for running the Board
As set out in the division of responsibilities  
between Chairman and Chief Executive
Group Board
 
The Board is responsible for the overall strategy and performance of the 
Group and manages the Group through a formal schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision. Such matters include:
 – overall strategic direction and management of the Group, including 
acquisitions and disposals; 
 – approval of long term objectives and commercial strategy; 
 – approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets;
 – approval of major capital expenditure;
 – approval of material agreements;
 – changes relating to the Company’s capital structure; 
 – approval of the accounts;
 – dividend and treasury policies; 
 – control, audit and risk management; 
 – remuneration of directors and senior managers; and 
 – corporate responsibility.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available on our 
website www.connectgroupplc.com
Group Executive 
The Group Executive focuses on the development  
and implementation of strategy, financial and operational performance, 
commercial developments, succession planning 
 and organisational development.
Group Chief Executive – Mark Cashmore
Responsible for managing the Group’s  
businesses and implementing Group strategy
As set out in the division of responsibilities  
between Chairman and Chief Executive
Audit  
Committee
 – promotes 
governance and 
accuracy of 
financial reporting
 – monitors the 
internal and 
external auditors
  Pages 43 to 46 
for report
  Pages 47 and 48  
for report
  Pages 49 to 63 
for report
Nominations 
Committee
 – makes 
recommendations 
to the Board for 
appointments and 
succession 
planning
Remuneration 
Committee
 – determines 
directors’ 
remuneration 
strategy and policy
 – reviews the 
implementation of 
remuneration 
policy
Approvals 
Committee
 – responsible 
for approving 
delegated Board 
matters
Disclosure 
Committee
 – monitors and 
oversees inside 
information 
procedures and 
its disclosure Connect Group PLC
38
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance continued
Board activities
Board meetings
Board meetings are structured to facilitate the fulfilment of the Board’s 
responsibilities; this is achieved by way of an annual agenda planner 
which is reviewed and updated at each Board meeting. In preparation 
for meetings, supporting papers are circulated in a timely manner, with 
a sufficient level of detail and supplementary information for the Board 
to take decisions. The Board receives regular updates on matters such 
as strategy, financial and management reporting, investor relations and 
corporate governance, in addition to ad hoc matters for consideration 
such as acquisitions and material transactions. 
Directors’ attendance 
The following table shows the attendance of directors at Board and 
Committee meetings held during the year.
Scheduled 
Board 
meetings
Additional 
Board 
meetings
1
Committee meetings
Audit Nominations Remuneration
Number of 
meetings 8 3 4 5 6
Gary Kennedy 8 3 4 5 5
Jonathan 
Bunting 8 3
Mark Cashmore 8 3
Nick Gresham
2
8 2
Andrew Brent
3
8 3 4 4 6
Anthony Cann
4
3 0 2 2 2
Colin Child
5
6 3 3 4 4
Denise Collis
5
6 3 3 4 4
John Worby
4
3 0 2 2 2
1 The three additional Board meetings held during the year were held by conference 
call, two of which were in relation to corporate activity and one in relation to the 
resignation of Nick Gresham.
2 Nick Gresham was absent at one Additional Board Meeting where his resignation 
was considered.
3 Andrew Brent was absent at one Nominations Committee meeting where his 
promotion to Senior Independent Director was considered.
4 Anthony Cann and John Worby retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting on 4 February 2016 and attended all Board and Committee 
meeting prior to that date, with the exception of one Additional Board Meeting.
5 Colin Child and Denise Collis were each appointed on 1 December 2015 and 
have attended all Board and Committee meetings since that date. 
Board evaluation, induction and training 
Board evaluation
The Board has a formal process for evaluating both its effectiveness 
and the effectiveness of its Committees and of individual directors 
and, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the ‘2014 
Code’) (albeit not mandatory for ‘smaller companies’), aspires to carry 
out an externally facilitated evaluation every three years. Although the 
last external evaluation was conducted in 2012, it was agreed by the 
Board last year that as 2015 was a transitional year for the role of 
Chairman and in light of the expected retirements of Anthony Cann 
and John Worby, the external evaluation due to take place in 2015 be 
postponed until 2016.
Accordingly, this year an external evaluation of the Board and its 
Committees was conducted by Equitycommunications which took 
place during June and July 2016 and consisted of: a scoping exercise 
with the Chairman and Company Secretary to discuss the extent and 
structure of the evaluation exercise; the development of an agenda for 
circulation to directors ahead of their one-on-one interviews to prompt 
initial thought processes; additional question prompts for the facilitator 
to aid feedback and discussion; and a series of individual director 
interviews conducted with the external facilitator.
A written report summarising and analysing the responses to 
the evaluation exercise, along with suggested action points and 
recommendations, were considered by the Board at its September 
2016 meeting. The evaluation confirmed the conclusion drawn from 
previous evaluations that the Board operates effectively, robustly and 
with mutual respect. There were a number of actions that were 
agreed to ensure that the Board, its Committees and individual 
directors continue to work effectively, including: further improving 
the clarity and succinctness of Board reporting; advanced planning 
for non-executive director succession; and increasing Board exposure 
to the business by re-instating business briefings and informal 
meetings with key management colleagues.
During June and July 2016 the external Board evaluation process 
was supplemented by an internal review of individual directors’ 
performance, conducted by way of an extensive questionnaire. 
One-to-one discussions were subsequently held between the 
Chairman and each director to discuss their contribution and 
performance during the year along with any training needs. A 
meeting of the non-executive directors was led by the Senior 
Independent Director, in which the performance of the Chairman 
was discussed. 
Induction and training
All new directors receive induction training on joining the Board, 
which is tailored to meet the needs of the individual. During the 
year, Colin Child and Denise Collis received a fully tailored induction 
which included a comprehensive induction pack covering pertinent 
information on the Group, an overview of the structure of the Board 
and its Committees and information on the Company’s key policies; 
meetings with the Managing Directors of each division; and informal 
visits to key operational sites without the executives being present.
The directors’ induction programme is supplemented by ongoing 
training and development, the need for which is regularly assessed 
by the Board. In addition to the directors taking advantage of external 
Continuing Professional Development (‘CPD’) opportunities over the 
course of the year, on-going training resources available to the 
directors included:
 – membership of the Deloitte Academy, a training and guidance 
resource for boards and directors;
 – a programme of head office and business visits;
 – separate presentations by business and functional teams;
 – annual reviews with the Chairman to identify any training and 
development needs;
 – advice and regular updates from the Company Secretary on 
governance, regulatory and legislative changes affecting the 
business and/or their duties as a director; and
 – access to independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Board confirms that a formal system for directors to declare 
their interests and for the independent directors to authorise situational 
conflicts continues to be in place. Any authorisations given are 
recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of directors’ 
conflicts which is reviewed annually by the Board. Connect Group PLC
39
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Shareholder engagement
The Board is responsible for and recognises the importance of 
communicating with the Company’s shareholders to ensure that both 
strategy and performance are understood. This is achieved principally 
through the Company’s website, www.connectgroupplc.com, and the 
Annual General Meeting. The website provides investors with a wide 
range of information about the Company, including Annual Reports 
and Accounts, regulatory news releases, share price data and the 
Company’s financial calendar, and incorporates a Shareholder Centre 
containing Annual General Meeting and other useful information.
Following the announcement of the Company’s full year and interim 
results, formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders 
by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer covering a 
range of key issues affecting the Company’s performance. The 
presentations are available to view on the Company’s website at 
www.connectgroupplc.com. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual 
General Meeting, which is normally attended by all of the directors. 
The notice of the Annual General Meeting is given to shareholders at 
least 20 working days before the meeting and includes notice of the 
availability of the Annual Report and Accounts on the Company’s 
website. At the Annual General Meeting, separate resolutions are 
proposed on each separate issue and shareholders vote on each 
resolution by way of a poll (rather than on a show of hands). This 
ensures that the final result is more democratic as the proxy votes 
are added to the votes of shareholders present, who vote all their 
shares (rather than one vote per shareholder). Proxy forms allow 
shareholders to vote for or against, or to withhold their vote on each 
resolution, and the results of the poll are announced to the London 
Stock Exchange and published on the Company’s website.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and 
concerns of major shareholders. The Group Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer update the Board following meetings with 
major shareholders whilst independent feedback from shareholders 
is provided to the Board by the Company’s advisers and brokers. 
Internal control and risk management 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control including risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Such a system is designed to manage or mitigate rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. 
The Group has an established framework of internal controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls. In addition, 
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the principal business risks faced by the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity. This process was in place throughout the year under review 
and up to the date of approval of this report and accords with the 
Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting (the 
‘FRC Guidance’). In light of the risk management process and review 
work undertaken by the Board and the Audit Committee, the Board is 
satisfied that it has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group as required by the 2014 Code. Further details 
of the Group’s risk management framework, along with the Group’s 
principal risks and how they are being monitored are set out in the 
Strategic report on pages 12 and 13.
The system of financial control also includes:
 – a comprehensive system of budgeting and planning together with 
monitoring and reporting the performance of the Group’s 
businesses to the Board. Monthly results are reported against 
budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current financial year 
are regularly revised in the light of actual performance. These 
cover profits, cash flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets;
 – a full appraisal of all major investment projects;
 – key controls over major business risks, including reviews against 
performance indicators and exception reporting; 
 – monthly reporting of treasury activities and risks, for review by 
senior executives; and
 – annual reports covering treasury policy, tax compliance, 
pensions and insurance, each for review by the Board or the 
Audit Committee.
Board
The Board is responsible for the overall strategic direction and 
management of the Group and undertakes an annual review of its 
risk appetite, outputs of which are considered when conducting the 
annual business planning and strategy process. Full details of the 
Board’s responsibilities are set out in the formal schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision, which are summarised on page 37.
The Board has established an organisational structure with clearly 
defined reporting lines and controls at all levels of management 
across the Group, identifying transactions requiring approval by 
the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists 
the Board in the discharge of 
its duties regarding the 
Group’s financial statements, 
accounting policies and the 
maintenance of proper 
systems of risk management 
and internal control.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit team assists in maintaining adequate financial 
controls by reviewing the design and operational effectiveness of 
core financial processes and controls as part of the internal audit 
plan approved by the Audit Committee annually. 
Internal Audit annually discusses the effectiveness of 
internal controls with all senior executives from across the Group 
in order to co-ordinate their formal certifications in respect of the 
effectiveness of those internal controls. These certificates are 
made available to the Audit Committee in order to assist the Board 
with conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of internal 
controls in compliance with the FRC Guidance.
Approvals Committee
The Approvals Committee, 
which comprises the Group 
Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer, and for 
commercial transactions the 
relevant member of the 
executive management, is 
authorised by the Board to 
approve routine matters within 
agreed financial limits.
System of internal control Connect Group PLC
40
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance continued
Additional operational and compliance controls include:
 – key performance indicators to monitor customer service levels 
in each business; 
 – independent customer satisfaction surveys and separate 
employee relations surveys;
 – a corporate responsibility programme which addresses the impact 
of the Company’s activities on the environment, workplace, 
marketplace and community, which includes a Corporate 
Responsibility Committee which is responsible for reviewing 
delivery against corporate responsibility objectives, with annual 
updates provided to the Board;
 – an internal risk committee in each division to assess key risks to 
the operations and financial controls and the mitigating actions to 
address them;
 – regulatory and compliance policies (including an Environmental 
Policy, an Anti-Corruption Policy and an Ethical Trading Policy) 
each of which is reviewed annually by the Board;
 – a Health and Safety Policy, which is reviewed annually by the Board; 
 – Health and Safety Risk Management teams, working with the 
businesses to assess health and safety risks and introduce 
systems to mitigate them. Details of major business incidents are 
reported to the Internal Risk Committees and the Audit 
Committee, and all notified accidents are investigated;
 – reports on health and safety matters including the Reporting of 
Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 
(RIDDOR) provided to the Board on a regular basis;
 – a commitment by the Company to ensure that its personnel meet 
high standards of integrity and competence. The Company’s 
systems cover recruitment, training and development of 
personnel, and the communication of Company policies and 
procedures throughout the organisation;
 – business recovery plans to enable each of the Group’s businesses 
to continue with minimum disruption to customers in the event of 
a disaster event. These plans are assessed as part of the annual 
Key Controls Self-Assessment exercise, conducted across all 
divisions and functions, and reported through to the Risk 
Committees, Group Executive and the Audit Committee. 
Periodically, business continuity planning is reviewed by Internal 
Audit as part of its annual audit planning process;
 – an annual Compliance Statement process for the Group Executive 
and divisional executive teams; 
 – an IT Security Policy to protect the Company, its employees and 
affiliates from illegal or damaging actions by third parties;
 – a Code of Business Conduct which takes into account the 
interests of all stakeholders;
 – a Whistleblowing Policy and associated speak up line whereby 
employees can report in confidence incidences of suspected 
fraud; and 
 – a comprehensive Data Protection Policy setting strict guidelines for 
the use and retention of confidential customer and supplier data.
The Audit Committee has carried out a review of the effectiveness 
of the Company’s systems of risk management and internal control 
during the year, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls. This assessment considered all significant aspects of risk 
management and internal control arising during the period covered by 
this report including the work of Internal Audit. During the course of 
this review, the Audit Committee considered the strengthened control 
environment identified in the most recent reviews and noted that no 
failings or weaknesses had been identified or advised which the 
Committee determined to be significant in the context of the Group 
taken as a whole. 
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 Code, the directors 
have assessed the prospect of the Company over a period of three 
years, which has been selected for the following reasons: 
a) the Group’s strategic planning cycle covers a three-year period; 
b) for major investment projects, three years is considered by the 
Board to be a reasonable time horizon for an assessment of the 
outcome; and
c) the business model can be evolved for significant changes in 
market structure or government policy over a three-year period. 
The three-year plan review considers the Group’s cash flows, dividend 
cover, bank covenant compliance and other key financial ratios over the 
period. These metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis which involves 
flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecast, 
both individually and in unison. Where appropriate, this analysis is 
carried out to evaluate the potential impact of the Group’s principal 
risks actually occurring and assessing the risk, reporting and 
monitoring assumptions. The three-year review also makes certain 
assumptions about the normal level of working capital required and 
considers whether additional financing facilities will be required. 
Based on the results of these analyses, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over both the period to 
November 2017 and the three-year period of their viability assessment.
Fair, balanced and understandable 
During the year, the Board requested the Audit Committee to 
undertake a review of the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
to ensure that, taken as a whole, it provided shareholders with a 
fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy. Following 
recommendation by the Audit Committee and discussion by the 
Board, the directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2016 is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position, performance and prospects. Connect Group PLC
41
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Compliance with the 2014 Code
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts, together with the Audit Committee report on pages 43 to 46, the Nominations Committee 
report on pages 47 to 48 and the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 49 to 63, describes how the Company has applied the main principles 
contained within the 2014 Code.
The Company confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 August 2016, it has complied in full with the 2014 Code. Set out in the following 
table, we provide the cross-referencing to other parts of the Annual Report and Accounts to assist with reviewing our compliance. The 2014 
Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk.
A. Leadership
A.1 – The role of the Board
A description of how the Board operates and an overview of the Matters Reserved for the Board are set out on page 37.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and respective Chair of the Committees are set out on page 34.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year as set out in the Directors attendance table on page 38.
A.2 and A.3 – Division of responsibilities and the role of the Chairman 
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are set out on page 37 and are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
A.4 – Non-executive directors 
Andrew Brent became Senior Independent Director on 4 February 2016 when John Worby stepped down from the Board. 
Both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director make themselves available during the year to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The Chairman held two meetings during the year with the non-executive directors, without the executives being present.
The Senior Independent Director led the review of the Chairman as outlined on page 38.
B. Effectiveness
B.1 – The composition of the Board 
The Board considers all non-executive directors to be independent.
B.2 – Appointments to the Board 
A description of the work of the Nominations Committee is set out on pages 47 and 48 which includes a description of the process for Board 
appointments and the Board’s policy on diversity.
B.3 – Commitment 
The Board is satisfied that the external commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors set out on page 34 do not conflict with 
their duties and commitments to the Company and that any new commitments are disclosed to the Board.
Details of the executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are shown in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 49 to 63 and are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and at our Annual General Meeting.
B.4 and B.5 – Development, information and support 
A description of the process of induction, training and development as well as access to the Company Secretary and independent 
professional advice is set out on page 38.
B.6 – Evaluation
An overview of the Board evaluation process is set out on page 38.
B.7 – Re-election
The Company’s Articles of Association (the ’Articles’) require that directors offer themselves for re-election every three years and that new 
directors appointed by the Board offer themselves for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment. However, 
since 2011 it has been the Board’s practice that all directors stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting, notwithstanding that the 
Company, which is a ‘smaller company’ for the purposes of the 2014 Code, is not formally required to re-elect all directors on an annual basis.
C. Accountability 
C.1 – Financial and business reporting
The Directors’ responsibility statement is set out on page 66.
The fair, balanced and understandable statement is set out on page 40.
The auditor’s responsibility statement is set out on page 67.
The going concern statement is set out on page 27.
C.2 – Risk management and internal control
The assessment of principal risks, how they are being managed or mitigated is described on pages 12 and 13.
The Viability statement is set out on page 40.
An overview of the Company’s risk management and internal control systems is described in full on pages 39 and 40.
C.3 – Audit Committee and auditors
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 43 to 46. Connect Group PLC
42
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance continued
D. Remuneration
D.1 and D.2 – The level of components of remuneration and procedure
A description of the work of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 49 to 63.
E. Relations with Shareholders
E.1 and E.2 – Dialogue with shareholders and constructive use of General Meetings
An overview of engagement with shareholders and the use of General Meetings is included on page 39.
Other key reporting requirements 
The table below sets out compliance with certain key reporting requirements and provides cross-referencing to other parts of the Annual 
Report and Accounts for ease of navigation.
Reporting requirement Location
Description of the Group’s strategy and business model. Strategic report
See pages 6 to 11
Environmental impact, including data on greenhouse gas emissions. Corporate responsibility report
See pages 28 to 33
Employee diversity data and human rights. Corporate responsibility report
See pages 28 to 33
Statement that the directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy.
Corporate governance and Audit Committee report
See pages 40 and 44
Identification of search consultancy used and any connections with the Company. Nominations Committee report 
See pages 47 and 48
Description of the significant issues that the Audit Committee has considered in relation 
to the financial statements and how these issues were addressed, having regard to the 
matters communicated to it by the external audit team.
Audit Committee report
See page 44
Confirmation that the directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company.
Principal risks and Corporate governance 
See pages 12, 13, 39 and 40
Explanation of how the directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over 
the longer term and whether there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Corporate governance and Audit Committee report
See pages 40 and 44
Explanation of how the Audit Committee has monitored the Company’s risk 
management and internal control systems and, at least annually, carried out a review of 
their effectiveness.
Audit Committee report
See page 45
Explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and the approach taken to the appointment or reappointment 
of the external auditor to enable shareholders to understand why it recommended 
reappointing or changing the auditor.
Audit Committee report
See pages 45 and 46
Remuneration policy report, including future policy tables and notes; performance 
scenario charts; and remuneration obligations in service contracts.
Directors’ remuneration report
See pages 52 to 55
Annual report on remuneration, including: single total figure tables; the link between pay 
and performance; directors’ shareholdings and share interests; Group Chief Executive 
pay comparison to Company performance; relative importance of spend on pay; 
remuneration paid to external advisers; and statement of shareholder voting on the 
FY15 Directors’ remuneration report. 
Directors’ remuneration report
See pages 56 to 63
Approval
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Gary Kennedy
Chairman
18 October 2016 Connect Group PLC
43
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Audit Committee report 
Key objectives
To promote effective governance of the Group’s financial accounts 
and reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the 
performance of both the Internal Audit function and the external 
auditor as well as oversight of the Group’s risk management, 
internal control systems (including whistleblowing reporting 
processes), and compliance framework and activities. 
Responsibilities
The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its 
terms of reference, which are available on the Company’s website 
www.connectgroupplc.com and from the Company Secretary on 
request. The terms of reference, which address all matters set 
out in Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the 2014 Code, 
are reviewed annually by the Committee and then referred to the 
Board for approval. 
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are:
 – monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company, including its Annual and Interim Reports, trading 
statements, preliminary and interim results announcements 
and reviewing significant financial reporting issues and 
judgements which they contain;
 – reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and 
advising the Board whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy;
 – keeping under review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal financial controls and internal control and risk 
management systems including monitoring and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit function;
 – considering and making recommendations to the Board as to 
the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external 
auditor and the approval of their remuneration and terms 
of engagement;
 – assessing the external auditor’s independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process;
 – reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services;
 – ensuring the Company maintains suitable arrangements for 
employees, customers, contractors and other external parties 
to raise matters of concern in confidence (whistleblowing); and
 – reviewing the Group’s regulatory compliance framework and the 
systems and controls for the prevention of fraud and bribery.
In addition, the Committee seeks to identify matters in respect of 
which we consider that action or improvement by the Company is 
needed, and appropriate recommendations are made to the Board 
as to the steps which should be taken to preserve and promote 
the integrity of the Company’s internal controls framework.
Colin Child 
Audit Committee Chair
Overview
I am pleased to present this year’s report on the activities of the 
Audit Committee, my first report as Chairman of the Committee 
since I succeeded John Worby in February 2016. I would like to thank 
John for his contribution and leadership of the Committee throughout 
his 9.5-year tenure which has set us in good stead to continue our 
ongoing focus on the Group’s financial reporting, internal control and 
risk management processes.
Membership 
Denise Collis and I joined as members of the Committee on 
1 December 2015. Following their retirement at the conclusion of 
the Annual General Meeting on 4 February 2016, John Worby and 
Anthony Cann stepped down as members of the Committee and 
I succeeded John Worby as Chairman of the Committee.
All the members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
directors, with the exception of Gary Kennedy, who as Chairman of the 
Board is deemed by the 2014 Code not to be regarded as independent. 
However, as the Company is a ‘smaller company’ for the purposes 
of the 2014 Code, the Chairman of the Board is permitted to be a 
member, but not Chair of the Committee provided he was considered 
independent at the date of appointment. In the light of his extensive 
financial experience, the Committee believes that Gary Kennedy’s 
membership is beneficial to the functioning of the Committee and 
that he provides a valuable contribution. 
Given my qualification as a chartered accountant and my extensive 
financial experience including most recently Chief Financial Officer of 
De La Rue plc until July 2015, I am considered by the Board to have 
recent and relevant experience to chair the Committee in accordance 
with the requirements of the 2014 Code. Each of the other members 
of the Committee has extensive business experience.
How the Committee operates
The Committee met four times during the year as part of our 
standard schedule to consider matters planned around the Group’s 
financial calendar. All Committee members, during the time of their 
appointment, were in attendance at each of the meetings and, at the 
invitation of the Committee, representatives of the external auditor, 
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), attended meetings together with the Group 
Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Managing Director Connect 
News & Media, Group Head of Finance, Group Head of Internal Audit 
and the Company Secretary & General Counsel. Other members of 
the Company’s executive management and Group functional teams 
also attended meetings from time to time to present reports specific 
to their areas of responsibility.
The Committee also seeks to meet regularly with both the 
external auditor and separately with the Group Head of Internal Audit 
without others being present. In the year, the Committee met twice 
with representatives from Deloitte without management present and 
held a separate private meeting with the Group Head of Internal Audit. 
The Committee also oversaw the continuing process to replace the 
Group Head of Internal Audit, who left the Group towards the end 
of the financial year. Due to the timing of his departure and the 
close oversight by the Chief Financial Officer, the completion of the 
FY16 Internal Audit work plan was not impacted. The Committee 
has initiated a search for a successor (which is continuing) and 
maintains strong oversight and confidence in the delivery of the 
FY17 Internal Audit work plan under the interim guidance of the 
Chief Financial Officer. Connect Group PLC
44
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Audit Committee Report continued
We believe that the activities of the Committee during the year have 
enabled the non-executive directors to gain a good understanding of 
the Group’s strategic priorities, the risks and challenges faced by 
each business division as well as the adequacy and timeliness of 
appropriate actions being taken to address them. This has assisted the 
Committee in its review of the Annual Report and Accounts, including 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and risk 
management. Further, in carrying out our duties, the Committee has at 
all times acted in accordance with its terms of reference and ensured, 
through ongoing monitoring and review, the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.
Set out over the next pages is a summary of the major activities of 
the Committee in the year. 
Financial reporting
During the year we reviewed reports from the Chief Financial Officer 
and the external auditor on matters of significance in relation to, and the 
content of, the financial statements for the half year to 29 February 2016 
and the full year to 31 August 2016 to ensure that they included the 
necessary information to provide shareholders with a fair and balanced 
assessment of the Company’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy. In undertaking this review, we considered a paper 
prepared by the Chief Financial Officer outlining the work undertaken by 
executive management and the key estimates and judgements made in 
preparing the financial statements. The Committee concluded in its 
recommendation to the Board that it was satisfied that, taken as a 
whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The significant issues and key judgements considered by the 
Committee in relation to the FY16 financial statements included 
the following:
 Matter considered Outcome 
Goodwill accounting and intangibles valuation and 
amortisation 
The Committee considered the carrying value of the Books Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) following a year of underperformance 
against its budget.
The Committee reviewed the sensitivity analysis prepared by 
management to assess whether there had been any impairment in 
the value in use of the Books CGU. The Committee noted that the 
assumptions regarding future performance were reasonable and, 
although the headroom in the year had reduced significantly, the 
value in use remained above carrying value.
Provisions
The treatment of the potential financial implications of the fatality 
at Tuffnells’ Brierley Hill depot.
The Committee reviewed legal advice taken as to whether the 
matter should be disclosed as a contingent liability or whether a 
financial provision should be made for the matter. The Committee 
concluded that a provision should be made for potential fines and 
associated legal costs in relation to this matter. 
Property contracts
Management’s estimation of the exposure to operating 
and contingent leases and the resultant provisions required 
were reviewed.
The Committee reviewed the provisions as at year end and the 
appropriateness of the additions, utilisation and releases made 
in the year. The Committee agreed that the provisions held were 
reasonable and that releases were consistent with the manner in 
which the original provisions had been made.
Taxation
The Committee reviewed the tax charge for the year, including 
credits in relation to prior year and the treatment of historically held 
tax provisions.
The Committee was satisfied that the Group has adequately 
provided for known tax risks (both UK and overseas) and that the tax 
charge for the year was reasonable.
Retirement benefit obligation
The Committee reviewed the assumptions used for the IAS19 
calculation of surplus/deficit and the total IFRIC14 liability recognised 
on the balance sheet for future actuarial deficit contributions.
The Committee satisfied itself that the treatment was reasonable.
Inventories and Trade Receivables
Given the size of balances and potential impact on the Income 
Statement, the Committee reviewed the reasonableness of 
management estimates of carrying value, paying attention 
to slow moving inventory and aged receivables.
The Committee was satisfied that the provisions made for slow 
moving inventory and for doubtful receivables were reasonable.
Exceptional items
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the measure 
of adjusted profits, quality of earnings, and the classification and 
transparency of items separately disclosed as Exceptional items.
The Committee was satisfied that the presentation of Adjusted 
profits provided a reasonable view of the underlying performance of 
the Group and that there was transparent and consistent disclosure 
of the items shown separately as Exceptional items.
Revenue recognition
The Committee reviewed the recognition of revenue across 
the Group.
The Committee satisfied itself that the Group had appropriately 
recognised revenues in accordance with their contractual obligation 
during the period, paying attention to period end cut-off and the 
level of expected customer returns.
Significant issues and key judgements Connect Group PLC
45
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Going Concern and Viability Assessment
The Committee also reviewed a paper prepared by the Chief 
Financial Officer to support the Going Concern and Viability 
Assessment referred to on page 27 and concurred that the profit 
and cash forecasts supported the view that the Group can meet its 
liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future and the three-year 
period of the Viability Assessment.
Internal control and risk management 
The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the 
robustness and effectiveness of the Company’s risk management 
and internal control systems. 
At each meeting, the Committee received updates from Internal Audit 
on the principal risks facing the Group, recommendations for additional 
principal risks arising from the evolving risk environment and mitigating 
actions in place to address them for relevance and appropriateness of 
identified actions. These risks are set out in risk maps, registers and 
various legal and regulatory risk reports. Executives responsible for key 
risk areas across the Group periodically presented to the Committee 
their plans to monitor, control and mitigate these key risks and such 
actions being taken in their respective business area which included 
presentations and discussion on:
 – the Parcel Freight division’s Health & Safety Strategy and ongoing 
Operating Environment Upgrade to improve working conditions 
and the protection of employees and contractors in undertaking 
their duties at the business’ depots, relevant health and safety 
training and the ongoing compliance programme for staff and the 
prioritisation and monitoring of incident reporting;
 – the impact of the UK’s decision to leave the European Union 
following the UK’s referendum vote held on 23 June 2016; 
 – the IT Information Security Improvement Plan which included PCI 
compliance against the payment card industry’s data security 
standards; and
 – common themes arising from the annual Key Controls Self-
Assessment process which has been streamlined by management 
during the year to reflect the improved control environment. 
During the year, we also reviewed progress against the Internal 
Audit work plan approved by the Committee as well as reports 
on individual Internal Audit reviews which has been completed. 
Progress on actions to address control risks highlighted within such 
internal audit reviews was also monitored and the Group Head of 
Internal Audit updated the Committee on the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal controls which, as reported above, the Committee 
concluded had improved in the year as evidenced in the Company’s 
Key Controls Self-Assessment process. The Committee also received 
and reviewed reports on the Company’s legal, taxation, treasury, 
fraud prevention, whistleblowing and insurance activities and related 
policies and procedures for the promotion of the Committee’s goals.
As a result of this work, the Committee reported to the Board that, 
in the context of the Group taken as a whole, it was not aware of 
any significant deficiencies or material weakness in the Company’s 
systems of internal control.
Internal Audit function
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function in the context 
of the Group’s overall risk management system. Until his 
departure, the Group Head of Internal Audit was responsible 
for the overall management of Internal Audit and reporting 
of risk. This responsibility is currently being undertaken by 
the Chief Financial Officer until a successor is appointed.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, in the year the Committee reviewed 
the following matters:
 – the scope, resource and activities of the Internal Audit function 
and the adequacy of audit coverage;
 – Internal Audit’s strategy, work plans (including the depot audit 
programme), status reports against planned activity and business 
incidents reports;
 – a summary of the reports on the results of individual audit 
reviews, key controls self-assessments, significant findings, 
management action plans, and timeliness of resolution; and
 – the performance and structure of the Internal Audit function 
which this year was supported by an internal audit effectiveness 
review undertaken by KPMG LLP, the findings of which concluded 
that the Internal Audit function remains fit for purpose, with clear 
methodologies and processes inbuilt into its audit reviews, 
providing strong assurance to the Group.
Whistleblowing, bribery and fraud
The Group operates a telephone hotline whereby employees 
can report in confidence suspected incidences of fraud, bribery or 
non-compliance with Group policies, practices or breaches of law. All 
such incidences are investigated by Internal Audit and/or management 
and the findings are reported to the respective business’s Internal Risk 
Committee and the Committee on completion of an investigation.
During the year, we reviewed and updated the Whistleblowing Policy 
and received reports on incidences of suspected fraud, bribery or 
other malpractices reported across the Group. Whilst investigations 
into some of these matters are still on-going, none are currently 
considered to be significant. 
External auditor
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is responsible for 
assessing the scope, fee, objectivity and effectiveness of external 
audits and for making a recommendation to the Board regarding the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor on an 
annual basis.
Each member of the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, 
the Head of Group Finance and divisional finance directors 
completed an extensive questionnaire covering matters 
such as:
 – the external auditor’s processes for internal review of 
accounting judgements, including understanding of the 
key issues; 
 – the expertise and technical knowledge within the external 
audit teams to audit effectively the Company; 
 – the scope, delivery and execution of the audit plan; and
 – the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor. 
Findings were reviewed by the Committee in the year 
The Committee concluded that the external audit process had 
been effective 
Areas identified for improvement were also communicated to 
Deloitte for action
Assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external auditor  Connect Group PLC
46
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Audit Committee Report continued
In accordance with Articles 16 and 17 of the EU Audit Regulation, 
the Company is required to complete a competitive tender process 
for the external audit every ten years and mandatorily rotate audit 
firm every 20 years. Following a tender process in 2013, Deloitte 
was reappointed as external auditor. Accordingly, a new tender will 
be required following the conclusion of the FY23 audit and the audit 
firm should at the latest be rotated following the conclusion of the 
FY26 audit. 
In line with professional standards, the Company’s external auditor 
(Deloitte LLP) has a policy of rotating engagement partners every five 
years. As the FY15 audit was the fifth overseen by Alex Butterworth, 
a new partner, Anna Marks was appointed to oversee the FY16 audit. 
The Company has a formal policy on its relationship with the external 
auditor which the Committee reviewed and updated during the year. 
The policy includes financial approval limits for non-audit services 
and restrictions on the nature of work that can be performed (such as 
remuneration advisory services) to ensure that the external auditor’s 
objectivity is not impaired. My prior approval is required if the cost of 
non-audit work is likely to exceed £20,000 per annum or where the 
maximum combined Group spend is likely to exceed 70% of the 
annual audit fee for the financial year. 
The fees paid to Deloitte during the year in respect of non-audit 
services amounted to £5,000. The Committee considered, and was 
satisfied that, it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this work 
and that doing so did not affect their independence. Details of the 
fees paid to Deloitte during the year in respect of audit and non-audit 
services are shown in Note 3 to the Accounts.
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte continue to provide an 
effective audit service and has recommended to the Board that they 
be reappointed. Accordingly, we have recommended to the Board 
that a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be put to shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting.
 
Approval
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its 
behalf by:
Colin Child
Audit Committee Chair
18 October 2016 Connect Group PLC
47
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Nominations Committee report
Key objectives
To lead the process for Board appointments having due regard to 
Board diversity, to ensure orderly succession planning so as to 
maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the 
Board and to maintain a progressive refreshing of the Board.
Responsibilities
The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its 
terms of reference, which are available on the Company’s website, 
www.connectgroupplc.com, and from the Company Secretary on 
request. The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the 
Committee and then referred to the Board for approval. 
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: 
 – reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board 
including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of 
the directors; 
 – ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession planning 
for directors and senior management; and 
 – identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Gary Kennedy
Nominations Committee Chair
Overview
I am pleased to present this year’s report on the activities of the 
Nominations Committee, highlighting what has proven to be an active 
year for the Committee in light of its changing membership and the 
resignation of Nick Gresham (Chief Financial Officer) after six years 
with the Group. I am delighted that we have secured new colleagues 
to join the Board who possess strong business acumen, sound and 
relevant experience and whom I am confident will implement and 
deliver the Group’s strategic objectives, standing us in good stead for 
our next period of growth.
Membership
During the year, Colin Child and Denise Collis joined as members 
of the Committee on 1 December 2015 and following their retirement 
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 4 February 2016, 
John Worby and Anthony Cann each stepped down as members of 
the Committee.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive 
directors, excluding myself as I am deemed by the 2014 Code, 
by virtue of my Chairmanship of the Board, not to be regarded as 
independent. I was however independent on my appointment as 
Chair of the Board and permitted to act as Chair of the Committee.
How the Committee operates
The Committee met five times during the year. All Committee 
members were in attendance at each of the meetings, except for Andy 
Brent who was absent at one meeting where his promotion to the role 
of Senior Independent Director was endorsed. At the invitation of the 
Committee, the Group Chief Executive and Group Human Resources 
Director attended the meetings from time to time.
Set out below is a summary of the major activities of the Committee 
in the year. 
Succession planning
As reported last year, mindful that Anthony Cann and John Worby 
would each have served as directors for nine years in August 2015, 
in 2014 the Committee undertook an evaluation of non-executive 
director succession. In accordance with its usual appointment 
process, having evaluated the composition of the Board and 
its Committees and the required balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity, including gender, it prepared detailed 
role specifications, including the expected time commitment and 
duties to be performed. MWM Consulting (‘MWM’), a leading 
external search agency, was appointed to assist with the search to 
identify suitable candidates with the aim of appointing successors 
by no later than the Annual General Meeting in early 2016.
Accordingly, during the first half of the year the primary focus of the 
Committee was to identify suitable candidates to succeed Anthony 
Cann and John Worby. Following a thorough process, which included 
considering comprehensive profiles prepared by MWM, initial and 
second interviews between shortlisted candidates and each member 
of the Board as well as considering detailed references in respect of 
the shortlisted candidates, the Committee recommended that Colin 
Child and Denise Collis be appointed to the Board. The Board accepted 
the recommendations and accordingly, Colin Child and Denise Collis 
were duly appointed as non-executive directors on 1 December 2015 
and respectively became Audit Committee Chair and Remuneration 
Committee Chair following John Worby and Anthony Cann’s 
retirements at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 
4 February 2016. Connect Group PLC
48
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Nominations Committee report continued
Further information on gender diversity, including the proportions of 
women in senior management and within the organisation overall, is 
contained in the Corporate responsibility report on page 32. 
Approval
This report was approved by the Nominations Committee and signed 
on its behalf by:
Gary Kennedy
Nominations Committee Chair
18 October 2016
1 excluding those Managing Directors who are also  
members of the Group Executive Board.
Female representation
The Committee reviews the 
diversity progress report and 
analytics on an annual basis 
and adopts the approach 
outlined above to facilitate an 
increase in female 
representation on the Group 
Executive and divisional 
executive boards.
Group Executive
News & Media 
Executive Board
1
Education & Care 
Executive Board
1
Parcel Freight 
Executive Board
1
Books Executive 
Board
1 
Executive recruitment
In light of Nick Gresham’s resignation from his role as Chief Financial 
Officer, the Committee reviewed the key attributes, skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity required for the role, and developed and 
agreed a detailed role specification. Following a short tender process, 
Redgrave Partners were selected by the Committee to assist with the 
search to identify suitable candidates.
Following a thorough selection process, which included candidate 
profiling, initial interviews with management, second interviews 
with each member of the Board, formal and informal references, the 
Committee recommended that David Bauernfeind be appointed as 
Chief Financial Officer. The Board approved the recommendation and 
accordingly, David Bauernfeind succeeded Nick Gresham when he 
stepped down from the Board on 1 October 2016.
The Committee confirms that MWM and Redgrave Partners have no 
other connection with the Company, that all selection decisions are 
based on merit and that all recruitment activities are fair and 
non-discriminatory.
Diversity and inclusion
The Committee recognises the benefits of diverse skill 
sets, capabilities, backgrounds and experience to the effective 
functioning of the Board and the achievement of the Group’s 
objectives and longer-term strategy. Accordingly, the Board 
has approved a Statement of Ambition in relation to diversity and 
inclusion in its broadest sense, encompassing gender, experience 
and background. The Statement of Ambition sets out the Group’s 
aspiration to increase female representation, in particular, at manager 
level and above, whilst continuing to ensure that all candidates are 
selected on merit against objective criteria rather than to meet 
specific quotas. 
The Board considers itself diverse in terms of the background, 
skills and experience each director brings to the Board. During 
the year, the Committee achieved its aspiration to increase female 
representation of the non-executive directors on the Board to 25% 
through the appointment of Denise Collis. The Board is and has been 
committed to targeting the recruitment of female Board members 
through executive search partners who are signed up to the Voluntary 
Code of Conduct on gender diversity, developed in response to the 
Davies Report. Accordingly, we encourage our recruitment partners to 
present more balanced candidate recommendations with at least one 
credible and qualified female candidate provided within the shortlist for 
the recruitment processes undertaken during the year.
11%
50%
14%
25%
25%
11%
50%
17%
0%
25%
2016
2016
2016
2016
2016
2015
2015
2015
2015
2015 Connect Group PLC
49
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Shareholder letter from the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
remuneration report for the year to 31 August 2016.
This is my first report as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
since I took on the role in February 2016. I would like to thank my 
predecessor Anthony Cann, who chaired the Committee for over 
nine years, for his contribution and leadership of the Committee 
throughout this time.
Directors’ remuneration policy
In the FY15 Directors’ remuneration report, following receipt 
of shareholder approval for the new long term incentive plan, we 
committed to undertake a review of the Group’s remuneration policy 
in FY16. During the year, the Committee has undertaken this work 
and a new policy is proposed for shareholder approval. We believe 
that the new policy represents a simpler structure for both our 
executives and for shareholders, and has evolved in line with the 
Group’s long term business strategy and direction. A summary of 
the new policy, the key areas of change and our strategic rationale 
for these updates is provided over pages 50 to 51.
The main evolution is to discontinue the Economic Profit Plan (‘EPP’); 
going forwards no further amounts will accrue under this plan and, 
instead, the opportunity will move into the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’), hence reducing the number of “long term” incentive plans 
from two to one. A cash flow performance condition has been added 
to the LTIP alongside Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) targets in line with our 
policy to continue to focus on strong cash generation to support our 
progressive dividend policy and diversification strategy.
We are also proposing an increase in the policy maximum under 
the annual bonus (from 100% to 150% of salary) balanced by a 
reduction in the policy maximum under the LTIP (from 200% to 150% 
of salary) to ensure there is sufficient flexibility within the policy, over 
its three-year life, to continue to support the business strategy. In 
terms of the operation of the policy in FY17, we are not proposing 
any increases to the incentive opportunity. The base salaries for the 
coming year have not yet been determined but it is expected that they 
will be in line with the level of salary increases awarded to employees 
throughout the Group. 
Directors’ remuneration report
Denise Collis
Remuneration Committee Chair
Shareholder support
During the year I have reached out to our largest shareholders and 
the investor community to discuss our proposed remuneration policy. 
The Remuneration Committee is grateful for the feedback that we 
received and for the high levels of support for our remuneration 
practices over recent years.
Performance in FY16
Executive directors’ base salaries were increased by 2% with effect 
from 1 January 2016, in line with salary increases for employees 
throughout the Group.
As a result of achieving Group Adjusted profit before tax for FY16 of 
£60.7m and personal performance, Mark Cashmore’s annual bonus 
is 38.9% of salary and Nick Gresham’s annual bonus is 33.9% of 
salary. As a result of achieving Group Adjusted profit before tax of 
£60.7m and News & Media division Adjusted profit before tax for 
bonus purposes of £41.0m for FY16 and personal performance, 
Jonathan Bunting’s annual bonus is 56.5% of salary. 
As a result of achieving an economic profit of £11.7m for FY16, 
each of the executive directors received an EPP pay-out of 36.0% 
of salary, representing 72% of the maximum opportunity.
The LTIP awards granted in November 2013 were measured for 
the three-year period up to FY16 against challenging aggregate EPS 
targets. As a result of achieving three year aggregate EPS of 61.2p, 
these awards did not vest.
Further details on pay and performance in FY16 are set out on pages 
56 to 63.
Concluding remarks
I hope that you find this to be a clear and thorough report that 
demonstrates the link between the Company’s performance, 
strategy and approach to remuneration. I welcome any feedback and 
to continuing to engage with investors in this important area. I look 
forward to seeing shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 
January 2017 and for a continuation of your support for our pay 
arrangements.
Denise Collis
Remuneration Committee Chair Connect Group PLC
50
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ remuneration policy report
During FY16 we have reviewed our remuneration structure with the aims of:
 – deepening the connection between reward and delivery of the Group’s long term business strategy; 
 – further strengthening the alignment between executives and shareholders; and, 
 – ensuring that the Group can continue to recruit, motivate and retain the high calibre of executives required to drive the business successfully.
A summary of the revised policy is shown below with the full policy set out on pages 52 to 55.
Revised remuneration policy at a glance
Short term performance 
Cash bonus
Profit before tax 
strategic KPIs 
     
Deferred shares
Long term performance
Salary + pension + benefits
LTIP
EPS
Cash-flow
   
Variable pay
Fixed pay
Performance measures
Link to strategy and KPIs
The tables below outline the key changes made to the policy and provide an explanation of how the new policy aligns more closely to the 
Group’s business strategy.
How we have improved the alignment of the policy with business strategy
Salary
Paid monthly
FY17
Summary of policy 
To pay directors salaries which are 
appropriate based on their skills, 
experience and performance together 
with the scope of their role, Company 
performance and market levels of pay.
Changes made to the policy
There were no material changes to the 
salary, benefits or pension policies.
How it aligns with our strategy
Maintaining salaries at appropriate levels 
supports our ability to recruit, motivate 
and retain high calibre executives – 
allowing us to deliver competitive 
advantage through our people. 
Short term performance
Performance measured
Summary of policy 
Rewards the delivery of the annual 
business plan and near term strategy.
A portion is deferred in shares to provide 
alignment with shareholders.
Performance measures are currently profit 
before tax and personal objectives. 
Changes made to the policy
The policy maximum has been increased 
to 150% of salary although the current 
annual award is unchanged at 100% 
of salary.
How it aligns with our strategy
Profit before tax is a core KPI and 
measures the combined effect 
of how we have driven top line 
revenue growth with delivering 
efficiencies and the integration 
of acquisitions. 
Personal objectives are directly linked 
to delivering the strategic plan. 
50% paid in cash following year end, 50% deferred into shares
FY17 FY18 FY19 Connect Group PLC
51
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Long term performance
FY17
Summary of policy 
Rewards the delivery of long term 
business objectives.
Made in shares to provide alignment 
with shareholders.
Performance measures are currently EPS 
and cash-flow. 
Awards delivered in shares, only vest if performance conditions over the 3-year performance period are met
Changes made to the policy
The EPP has been discontinued with 
no further amounts accruing under 
the scheme from FY17 onwards. The 
opportunity will transfer to the LTIP. As 
a result, the annual award has increased 
from 50% of salary to 100% of salary. 
The policy maximum has decreased 
from 200% of salary to 150% of salary.
Cash-flow added as a performance 
condition for the FY17 awards. 
How it aligns with our strategy
Cash-flow aligns with our strategic 
objective to focus on strong cash 
generation which supports our 
progressive dividend policy 
and diversification strategy. 
EPS measures our profitable long 
term growth which creates long term 
shareholder value. 
  
FY18 FY19
How we have improved the policy’s alignment with shareholders
The revised policy has a higher proportion of the executive director incentive pay delivered in shares. This further aligns the long term 
interests of executives with shareholders and supports our policy to create long term shareholder value. 
CURRENT % 
 Cash – 37% Shares – 63%
PROPOSED % 
 Cash – 25% Shares – 75%
a) The figures used in the graph are based on the implied FY17 award opportunities under the incentive plans and excludes salary and benefits. 
b) The former EPP scheme delivered an award opportunity of 50% of salary, 50% of which was deferred into shares for two years. By contrast, with the EPP no longer 
applied for future remuneration, the additional 50% of salary that has been incorporated into the LTIP is delivered 100% in shares that vest over the normal longer-term 
vesting period. Connect Group PLC
52
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Introduction
This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006 and on the basis prescribed in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013. Where required, data has been audited by Deloitte LLP and is indicated accordingly.
Remuneration policy report
The following section sets out the Company’s proposed policy on remuneration for executive and non-executive directors. Shareholders 
will be asked to approve the policy at the Annual General Meeting on 26 January 2017. If the resolution to approve the updated policy is 
passed, the directors’ remuneration policy will take effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will apply until replaced 
by a new or amended policy. If the resolution is not passed, the Company will continue to make payments to directors in accordance with 
its existing arrangements until a revised policy is approved.
The aim of the policy remains to facilitate delivery of the Group’s long term strategy through attracting, retaining and motivating high calibre 
directors with the necessary skills and experience. In forming the policy the Committee has adopted the principles set out in Section D of the 
2014 Code (compliance with the 2014 Code is explained further in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 41 to 42).
Executive directors
The table below sets out the Company’s remuneration policy for executive directors.
Element Purpose Operation Maximum Performance conditions
Base salary To provide fixed 
remuneration which 
is sufficient to recruit 
and retain individuals 
of the necessary 
calibre.
Salaries are set by the Committee taking into 
account:
 – the skills and experience of the individual;
 – the size and scope of the role;
 – market data for similar roles in comparable 
companies; and
 – performance of the individual and the 
business.
Typically, salaries are reviewed annually, with any 
changes effective from 1 January each year.
There is no prescribed maximum 
salary. Salary increases will normally 
be in line with salary increases for 
employees throughout the Group.
Larger increases may be awarded 
where the Committee considers it 
appropriate to reflect, for example:
 – significant changes in the size 
and/or complexity of the Group 
and/or of the role; or
 – individuals being moved to 
market positioning over time.
None
Benefits Executive directors are eligible to receive 
benefits which may include a company car (or 
cash equivalent), private medical insurance and 
permanent health insurance.
Where relevant, other benefits to reflect 
specific individual circumstances, such 
as housing, relocation, travel or expatriate 
allowances may also be provided.
Executive directors may participate in the 
Company’s all employee share plans on the 
same basis as other employees.
There is no prescribed maximum 
monetary value of benefits.
Benefit provision is set at a level 
which the Committee considers to 
be appropriate for the nature and 
location of the role.
Participation in all-employee share 
plans is subject to statutory limits.
None
Pension Executive directors may participate in the 
Group’s defined contribution pension plan, 
receive a salary supplement or a combination 
of the two.
Under the terms of the Group’s defined 
contribution pension schemes, executive 
directors may also receive death in service 
benefit.
Subject to the director making the 
minimum employee contribution 
(currently 5% of salary -unless an 
employee has reached either their 
life-time or annual allowance) the 
maximum aggregate employer 
contribution/salary supplement is 
20% of salary.
None
Annual 
bonus
To incentivise the 
delivery of the annual 
plan.
Pay-out levels are determined by the 
Committee after year end based on 
performance against targets set at the start 
of the financial year. The Committee retains 
discretion to adjust bonus payments in the 
event that performance against targets does 
not properly reflect the underlying performance 
of the Group and/or relevant business divisions.
Half of the bonus is deferred into shares for two 
years, subject to continued employment under 
the terms of the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP).
In future years, the Committee retains 
discretion to change the deferred amount and/
or the deferral period.
Clawback and dividend equivalent provisions 
apply (see notes over page).
The maximum award in respect of 
a financial year is 150% of salary.
The current level of award is 100% 
of salary as described on page 62 
of this report.
Annual measures and targets 
will be set by the Committee at 
the start of the financial year.
The majority of the bonus 
will be based on financial 
performance.
For individuals with 
responsibility for a specific 
business unit, performance 
measures and targets specific 
to the performance of that 
business unit may be included.
The performance measures for 
FY17 are set out on page 62 of 
this report. Connect Group PLC
53
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Element Purpose Operation Maximum Performance conditions
LTIP To incentivise the 
delivery of long term 
shareholder value.
When granting an award the Committee will 
determine the face value of the award and the 
performance conditions and targets attached to it.
Awards are made in the form of nil-cost 
options, the vesting of which is conditional on 
the achievement of performance targets (as 
determined by the Committee).
Clawback and dividend equivalent provisions 
apply (see the notes below).
The maximum award in respect of 
a financial year is 150% of salary.
The current level of award is 100% 
of salary as described on page 62 
of this report
Vesting is based on the 
achievement of financial 
performance targets over a 
period of at least three years. 
For FY17 awards, the measures 
will be earnings per share (EPS) 
and cash flow.
For achievement of threshold 
performance target, a maximum 
of 20% of the award will vest.
a) Participation in incentive plans is at the discretion of the Committee.
b) The Committee may at any time amend the rules of the 2016 Connect Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan (subject to shareholders’ approval if the proposed 
amendments are to the advantage of existing or new participants) or terminate the plan. 
c) Legacy and mandated payments – the Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising any 
discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above (i) where the terms of the payment 
were agreed before the policy came into effect or (ii) where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in contemplation of the individual becoming a director of the Company or (iii) where the Company 
is mandated to make the payment as a result of an award issued by a competent court, tribunal or authority. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the Committee 
satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
d) Dividend equivalents on share awards – the Committee may determine that participants be entitled to receive an amount equal to the value of dividends paid during 
the deferral/vesting period, paid retrospectively at the end of the period, either in cash or shares, but only in respect of the number of shares that vest.
e) Clawback – the Company operates clawback and malus provisions across all of its incentive plans (annual bonus and LTIP). The Committee reserves the right to take 
such action as it reasonably considers appropriate to put the Company and participants in the same overall financial position as they would have been had certain 
circumstances (described below) not occurred. This includes a reduction or cancellation of unvested share awards and/or a reimbursement to the Company of part or 
all of any cash or share payments received if those circumstances occur within two years of payment. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: (i) discovery 
of a material misstatement of the Company’s audited results on the basis of which the payment was or would be determined; or (ii) serious reputational damage of the 
Company, any member of the Group or the relevant business unit as a result of the participant’s misconduct; or (iii) gross misconduct by the participant; or (iv) any other 
similar circumstance or event which has a serious adverse effect on the Company, any member of the Group or the relevant business unit.
f) Payments will continue to be made under the EPP (as set out in the 2013 Directors’ Policy Report) although no further amounts will be accrued under the scheme. 
Accrued amounts will be payable in two annual tranches (subject to no malus circumstances arising in the reporting period) with a long stop date of 31 December 2020. 
Application of the remuneration policy
The charts below illustrate the FY17 executive directors’ remuneration packages at different levels of performance. Each element (as a 
percentage of total remuneration) and the total values have been set out:
Minimum
300,000
0
600,000
900,000
1,200,000
1,500,000
Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum
David Bauernfeind Jonathan Bunting Mark Cashmore
100%
58.0% 39.0%
100%
58.9% 39.9%
19.3%
22.7%
£962,874
30.5%
30.5%
£1,432,615
18.9%
22.2%
£697,549
30.1%
30%
£1,030,799
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP
£558,679
£410,799
100% 58.4% 39.4%
19.1%
22.5%
£647,924
30.3%
30.3%
£961,084
£378,460
Notes
(a) Fixed pay comprises base salary, benefits and pension benefits. 
(b) The base salary is at 18 October 2016.
(c) For Jonathan Bunting and Mark Cashmore, the value of benefits receivable under these scenarios is taken to be the value of benefits received in FY16. For David 
Bauernfeind, the value of benefits receivable under these scenarios is calculated as a projection of the benefits to be paid in FY17, which includes the relocation 
allowance.
(d) The value of pension benefits under these scenarios is 20% of salary. 
(e) The on-target level of annual bonus is 42.5% of the maximum opportunity (100% of salary for all executive directors).
(f) The on-target level of vesting under the LTIP is 50% of value of the award at grant (100% of salary for all executive directors).
(g) The maximum value of the LTIP is 100% of the value of the award at grant and does not include any share price appreciation or expected dividend equivalents.
(h) Salary and annual bonus values for David Bauernfeind have been annualised.  Connect Group PLC
54
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Approach to recruitment remuneration
On appointment of a new executive director, the Committee would seek to offer a remuneration package which can secure an individual 
with the necessary skills while seeking to pay no more than it believes is necessary to facilitate the appointment. Any remuneration package 
would be in line with the parameters set out in the Directors’ remuneration policy table. 
Where an individual forfeits outstanding incentive awards with a previous employer as a result of accepting the appointment within the 
Group, the Committee may offer compensatory awards to facilitate recruitment. These awards would be in such form as the Committee 
considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors including the form, expected value, performance conditions, anticipated vesting 
and timing of the forfeited awards. The expected value of any compensatory awards would be no higher than the value forfeited. While cash 
may be included to reflect the forfeiture of cash-based incentive awards, the Committee does not envisage that ‘golden hello’ cash payments 
would be offered.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Company’s existing share and incentive plans. 
If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as currently permitted under the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules, but in 
accordance with the principles set out in this section.
Contracts of service 
It is the Company’s policy to enter into contracts of employment with executive directors which may be terminated at any time by the 
Company upon twelve months’ notice and upon nine months’ notice by the executive director. The contracts of employment do not include 
any provisions for predetermined compensation for early termination. 
The Committee may terminate the contract immediately by making a payment in lieu of notice consisting of base salary only for the unexpired 
period of notice. In normal circumstances, such a payment would be made in monthly instalments over the period, subject to a duty to 
mitigate, and will be reduced by the amount in respect of income receivable from alternative employment.
Loss of office policy
In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the 
terms of the service contract as well as the rules of any incentive plans. Incentives will normally be treated in the following way, although the 
Committee retains the discretion to vary the treatment of awards where it feels it is appropriate to do so:
Annual Bonus Unless the Committee determines otherwise, executives will not participate in the Annual 
Bonus if they are under notice.
If the Committee determines that the executive should be eligible to receive an annual bonus 
award, the maximum opportunity will normally be reduced to reflect the portion of the year 
they were employed.
Any payment would remain subject to performance and will typically be paid following the 
normal year-end assessment process.
Deferred Bonus Plan (deferred annual 
bonus and EPP
2
 awards)
If the Committee determines that an executive is a “good leaver
1
” the deferred shares 
will normally be retained in full by the executive. If an executive leaves the Group for any 
other reason, the extent to which the shares vest will be determined at the discretion of 
the Committee.
LTIP If the Committee determine that an executive is a “good leaver
1
” LTIP awards will normally 
be reduced to reflect the portion of the performance period that has elapsed on the date 
that employment ceases, and typically be subject to the original performance conditions. 
Treatment of these awards and timing of vesting of any pro-rated shares will be in-line with 
best practice, as dictated by the Plan Rules, as approved by shareholders during 2015. 
If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason outstanding awards will normally lapse.
1. Good leaver reasons are if an executive leaves the Group due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement by agreement with the Company, the employing 
entity no longer being part of the Group, or any other reason as determined by the Committee.
2. Any future unpaid awards under the EPP will be forfeited in the event of cessation of employment.
The Committee retains discretion to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal 
obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with 
the termination of a director’s office or employment. The details and rationale for any such payments would be disclosed in the following annual 
report on remuneration.
External non-executive director appointments
It is the Company’s policy to allow each executive director to accept one non-executive directorship of a publicly quoted company provided 
that it is not a chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company and it does not conflict with the interests of the Company. Executive directors may retain 
the fee for such an appointment.  Connect Group PLC
55
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Consideration of pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for employees throughout the Group when determining the annual salary 
increases. In addition, the Group/divisional performance targets used in the executive bonus plan are cascaded into broader-based annual 
bonus arrangements for all eligible employees to ensure alignment across the bonus plans and participating populations.
Employees have not been directly consulted on the design of the Company’s senior executive remuneration policy.
Consideration of shareholder views
The views of shareholders are very important to the Committee and feedback received from shareholders following publication of the Annual 
Report and at the Annual General Meeting is welcomed. It is the Committee’s policy to consult with major shareholders and investor 
representative bodies before proposing any material changes to the remuneration policy.
Non-executive directors
The table below sets out the Company’s remuneration policy for non-executive directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Chairman’s and non-executive 
directors’ basic fees
To attract and retain high calibre 
individuals to serve as non-
executive directors.
Fee levels are set to reflect the 
time commitment, demands and 
responsibility of the role, taking 
into account fees paid by similarly 
sized companies.
The Chairman’s fee is determined 
by the Committee and the non-
executive directors’ fees are 
determined by the Chairman and 
executive directors. 
Fees are reviewed from time to 
time to ensure that they remain in 
line with market practice.
Fees are paid in equal monthly 
instalments.
The Chairman’s fee includes his 
chairmanship of the Nominations 
Committee.
The maximum aggregate fee 
for non-executive directors, 
including the Chairman, is 
£500,000 per annum, as set 
out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association.
Additional fees To provide compensation to 
non-executive directors taking 
on additional Committee 
responsibility.
Non-executive directors 
(other than the Chairman) 
are paid an additional fee for 
their chairmanship of a Board 
Committee.
Benefits To facilitate the execution of 
the role.
The Company reimburses 
reasonable travel and 
subsistence costs.
The Chairman and non-executive directors do not participate in any pension or incentive plans.
Recruitment policy
The remuneration package for a newly appointed non-executive director would be in line with the policy outlined above.
Letters of appointment
All non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have a letter of appointment for an initial three-year term, subject to review thereafter; 
these are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting. 
Appointments may be terminated by either party giving three months’ notice. In line with the Company’s aspiration to comply with the 2014 
Code requirements for FTSE350 companies notwithstanding that it is a ‘Small Cap’ company only, all non-executive directors are subject to 
annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Connect Group PLC
56
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration
Total remuneration in FY16 was based on the following elements:
Salary
Pension 
& benefits
Annual bonus 
(cash & shares)
EPP 
(cash & shares)
LTIP vesting Single figure
Based on performance in the year, the following payments were made:
Mark Cashmore Nick Gresham
£462,201
Jonathan Bunting
£645,686
£882,324
£52,503
£70,985
£49,305
£86,768
£289,408
£164,504
£105,006
£120,942
£169,762
£157,508
£434,112
£289,408
 Salary Pensions & beneﬁts Annual bonus EPP LTIP vesting
200,000
0
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
Executive
Salary
£
Pension & 
benefits
£
Annual bonus
£
EPP
£
LTIP 
vesting
£
Single 
figure
£
Jonathan Bunting 289,408 86,768 164,504 105,006 0 645,686
Mark Cashmore 434,112 120,942 169,762 157,508 0 882,324
Nick Gresham 289,408 70,985 49,305 52,503 0 462,201
These were calculated in the following way:
Salary
The numbers shown are the total amounts paid to directors during the financial year. As salary increases are effective during the year 
(1 January) the numbers represent 4 months of the director’s previous salary and 8 months at the increased salary:
Executive
Salary from 
1 September 2015 – 
31 December 
2015
£
Salary from 
1 January 2016 – 
31 August 
2016
£
Total salary paid
 in the year
£
Jonathan Bunting 285,600 291,312 289,408
Mark Cashmore 428,400 436,968 434,112
Nick Gresham 285,600 291,312 289,408
Pension and benefits
Executives receive pension benefits equivalent to 20% of their base salary. In FY16 they also received a car or cash allowance, private 
medical insurance and were eligible to participate in the Save As You Earn (SAYE). Connect Group PLC
57
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Annual bonus
The annual bonus opportunity in FY16 was 100% of salary payable if targets on Group PBT, divisional PBT and personal objectives were met. 
50% of the total pay-out is then deferred into shares for two years. Nick Gresham tendered his resignation during the year and is serving his 
notice period in full (this extends beyond the end of FY16). The Committee has determined that he will receive the cash part of his award 
(50% of the total) and will forfeit the remainder:
Executive
Salary 
£
Achievement 
against targets 
(% of bonus)
Bonus 
£
Cash 
payment 
£ 
Deferred 
shares 
£
Jonathan Bunting 291,312 56.5% 164,504 82,252 82,252
Mark Cashmore 436,968 38.9% 169,762 84,881 84,881
Nick Gresham 291,312 33.9% 98,609 49,305 0
 Page 58 for further details
Economic Profit Plan (EPP)
The maximum opportunity under the EPP is 50% of salary. Economic Profit in FY16, combined with the balance of the Economic Profit Pool, 
resulted in pay-outs of 36% of salary for the executive directors. 50% of the total pay-out is then deferred into shares for two years. Nick Gresham 
tendered his resignation during the year and is serving his notice period in full (this extends beyond the end of FY16). The Committee has 
determined that he will receive the cash part of his award (50% of the total) and will forfeit the remainder:
Executive
Salary 
£
EPP payment 
(36% of 
salary)
£
Cash 
payment
£
Deferred 
shares
£
Jonathan Bunting 291,312 105,006 52,503 52,503
Mark Cashmore 436,968 157,508 78,754 78,754
Nick Gresham 291,312 105,006 52,503 0
 Page 59 for further details
LTIP vesting
In 2013, we granted awards of nil-cost options to our executives which would only vest if the performance condition (EPS targets) were met. 
These targets have not been achieved and therefore these options lapsed. 
 Page 59 for further details
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
Remuneration Committee
Denise Collis and Colin Child joined the Committee on 1 December 2015. Following their retirement at the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting on 4 February 2016, Anthony Cann and John Worby each stepped down as members of the Committee and Denise Collis 
succeeded Anthony Cann as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 
Gary Kennedy is non-executive chairman and was deemed independent on appointment. All other members of the Committee were 
non-executive directors.
Meetings 
attended 
Possible 
meetings
Andrew Brent 6 6
Anthony Cann 2 2
Colin Child 4 4
Denise Collis 4 4
Gary Kennedy 5 6
John Worby 2 2
The Committee’s terms of reference, which are available on the Company’s website www.connectgroupplc.com and from the Company 
Secretary on request, set out the responsibilities of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee was supported in its work by its appointed external advisers, New Bridge Street. Fees paid to New Bridge 
Street were £100,635. The Committee is satisfied that the advice received has been objective and independent. 
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Mark Cashmore (Group Chief Executive), Sarah Miles (Group Human Resources Director) and Stuart Marriner (Company Secretary & General 
Counsel) also attended Committee meetings but were not present when their own remuneration was discussed. Connect Group PLC
58
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Shareholder vote
At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, shareholders were asked to vote on the FY15 Directors’ remuneration report. The votes received were:
Resolution Votes for
Percentage 
of votes 
cast in favour Votes against
Percentage 
of votes 
cast against
Total 
votes 
cast
Votes 
withheld
To approve the Directors’ remuneration report 172,516,695 98.56% 2,514,453 1.44% 175,031,148 1,313,629
Nick Gresham 2016 remuneration and leaving arrangements
In January 2016, Nick Gresham (Chief Financial Officer) decided to step down from his role and the Board to pursue new opportunities. Nick was 
required to work his full notice period and, with his agreement, this was subsequently extended in May 2016 (in preparation for the appointment 
of a successor) until 31 December 2016, to ensure full coverage of the FY16 year-end accounting process and a smooth handover.
The Committee used its discretion to determine that Nick would be eligible for the cash portion of his annual bonus and EPP award for FY16. 
He will not receive the deferred element of either award, effectively reducing the annual opportunity by 50%. He will not be eligible for any 
variable pay for FY17. The Committee has also exercised its discretion to afford good leaver status to any deferred awards or LTIP grants that 
will vest before 31 December 2016. Any deferred awards or LTIP grants which were due to vest after Nick has left the Group will lapse. 
Performance during the year (audited)
Fixed pay
Salaries were increased by 2% with effect from 1 January 2016. The revised salaries were £291,312 for Jonathan Bunting, £436,968 for 
Mark Cashmore and £291,312 for Nick Gresham. Executives received pension benefits of 20% of salary and other benefits included a car or 
cash allowance and private medical insurance.
Annual bonus
In FY16, each executive had a maximum opportunity under the annual bonus of 100% of salary. As set out above, as Nick Gresham resigned 
during the year, the Committee determined that he was only eligible for the cash element of his bonus, effectively reducing his opportunity to 
50% of salary. Performance measures and actual performance for the FY16 bonus were as follows:
Weighting (at maximum) Targets (£m)
Measure Bunting Cashmore Gresham Threshold Target Max
Actual result 
(£m)
Group PBT 20% 70% 70% 59.1 61.7 64.3 60.7
News & Media PBT 50% – – 38.6 40.2 41.8 41.0
Individual objectives 30% 30% 30% Good 
(10% of max. 
bonus)
High 
(20% of max. 
bonus)
Outstanding 
(30% of max. 
bonus)
–
1. Threshold performance results in no pay-out under the Group PBT and News & Media PBT elements and 33% of the maximum for that element for achievement against 
personal objectives (being 10 of the 30% opportunity).
2. Target performance results in 32.1% of the maximum pay-out under the combined Group PBT and News & Media PBT elements (being 22.5 of the 70% opportunity) 
and 67% of maximum for achievement against personal objectives (being 20 of the 30% opportunity).
Bonus payable for the achievement of individual objectives 
For the financial year under review the executive directors were each given a number of objectives against which the individual element of the 
annual bonus was assessed. For Mark Cashmore and Nick Gresham these included oversight of investment into the Group’s key organic growth 
drivers of E-Commerce in Education & Care, Wordery, Pass My Parcel and Jack’s Beans, the successful integration of Tuffnells into the Group 
and initiatives designed to leverage the Group which are key strategic objectives for the Company as highlighted in the Strategic Report set out 
on pages 8 to 11. Taking account of the successes during the year, including the percentage of orders placed online now at 35% in Education & 
Care (25% last year), growth in Wordery sales of 26%, the successful integration of Tuffnells into the Group which is now complete and the 
success of initiatives to leverage the Group (in particular Tuffnells support for Pass My Parcel in 11 locations and Smiths News supporting 
Tuffnells with last mile delivery in 3 locations), the Committee determined that a bonus of 25% of salary for Mark Cashmore and 20% of salary 
for Nick Gresham should be payable out of the maximum 30% opportunity for individual objectives. For Jonathan Bunting objectives included 
the ongoing execution of a diversification strategy and the continued successful delivery of the cost out programme, which are key strategic 
objectives for the News & Media division. Taking account of the overall strong year with sales comfortably within strategic forecasts, successful 
finalisation of publisher contracts which secures 94% of publisher revenues at today’s values until 2019, the continued development of Pass My 
Parcel including the successful launch of ASOS and Amazon returns, customer Net Promoter Score performance in the upper quartile and 
national coverage using the support of the Tuffnells network, the continued rollout of Jack’s Beans to over 400 outlets and the delivery of £5m 
of sustainable savings, the Committee determined that a bonus of 20% of salary should be payable out of the maximum 30% opportunity.
Performance against targets resulted in FY16 payments of £164,504 for Jonathan Bunting (50% cash, 50% deferred shares), £169,762 
for Mark Cashmore (50% cash, 50% deferred shares) and £98,609 for Nick Gresham (50% of which will be paid in cash, 50% forfeited). 
The deferred shares will vest two years after grant, subject to continued employment. Connect Group PLC
59
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
EPP
In FY16, each executive had an initial opportunity under the EPP of 50% of salary. As set out above, Nick Gresham resigned during the year 
and the Committee determined that he was only eligible for the cash element of the EPP, effectively reducing his opportunity to 25% of salary. 
The table below sets out the target range and payments into the Pool at minimum, target and maximum levels of economic profit for FY16:
Economic profit1 Payment into Pool1 Value of contribution
£10.6m 7.5% of economic profit £795,000
£12.5m 10% of economic profit £1,250,000
£14.5m 12.5% of economic profit £1,812,500
1. Payments into Pool are calculated on a straight-line basis between the points above.
For FY16, the economic profit was £11.7m. This resulted in a contribution to the Pool of 8.9% of economic profit (£1,050m) bringing the total 
value of the Pool to £2,019m. One-third of the Pool will be distributed in FY16.
The FY16 payments will be £105,006 for Jonathan Bunting (50% cash, 50% deferred shares), £157,508 for Mark Cashmore (50% cash, 
50% deferred shares) and £52,503 for Nick Gresham (100% in cash). The deferred shares will vest two years after grant, subject to 
continued employment.
As discussed in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter and policy section, FY16 is the last year during which the EPP will accrue funds. 
Up to £1,346m, the balance of the Pool which has been earned based on past performance will be distributed over the next two years subject to 
the Company maintaining a threshold level of profitability. The Scheme will be closed to new entrants and any awards forfeited, for example by 
way of a bad leaver, will not be redistributed. Awards will be structured in the same way as other awards under the EPP with 50% paid in cash 
and 50% deferred for two years. The last deferred payment under the EPP will be released in December 2020 (subject to no malus 
circumstances arising in the reporting period).
Long term incentive
LTIP awards were granted to the executive directors in November 2013 and were subject to the achievement of three-year aggregate 
EPS targets (as defined by IAS 33, before non-recurring items and their associated tax impact, adjusted by the Committee as considered 
appropriate to ensure consistency). Target performance (20% vesting) was aggregate EPS of 66.3p increasing on a straight-line to 100% 
vesting for 74.7p. 
Actual aggregate EPS over the performance period was determined as 61.2p. This meant that the awards lapsed and no payments were made. 
Single figure table (audited)
The payments set out above resulted in the following total remuneration for executives in respect of FY16:
Executive Year
Salary
 £000
Benefits
(a)
 
£000
Annual 
bonus
(b)
 
£000
Economic 
Profit Plan
(c)
 
£000
LTIP 
(d)
 
£000
Pension 
benefits
(e)
 
£000
Total 
£000
Jonathan Bunting FY16 289 29 165 105 0 58 646
FY15 284 25 194 88 92 56 739
Mark Cashmore FY16 434 34 169 158 0 87 882
FY15 426 27 305 132 121 84 1,095
Nick Gresham FY16 289 13 49 53 0 58 462
FY15 284 14 203 88 87 56 732
Notes
(a) Benefits include the taxable value of a company car or car cash allowance, private medical insurance and the intrinsic value of Sharesave options granted during the year.
(b) Half of any award will be deferred into Company shares for a period of two years. Further details of the FY16 Annual Bonus Plan are shown on page 58.
(c) Half of any award will be deferred into Company shares for a period of two years. Further details of the FY16 EPP are shown above.
(d) The awards reported in FY16 were granted on 14 November 2013, the performance conditions of which were not achieved and therefore the options lapsed in full. 
(e) Pension benefits comprise total pension supplement, whether taken as an addition to basic pay or pension contribution, and Company pension contribution. 
(f) No dividend equivalent payments were payable in respect of FY16.
(g) All of the executive directors served throughout the year.  Connect Group PLC
60
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance against the FTSE Support Services Sector over the 
past seven years. The FTSE Support Services Sector was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is 
a constituent. The table below the graph sets out the remuneration data for the Group Chief Executive during each of the last seven financial 
years (Mark Cashmore held this position for all seven years).
Aug 10 Aug 11 Aug 09 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 16 Aug 12
100
150
200
250
300
 Connect Group FTSE All Share Support Services
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (REBASED)
 
FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16
Group Chief Executive total remuneration (£’000) 846 862 1,079 1,311 970 1,095 882
Annual bonus payment (% maximum) 100.0% 59.9% 83.1% 67.1% 12.5% 71.3% 38.9%
EPP pay-out (% maximum) 84.1% 79.2% 89.4% 86.8% 55.1% 61.5% 72.0%
LTIP vesting (% maximum) 0.0% 78.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 63.5% 0.0%
Percentage change in Group Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and annual bonus between FY15 and FY16, 
compared to that of all UK- based employees. This group has been chosen as the majority of our workforce is UK-based.
% change FY15 – FY16
Base salary Benefits Annual bonus
Group Chief Executive 2.0 13.9 -44.6
UK employees
1
5.9 8.7 4.4
1 The base salary increase for UK employees includes the impact of both the National Living Wage and the National Minimum Wage. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the Company’s expenditure on pay in comparison to profit before tax, corporation tax paid and distributions to 
shareholders by way of dividend payments.
FY15 
£m
FY16 
£m % change
Total employee pay
1
 136.5 153.7 12.6%
Adjusted Group profit before tax 56.5 60.7 7.4%
Income tax paid 8.7 8.5 -2.3%
Dividends paid 21.4 22.7 6.1%
1 The increase in total employee pay includes the impact of the acquisition of Tuffnells and the increases in both the National Living Wage and the National Minimum Wage. 
The figures above are as set out in the Group income statement on page 71 and on pages 84 and 89 in the Notes to the Accounts. Total 
employee pay is the total pay for all Group employees. Adjusted Group profit before tax has been used as a comparison as this is the key 
financial metric which the Board considers when assessing Company performance. Connect Group PLC
61
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Share plans – grants in the year
LTIP awards granted in FY16 (audited)
On 12 November 2015, executive directors were granted the LTIP awards of 50% of salary: 
Executive
Share price at 
date of grant (p)
1
Number of 
nil-cost options 
subject to award
Face value of 
award
Percentage of awards 
released for achieving
threshold targets
2
End of 
performance 
period
Jonathan Bunting 167.67p 85,167 £142,800 20% FY18 
Mark Cashmore 167.67p 127,751 £214,200 20% FY18
Nick Gresham 167.67p 85,167 £214,200 20% FY18
1. Based on the average closing price for the three dealing days prior to the date of grant, used to calculate the numbers of shares under award.
2. 100% for hitting maximum targets.
Awards are subject to aggregate EPS (as defined by IAS 33, before exceptional or non-recurring items and their associated tax impact, 
adjusted by the Committee as considered appropriate to ensure consistency).
Aggregate EPS of 60p will result in threshold vesting (20%) increasing to full vesting for aggregate EPS of 68p. 
DBP awards granted in FY16 (audited)
On 12 November 2015, executive directors were granted DBP awards for the deferred shares element of the annual bonus and EPP schemes:
Executive
Share price at 
date of grant (p)
1
Number of 
nil-cost options 
subject to award
Face value of 
award
Jonathan Bunting 167.67p 83,937 £140,737
Mark Cashmore 167.67p 130,282 £218,443
Nick Gresham 167.67p 86,854 £145,628
1. Based on the average closing price for the three dealing days prior to the date of grant, used to calculate the numbers of shares under award.
There are no further performance conditions attached to the DBP awards, which are exercisable subject only to continued employment.
Sharesave Scheme awards granted in FY16 (audited)
On 22 June 2016, Mark Cashmore was granted 5,598 shares at an option price of 128.60p per share (the face value of the award was £7,199).
The maximum amount which could be saved in FY16 was £500 per month, the total savings at the end of the term being used to purchase 
shares at 80% of their market value at the start of the savings contract. In common with most schemes of this type, there are no 
performance conditions applicable to options granted under the Sharesave Scheme.
Employee Benefit Trust
The Company’s Employee Benefit Trust is used to facilitate the acquisition of ordinary shares in the Company for the purpose of satisfying 
awards and options granted under the Company’s executive share schemes. The Trust is a discretionary trust, the sole beneficiaries being 
employees (including executive directors) and former employees of the Company. The Trust waives its right to vote and to dividends on the 
shares that it holds.
The Trustee is Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited, an independent professional trustee company based in Jersey.
The number of shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust at 31 August 2016 was 2,313,644. The accounting treatment is shown in the Group 
statement of changes in equity on page 73.
Dilution of share capital by employee share plans
Awards granted under the Company’s Sharesave Scheme are satisfied by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised. All other 
share plans are satisfied by market purchase shares. The Company monitors the number of shares issued under the Sharesave Scheme and 
as at 31 August 2016 had issued 2,961,382 new shares since 31 August 2006 (demerger), representing 1.20% of the issued share capital, 
well within the all share plans dilution limit of 10% in any rolling ten-year period set by The Investment Association.
Executive directors’ share interests (audited)
The table below sets out details of outstanding share awards held by executive directors. This shows, in relation to each executive director, 
the total number of share awards and options with performance measures (unvested) and without performance measures (deferred shares), 
those vested but unexercised and those exercised during the year.
 Share awards and nil-cost options
With performance 
measures
Without performance 
measures
Vested but 
unexercised
Exercised during 
the year
Jonathan Bunting 243,125 172,871 0 123,598
Mark Cashmore 360,732 198,683 0 171,629
Nick Gresham 242,466 140,231 0 119,698 Connect Group PLC
62
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Executive directors’ shareholdings (audited)
The table below sets out the beneficial interests of the executive directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company.
31 August 
2016
31 August 
2015
Jonathan Bunting 275,894 210,506
Mark Cashmore 778,832 691,560
Nick Gresham 211,409 148,084
There has been no change in the executive directors’ shareholdings shown above between 1 September 2016 and 18 October 2016.
Shareholding guidelines
In June 2013, the shareholding guideline for executives was increased to 150% of salary (from 100% of salary). Until those levels are 
reached, except for payment of tax arising on the exercise of awards and other exceptional circumstances, the executives will be required to 
retain 75% of the shares vesting under share incentive arrangements (excluding the SAYE).
In exceptional circumstances, executive directors may seek permission from the Remuneration Committee to temporarily go below their 
target holding. 
Shareholdings against the guideline are as follows: 
Name
Target 
Shareholding Salary
Current 
holding
Valuation 
of current 
holding1 
% of Target 
Shareholding 
reached
Jonathan Bunting 150% £291,312 275,894 £451,087 155%
Mark Cashmore 150% £436,968 778,832 £1,273,390 291%
Nick Gresham 150% £291,312 211,409 £345,654 119%
1 using share price of 163.5p as at 31 August 2016).
Contracts of employments
Details of the contracts of employment for executive directors are as follows:
Executive Date of contract Notice period by Company Notice period by director
Jonathan Bunting 1 April 2010 12 months 9 months
Mark Cashmore 5 September 2013 12 months 9 months
Nick Gresham 23 August 2010 12 months 9 months
Implementation FY17
Salaries
The salaries of the executive directors are reviewed annually, with any new salaries normally taking effect from 1 January. When conducting 
any review, the Committee takes into account a range of factors including the Group’s performance, changing size and complexity, market 
conditions, the prevailing market rates for similar positions in a comparable group of companies, the responsibilities, individual performance 
and experience of each executive director and the level of salary increases across the Group.
The salaries for the coming year have not yet been determined but it is expected that they will be in line with the level of salary increases 
awarded to employees throughout the Group. 
Bonus
There have been no changes to opportunity, performance measures or the amount paid at target for the FY17 annual bonus plan (see page 57 
for details). 
LTIP
Subject to shareholder approval, FY17 awards will be granted under the LTIP following the Annual General Meeting. Awards will have a face 
value of 100% of base salary and will be subject to end-to-end EPS and aggregate operating cash flow targets as follows:
Performance period
End-to-end EPS 
performance target
Aggregate cash flow 
performance target Proportion exercisable
Three years ending 31 August 2019 Below 22.9p Below £205.0m Zero
22.9p £205.0m 20% vesting 
24.5p £224.0m 57% vesting 
26.4p or more £246.4m 100% vesting 
Recruitment
David Bauernfeind joined the Board on 1 October 2016 on a salary of £310,000. In line with policy, in FY17 he will have an annual bonus 
opportunity of 100% of salary and an LTIP award with a face value of 100% of salary.
In addition to our standard benefits and pension provision, he will receive a one-off relocation allowance of £25,000 to facilitate a move closer 
to the Company headquarters. Connect Group PLC
63
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Non-executive directors
Letters of appointment
All non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have a letter of appointment for an initial three-year term, which can be terminated by 
either party giving three months’ notice, as set out in the table below.
Non-executive
1
Date of appointment Notice period/unexpired term
Gary Kennedy 2 March 2015 3 months/3 months
Andrew Brent 1 September 2008 3 months/3 months
Colin Child 1 December 2015 3 months/3 months
Denise Collis 1 December 2015 3 months/3 months
1. Anthony Cann and John Worby served on the Board during the year and stood down from the Board on 6 February 2016. 
Non-executive director fees
Following a review of non-executive director fees in comparable companies, the fee paid to Andrew Brent was increased from £35,000 to 
£40,000 with effect from 1 January 2016. Further, with effect from 4 February 2016, Andrew Brent received an additional fee of £5,000 
for the role of Senior Independent Director.
The fees paid to new non-executive directors (excluding the Chairman) on appointment were also reviewed and the non-executive director 
base fee was increased to £40,000, with the additional fee for chairing a Committee increased to £10,000.
This resulted in the following non-executive directors’ ‘single figure’ of remuneration for FY16 and FY15 (audited):
Year
Base fee 
£000
Additional fees 
£000
Total fees 
£000
Gary Kennedy
1
FY16 140 – 140
FY15 70 – 70
Andrew Brent FY16 38 3 41
FY15 35 – 35
Anthony Cann2 FY16 15 2 17
FY15 35 5 40
Colin Child3 FY16 30 8 38
FY15 – – –
Denise Collis3 FY16 30 8 38
FY15 – – –
John Worby2 FY16 15 2 17
FY15 35 5 40
1 Gary Kennedy is paid a single fee which includes chairmanship of the Nominations Committee.
2 Anthony Cann and John Worby each retired from the Board on 4 February 2016.
3 Colin Child and Denise Collis each joined the Board on 1 December 2015.
Non-executive directors’ shareholdings (audited)
The beneficial interests of the non-executive directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below:
31 August 
2016
31 August 
2015
Gary Kennedy 20,000 20,000
Andrew Brent 12,987 12,987
Anthony Cann – 38,571
Colin Child 0 –
Denise Collis 14,864 –
John Worby – 15,428
There has been no change in the non-executive directors’ shareholdings shown above between 1 September 2016 and 18 October 2016.
Non-executive director fees in FY17
There are no proposals to increase the non-executive director fees in FY17.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Denise Collis
Remuneration Committee Chair
18 October 2016 Connect Group PLC
64
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Other statutory disclosures
Directors’ Report
This Annual Report and Accounts includes the Directors’ report and 
the audited accounts of Connect Group PLC (the ‘Company’) and its 
subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 August 2016. The 
information required to be disclosed in the Directors’ report is provided 
in the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts, which 
are incorporated into the directors’ report by reference:
 – Strategic report on pages 1 to 33;
 – Corporate governance on pages 36 to 42;
 – Audit Committee report on pages 43 to 46;
 – Nominations Committee report on pages 47 and 48;
 – Remuneration report on pages 49 to 63; 
 – this section, Other statutory disclosures; 
 – Directors’ responsibilities statement on page 66; and
 – Notes to the Accounts as detailed in this section.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group involve uncertainty since future events 
and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ 
materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements 
reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation 
of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Directors’ report has been drawn up and presented in 
accordance with, and in reliance upon applicable English company 
law, and the liabilities of the directors in connection with those 
reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided 
by such law. 
Subsidiaries and branches
The Company’s operating subsidiaries, branches and associated 
undertakings are listed in Note 33 to the Accounts.
Post balance sheet events
There were no post balance sheet events.
Profit and dividends
The profit for the financial year, after taxation, was £33.4m 
(FY15: £21.4m).
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the 
year of 6.5p per ordinary share (FY15: 6.3p) on 10 February 2017 to 
members on the Register at the close of business on 13 January 2017.
This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 3.0p per 
ordinary share paid on 8 July 2016, makes a total dividend of 9.5p 
per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2016 (FY15: 9.2p).
Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital comprises a single class 
of ordinary shares of 5p each. All issued shares are fully paid, can 
be held in certificated or uncertificated form and are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. Details of movements in the issued share 
capital during the year can be found in Note 28 to the Accounts. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are 
set out in the Company’s Articles of Assocation (Articles), a copy of 
which can be obtained from Companies House or from the Company’s 
website www.connectgroupplc.com. The Company’s Articles may 
only be amended by a special resolution of the Company. Subject 
to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and 
restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or 
(if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific 
provision) as the Board may decide. 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to: attend and speak at 
general meetings of the Company; to appoint one or more proxies 
and, if they are corporations, to appoint corporate representatives; 
and to exercise voting rights. Holders of ordinary shares may also 
receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of 
the Company. In addition, holders of ordinary shares are entitled 
to receive the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Subject to 
meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may require 
a general meeting of the Company to be held or propose resolutions 
to be considered at Annual General Meetings. 
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to 
vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held. 
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. Electronic and paper proxy appointments 
and voting instructions must be received by the Company’s Registrars 
not later than 48 hours before a general meeting. However, when 
calculating the 48 hour period, no account is taken of any part of 
a day that is not a working day.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share: 
which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent 
dealings in the shares in the Company from taking place on an open 
and proper basis; or on which the Company has a lien. The directors 
may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless 
the instrument of transfer: (i) is lodged at the office, or such other 
place as the directors may decide accompanied by the certificate for 
the share to which it relates and such other evidence (if any) as the 
directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor 
to make the transfer; (ii) is in respect of only one class of shares; and 
(iii) is in favour of not more than four transferees. 
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the directors can refuse to register a transfer of an 
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing 
the operation of CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company other than those imposed by prevailing laws and 
regulations (such as insider trading laws and market requirements 
in respect of close periods). 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on 
voting rights.
Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust
The Trustee of the Smiths News Employee Benefit Trust holds 
ordinary shares of the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries of the 
Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the Group. 
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to acquire their 
shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer 
in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting 
options, but will have regard to the interests of the option holders and 
can consult them to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the 
foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect to the offer it 
thinks fair. The Trustee waives its right to vote and to dividends on the 
shares that it holds. Further details on the Trust can be found in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 61. Connect Group PLC
65
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Purchase of own shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 February 2016, authority was 
given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 24,432,840 
ordinary shares of 5p each. The Company did not use this authority to 
make any purchases of its own shares during the financial year. This 
authority is renewable annually and approval will be sought from 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 to renew the 
authority for a further year.
Issue of new ordinary shares
During the financial year ended 31 August 2016, 2,606,751 ordinary 
shares in the Company were issued, of which 442,570 relate to the 
allotment of shares under the Sharesave Scheme at prices between 
70.85p and 142.42p. All of the new ordinary shares issued during the 
year rank pari passu with those previously in issue.
The Articles provide that the Board may, subject to the prior approval 
of the Company’s shareholders, exercise all the powers of the 
Company to allot relevant securities including new ordinary shares.
Interests in voting rights
As at 31 August 2016, the Company had been notified, pursuant to 
the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rule 
5, of the following notifiable interests in its issued share capital:
Holder Number
% of 
voting 
rights
Nature of 
holding
Silchester International 
Investors LLP 18,332,319 9.94 Indirect Interest
Henderson Global Investors 19,333,649 7.91 Indirect Interest
Standard Life 14,814,266 6.00 Indirect Interest
Aberforth Partners LLP 10,051,763 5.32 Indirect Interest
Hargreave Hale Limited 9,656,422 5.11 Indirect Interest
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 11,820,430 4.79 Indirect Interest
There have been no changes to the notifiable interests in the period 
1 September 2016 to 18 October 2016. 
Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any ordinary 
shareholders with interests in 3% or more of the voting rights 
attached to the issued share capital of the Company. 
Change of control 
Each of the Company’s trading subsidiaries has agreements with 
customers and suppliers that may contain change of control clauses 
giving rights to those customers and suppliers on a takeover of the 
Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may 
cause a number of other agreements to which the Company and/or 
one or more of its subsidiaries is party, such as banking arrangements, 
property leases and licence agreements to alter or be capable of 
termination at the election of the counterparty.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the 
Company’s share schemes may cause options and awards granted 
to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover. 
Directors
The directors who served during the year are set out on page 34 with 
the exception of David Bauernfeind who replaced Nick Gresham as 
Chief Financial Officer and member of the Board on 1 October 2016. 
The directors are responsible for the management of the business of 
the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject 
to applicable legislation and regulation and the Company’s Articles.
The Company’s Articles give power to the Board to appoint directors 
and (where notice is given signed by all the other directors) remove a 
director from office. They also give a power to the Company to appoint 
directors (by ordinary resolution) and remove a director from office (by 
special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has 
been given).
The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the 
share capital of the Company, along with details of directors’ share 
options and awards, are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 49 to 63.
At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material 
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of 
its subsidiaries. 
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which 
gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors. 
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its directors and 
secretary and for the directors of its Associated Companies, to the 
extent permitted by law, which is a qualifying third party indemnity 
provision for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Employees 
Details of the Group’s policies in relation to employment, training and 
development, employee engagement, employee share ownership and 
equal opportunities are set out in the Corporate responsibility report on 
page 32.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the 
Corporate responsibility report on page 30. 
Political donations
It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations and no political 
donations or EU political expenditure were made in the year (FY15: £nil).
Financial instruments
Information on the Group’s financial risk management objectives and 
policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect 
of financial instruments is set out in Note 20 to the Accounts.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each director confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information (as defined in section 418 of the Companies Act 2006) 
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware and that each director has 
taken all the steps he ought reasonably to have taken as a director in 
order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company and 
to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Rowan 
House, Cherry Orchard North, Kembrey Park, Swindon, Wiltshire SN2 
8UH on 26 January 2017 at 11.30am. The Notice of Annual General 
Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes to the proposed 
resolutions to be considered at the meeting, in the booklet which 
accompanies this report.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Stuart Marriner
Company Secretary & General Counsel
18 October 2016 Connect Group PLC
66
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected 
to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors 
are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 – state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that directors:
 – properly select and apply accounting policies;
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 – make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole;
 – the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
 – the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board on 
18 October 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Cashmore
Group Chief Executive
18 October 2016
David Bauernfeind
Chief Financial Officer
18 October 2016 Connect Group PLC
67
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Connect Group PLC
Opinion on financial statements of Connect 
Group PLC
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 August 
2016 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;
 – the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure 
Framework”; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, 
the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent 
Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group 
and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related 
Notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced 
Disclosure Framework”.
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the group
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis 
of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements and 
the directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the group on 
page 45. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation on page 45 that they have carried out 
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures on pages 12–13 that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
 – the directors’ statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about 
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the group’s ability to continue to do so 
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval 
of the financial statements;
 – the directors’ explanation on page 45 as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any 
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis 
of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent 
of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not 
provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in 
those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we include 
in our report any significant key observations in respect of these 
assessed risks of material misstatement. Connect Group PLC
68
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Connect Group PLC continued
Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations
Defined Benefit Pension Schemes
At 31 August 2016, the Group recognised a net 
retirement benefit obligation of £21.2m, which includes 
gross pension obligations of £531.4m, representing 
4 schemes across the Group.
The determination of the value of the retirement 
benefit obligations requires significant judgement in the 
selection of key assumptions and is highly sensitive to 
such assumptions. The level of volatility in exchange 
rates, bond yields and equity prices has increased since 
the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European 
Union, which may have a material impact on the net 
scheme positions.
Management’s key judgements in deriving the value of 
the retirement benefit obligations are mortality rates, 
price inflation, discount rates, pension increases and 
earnings growth.
Specifically on the Pension Trust scheme there are two 
further aspects which require significant judgement:
 – On an IAS 19 basis, the scheme is in a surplus 
position of £151.3m meaning there is a judgement 
taken whereby this surplus is not available for use by 
the Group, and therefore it is restricted to nil in the 
consolidated financial statements.
 – The presence of a schedule of contributions in place 
to fund the Pension Trust scheme, separate to the 
surplus above, means there is a requirement under 
IFRIC14 to recognise a liability of £10.3m in respect 
of this funding commitment.
This is further discussed within management’s key 
sources of judgement and estimation uncertainty within 
Note 1, and financial statement disclosure requirements 
provided in Note 6.
We evaluated the assumptions made in the valuation 
of the pension scheme obligations and evaluated the 
information contained within the actuarial valuation 
reports for each of the four schemes.
We considered management’s assessment of 
the sensitivity of changes in assumptions and we 
determined an acceptable range for each key input used 
in management’s calculation of the scheme positions.
We used our internal actuarial experts to assist us in 
assessing the assumptions applied in determining the 
pension obligations, particularly given recent market 
volatility following the United Kingdom’s decision to 
leave the European Union, and determined whether 
the key assumptions are reasonable. This included 
benchmarking the assumptions in respect of:
 – the discount rate;
 – pension increases in payment, deferment & salary; and
 – price inflation and mortality assumptions.
For the Pension Trust scheme, in addition to the above 
procedures we have:
 – reviewed the agreements with the Scheme’s Trustees 
to ability of the Group to recover any surplus from the 
Scheme; and
 – assessed the value of the IFRIC 14 liability by obtaining 
the schedule of contributions and recalculating 
management’s estimate of the future liability.
In addition, we tested the accuracy of membership data 
used in the valuation of each scheme by agreeing a 
sample of members to underlying records; the accuracy 
of payments made to the scheme by agreeing a sample 
of payments to bank records; and the existence and 
valuation of scheme assets by agreeing a sample to 
supporting documentation and external valuation data.
From the work 
performed, we 
are satisfied that 
all assumptions 
applied in respect 
of the valuation of 
the scheme assets 
and liabilities are 
appropriate.
Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangibles
At 31 August 2016, the Group recognised £96.3m of 
goodwill and £68.5m of other intangibles including 
customer relationships and trade names. There is a risk 
regarding the potential impairment of the carrying value 
of these assets.
The directors’ assessment of impairment of 
goodwill and other intangibles arising on historical 
acquisitions is a judgemental process which requires 
estimates concerning the future cash flows and 
associated discount rates, and growth rates based on 
management’s view of future business prospects.
As part of our assessment of the risk of impairment, 
we considered the trading performance and profitability 
of each segment, as disclosed in Note 2 of the financial 
statements.
This is further discussed within management’s key 
sources of judgement and estimation uncertainty within 
Note 1, and financial statement disclosure requirements 
provided in Note 11.
We assessed the adequacy and reasonableness of 
assumptions used in management’s impairment 
calculations and the appropriateness of judgements and 
forecasts used to conclude on asset impairment including 
a specific review and challenge of discount rates and 
growth rates.
We used our internal valuation specialists to benchmark 
the discount rates with published rates of similar 
companies. We also compared the forecast cashflows 
used in the model against historical performance, post 
period trading data, and external market trend data.
We considered reasonably possible changes in 
assumptions and compared these to management’s 
sensitivity analysis. We recalculated these sensitised 
scenarios by considering the highest discount rate applied 
by peer group companies, capping the short term growth 
rates at long term rates, and capping the growth assumed 
in the budgets at historical growth levels.
We assessed whether the annual report disclosures 
were sufficient to meet the requirements of IFRS and 
whether there was appropriate disclosure in respect of 
sensitised scenarios.
In respect of the Books division, where headroom is 
lowest, we specifically challenged the cashflow forecast 
assumptions based on management’s latest approved 
budgets in light of the performance of the Books division. 
This included understanding the reasons for the historical 
performance and its impact on the forecast assumptions.
From the work 
performed, we 
are satisfied that 
all assumptions 
applied in respect of 
goodwill and other 
intangible assets 
are appropriate. 
We draw your 
attention to the 
disclosures within 
Note 11 regarding 
the reasonably 
possible impairment 
sensitivity on 
Connect Books. Connect Group PLC
69
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations
Revenue recognition – sales returns
Revenue recognition represents a risk due to the sale or 
return basis on which the News business operates. Any 
products which are not sold by the customer have the 
ability to be returned to the Group. Accordingly, the risk 
is focused on cut-off at the year-end date.
Significant management judgement is required to 
determine the level of returns of newspapers and 
magazines anticipated at the year end date, particularly 
in relation to one-off promotional products for key 
events such as the European Football Championships 
“Euro 2016”, and therefore appropriateness of 
cut-off to revenue. This is further discussed within 
management’s key sources of judgement and 
estimation uncertainty within Note 1.
We used internal IT specialists to assist us in testing a 
number of key automated controls. In addition, we have 
used data analytics to test revenue to cash receipts 
within the Smiths News entity.
We considered external industry data to evaluate 
the sales trends within the business to identify any 
anomalies or unusual transactions which could impact 
on the cut-off of revenue and investigated all such 
anomalies and unusual transactions.
In respect of goods sold on a sale or return basis, we 
evaluated management’s judgement with regards to 
the level of sale returns through the use of historical 
return data and evidence of actual returns post year-end. 
We tested specific provisions relating to “Euro 2016”, 
challenging management’s judgement on expected 
returns through evaluation of sales data and analysis of 
similar events in prior years.
We are satisfied that 
the key assumptions 
applied in calculating 
the sales return 
provisions are 
appropriate.
Last year our report included one additional risk in respect of the 
acquisition accounting for Tuffnells Parcel Express which is not 
included in our report this year, since there have been no significant 
acquisitions during the year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with 
the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed 
on page 44.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed 
or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be £2.3m (2015: £2.2m), 
which is 5% of Adjusted pre-tax profit (2015: 5%). Pre-tax profit 
has been adjusted in 2016 for acquisition related costs (£2.0m), 
deferred consideration (£1.9m) and legal costs (£1.5m) as these 
were considered to be one-off costs in the year. Adjusted pre-tax 
profit is a key performance measure for the group and is therefore an 
appropriate basis on which to determine materiality. In the prior year, 
the acquisition related costs that were adjusted were £15.1m.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £100,000 (2015: 
£44,500), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We have increased the 
threshold following us reassessing the level of audit differences that 
we considered clearly trivial. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of 
the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level. Based 
on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on 
the audit work at seven (2015: eight) components – the only change 
was to remove from scope an insignificant subsidiary where a 
statutory audit was no longer required. All of these components were 
subject to a full audit. These seven components represent the principal 
business units and account for 98% (2015: 99%) of the group’s net 
assets, 98% (2015: 98%) of the group’s revenue and 91% (2015: 97%) 
of the group’s pre-tax profit. They were also selected to provide an 
appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of 
material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at the seven 
components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each 
individual entity which were lower than group materiality, ranging 
between £1.2m and £1.8m (2015: £1.1m to £1.6m).
At the parent level we tested the consolidation process and carried 
out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were 
no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to 
audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 
visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or 
a senior member of the group audit team visits each component at 
least once a year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. Connect Group PLC
70
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Connect Group PLC continued
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and 
accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in 
our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the 
Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our 
audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality 
controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards 
review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in 
the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Anna Marks, FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Reading, United Kingdom
18 October 2016 Connect Group PLC
71
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Group income statement 
for the year ended 31 August 2016
2016 2015
£m Note Adjusted* Adjustments Total Adjusted* Adjustments Total
Revenue 2 1,906.5 – 1,906.5 1,875.1 – 1,875.1
Operating profit 2,3 67.7 (18.8) 48.9 63.8 (27.5) 36.3
Finance costs 7 (7.0) – (7.0) (7.3) – (7.3)
Profit before tax 60.7 (18.8) 41.9 56.5 (27.5) 29.0
Income tax expense 8 (12.4) 3.9 (8.5) (11.1) 3.5 (7.6)
Profit for the year 48.3 (14.9) 33.4 45.4 (24.0) 21.4
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 48.3 (14.9) 33.4 45.5 (24.0) 21.5
Loss attributable to non-controlling interest – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
48.3 (14.9) 33.4 45.4 (24.0) 21.4
Earnings per share
Basic 10 19.8p 13.7p 19.7p 9.3p
Diluted 10 19.5p 13.5p 19.0p 9.0p
Equity dividends per share (paid and proposed) 9 9.5p 9.2p
* Adjusted before Exceptional items. This measure is described in Note 1d of the accounting policies. Exceptional items are set out in Note 4 to the accounts.
All amounts are derived from continuing operations.
Group statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 August 2016
£m Note 2016 2015
Items that will not be reclassified to the Group Income Statement
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme 6 (2.0) 53.5
Impact of IFRIC 14 on defined benefit pension scheme 6 (6.5) (52.8)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified 8 1.7 (0.1)
(6.8) 0.6
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to the Group Income Statement
Loss on cash flow hedges 29 (1.2) (0.6)
Currency translation differences 0.6 (0.1)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified 8 (0.3) –
(0.9) (0.7)
Other comprehensive income for the year (7.7) (0.1)
Profit for the year 33.4 21.4
Total comprehensive income for the year 25.7 21.3
Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders 25.7 21.4
Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest – (0.1) Connect Group PLC
72
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group balance sheet 
at 31 August 2016
£m Note 2016 2015
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 164.8 174.8
Property, plant and equipment 14 50.3 44.6
Interest in jointly controlled entities 15 4.1 4.5
Retirement benefit assets 6 0.3 0.4
Deferred tax assets 23 7.7 7.5
227.2 231.8
Current assets
Inventories 16 42.3 42.0
Trade and other receivables 17 139.2 147.3
Derivative financial instruments 20 0.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 9.1 10.9
190.7 200.2
Total assets 417.9 432.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (198.8) (203.5)
Current tax liabilities (6.9) (5.4)
Bank loans and other borrowings 19 (61.0) (56.5)
Obligations under finance leases 21 (3.0) (2.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 6 (4.1) (3.3)
Provisions 24 (8.5) (10.4)
(282.3) (282.0)
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 6 (17.4) (15.2)
Bank loans and other borrowings 19 (79.1) (98.4)
Obligations under finance leases 21 (7.7) (6.5)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (1.5) (0.2)
Other non-current liabilities 22 (1.1) (1.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 23 (10.9) (13.5) 
Non-current provisions 24 (4.9) (6.0)
(122.6) (140.8) 
Total liabilities (404.9) (422.8)
Total net assets 13.0 9.2
Equity
Called up share capital 28(a) 12.3 12.2
Share premium account 28(c) 59.2 55.2
Demerger reserve 29(a) (280.1) (280.1)
Own shares reserve 29(b) (3.5) (4.1)
Hedging & translation reserve 29(c) (1.1) (0.5)
Retained earnings 30 226.2 226.5
Total shareholders’ equity 13.0 9.2
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 18 October 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Registered number – 05195191
Mark Cashmore
Group Chief Executive
David Bauernfeind
Chief Financial Officer Connect Group PLC
73
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
£m Note
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
Demerger 
reserve
Own shares 
reserve
Hedging & 
translation 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Non-
controlling 
interests in 
equity Total
Balance at 31 August 2014 9.5 5.3 (280.1) (5.2) (0.3) 228.5 0.2 (42.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year – – – – – 21.5 (0.1) 21.4
Loss on cash flow hedges – – – – (0.6) – – (0.6)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit 
pension scheme – – – – – 53.5 – 53.5
Impact of IFRIC 14 on defined 
benefit pension scheme – – – – – (52.8) – (52.8)
Currency translation differences – – – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Tax relating to components of 
other comprehensive income – – – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – (0.7) 22.1 (0.1) 21.3
Issue of share capital 28 2.7 49.9 – – – – – 52.6
Reclassification between reserves – – – – 0.5 (0.5) – –
Purchase of own shares – – – (4.2) – – – – (4.2)
Dividends paid 9 – – – – – (21.4) – (21.4)
Employee share schemes – – – 5.3 – (5.3) – –
Adjustment arising from change 
in NCI – – – – – (5.1) (0.1) (5.2)
Recognition of share based 
payments net of tax – – – – – 8.2 – 8.2
Balance at 31 August 2015 12.2 55.2 (280.1) (4.1) (0.5) 226.5 – 9.2
Profit for the year – – – – – 33.4 – 33.4
Loss on cash flow hedges – – – – (1.2) – – (1.2)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit 
pension scheme – – – – – (2.0) – (2.0)
Impact of IFRIC 14 on defined 
benefit pension scheme – – – – – (6.5) – (6.5)
Currency translation differences – – – – 0.6 – – 0.6
Tax relating to components of 
other comprehensive income – – – – – 1.4 – 1.4 
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – (0.6) 26.3 – 25.7
Issue of share capital 28 0.1 4.0 – – – – – 4.1
Purchase of own shares – – – (1.1) – – – (1.1)
Dividends paid 9 – – – – – (22.7) – (22.7)
Employee share schemes – – – 1.7 – (1.7) – –
Recognition of share based 
payments net of tax – – – – – (2.2) – (2.2)
Balance at 31 August 2016 12.3 59.2 (280.1) (3.5) (1.1) 226.2 – 13.0
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 August 2016 Connect Group PLC
74
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 August 2016
£m Note 2016 2015
Net cash inflow from operating activities 27 58.2 46.5
Investing activities
Dividends received from associates 0.7 0.2
Acquisitions 12 – (105.7)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (9.1) (4.7)
Purchase of intangible assets (4.8) (4.5)
Net cash used in investing activities (13.2) (114.7)
Financing activities
Interest paid (4.9) (5.8)
Dividend paid 9 (22.7) (21.4)
Purchase of equity in subsidiary 13 – (5.1)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (3.5) (2.9)
Proceeds on issue of shares 0.4 52.6
Net outflow on purchase of shares for Employee Benefit Trust (1.1) (4.2)
New bank loans raised – 50.0
Decrease in borrowings (15.5) (4.4)
Net cash(used in)/from financing activities (47.3) 58.8
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (2.3) (9.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 (0.1)
(1.8) (9.5)
Opening net cash and cash equivalents 10.9 20.4
Closing net cash and cash equivalents 19 9.1 10.9
Analysis of net debt
Cash and cash equivalents 19 9.1 10.9
Current borrowings 19 (61.0) (56.5)
Non-current borrowings 19 (79.1) (98.4)
Net borrowings (131.0) (144.0)
Finance lease liabilities 21 (10.7) (9.4)
Net debt (141.7) (153.4)
The year on year movement in net borrowings includes £0.7m amortisation of bank fees. Connect Group PLC
75
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
1. Accounting policies
(a) Basis of consolidation
Connect Group PLC (‘the Company’) is a company incorporated in the UK under Companies Act 2006. The Group accounts for the year 
ended 31 August 2016 comprise the Company and, its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’) and the Group’s interests in jointly 
controlled entities and associates. Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included in the Group Accounts from the date of 
acquisition. All significant subsidiary accounts are made up to 31 August and are included in the Group Accounts. Further to the EU IAS 
Regulation (Article 4) the Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as 
adopted by the European Union (‘adopted IFRS’) with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
Unless otherwise noted references to 2015 and 2016 relate to fiscal year ended 31 August 2015 and 31 August 2016 as opposed to 
calendar year.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on 18 October 2016.
(b) Basis of preparation
Accounting basis of preparation
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except certain financial instruments and assets acquired on acquisition detailed below 
and are presented in Pound Sterling and rounded to £0.1m, except where otherwise indicated.
The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Report Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted for use by the 
European Union.
Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in 
preparing Group Accounts. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with the jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the entities. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains.
Going concern
As detailed in Note 20, at the year end the Group had committed bank facilities in place of £250m, with associated covenants. The Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable potential variations in trading performance and the Group’s negative working capital 
position, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current financing covenants for the foreseeable future.
Despite the uncertain economic environment the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated 
financial statements.
(c) Estimates and judgements
The preparation of accounts requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting 
policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The significant judgements made in the accounts for the year ended 31 August 2016 are:
Retirement benefit obligation
The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational requirement 
of IAS 19 ‘Retirement Benefit Obligations’. The calculations include a number of judgements and estimations in respect of the expected rate 
of return on assets, the discount rate, inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries and life expectancy, amongst others. Changes 
in these assumptions can have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit obligation. Management make these judgements 
in consultation with an independent actuary. Details of the judgements made in calculating the transactions are disclosed in Note 6.
In order to substantially reduce the volatility in the adjusted investment performance and reduce the risk of a significant increase in the 
obligation, the Smiths News defined benefit scheme Pension Trust Trustee has adopted a Liability Driven Investment policy. This is discussed 
in more detail in Note 6.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed. Revenue represents the amounts receivable 
for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, returns, VAT and other sales related taxes.
The recognition of revenue involves a number of judgements and estimations, including the level of future returns. The Group records a 
returns reserve against the sales and cost of sales on the supply of newspapers and magazines on a sale or return basis. The provision is 
calculated in accordance with historical experience.
Legal provision estimate
Legal provisions are established when a past event creates a present obligation and it is probable an economic outflow will occur. 
The provision is calculated based upon a reliable estimate and is reviewed on a regular basis.
Valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill
The valuation of acquired intangibles requires an estimation of value based on discounted future cashflows. The cashflows modelled 
represent the stand alone business acquired and do not include any synergies that may be available to the Group. The discount rate used 
is specific to each class of asset and specific to each acquisition. The key judgements are future cash flows and the discount rate.
Notes to the accounts Connect Group PLC
76
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1. Accounting policies continued
Onerous property contracts
Property provisions require an estimate to be made of the net present value of the future costs of vacant and sublet properties. The 
calculation includes estimates of future cost involved, including management’s estimate of the long term letting potential of the properties. 
Potential liabilities could crystallise in respect of previous assignments of leases where the liability could revert to the Group if the lessee 
defaulted. Pursuant to the terms of the Demerger Agreement any such contingent liability in respect of assignment prior to the demerger 
which becomes an actual liability will be apportioned between Connect Group PLC and WH Smith PLC in the ratio 35:65 (provided that the 
actual liability of Connect Group PLC in any 12 month period does not exceed £5m). The exposure to leases is reviewed on a regular basis 
and provisions are made when management estimate that it is probable that economic outflow will result.
Taxation judgements
The Group recognises provisions for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the recognition and measurement criteria of both IAS12 
‘Income Taxes’ and IAS37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. Provisions for uncertain tax positions are recognised 
when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event in respect of known tax risks (both UK and overseas) and when it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle those obligations. Provisions for uncertain tax positions are 
measured based upon management’s best estimate of the economic outflow and are re-measured annually at each balance sheet date, 
which estimates inherently involve significant judgement.
(d) Adjusted measures
The Group uses certain performance measures for internal reporting purposes and employee incentive arrangements. The terms ‘net debt’, 
’free cash flow’, ‘adjusted revenue’, ‘adjusted profit’, ‘adjusted earnings per share’ ‘adjusted EBITDA’ are not defined terms under IFRS and 
may not be comparable with similar measures disclosed by other companies.
The following are the key non-IFRS measures identified by the Group in the consolidated financial statements as adjusted results:
Adjusted operating profit; is defined as operating profit including the operating profit of businesses from the date of acquisition and excludes 
exceptional items and operating profit of businesses disposed of.
Adjusted profit before tax; is defined as adjusted operating profit less finance costs attributable to adjusted operating profit and before 
exceptional items (formerly non-recurring and other items); including amortisation of intangibles and network and reorganisation costs.
Adjusted earnings per share; is defined as adjusted PBT, less taxation attributable to adjusted PBT and including any adjustment for minority 
interest to result in adjusted PAT attributable to shareholders; divided by the basic weighted average number of shares in issue.
Exceptional items; are material items of income or expense excluded in arriving at Adjusted operating profit to enable a more representative 
view of underlying performance. These include certain Mergers & Acquisitions related costs, legal provisions, amortisation of intangibles, 
integration costs, business restructuring costs and network re-organisation costs including those relating to strategy changes which are not 
normal operating costs of the underlying business. They are disclosed and described separately in the accounts where necessary to provide 
further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
Free cash flow; is defined as cash flow excluding the following: payment of the dividend, acquisitions and disposals, the proceeds on the 
disposal of freehold properties, payments of obligations under finance leases, the repayment of bank loans, EBT share purchase and cash 
flows relating to Exceptional items.
Adjusted EBITDA; is calculated as Adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation. In line with loan agreements Adjusted Bank 
EBITDA used for covenant calculations is calculated as Adjusted operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, Exceptional items and 
share based payments charge but after adjusting for the last 12 months of profits for any acquisitions or disposals made in the year.
Net debt; is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents. Total debt includes loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations 
under finance leases.
(e) Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed. Revenue represents the amounts receivable 
for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, returns (including expected returns), VAT and other sales 
related taxes.
(f) Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging Exceptional items and after the share of results of associates but before investment income and 
finance costs.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
77
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
1. Accounting policies continued
(g) Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable based on the taxable 
profit for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of 
previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is 
realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits 
will be available against which these temporary differences can be utilised.
(h) Dividends
Interim and final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are paid.
(i) Capitalisation of internally generated development costs
Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical feasibility of the 
resulting asset; the ability (and intention) to complete the development and use it; how the asset will generate probable future economic 
benefits; and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset during its development. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
internally generated intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same 
basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
(j) Jointly controlled entities
The Group Accounts include the Group’s share of the total recognised gains and losses in its jointly controlled entities on an equity 
accounted basis.
Investments in jointly controlled entities are carried in the balance sheet at cost adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share 
of the net assets of the jointly controlled entities, less any impairment losses. The carrying values of investments in jointly controlled entities 
include acquired goodwill. Losses in a jointly controlled entity in excess of the Group’s interest in the jointly controlled entity are recognised 
only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the jointly controlled entity.
(k) Business combinations and goodwill
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the 
fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Acquisition related costs 
are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Any deferred or contingent purchase consideration is recognised at fair value over the period of 
entitlement. If the contingent purchase consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for in equity. 
Any deferred or contingent payment deemed to be remuneration as opposed to purchase consideration in nature is recognised in profit or loss 
as incurred, and excluded from the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured, initially, at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the 
extent of any non-controlling interest. The non-controlling interest is measured, initially, at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net 
fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration 
transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. 
Goodwill arising on all acquisitions is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. 
The carrying value is reviewed annually for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may 
not be recoverable. Intangible assets arising under a business combination (acquired intangibles) are capitalised at fair value as determined at the 
date of exchange and are stated at fair value less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation of acquired intangibles is 
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:
Customer relationships – 2.5 to 7.5 years
Trade name – 5 to 10 years
Software and development costs – 3 to 7 years
Computer software and internally generated development costs which are not integral to the related hardware are capitalised separately as 
an intangible asset and stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Assets held under finance leases are amortised over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over 
the term of the relevant lease. All intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ when 
there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Connect Group PLC
78
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1. Accounting policies continued
(l) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. 
No depreciation has been charged on freehold land. Other assets are depreciated, to a residual value, on a straight-line over their 
estimated useful lives, as follows:
Freehold and long term leasehold properties – over 20 years
Short term leasehold properties – shorter of the lease period and the estimated remaining economic life
Fixtures and fittings – 3 to 15 years
Equipment – 5 to 12 years
Computer equipment – up to 5 years
Vehicles – up to 5 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
over the term of the relevant lease. All property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of 
Assets’ when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
(m) Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases is capitalised in the 
balance sheet at the lower of the fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments and is depreciated over its useful life. The 
capital elements of future obligations under leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet. Lease payments are apportioned between 
finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining balance of the liability.
Property and equipment and vehicle rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the lease term. 
The benefits of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis to the first break clause.
(n) Inventories
Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Inventories are valued using a weighted 
average cost method. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(o) Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value. They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is evidence 
that the asset is impaired.
(p) Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
(q) Treasury
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value (being proceeds received, net of direct issue costs), and 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. Finance charges, including premiums payable 
on settlement or redemptions and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and taken to the income statement using the 
effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in 
which they arise.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
79
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
1. Accounting policies continued
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange movements. The Group does not 
hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative is entered into and are subsequently re-measured 
at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument 
and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative 
financial instrument is recognised directly in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is 
removed from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability. When the forecast transaction subsequently results in 
the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the 
income statement in the same period during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement. Changes in the fair 
value of derivative financial instruments, where they are not designated as hedging instruments, are recognised in the income statement as 
operating costs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred 
to the net income or expense for the year.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not clearly and closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised 
gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Foreign currencies
Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues 
and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to equity. They are 
recycled into the income statement upon disposal.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
(r) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that 
an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated. If such an 
obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated, no provision is recognised and the item is disclosed as a contingent liability where material. 
Where the effect is material, the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cashflows.
(s) Retirement benefit costs
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes for the benefit of its employees. Payments to the Group’s schemes are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. The Group operates four defined benefit pension schemes. The two largest 
schemes The WH Smith Pension Trust and The Consortium Care Scheme are closed to further accrual. The charge to the Group of providing 
benefits for these two schemes is determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out at the balance 
sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the group statement of comprehensive income. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation adjusted for 
unrecognised past service cost, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The WH Smith Pension Trust is closed to further accrual and given the LDI policy adopted by the Pension Trustee, the present value of 
the economic benefits of the IAS 19 (revised) surplus in the pension scheme of £151.3m (2015:£135.6m) available on a reduction of future 
contributions is £nil (2015:£nil). The Group recognises an onerous liability for the future agreed deficit contributions, a liability of £10.3m 
(2015: £13.8m). Connect Group PLC
80
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1. Accounting policies continued
(t) Employee Benefit Trust
Smiths News Employee Benefit Trust
The shares held by the Smiths News Employee Benefit Trust are valued at the historical cost of the shares acquired. This value is deducted in 
arriving at shareholders’ funds and presented as the own share reserve in line with IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’.
(u) Share schemes
Share based payments
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the largest of which are the Sharesave Scheme, the Executive Share Option Plan, 
the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Deferred Bonus Plan. Details of these are provided in the Remuneration report and in Note 31.
Equity-settled share-based schemes and are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value is expensed with a corresponding 
increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair 
values are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model. The income statement charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual 
levels of vesting based on non-market performance related criteria.
Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses include the cost of the share-based payment schemes.
(v) Changes in accounting policies
New Standards and Interpretations not yet applied
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations that are potentially relevant to the 
Group and which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been 
adopted by the EU): 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments (2014) – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16 Leases – effective for periods beginning or after 1 January 2019.
Investment Entities: – Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 – effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 16 and IAS 38 (amended) ‘Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation’ – effective for accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
Annual Improvements 2012–2014 Cycle – effective 1 January 2016.
Amendments to IAS 1 – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
Amendments to IAS 27 ‘Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements’ – applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2016.
Amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations’ – applicable for accounting periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2016.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to IAS 12) effective 1 January 2017.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial 
statements of the Group, the only exception is IFRS16 Leases which the Group is currently assessing. 
New Standards and Interpretations applied for the first time:
The following Standards have been adopted without any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements:
IAS19 (amended) ‘Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions’ (effective February 2015).
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
81
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
2. Segmental analysis
In accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’, Group management has identified its operating segments. The performance of these 
operating segments is reviewed, on a monthly basis, by the Board. The Board monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets 
attributable to each segment to determine the allocation of resources and the performance of each segment.
These operating segments are:
Connect News & Media: News Distribution  
(also referred to as Smiths News)
The UK market leading distributor of newspapers and magazines to 30,000 retailers 
across England and Wales from 42 distribution centres.
Connect News & Media: Media 
(also referred to as DMD)
A supplier of newspaper and magazines to airlines and a provider of inflight services.
Connect Parcel Freight 
(also referred to as Tuffnells)
A leading provider of next day B2B delivery of mixed parcel freight consignments.
Connect Education & Care
(also referred to as The Consortium)
A leading distributor of education and care consumable products servicing 30,000 
customers across the UK.
Connect Books
(also referred to as Bertrams, Dawson Books 
and Wordery)
A leading UK distributor of physical and digital books to high street and online retailers, 
public libraries, academic institutions and direct to consumers with a strong 
international presence, supplying 100 countries.
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable segment:
Revenue
£m 2016 2015
Connect News & Media: News Distribution 1,443.8 1,479.3
Connect News & Media: Media 27.6 25.4
Connect Parcel Freight 174.4 114.4
Connect Education & Care 64.8 65.9
Connect Books 195.9 190.1
Total Group 1,906.5 1,875.1
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 1.
2016 2015
£m
Adjusted 
operating 
profit
Exceptional 
items 
Statutory 
operating 
profit 
Adjusted 
operating 
profit
Statutory 
operating 
profit
Exceptional 
items
Connect News & Media: News Distribution 40.0 (5.9) 34.1 41.4 (18.2) 23.2
Connect News & Media: Media 2.4 (0.4) 2.0 2.3 (0.4) 1.9
Connect Parcel Freight 15.0 (8.9) 6.1 9.7 (4.6) 5.1
Connect Education & Care 7.8 (1.1) 6.7 7.8 (2.1) 5.7
Connect Books 2.5 (2.5) – 2.6 (2.2) 0.4
Total group 67.7 (18.8) 48.9 63.8 (27.5) 36.3
Net finance expense (7.0) (7.3)
Profit before taxation 41.9 29.0
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from newspaper and magazine wholesaling are revenues of approximately £156.8m
(2015: £155.1m) which arose from sales to the Group’s largest customer. No other single customer contributed 8% or more of the Group’s 
revenue in either 2016 or 2015.
Segment assets and liabilities
Assets Liabilities Net assets/(liabilities)
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Connect News & Media: News 89.4 93.1 (280.4) (293.0) (191.0) (199.9)
Connect News & Media: Media 20.5 18.9 (7.6) (7.2) 12.9 11.7
Connect Parcel Freight 175.9 176.5 (49.0) (40.5) 126.9 136.0
Connect Education & Care 57.4 63.6 (20.4) (18.9) 37.0 44.7
Connect Books 74.7 79.9 (47.5) (63.2) 27.2 16.7
Consolidated assets/(liabilities) 417.9 432.0 (404.9) (422.8) 13.0 9.2 Connect Group PLC
82
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
2. Segmental analysis continued
Segment depreciation, amortisation and non-current asset additions
Depreciation Amortisation
Additions to  
non-current assets
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Connect News & Media: News (4.5) (4.2) (2.3) (1.8) 5.2 8.0
Connect News & Media: Media (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) 0.3 0.2
Connect Parcel Freight (3.3) (1.8) (7.1) (4.7) 11.1 131.8
Connect Education & Care (0.4) (0.5) (2.2) (2.0) 1.5 1.8
Connect Books (0.6) (0.7) (2.7) (2.5) 1.2 1.9
Consolidated total (8.9) (7.3) (14.7) (11.4) 19.3 143.7
Additions to non-current assets includes intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. 
Geographical analysis
Revenue by destination
Non-current assets  
by location of operation
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015
United Kingdom 1,823.6 1,791.9 218.9 223.7
Europe 47.5 48.8 0.3 0.2
Rest of World 35.4 34.4 – –
Consolidated total 1,906.5 1,875.1 219.2 223.9
Non-current assets in the table above exclude retirement benefit assets, deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments.
3. Operating profit
The Group’s results are analysed as follows:
2016 2015
£m Note Adjusted
Exceptional 
items Total Adjusted
Exceptional 
items Total
Revenue 1,906.5 – 1,906.5 1,875.1 – 1,875.1
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (1,531.5) – (1,531.5) (1,562.1) – (1,562.1) 
Write down of inventories recognised as an expense (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Other cost of sales (118.5) – (118.5) (76.0) – (76.0)
Cost of sales (1,650.1) – (1,650.1) (1,638.2) – (1,638.2) 
Gross profit 256.4 – 256.4 236.9 – 236.9
Distribution costs (106.5) – (106.5) (92.3) – (92.3)
Administrative expenses (76.3) (8.6) (84.9) (76.3) (12.9) (89.2)
Share-based payment expense 31 (1.7) – (1.7) (1.3) (6.7) (8.0)
Amortisation of intangibles 11 (4.5) (10.2) (14.7) (3.5) (7.9) (11.4)
Administrative expenses (82.5) (18.8) (101.3) (81.1) (27.5) (108.6)
Share of profits from jointly controlled entities 15 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Operating profit 67.7 (18.8) 48.9 63.8 (27.5) 36.3
The operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
£m Note 2016 2015
Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 14 8.9 7.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 14.7 11.4
Operating lease charges
 – occupied land and buildings 11.0 9.3
 – equipment and vehicles 19.4 12.1
Operating lease rental income – land and buildings (0.4) (0.1)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets – 0.2
Staff costs 5 153.7 136.5
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
83
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
3. Operating profit continued
Included in administrative expenses are amounts payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services which are as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.2 0.2
Total audit fees 0.4 0.4
Other services – 0.2
Total non-audit fees – 0.2
Total fees 0.4 0.6
Details of the Company’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was 
safeguarded are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36. In the prior year the Group incurred £0.2m of non-audit fees with 
Deloitte relating to acquisition/transaction support, remuneration advice and other advisory services. 
4. Exceptional items
£m Note 2016 2015
Network and re-organisation costs (a) (4.4) (4.5)
Acquisition and disposal costs (b) (3.8) (15.1)
Pension credit (c) 1.1 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (d) (10.2) (7.9)
Legal provision – potential health and safety offences (e) (1.5) –
Total before taxation (18.8) (27.5)
Income tax expense 3.9 3.5
Total after taxation (14.9) (24.0)
The Group incurred a total of £14.9m (2015: £24.0m) in exceptional items, after tax.
This comprises:
(a) Network re-organisation costs
Network and re-organisation costs of £4.4m are predominantly rationalisation costs to drive efficiency savings in Smiths News. They also 
include costs incurred in the reorganisation of the Books international divisions and of operations within Education & Care. 
(b) Acquisition and disposal costs 
Acquisition costs include £1.9m in relation to deferred contingent consideration payable conditional on the financial performance and on 
continued employment of former owners of Tuffnells £1.1m and the acquisition of Wordery £0.8m. The remaining £1.9m related to 
professional fees on acquisition and disposal activity.
In the prior year acquisition related costs for the Tuffnells acquisition included £3.5m for deal expenses and cost of integration plus £11.6m 
of deferred contingent consideration payable conditional on the financial performance and on continued employment of former owners. 
A further £3.1m of equity raise expenses were charged directly to reserves. 
(c) Pension credit
The pension credit is associated with the impact of the Trustees decision to cease payment of discretionary increases on pre 97 pension 
rights within The Consortium Care scheme which results in a past service credit.
(d) Amortisation of acquired intangibles
Amortisation of acquired intangibles of £10.2m (FY15: £7.9m) has been incurred relating to acquisitions amortised over their expected 
economic lives for which there is no ongoing cash impact. The amortisation charge has increased compared to the prior year due to the 
acquisition of Tuffnells. The net book value of acquired intangibles of £55.1m will be amortised over future years.
(e) Legal provision – potential health and safety offences
Potential fine and legal costs arising from the outcome of the HSE investigation into the fatality at Parcel Freight’s Brierley Hill depot 
in January 2016. See Note 24 for further details.  Connect Group PLC
84
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
5. Staff costs and employees
(a) Staff costs
The aggregate remuneration of employees (including executive directors) was:
£m Note 2016 2015
Wages and salaries 137.4 117.7
Social security 11.6 7.8
Pension costs 6 3.0 3.0
Share based payments 31 1.7 8.0
Total 153.7 136.5
Pension costs shown above exclude charges and credits for pension scheme financing and actuarial gains and losses arising on the 
pension scheme.
(b) Employee numbers
The average total monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
Number 2016
2015 
(restated)
Operations 4,398 4,542
Support functions 1,570 1,486
Total 5,968 6,028
The prior year number has been restated bringing News in line with 2016 which is stated on an FTE (full time equivalent) basis. News was 
previously stated on a headcount basis.
6. Retirement benefit obligation
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Group operates four defined benefit schemes, of which the WH Smith Pension Trust (the ‘Pension Trust’) represents 92% of the total 
obligation at 31 August 2016. As part of the acquisition of The Consortium, the Group acquired the assets and liabilities in respect of two 
other defined benefit schemes (the ‘Consortium CARE’ and ‘Platinum’ schemes). The Group acquired the assets and liabilities of Tuffnells 
Parcels Express Pension Scheme on its acquisition of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited on 19 December 2014. 
The Group’s defined benefit pension plans are final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level 
of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in the final years leading up 
to retirement. Benefits are paid to members from trustee-administered funds. The trustees are responsible for ensuring that the plan is 
sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefit payments. If investment experience is worse than expected, the Group’s obligations 
are increased.
The trustees must agree a funding plan with the sponsoring company such that any funding shortfall is expected to be met by additional 
contributions and investment performance. In order to assess the level of contributions required, triennial valuations are carried out with 
plan’s obligations measured using prudent assumptions (relative to those used to measure accounting liabilities). The trustees’ other duties 
include managing the investment of plan assets, administration of plan benefits and exercising of discretionary powers.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
£m
WH Smith 
Pension 
Trust
Consortium 
CARE Platinum
Tuffnells 
Parcels 
Express 2016
WH Smith 
Pension 
Trust
Consortium 
CARE Platinum
Tuffnells 
Parcels 
Express 2015
Present value of defined 
benefit obligation (490.2) (24.0) (1.6) (15.7) (531.5) (401.2) (18.7) (0.8) (11.3) (432.0)
Fair value of assets 641.5 15.8 1.9 12.7 671.9 536.8 14.7 1.2 10.6 563.3
Net surplus/(loss) 151.3 (8.2) 0.3 (3.0) 140.4 135.6 (4.0) 0.4 (0.7) 131.3
Amounts not recognised due 
to asset limit (151.3) – – – (151.3) (135.6) – – – (135.6)
– (8.2) 0.3 (3.0) (10.9) – (4.0) 0.4 (0.7) (4.3)
Additional liability recognised 
due to minimum funding 
requirements (10.3) – – – (10.3) (13.8) – – – (13.8)
Pension liability (10.3) (8.2) – (3.0) (21.5) (13.8) (4.0) – (0.7) (18.5)
Pension asset – – 0.3 – 0.3 – – 0.4 – 0.4
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
85
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
6. Retirement benefit obligation continued
The primary defined benefit pension scheme (the Smiths News Section of the WH Smith Pension Trust) has an IAS 19 surplus of £151.3m 
at 31 August 2016 (2015: £135.6m surplus) which the Group does not recognise in the accounts as the investment policy being used means that 
the amount available on a reduction of future contributions is expected to be £nil (2015: £nil). The valuation of the defined benefit schemes for 
the IAS 19 disclosures have been carried out by independent qualified actuaries based on updating the most recent funding valuations of the 
respective schemes, adjusted as appropriate for membership experience and changes in the actuarial assumptions.
The actuarial valuation for funding purposes produces a scheme deficit due to different assumptions and calculation methodologies used 
compared to those under IAS 19, most notably the use of a discount rate that reflects the actual investment strategy, rather than corporate 
bond yields as required under IAS 19.
WH Smith Pension Trust
The actuarial valuation of the Smiths News section of the WH Smith Pension Trust, at June 2013 was a deficit of £23.0m. 
Future cash contributions by the Group to the pension trustees and investment manager total £4.1m per annum through to March 2019. 
The Group recognises the present value of these agreed contributions as a pension liability of £10.3m (2015: £13.8m).
Other defined benefit schemes
For the Consortium CARE and Platinum schemes, the Group contributed £0.8m in 2016. The funding valuation of the Consortium CARE 
scheme as at 31 December 2013 was a deficit of £1.5m. The Platinum scheme’s 31 December 2013 funding valuation showed no deficit. 
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Tuffnells Parcels Express scheme as at 1 April 2013 was an agreed liability of £2.5m. Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (“GMP”) equalisation is expected to lead to an increase in scheme liabilities at some future date on the Consortium 
Care and the Tuffnells Parcels Express scheme.
The weighted average duration of the schemes is 17 years for the Pension Trust, 20 years for the Consortium Care scheme, 29 years for the 
Platinum scheme and 21 years for the Tuffnells Parcels Express scheme. 
The principal long term assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities on all Group schemes are:
% p.a. 2016 2015
Discount rate 2.0 3.8
Inflation assumptions – CPI 2.0 2.2
Inflation assumptions – RPI 3.0 3.2
Demographic assumptions for WH Smith pension trust:
Demographic assumptions for WH Smith pension trust:
Life expectancy at age 65 Male Female Male Female
Member currently aged 65 21.5 23.5 21.7 23.7
Member currently aged 45 22.8 25.0 23.0 25.2 Connect Group PLC
86
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
6. Retirement benefit obligation continued
A summary of the movements in the net balance sheet asset/(liability) and amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement and Other 
Comprehensive Income are as follows:
£m
Fair value 
of scheme 
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligation
Impact of 
IFRIC 14 
on defined 
benefit 
pension 
schemes Total
At 31 August 2014 522.7 (450.7) (93.0) (21.0)
 Current service cost (0.5) – – (0.5)
 Net interest cost 20.0 (17.2) (3.6) (0.8)
Total amount recognised in income statement 19.5 (17.2) (3.6) (1.3)
 Actual less expected return on scheme assets 28.7 – – 28.7
 Actuarial gains arising from experience – 25.1 – 25.1
 Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions – (2.2) – (2.2)
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 1.9 – 1.9
 Change in surplus not recognised – – (52.8) (52.8)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income 28.7 24.8 (52.8) 0.7
 Employer contributions 5.3 0.1 – 5.4
 Employee contributions 0.1 (0.1) – –
 Benefit payments (23.6) 23.6 – –
Amounts included in cash flow statement (18.2) 23.6 – 5.4
Acquisition of subsidiary 10.6 (12.5) – (1.9)
At 31 August 2015 563.3 (432.0) (149.4) (18.1)
 Current service cost – (0.3) – (0.3)
 Net interest cost 20.9 (15.8) (5.7) (0.6)
 Administration expenses (0.1) – – (0.1)
 Past service credits – 1.1 – 1.1
Total amount recognised in income statement 20.8 (15.0) (5.7) 0.1 
 Actual less expected return on scheme assets 115.4 – – 115.4
 Actuarial gains arising from experience – 7.5 – 7.5
 Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions – (128.3) – (128.3)
 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 3.4 – 3.4
 Change in surplus not recognised – – (6.5) (6.5)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income 115.4 (117.4) (6.5) (8.5)
 Employer contributions 5.3 – – 5.3
 Employee contributions 0.1 (0.1) – –
 Benefit payments (33.0) 33.0 – –
Amounts included in cash flow statement (27.6) 32.9 – 5.3
At 31 August 2016 671.9 (531.5) (161.6) (21.2)
Included within Non-current assets 0.3 0.3
Included within Current liabilities (4.1)
Included within Non-current liabilities (17.4)
The charge for the current service cost is included within administrative expenses. ‘Net interest costs’ are calculated by applying a discount 
rate to the net defined benefit asset or liability scheme assets and are included within finance income and expense.
An analysis of the assets at the balance sheet date is detailed below:
£m 2016 2015
Swap financing portfolio Unquoted 388.0 431.9
Interest rate and inflation swaps Unquoted 226.7 79.5
Loan fund Unquoted 26.7 25.4
Equities (CARE, Tuffnells) Unquoted 24.1 21.0
Bonds (CARE, Platinum) Unquoted 6.1 5.0
Cash (CARE, Platinum, Tuffnells) 0.3 0.5
671.9 563.3
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
87
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
6. Retirement benefit obligation continued
The assets held in the swap financing portfolio provide a swap-based hedge against the change in value of a proportion of the Trust’s 
liabilities for changes in long term interest rates and inflation expectations.
The actual return on scheme assets during 2016 was a gain of £136.2m (2015: a gain of £48.7m).
The value of the assets held by the trust in Connect Group PLC issued financial instruments is £nil (2015: £nil).
Sensitivity of results to changes in the main assumptions:
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on IAS 19 liabilities
Discount rate +/- 0.5% -£42.5m/+£45.9m
Rate of inflation +/- 0.5% +£42.5m/-£39.4m
Life expectancy +/- 1 year +£18.9m/-£18.9m
The sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption has been determined based on reasonably possible changes to the 
assumptions at the end of the reporting period. It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. 
The effect of a change in more than one assumption will be different to the sum of the individual changes. When calculating the sensitivities, 
the same methodology used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methodology and types of 
assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis is consistent with the previous period.
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
£m 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Present value of defined benefit obligation (531.5) (432.0) (450.7) (419.2) (395.3)
Fair value of assets 671.9 563.3 522.7 469.6 433.1
Impact of IFRIC 14 on defined benefit pension schemes (161.6) (149.4) (93.0) (73.5) (73.8)
Net deficit in the schemes (21.2) (18.1) (21.0) (23.1) (36.0)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (117.4) 25.1 0.8 (1.4) (1.0)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 115.4 28.7 44.6 27.9 34.0
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income since the adoption of IFRS is a 
loss of £29.2m (2015: a loss of £20.7m).
The group’s defined benefit pension plans have a number of areas of risk, the most significant of which and they ways in which the Group 
has sought to manage them are set out below:
Risk Description
Changes in bond yields Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
The assets held in the swap financing portfolio of the WH Smith PensionTrust provide a 
swap-based hedge against the change in value of a proportion of the Trust’s liabilities for 
changes in long term interest rates and inflation expectations, reducing the exposure to 
changes in bond yields.
The Care, Platinum and Tuffnells schemes both hold investments in corporate and 
government bonds which offer a degree of matching, i.e. the movement in assets arising 
from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement in the funding or accounting 
liabilities. In this way, the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
Inflation risk The plans’ benefit obligations are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher 
liabilities (although in most cases caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to 
protect the plan against extreme inflation).
The assets held in the swap financing portfolio of the WH Smith Pension Trust provide a swap-
based hedge against the change in value of a proportion of the Trust’s liabilities for changes in 
long term interest rates and inflation expectations, reducing the exposure to inflation.
For the Care, Platinum and Tuffnells schemes the majority of the assets are either unaffected 
by inflation (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with inflation (equities), meaning that 
an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member, 
so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. Connect Group PLC
88
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
6. Retirement benefit obligation continued
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes. For the year ended 31 August 2016, company contributions totalled £3.0m 
(2015: £3.0m) which is included in the Income Statement.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays contributions to an independently administered fund – such 
contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees’ pay. The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further 
contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid. Members’ benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid 
by the Company and the member, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each 
individual’s chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to buy at retirement. As a result, actuarial risk (that benefits 
will be lower than expected) and investment risk (that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations) fall on the employee.
7. Finance costs
£m Note 2016 2015
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (5.5) (5.8)
Net interest expense on defined benefit obligation 6 (0.6) (0.8)
Interest payable on finance leases (0.7) (0.4)
Net change in fair value of derivative assets 20 – (0.2)
Unwinding of discount on provisions – trading 24 (0.2) (0.1)
Finance costs (7.0) (7.3)
8. Income tax expense
2016 2015
£m Adjusted
Exceptional 
items Total Adjusted
Exceptional 
items Total
Current tax 13.1 (1.4) 11.7 12.4 (2.3) 10.1
Adjustment in respect of prior year UK corporation tax (0.8) (0.1) (0.9) (1.1) (0.9) (2.0)
Total current tax charge 12.3 (1.5) 10.8 11.3 (3.2) 8.1
Deferred tax – current year (0.3) (1.5) (1.8) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5)
Deferred tax – prior year (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) – – –
Deferred tax – impact of rate change 0.5 (0.8) (0.3) – – –
Total tax on profit 12.4 (3.9) 8.5 11.1 (3.5) 7.6
Effective tax rate 20.4% 20.3% 19.7% 26.3%
The effective adjusted income tax rate for the year was 20.4% (2015: 19.7%). After adjusting for the impact of Exceptional items of £3.9m 
(2015: £3.5m), the effective statutory income tax rate was 20.3% (2015: 26.3%).
The tax rates used in the 2016 and 2015 reconciliations of the tax charge are the main rates of UK corporation tax, those being 20.0% 
(2015: 20.6%).
Reconciliation of the tax charge
£m 2016 2015
Profit before tax 41.9 29.0
Tax on profit at the standard rate of UK corporation tax 20.0% (2015: 20.6%) 8.4 5.9
Permanent differences 1.4 3.5
Adjustment in respect of prior year UK corporation tax (1.1) (2.0)
Impact of change in UK tax rate (0.3) –
Impact of overseas tax rates 0.1 0.2
Total tax charge 8.5 7.6
Tax charges to other comprehensive income and directly in equity
£m 2016 2015
Current tax relating to the defined benefit pension scheme (0.8) (0.8)
Current tax relating to share based payments (0.1) (0.6)
Deferred tax relating to impact of change in tax rate 0.4 –
Deferred tax relating to derivative financial instruments (0.3) –
Deferred tax relating to share based payments 0.3 0.6
Deferred tax relating to retirement benefit obligations (0.9) 0.9
Tax (credit)/charge to other comprehensive income and directly in equity (1.4) 0.1
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
89
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
9. Dividends
Amounts paid & proposed as distributions to equity shareholders in the years:
2016
Per share
2015
Per share
2016
£m
2015
£m
Paid & proposed dividends for the year
Interim dividend – paid 3.0p 2.9p 7.3 7.0
Final dividend – proposed 6.5p 6.3p 15.9 15.4
9.5p 9.2p 23.2 22.4
Recognised dividends for the year
Final dividend – prior year 6.3p 6.0p 15.4 14.4
Interim dividend – current year 3.0p 2.9p 7.3 7.0
9.3p 8.9p 22.7 21.4
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 August 2016 of 6.5p is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
on 26 January 2017 and in line with IAS10 – ‘Events after the reporting period’, this dividend has not been included as a liability in these 
accounts. The proposed dividend, if approved, will be paid on 10 February 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 
13 January 2017.
10. Earnings per share
2016 2015
£m
Earnings
Weighted 
average 
number 
of shares 
million
Pence
per share
£m
Earnings
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares million
Pence
per share
Weighted average number of shares in issue 245.9 233.9
Shares held by the ESOP (weighted) (2.5) (3.0)
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 48.3 243.4 19.8p 45.5 230.9 19.7p
Exceptional and other items (14.9) (24.0) 
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 33.4 243.4 13.7p 21.5 230.9 9.3p
Diluted earnings per share (EPS)
Effect of dilutive share options 3.8 7.6
Diluted adjusted EPS 48.3 247.2 19.5p 45.5 238.5 19.0p
Diluted EPS 34.9 247.2 13.5p 21.5 238.5 9.0p
Dilutive shares increase the basic number of shares at 31 August 2016 by 3.8m to 247.2m (31 August 2015: 238.5m).
The calculation of diluted EPS reflects the potential dilutive effect of employee incentive schemes of 2.3m dilutive shares (31 August 2015: 
4.1m) and a weighted 1.5m shares (31 August 2015: 3.5m) being the time apportioned share capital relating to the deferred consideration for 
the acquisition of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited. Connect Group PLC
90
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
11. Intangible assets
£m Goodwill
Acquired Intangibles
Internally 
generated 
development 
costs
Computer 
software 
costs Total
Customer 
relationships Trade name Software
Cost:
At 1 September 2015 96.3 48.8 33.5 1.5 9.1 13.8 203.0
Additions – – – – 2.1 2.6 4.7
Transfers between asset classes – – – – – – –
Disposals – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 August 2016 96.3 48.8 33.5 1.5 11.2 16.2 207.5
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 September 2015 – 13.6 4.0 0.8 5.4 4.4 28.2
Amortisation charge – 6.4 3.5 0.3 1.8 2.7 14.7
Transfers between asset classes – – – – – – –
Disposal – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 August 2016 – 20.0 7.5 1.1 7.2 6.9 42.7
Net book value at 31 August 2016 96.3 28.8 26.0 0.4 4.0 9.3 164.8
Cost:
At 1 September 2014 44.2 22.0 3.0 0.7 6.0 6.8 82.7
Additions – – – – 1.6 3.6 5.2
Acquisition of subsidiary 52.1 26.8 30.5 0.8 – – 110.2
Transfers between asset classes – – – – 2.3 5.1 7.4
Disposals – – – – (0.8) (1.7) (2.5)
At 31 August 2015 96.3 48.8 33.5 1.5 9.1 13.8 203.0
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 September 2014 – 8.5 1.4 0.6 3.9 2.6 17.0
Amortisation charge – 5.1 2.6 0.2 1.6 1.9 11.4
Transfers between asset classes – – – – 0.7 1.6 2.3
Disposal – – – – (0.8) (1.7) (2.5)
At 31 August 2015 – 13.6 4.0 0.8 5.4 4.4 28.2
Net book value at 31 August 2015 96.3 35.2 29.5 0.7 3.7 9.4 174.8
The Group leases software under various finance lease arrangements. The net book value of finance leases contained within the software 
balance above is £0.4m (2015: £0.7m).
Goodwill and Intangibles by CGU
Goodwill of £4.1m and acquired intangibles totalling £5.1m arose from the acquisition of the business and assets of Bertrams on 20 March 
2009 have been allocated to the Connect Books combined cash generating unit (CGU).
The acquisition of Dawson Holdings PLC on 23 August 2011, resulted in goodwill of £18.1m and acquired intangibles of £7.8m. These were 
allocated to the two remaining individual CGU’s identified at the time of the acquisition; Connect Books and Connect Media.
On the acquisition of Hedgelane Limited on 23 April 2012, the Group recognised goodwill of £20.9m and acquired intangibles of £10.4m 
which were attributed to the Education & Care CGU.
The acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Houtschild Internationale Boekhandel B.V. on 13 June 2012 produced a further £0.3m 
of goodwill which were attributed to Connect Books CGU.
The acquisition of Erasmus on 17 January 2013 generated £0.8m of goodwill and £0.3m of acquired intangible assets which were attributed 
to Connect Books CGU.
The acquisition of certain Blackwell contracts on 20 May 2013 generated £2.0m of acquired intangibles, attributed to Connect Books CGU.
The acquisition of trade and assets of Martin Lavell acquired on 1 September 2013 generated acquired intangibles of £0.3m, attributable to 
News CGU.
The acquisition of Tuffnells on 19 December 2014 generated £52.1m of goodwill and £58.1m of intangible assets which were attributed to 
Connect Parcel Freight CGU. Further details are disclosed in Note 12. 
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
91
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
11. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill is not amortised, but tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired with 
the recoverable amount being determined from value in use calculations. The recoverable amounts of the combined cash generating units are 
determined from the value in use calculations. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and forecasts 
for the following 3 years as approved by the Board and extrapolates these cash flows on an estimated growth rate of 1% into perpetuity. The 
rate used to discount the forecast cash flows range from 12.0% to 16.5%, being the Group’s risk adjusted pre-tax WACC, specific for each 
cash generating unit. Pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Group’s post-tax WACC of 8% risk adjusted by 2% to 4%. The calculation 
of value in use is sensitive to the discount rate and growth rates used. 
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU. The sensitised value in use exceeds the carrying value for 
all the CGUs, except the Books CGU. The Books CGU has headroom on its carrying value of £2.6m prior to any sensitivities. An increase in 
the risk adjusted post tax WACC from 12% to 13% for the Books CGU or a reduction in operating profits by 5% would cause the carrying 
value to equal the recoverable amount. 
Goodwill Acquired Intangibles Total
£m 2016 2015
On 
acquisition 2016 2015
On 
acquisition 2016 2015
On 
acquisition
Connect Books 17.6 17.6 17.6 2.9 4.2 12.7 20.5 21.8 30.3
Connect Media 5.7 5.7 5.7 0.8 1.2 2.6 6.5 6.9 8.3
Connect News – – – 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3
Connect Education 
& Care 20.9 20.9 20.9 4.7 6.2 10.4 25.6 27.1 31.3
Connect Parcel Freight 52.1 52.1 52.1 46.7 53.6 58.1 98.8 105.7 110.2
96.3 96.3 96.3 55.2 65.4 84.1 151.5 161.7 180.4
The individual material intangible assets relate to the customer relationships and brand acquired on the acquisition of Tuffnells. The carrying value 
of these assets at 31 August 2015 is £20.9m and £25.4m respectively with a remaining amortisation period of 6 and 8.5 years respectively.
12. Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions in the current year.
Last year, on 19 December 2014, Smiths News Holdings Limited acquired 100% of the issued share capital of The Big Green Parcel Holding 
Company Limited (Tuffnells) for a cash consideration of £114.0m and deferred contingent consideration of up to £15.3m, payable over 3 years 
following the acquisition contingent on both profit targets and the continued employment of certain former owners. 
The initial cash cost of the acquisition was £114.0m, financed by a combination of increased debt facilities and a £55m Rights Issue. 
The initial cash cost of £114.0m plus £0.5m of deferred consideration is consideration as defined by IFRS3 and has been allocated against 
the identified net assets with the balance recorded as goodwill. 
The net cash outflow in respect of the acquisition of the Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited (Tuffnells) in the prior year comprised:
£m
Cash consideration (114.0)
Cash acquired 8.3
Net cash outflow relating to acquisition (105.7)
Acquisition related costs (recorded in Exceptional items) (3.2)
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions (108.9)
13. Acquisition of non-controlling interests
Last year on 27 August 2015, the Group purchased the remaining 49% of shares in Magpie Investments Limited for an initial cash 
consideration of £5.1m with a deferred consideration of £3.3m which is contingent on both profit targets and continued employment of the 
former owners. This deferred contingent consideration is being charged to the income statement as an Exceptional item over a five year 
period to August 2020.  Connect Group PLC
92
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
14. Property, plant and equipment
Land & Buildings
£m
Freehold 
properties
Long term 
leasehold
Short term 
leasehold
Fixtures & 
fittings
Equipment & 
vehicles Total
Cost:
At 1 September 2015 15.5 1.3 13.2 11.3 36.6 77.9
Additions 0.3 0.1 1.2 1.1 11.9 14.6
Transfer between asset classes – – 0.2 – (0.2) –
Disposals – – – (0.1) (0.8) (0.9)
At 31 August 2016 15.8 1.4 14.6 12.3 47.5 91.6
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 September 2015 0.7 0.3 8.7 6.0 17.6 33.3
Depreciation charge 0.2 0.1 0.8 1.2 6.6 8.9
Transfer between asset classes – – (0.2) – 0.2 –
Disposals – – – (0.1) (0.8) (0.9)
At 31 August 2016 0.9 0.4 9.3 7.1 23.6 41.3
Net book value at 31 August 2016 14.9 1.0 5.3 5.2 23.9 50.3
Cost:
At 1 September 2014 4.9 0.4 12.0 8.3 39.0 64.6
Additions – 0.1 0.7 0.4 8.5 9.7
Acquisition of subsidiary 10.6 0.9 1.1 0.8 5.2 18.6
Transfer between asset classes – (0.1) (0.2) 2.2 (9.3) (7.4)
Disposals – – (0.4) (0.4) (6.8) (7.6)
At 31 August 2015 15.5 1.3 13.2 11.3 36.6 77.9
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 September 2014 0.5 0.3 8.2 5.9 20.7 35.6
Depreciation charge 0.2 – 0.8 1.0 5.3 7.3
Transfer between asset classes – – – (0.6) (1.7) (2.3)
Disposals – – (0.3) (0.3) (6.7) (7.3)
At 31 August 2015 0.7 0.3 8.7 6.0 17.6 33.3
Net book value at 31 August 2015 14.8 1.0 4.5 5.3 19.0 44.6
The Group leases plant and equipment under a number of finance lease arrangements and has the option to purchase the equipment at the 
end of each lease. The net book value of finance leases contained within these balances is £7.7m at 31 August 2016 (2015: £5.8m).
15. Interests in jointly controlled entities
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities is as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Revenue 10.1 9.7
Profit after tax 0.3 0.3
Non-current assets 1.4 1.0
Current assets 2.4 2.6
Total assets 3.8 3.6
Current liabilities (2.4) (1.9)
Non-current liabilities (0.2) (0.1)
Total liabilities (2.6) (2.0)
Goodwill 2.9 2.9
Share of net assets 4.1 4.5
Dividends of £0.7m were received in the year to 31 August 2016.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
93
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
15. Interests in jointly controlled entities continued
The jointly controlled entities of the Group are as follows:
FMD Limited The Group has a 50% investment in FMD Limited, the holding company of Worldwide Magazine 
Distribution Limited, a company incorporated in England (2015: 50%). The latest statutory accounts 
of FMD Limited were drawn up to 30 April 2015.
Rascal Solutions Limited The Group has a 50% interest in the ordinary shares of Rascal Solutions Limited, a company 
incorporated in England (2015: 50%). The latest statutory accounts of Rascal Solutions Limited 
were drawn up to 31 August 2015.
BlueBox Avionics Limited The Group has a 50% interest in the ordinary shares of Bluebox Avionics Limited, a company 
incorporated in England (2015: 50%). The latest statutory accounts of Bluebox Avionics Limited 
were drawn up to 31 August 2015.
16. Inventories
£m 2016 2015
Goods held for resale 41.3 41.2
Raw materials and consumables 1.0 0.8
Inventories 42.3 42.0
17. Trade and other receivables
£m 2016 2015
Trade receivables 113.7 123.6
Allowance for doubtful debts (0.8) (1.3)
112.9 122.3
Other debtors 13.2 12.7
Prepayments and accrued income 13.1 12.3
Trade and other receivables 139.2 147.3
Trade receivables
The average credit period taken on sale of goods is 22 days (2015:21 days). Trade receivables are generally non-interest bearing. The Group 
provides for receivables on an individual customer basis based on circumstances known at that time and the likelihood of recovery.
Included in the outstanding trade receivables balance are debtors with overdue amounts of £7.8m (2015:£8.5m) that the Group has not 
provided for as these amounts are still considered recoverable and fall outside our pre-determined provisioning policy.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables:
£m 2016 2015
30–60 days 3.8 5.2
61–90 days 1.9 1.3
91–120 days 0.9 0.7
Over 120 days 1.2 1.3
7.8 8.5
Included within the 2016 number is an expected seasonal peak of £2.1m (2015:£3.1m) largely within the 30–60 day ageing relating to the 
Education & Care division.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of the year:
 – One customer (2015:one) had an individual balance that represented more than 10% of the total trade receivables balance. The total of this 
was £14.2m (2015: £15.2m); and
 – A further five customers (2015:four) had individual balances that represented more than 5% of the total trade receivables balance. The total 
of these was £34.4m (2015: £30.5m). Connect Group PLC
94
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
17. Trade and other receivables continued
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts:
£m 2016 2015
At 1 September 1.3 0.7
Impairment losses recognised – 1.1
Amounts written off as uncollectible (0.3) (0.4)
Amounts recovered during the year 0.1 (0.1)
Amounts released during the year (0.3) –
At 31 August 0.8 1.3
Ageing of past due and impaired trade receivables:
£m 2016 2015
30–60 days 0.1 0.1
61–90 days – –
91–120 days 0.2 0.1
Over 120 days 0.5 1.1
0.8 1.3
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Other debtors and prepayments
The largest items included within this balance are £7.5m (2015: £6.8m) of publisher debtors and £4.1m (2015: £5.0m) of accrued revenue.
18. Trade and other payables
£m 2016 2015
Trade payables 148.2 156.8
Other creditors 22.6 19.3
Accruals and deferred income 28.0 27.4
198.8 203.5
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 33 days (2015: 32 days). No interest is charged on trade payables. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of 
trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
19. Cash and borrowings
Cash and borrowings by currency (Sterling equivalent) are as follows:
£m Sterling Euro
US 
Dollar Other
Total 
2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 3.0 4.3 1.3 0.5 9.1 10.9
Term loan – disclosed within current liabilities (20.0) – – – (20.0) –
Term loan – disclosed within non-current liabilities (79.1) – – – (79.1) (98.4)
Revolving credit facility (41.0) – – – (41.0) (56.5)
Total borrowings (140.1) – – – (140.1) (154.9)
Net borrowings (137.1) 4.3 1.3 0.5 (131.0) (144.0)
Total borrowings
Amount due for settlement within 12 months (61.0) – – – (61.0) (56.5)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months (79.1) – – – (79.1) (98.4)
(140.1) – – – (140.1) (154.9)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Available Group bank facilities are outlined in Note 20. At 31 August 2016, the Group had £109.0m (2015: £95.1m) of undrawn committed 
borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met. Interest payable under the current facility is calculated as the 
cost of one month LIBOR plus an interest margin of between 1.35% and 2.35% dependent on the net debt/adjusted EBITDA covenant ratio.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
95
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
20. Financial Instruments
Treasury policy
The Group operates a centralised treasury function to manage the Group’s funding requirements and financial risks in line with the Board 
approved treasury policies and procedures and their delegated authorities. Treasury’s role is to ensure that appropriate financing is available 
for running the businesses of the Group on a day to day basis, allowing for investments and acquisitions whilst minimising interest cost. No 
transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. Dealings are restricted to those banks with suitable credit ratings and counterparty risk 
and credit exposure is monitored frequently.
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return 
to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes 
the borrowings, cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in Note 19 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued 
capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and by monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. 
The facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk are described below.
As at 31 August 2016, the Group had £250m committed bank facilities in place (2015: £250m). Bank facilities comprise:
 – a £100m syndicated term loan with £10m repayable in February 2017, August 2017, February 2018 and August 2018 with the balance 
repayable in November 2018;
 – a £150m syndicated revolving credit facility which expires in November 2018;
The facility described above is subject to the following covenants:
 – Leverage cover – the net debt: adjusted EBITDA ratio which must remain below 2.75x. At 31 August 2016 the ratio was 1.7x
 – Interest cover – the consolidated net interest: adjusted EBITDA ratio which must remain above 3.0x. As at 31 August 2016 the ratio 
was 14.5x
 – Fixed charge cover – the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to consolidated fixed charges is not less than 2.0x to 1. As at 31 August 2016 the ratio 
was 3.1x
 – Guarantor cover – The annual turnover, gross assets and pre-tax profits of the Guarantors contribute at any time 80 per cent or more of 
the annual consolidated turnover, gross assets and pre-tax profits of the Group for each of its financial years. The guarantors, which are 
all 100% owned or wholly owned subsidiaries of the Connect Group PLC, are Connect Group PLC, Dawson Holdings Limited, Hedgelane 
Limited, Smiths News Holdings Limited, Smiths News Investments Limited, Smiths News Trading Limited, Bertram Trading Limited, 
Connect2U Limited, The Consortium for Purchasing and Distribution Limited, Smiths News Instore Limited and Dawson Books Limited, 
Hammond Bridge Limited, Dawson Books Services Limited, Dawson Guarantee Company Limited, Dawson Limited, The Big Green 
Parcel Group Limited, The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited, The Big Green Parcel Machine Limited and Tuffnells Parcels 
Express Limited.
At 31 August 2016, the Group had available £109.0m (2015: £95.1m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. There were no breaches 
of loan agreements during either the current or prior years.
As the Group is cash generative its liquidity risk is considered low. The Group’s cash generation allows it to meet all loan commitments as 
they fall due as well as sustain a negative working capital position.
The Group invests significant resources in the forecasting and management of its cash flows. This is critical given a routine cash cycle that 
results in significant predictable swings within each month of around £40m.
The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivatives. The undiscounted 
cash flows will differ from both the carrying value and fair value. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance 
sheet date. Connect Group PLC
96
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
20. Financial Instruments continued
£m
Due within  
1 Year
Due between 
1 and 2 years
Due between 
2 and 3 years
Greater than 
3 years
At 31 August 2016
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank and other borrowings (64.1) (22.5) (60.6) –
Finance leases (3.8) (3.6) (2.6) (2.6)
Derivative and other financial liabilities
Net settled derivative contracts – payments (0.6) (0.6) (0.2) –
Derivative and other financial assets
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts 0.1 – – –
Total (68.4) (26.7) (63.4) (2.6)
At 31 August 2015
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank and other borrowings (59.3) (22.7) (22.2) (60.4)
Finance leases (3.3) (2.9) (2.8) (1.3)
Derivative and other financial liabilities
Net settled derivative contracts – payments (0.4) (0.4) (0.3) (0.1)
Derivative and other financial assets
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts – – – –
Total (63.0) (26.0) (25.3) (61.8)
Counterparty risk
Dealings are restricted to those banks with suitable credit ratings and counterparty risk and credit exposure is monitored.
Foreign currency risk
 – The Group has entered into forward currency purchases to purchase US dollars to manage exposure to transactional foreign currency risk. 
The contracts have monthly maturity dates and those outstanding at 31 August 2016 mature by February 2017. At 31 August 2016 the 
outstanding contracts had a notional value of £0.6m. Any gains or losses on forward foreign exchange contracts have been recognised 
within the income statement. The carrying amount of these instruments approximates their fair value. The majority of the Group’s 
transactions are carried out in the functional currencies of its operations, and so transactional exposure is limited.
 – The majority of the Group’s net assets are held in Sterling, with only £3.7m (2015: £4.4m) of net assets held in overseas currencies. 
Translation exposure arises on the re-translation of overseas subsidiaries profits and net assets into sterling for financial reporting 
purposes and is not seen as significant.
 – Note 19 denotes borrowings by currency.
 – There are no material currency exposures to disclose.
Interest rate risk
The Group regularly monitors its exposure to interest rate risk. The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate 
movements on its bank borrowings. The Group avoids the use of derivatives or other financial instruments in circumstances when the 
outcome would effectively be largely dependent upon speculation on future rate movements. As at 31 August 2016, 80% of the Group’s 
borrowings were at fixed rates achieved through hedging.
It is, and has been throughout the period of review, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivative financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Hedge accounting
There are £60m of interest rate hedges which mature in November 2017 and £50m which mature in November 2018 contracted at an 
average effective rate of 1.2%.
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated 
on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt 
held. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is based on the market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet 
date, and is disclosed overleaf. The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
97
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
20. Financial Instruments continued
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the 
reporting date:
Average contract fixed 
interest rate Notional principal amount Fair value
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Outstanding receive floating, pay fixed contracts
2 to 5 years 1.2% 1.2% £110.0m £110.0m (£1.5m) (£0.2m)
The interest rate swaps are settled on a monthly basis. The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is 1 month LIBOR. The Group settles the 
difference between fixed and floating interest rates on a net basis. All interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts 
for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from variable 
interest rates on borrowings. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in 
equity is recognised in the income statement over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact the income statement.
All derivative financial instruments are classified as level 2 based upon the degree to which the fair value movements are observable. Level 2 
fair value measurements are defined as those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly (prices from third parties) or indirectly (derived from third party prices).
Current Non-current
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value:
Interest rate swaps – Liabilities – – (1.5) (0.2)
– – (1.5) (0.2)
Foreign currency cash flow hedges 0.1 – – –
0.1 – (1.5) (0.2)
All other financial assets are classified under loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
During 2015 a charge of £0.2m was made relating to the portion of the hedge that was deemed ineffective prior to the acquisition 
of Tuffnells. 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative 
instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities the analysis assumes the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet 
date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit and equity for the year ended 
31 August 2016 would decrease/increase by £0.3m (2015: £0.2m) due to the interest rate swaps that are used to mitigate this risk.
Credit risk
The Group considers its exposure to credit risk at 31 August 2016 to be as follows:
£m 2016 2015
Bank deposits 9.1 10.9
Trade receivables 113.7 123.6
122.8 134.5
Further detail on the Group’s policy relating to trade receivables can be found in Note 17 to the accounts. Connect Group PLC
98
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
21. Obligations under finance leases
2016 2015
£m
Minimum 
lease 
payments
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments
Minimum 
lease 
payments
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments
Amount payable under finance leases:
Within one year 3.8 3.0 3.3 2.9
In the second to fifth years inclusive 8.8 7.7 7.0 6.5
Total 12.6 10.7 10.3 9.4
Less: future finance charges (1.9) – (0.9) –
Present value of lease obligations 10.7 10.7 9.4 9.4
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (3.0) (2.9)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 7.7 6.5
Group policy is to acquire certain items of its fixtures, equipment and software under finance leases. The average lease term is 4 years. 
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for 
contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
22. Other non-current liabilities
£m 2016 2015
Other creditors 1.1 1.0
The balance disclosed as other creditors within non-current liabilities relates to operating lease incentives which are being recognised over 
the lease term.
23. Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
£m
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation Other
Share 
based 
payments
Intangible 
assets
Retirement 
benefits Total
At 1 September 2015 1.9 0.3 1.6 (13.4) 3.6 (6.0)
Charge to income 0.2 – – 2.6 (0.5) 2.3
Charge to other comprehensive income and directly in equity – 0.2 (0.4) – 0.7 0.5
At 31 August 2016 2.1 0.5 1.2 (10.8) 3.8 (3.2)
Deferred tax assets 2.2 0.5 1.2 – 3.8 7.7
Deferred tax liabilities (0.1) – – (10.8) – (10.9)
At 1 September 2014 0.6 0.1 2.2 (3.1) 4.2 4.0
Charge to income 0.2 (0.9) – 1.3 (0.1) 0.5
Charge to other comprehensive income and directly in equity – – (0.6) – (0.9) (1.5)
Acquisition/disposal of subsidiary 1.1 1.1 – (11.6) 0.4 (9.0)
At 31 August 2015 1.9 0.3 1.6 (13.4) 3.6 (6.0)
Deferred tax assets 2.0 0.3 1.6 – 3.6 7.5
Deferred tax liabilities (0.1) – – (13.4) – (13.5)
The Company has capital losses carried forward of £28.2m (2015: £40.7m). Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the 
capital losses carried forward due to the uncertainty of their utilisation.
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 21% to 20%, effective from 1 April 2015, was 
substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This rate reduction has been reflected in the prior year calculation of current and deferred tax. The Finance 
(No.2) Act 2015, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017, and from 
19% to 18%, effective from 1 April 2020, was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. These rate reductions have been reflected in the 
current year calculation of deferred tax. A further rate reduction to 17% effective from 1 April 2020 was announced in the Finance Bill 2016. 
As this was has not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, it has not been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax at the 
balance sheet date. 
 
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
99
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
24. Provisions
£m
Reorganisation 
provisions
Insurance 
and legal 
provision
Deferred 
contingent 
consideration
Property 
provisions Total
Gross provision:
At 1 September 2015 1.0 2.8 5.2 7.9 16.9
Additions 1.3 1.9 1.9 0.8 5.9
Released (0.1) (0.2) – (1.3) (1.6)
Utilised in year (1.6) (0.2) (5.1) (0.6) (7.5)
At 31 August 2016 0.6 4.3 2.0 6.8 13.7
Discount:
At 1 September 2015 – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Unwinding of discount utilisation – – – 0.2 0.2
At 31 August 2016 – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Net book value at 31 August 2016 0.6 4.3 2.0 6.5 13.4
Gross provision:
At 1 September 2014 0.7 1.4 – 3.6 5.7
Additions 2.3 0.1 5.2 1.0 8.6
Acquisition of business – 1.3 – 4.1 5.4
Released (0.2) – – (0.2) (0.4)
Utilised in year (1.8) – – (0.6) (2.4)
At 31 August 2015 1.0 2.8 5.2 7.9 16.9
Discount:
At 1 September 2014 – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Acquisition of business – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 August 2015 – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Net book value at 31 August 2015 1.0 2.8 5.2 7.4 16.4
 
£m 2016 2015
Included within current liabilities 8.5 10.4
Included within non-current liabilities 4.9 6.0
Total 13.4 16.4
Reorganisation provisions include amounts for programmes which consist primarily redundancy costs, that have been announced prior to the 
year end and are all expected to be utilised during the following financial year.
Insurance & legal provisions represent the expected future costs of employer’s liability, public liability, motor accident claims and legal claims. 
In January 2016, an employee in our Parcel Freight division was fatally injured in an accident at our Brierley Hill depot. Since the incident, we 
have been assisting the Health & Safety Executive (“HSE”) in its investigation and gave evidence at a Coroner’s Inquest held in September 
2016. The HSE has not yet completed its investigation and our Parcel Freight division has, to date, not been formally charged.
In the event that the Parcel Freight division is charged and subsequently found guilty of a Health and Safety offence, the Board expects 
that a fine and associated legal costs will be incurred, for which we are not insured. In the opinion of the Board and its advisers, there is 
significant uncertainty over the potential outcome and timing of this process. Having considered these uncertainties and having regard 
for the circumstances surrounding this incident, the Board considers it appropriate to make a provision of £1.5m for any potential fine 
and associated legal costs.
The Board will keep this provision under review as the HSE investigation proceeds and the current uncertainties are resolved. It is currently 
expected that any charges brought against our Parcel Freight division are likely to conclude within 24 months of the balance sheet date.
This provision has been charged as an Exceptional item (see Note 4) and is referred to in the Health & Safety section of the Strategic review 
(see page 33).
The property provision represents the estimated future cost of the Group’s onerous and reversionary leases in non-trading properties based 
on known and estimated rental sub-leases and for dilapidations on certain properties. The provision has been discounted at a risk adjusted 
rate and this discount will be unwound over the life of the leases. The provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2026, when all 
of the leases provisions will have expired. 
Deferred contingent consideration relates to amounts provided in relation to the acquisition of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited 
(Tuffnells) on 19 December 2014 and Wordery on 27 August 2015, the cost being contingent upon achievement of profit targets and the 
future employment of the former owners of the businesses.  Connect Group PLC
100
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
25. Contingent liabilities and capital commitments
£m 2016 2015
Bank and other loans guaranteed 5.1 5.0
Other potential liabilities that could crystallise are in respect of previous assignments of leases where the liability could revert to the Group 
if the lessee defaulted. Pursuant to the terms of the Demerger Agreement, any such contingent liability in respect of assignment prior to 
demerger, which becomes an actual liability, will be apportioned between Connect Group PLC and WH Smith PLC in the ratio 35:65 (provided 
that the actual liability of Connect Group PLC in any 12 month period does not exceed £5m). The Company’s share of these leases has an 
estimated future cumulative gross rental commitment at 31 August 2016 of £2.8m (2015: £3.6m). This excludes the reversionary lease 
provision included within property provisions in Note 24.
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for amount to: £nil (2015: £1.1m).
26. Operating lease commitments
The group as lessee:
Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2016 2015
£m
Land & 
buildings
Equipment 
& vehicles Total
Land & 
buildings
Equipment & 
vehicles Total
Within one year 10.7 14.1 24.8 10.2 12.4 22.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive 29.8 23.6 53.4 30.3 19.9 50.2
In more than five years 20.7 – 20.7 23.3 – 23.3
61.2 37.7 98.9 63.8 32.3 96.1
The Group leases various distribution properties and plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases 
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The group as lessor:
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
£m 2016 2015
Within one year 0.3 0.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 0.1
0.5 0.2
Property rental income earned during the year was £0.3m (2015: £0.1m).
27. Net cash inflow from operating activities
£m 2016 2015
Operating profit 48.9 36.3
Losses on disposal of assets – 0.2
Share of profits of jointly controlled entities (0.3) (0.3)
Adjustment for pension funding (5.3) (5.4)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.9 7.3
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14.7 11.4
Share based payments 1.6 8.0
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.3) 3.8
Decrease/(Increase) in receivables 9.7 (7.5)
(Decrease) in payables (7.2) (4.9)
Non cash pension costs (0.6) 0.5
Income tax paid (8.5) (8.7)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (3.4) 5.8
Net cash inflow from operating activities 58.2 46.5
Net cash inflow from operating activities is stated after the following Exceptional cash items:
Payment of deferred contingent consideration (5.1) –
Re-organisation and restructuring costs (5.7) (4.3)
Acquisition expenses – (3.9)
Total Exceptional cash items (10.8) (8.2)
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
101
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
28. Share Capital
(a) Share capital
£m 2016 2015
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 September 12.2 9.5
Shares issued during the year 0.1 2.7
246.7m ordinary shares of 5p each (2015:244.1m) 12.3 12.2
(b) Movement in share capital
Number (m)
Ordinary 
shares of 
5p each
31 August 2015 244.1
Shares issued during the year 2.6
At 31 August 2016 246.7
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the 
general meetings of the Company. The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income. 
During the year to 31 August 2016, 2,606,751 ordinary 5p shares were issued. 2,164,181 were issued in relation to the satisfaction 
of deferred consideration to the former owners of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited (Tuffnells). The remainder was issued 
to satisfy share scheme exercises. 
During the year to 31 August 2015, 54,855,669 ordinary 5p shares were issued for a consideration of £55,765,415 resulting in a share 
premium of £49,889,432 after accounting for equity issue related costs of £3.1m. 54,137,236 shares were issued as a result of the rights 
issue in December 2014. 
(c) Share premium
£m 2016 2015
Balance at 1 September 55.2 5.3
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 4.0 49.9
Balance at 31 August 59.2 55.2
29. Reserves
(a) Demerger reserve
£m 2016 2015
At 1 September (280.1) (280.1)
At 31 August (280.1) (280.1)
This relates to reserves created following the capital re-organisation undertaken as part of the demerger of WH Smith PLC in 2006. The 
balance represented the difference between the share capital and reserves of the Group restated on a pro-forma basis as at 31 August 2004 
and the previously reported share capital.
(b) Own shares reserve 
£m 2016 2015
Balance at 1 September (4.1) (5.2)
Acquired in the period (1.5) (4.2)
Disposed of on exercise of options 2.1 5.3
Balance at 31 August (3.5) (4.1)
The reserve represents the cost of shares in Connect Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Smiths News Employee Benefit 
Trust to satisfy awards and options granted under the Group’s Executive Share Schemes (see Note 31). The number of ordinary shares held 
by the Trust at 31 August 2016 was 2,313,644 (2015: 2,807,124). Connect Group PLC
102
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
29. Reserves continued
(c) Hedging & translation reserve
£m 2016 2015
Balance at 1 September (0.5) (0.3)
Net movement in cash flow hedges (net of tax) (1.2) (0.6)
Amounts previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (Note 30) – 0.5
Exchange differences on translating net assets of foreign operations 0.6 (0.1) 
Balance at 31 August (1.1) (0.5)
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges. 
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the profit or loss only when the hedged transaction ceases 
to be effective.
30. Retained Earnings
£m
Balance at 1 September 2014 228.5
Total comprehensive income for the year 22.1
Reclassification between reserves (Note 29c) (0.5)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest (Note 13) (5.1)
Dividends paid (21.4)
Employee share schemes (5.3)
Equity-settled share based payments, net of tax 8.2
Balance at 31 August 2015 226.5
Total comprehensive income for the year 26.3
Dividends paid (22.7)
Employee share schemes (1.7)
Equity-settled share based payments, net of tax (2.2)
Balance at 31 August 2016 226.2
31. Share-based payments
The Group recognised total expenses of £1.7m in 2016 (2015: £8.0m) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. 
The average share price throughout the year was 156.7p (2015: 155.4p).
The Group operates the following share incentive schemes:
Sharesave Scheme Under the terms of the Connect Group Sharesave Scheme, the Board may grant options to purchase 
ordinary shares in the Company to eligible employees who enter into an HM Revenue & Customs 
approved Save-As-You-Earn (‘SAYE’) savings contract for a term of three or five years. Options are 
granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the shares on the day preceding the date of offer 
and are normally exercisable for a period of six months after completion of the SAYE contract.
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS) Under the terms of the Connect Group Executive Share Option Scheme, the Board may grant 
options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company to executives up to an annual limit of 
200% of base salary. The exercise of options is conditional on the achievement of a three year 
performance target, which is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant. 
Provided that the target is met, options are normally exercisable until the day preceding the 10th 
anniversary of the date of grant.
LTIP Under the terms of the Connect Group LTIP, executive directors and key senior executives may 
be awarded each year conditional entitlements to ordinary shares in the Company (in the form of 
nil cost options) or, in order to retain flexibility and at the Company’s discretion, a cash sum linked 
to the value of a notional award of shares up to a value of 200% of base salary. The vesting of 
awards is subject to the satisfaction of a three year performance condition, which is determined by 
the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant. Subject to the satisfaction of the performance 
condition, awards are normally exercisable until the 10th anniversary of the date of grant.
Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) Under the terms of the Connect Group Deferred Bonus Plan, executive directors and key senior 
executives may be granted each year share awards (in the form of nil cost options) dependent on 
the achievement of the Annual Bonus Plan and Economic Profit Plan performance targets. Awards 
are normally exercisable after two years subject to continued employment.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
103
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
31. Share-based payments continued
Details of the options/awards are as follows:
Sharesave ESOS LTIP DBP
Number of options/awards No of shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price No of shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price No of shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price No of shares
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
At 31 Aug 2014 2,627,338 118.9p 4,724,511 126.1p 2,051,191 – 941,385 –
Rights issue adjustment 246,099 – 447,170 – 223,335 – 97,697 –
Granted 1,315,652 128.4p 1,312,575 153.9p 818,203 – 517,016 –
Exercised (788,584) 76.3p (1,485,293) 86.9p (868,573) – (592,545) –
Expired/Forfeited (307,009) 128.8p (209,271) 167.5p (80,326) – (15,825) –
At 31 Aug 2015 3,093,496 123.3p 4,789,692 132.3p 2,143,830 – 947,728 –
Granted 1,009,060 128.6p 1,298,538 167.7p 870,725 – 636,656 –
Exercised (442,570) 79.6p (955,333) 104.9p (460,969) – (434,579) –
Expired/Forfeited (326,859) 132.0p (147,926) 162.3p (274,276) – – –
At 31 Aug 2016 3,333,127 129.9p 4,984,971 145.9p 2,279,310 – 1,149,805 –
Exercisable at 31 Aug 2016 544,303 120.9p 1,708,899 103.6p – – – –
Exercisable at 31 Aug 2015 363,920 73.0p 1,706,129 84.9p – – – –
The weighted average remaining contractual life in years of options/awards is as follows:
Sharesave ESOS LTIP DBP
Outstanding at 31 August 2016 2.2 7.4 8.5 1.8
Outstanding at 31 August 2015 2.4 7.4 8.2 1.7
Details of the options/awards granted or commencing during the current and comparative year are as follows:
Sharesave ESOS LTIP DBP
During 2016:
Effective date of grant or commencement date June 2016 Nov 2015 Nov 2015 Nov 2015
Average fair value at date of grant or scheme commencement – pence 33.6 27.1 160.0 163.5
During 2015:
Effective date of grant or commencement date June 2015 Dec 2014 June 2015 Nov 2014
Average fair value at date of grant or scheme commencement – pence 36.1 22.8 163.0 154.8
The options outstanding at 31 August 2016 had exercise prices ranging from nil to 210.3p (2015: nil to 210.3p).
The weighted average share price on the date of exercise was 162p (2015: 156p).
The sharesave and ESOS options granted during each period have been valued using the Black-Scholes model, the LTIP and DBP schemes 
are valued by reference to the share price at the date of grant.
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
Sharesave ESOS LTIP DBP
2016 options/awards:
Share price at grant date – pence 160.8 167.7 160.0 163.5
Exercise price – pence 128.6 167.7 – –
Expected volatility – per cent 33% 35% – –
Expected life – years 3.0 3.0 – –
Risk free rate – per cent 0.83% 1.38% – –
Expected dividend yield – per cent 6.0% 5.8% – –
Weighted average fair value – pence 33.6 27.1 – –
2015 options/awards:
Share price at grant date – pence 160.5 153.9 163.0 154.8
Exercise price – pence 128.4 153.9 – –
Expected volatility – per cent 35.0 34.0 – –
Expected life – years 3.0 3.0 – –
Risk free rate – per cent 1.56 1.27 – –
Expected dividend yield – per cent 6.0 6.3 – –
Weighted average fair value – pence 36.1 22.8 163.0 154.8 Connect Group PLC
104
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
32. Related party transactions
Transactions between businesses within this Group, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in 
this note.
Transactions with the Group’s pension schemes are disclosed in Note 6.
Trading transactions
Sales to related parties
Amounts owed  
by related parties
£m 2016 2015 2016 2015
Jointly controlled entities 2.9 3.2 0.8 0.6
Sales to related parties are for management fees, payment is due on the last day of the month following the date of invoice.
Non-trading transactions
Loans to related parties
£m 2016 2015
Jointly controlled entities 0.3 0.3
The loans to related parties have no set date for repayment and accrue interest at LIBOR + 2%.
Aggregate remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors and the executive management team, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out 
below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures.’
£m 2016 2015
Short term employee benefits 4.5 4.1
Share based payments 0.8 0.8
5.3 4.9
Information concerning directors’ remuneration, interest in shares and share options are included in the Remuneration Report on  
pages 49 to 63.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
105
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
33. Subsidiary and associated undertakings
Name
Country of 
incorporation/
 registration
Audit 
exemption
Proportion of 
ordinary share 
ownership interest 
Bertram Trading Limited England 100%
Bluebox Avionics Limited England 50%
Connect Books Limited England 100%
Connect Care Limited England 100%
Connect Education Limited England 100%
Connect Education & Care Limited England 100%
Connect Limited England 100%
Connect Logistics Limited England 100%
Connect News & Media Limited England 100%
Connect Parcels Limited England 100%
Connect Parcel Freight Limited England 100%
Connect Services Limited England 100%
Connect Specialist Distribution Group Limited England 100%
Connect 2U Limited England Yes 100%
Dawson Books Limited England 100%
Dawson Book Services Limited England Yes 100%
Dawson Espana Agencia de Ediciones SL Spain 100%
Dawson Finance Company Limited England 100%
Dawson France SAS France 100%
Dawson Guarantee Company Limited England 100%
Dawson Holdings Limited England Yes 100%
Dawson Iberica SRL Spain 100%
Dawson Limited England 100%
Dawson Media Direct Anonim Sirkeh Turkey 100%
Dawson Media Direct China Limited Hong Kong 100%
Dawson Media Direct Co., Ltd Thailand 100%
Dawson Media Direct GmbH Germany 100%
Dawson Media Direct Holdings Inc USA 100%
Dawson Media Direct Inc USA 100%
Dawson Media Direct Iberica SL Spain 100%
Dawson Media Direct Limited England 100%
Dawson Media Direct Middle East FZ LLC UAE 50%
Dawson Media Direct NV Belgium 100%
Dawson Media Direct SAS France 100%
DMD Holdings Limited UAE 100%
Erasmus Antiquariaat en Boekhandel B.V. Netherlands 100%
Erasmus Buchhandlung GmbH Germany 100%
FMD Limited* England 50%
Hammond Bridge Limited England Yes 100%
Hammond Bridge Trustees Limited England Yes 100%
Hedgelane Limited England 100%
Houtschild Internationale Buchhandlung B.V. Netherlands 100%
Jack’s Beans Limited England 100%
Magpie Investments Limited England 100%
Martin-Lavell Limited England Yes 100%
Open-Projects Limited England 50%
Pass My Parcel Limited England 100%
Phantom Media Limited England Yes 100%
Rascal Solutions Limited England 50%
Smiths News Holdings Limited England 100%
Smiths News Limited England 100%
Smiths News Instore Limited England Yes 100% Connect Group PLC
106
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
33. Subsidiary and associated undertakings continued
Name
Country of incorporation/
registration
Audit 
exemption
Proportion of 
ordinary share 
ownership interest 
Smiths News Investments Limited England 100%
Smiths News Trading Limited England 100%
Studentpacks Limited England 100%
Supply Zone Limited England 100%
The Big Green Euro Machine Limited England 100%
The Big Green Parcel Group Limited England Yes 100%
The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited England 100%
The Big Green Parcel Machine Limited England Yes 100%
The Consortium for Purchasing and Distribution Limited England 100%
The Consortium Limited England 100%
Tuffnells Parcels Express Limited England 100%
Wordery.com Limited England 100%
Worldwide Magazine Distribution Limited England 100%
Except as indicated above all companies are subsidiaries of Connect Group PLC. Bluebox Avionics Limited and Rascal Solutions Limited are 
joint controlled entities, for details of which refer to Note 15 to the Group accounts.
Audit exemption statement
For the year ended 31 August 2016, the companies as indicated in the table above were entitled to exemption from audit under section 479A 
of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies. The members of these companies have not required them to obtain an audit of 
their financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2016.
Notes to the accounts continued Connect Group PLC
107
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
12 months to
£m
31 August 
2016
31 August 
2015
31 August 
2014
31 August 
2013
31 August 
2012
Revenue 1,906.5 1,875.1 1,808.5 1,810.8 1,803.9
Operating profit before Exceptional items 67.7 63.8 55.5 56.4 51.2
Exceptional items (18.8) (27.5) (6.9) (10.8) (10.9)
Operating profit 48.9 36.3 48.6 45.6 40.3
Net finance charges (7.0) (7.3) (5.5) (6.5) (3.7)
Exceptional interest cost – – – (0.2) –
Profit before tax 41.9 29.0 43.1 38.9 36.6
Income tax expense (8.5) (7.6) (8.3) (10.2) (9.1)
Profit for the period 33.4 21.4 34.8 28.7 27.5
Statutory earnings per share
Basic 13.7p 9.3p 16.8p 14.2p 15.2p
Diluted 13.5p 9.0p 16.2p 13.3p 14.7p
Adjusted earnings per share
Basic – continuing operations 19.8p 19.7p 19.6p 19.0p 17.9p
Diluted 19.5p 19.0p 19.0p 17.8p 17.4p
Dividend per share 9.5p 9.2p 8.7p 8.4p 7.8p
Dividend paid (£m) 22.7 21.4 17.7 16.0 14.9
Leverage
Free cash flow 49.6 39.8 37.2 32.6 27.2
Operating cash flow 58.2 46.5 47.4 37.9 28.5
Total net debt (141.7) (153.4) (93.0) (98.5) (100.5)
Net debt/EBITDA (covenant 2.75x) 1.7 1.9 1.4 1.5 1.6
Interest cover (covenant 3.0x) 14.5 15.0 11.8 13.9 12.9
Fixed charge cover (covenant 2.0x) 3.1 3.4 4.7 5.3 4.9
Five-year financial summary (unaudited)
Group balance sheet
£m
31 August 
2016
31 August 
2015
31 August 
2014
31 August 
2013
31 August 
2012
Non-current assets 227.2 231.8 107.1 107.6 106.1
Current assets 190.7 200.2 193.8 181.4 170.0
Current liabilities (282.3) (282.0) (267.7) (283.0) (272.2)
Non-current liabilities (117.7) (134.8) (73.4) (60.1) (76.8)
Long term provisions (4.9) (6.0) (1.9) (2.8) (4.7)
Net assets/(liabilities) 13.0 9.2 (42.1) (56.9) (77.6)
Equity 71.5 67.4 14.8 10.4 9.8
Retained earnings 226.4 226.5 228.5 214.9 196.7
Other reserves (284.9) (284.7) (285.6) (282.2) (284.1)
Non-controlling interests in equity – – 0.2 – –
13.0 9.2 (42.1) (56.9) (77.6)
 
Five-year financial summary (unaudited)
Group income statement Connect Group PLC
108
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
£m Note 2016 2015
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 520.0 520.0
520.0 520.0
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 4 (293.7) (418.7)
Net assets 226.3 101.3
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 5 12.3 12.2
Share premium account 5(c) 59.2 55.2
Retained earnings 6 154.8 33.9
Total shareholders’ funds 226.3 101.3
These accounts were approved by the Directors on 18 October 2016.
Registered number – 05195191
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Mark Cashmore
Director
David Bauernfeind
Director
Company balance sheet
as at 31 August 2016 Connect Group PLC
109
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
£m
Share 
Capital
Share 
Premium
Retained 
earnings Total 
Balance at 31 August 2014 9.5 5.3 55.3 70.1
Dividend paid – – (21.4) (21.4)
Shares issued in the year 2.7 49.9 – 52.6
Balance at 31 August 2015 12.2 55.2 33.9 101.3
Profit for the year 68.6 68.6
Dividend paid – – (22.7) (22.7)
Dividends received from Group companies – – 75.0 75.0
Shares issued in the year 0.1 4.0 – 4.1
Balance at 31 August 2016 12.3 59.2 154.8 226.3
Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 August 2016 Connect Group PLC
110
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1. Accounting Policies
(a) Accounting convention
The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The company meets the definition 
of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, the financial 
statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS101 (Financial Reporting Standard 101) ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ 
as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The company has taken advantage of section 408 of the Companies Act not to present a profit and loss account and related notes. 
As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to 
presentation of a cash-flow statement and certain related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the remeasurement of certain financial instruments to fair 
value. The principal accounting policies adopted, are the same as those set out in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements except as 
noted below.
Investments in subsidiaries, and associates are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. 
The key significant judgement made in the accounts for the year ended 31 August 2016 is the carrying value of investments. The company 
annually reviews its investments for any indicators of impairment and makes provision as necessary.
(b) Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are individually valued at historical cost less provision for impairment in value.
(c) Financial liabilities and equities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
(d) Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
2. Result for the year
The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The result for the 
year attributable to shareholders, which is stated on an historical cost basis, was a profit of £143.6m There were no other recognised gains or 
losses. The dividend paid in the year is £22.7m (2015 £21.4m) (refer to Note 9 of the Group financial statements).
3. Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£m 2016 2015
Net book value:
At 1 September 520.0 520.0
At 31 August 520.0 520.0
An impairment of £142.9m has been recognised historically against the cost of these investments. Further information about subsidiaries, 
including disclosures about non-controlling interests, is provided in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements. 
4. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
£m 2016 2015
Amounts owed to Group companies 293.7 418.7
The amounts owed to Group companies are not considered to be repayable within five years. These balance are not interest bearing.
Notes to the company balance sheet Connect Group PLC
111
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
5. Called up share capital
£m 2016 2015
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each
At 1 September 12.2 9.5
Shares issued in the year 0.1 2.7
At 31 August 12.3 12.2
During the year to 31 August 2016, 2,606,751 ordinary 5p shares were issued. 2,164,181 were issued in relation to the satisfaction 
of deferred consideration to the former owners of The Big Green Parcel Holding Company Limited (Tuffnells). The remainder was issued 
to satisfy share scheme exercises. 
(b) Movement in share capital
Number (m)
Ordinary 
shares of 5p 
each
At 1 September 2015 244.1
Issued in the year 2.6
At 31 August 2016 246.7
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time-to-time and are entitled to one vote per share at the 
meetings of the Company. The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
(c) Share Premium
£m 2016 2015
Balance at 1 September 55.2 5.3
Shares issued in the year 4.0 49.9
Balance at 31 August 59.2 55.2
6. Reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
Balance at 1 September 33.9
Profit for the year 143.6
Dividend paid (22.7)
Balance at 31 August 154.8
7. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101 not to disclose transactions with Connect Group 
PLC companies and interests of the Group, which are related parties. Connect Group PLC
112
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Shareholder information
Company Secretary and registered office
Stuart Marriner, Connect Group PLC, Rowan House, Cherry Orchard 
North, Kembrey Park, Swindon, Wiltshire SN2 8UH.
Telephone 0845 128 8888.
Company website
Connect Group PLC Annual Reports and results announcements are 
available online at www.connectgroupplc.com. The investor section of 
our website provides a wide range of information about the Company 
including Annual Reports, regulatory news releases, share price data, 
financial calendar and a Shareholder Centre containing Annual General 
Meeting information and other useful shareholder information. 
Annual Report and Accounts
This Annual Report and Accounts is published on our website and 
has only been sent to those shareholders who have asked for a copy. 
Shareholders who have not requested a paper copy of the Annual 
Report and Accounts have been notified of its availability on 
the website.
A paper copy of the Annual Report and Accounts can be obtained by 
writing to the Company Secretary at the address listed above or you 
can e-mail your request to investor.relations@connectgroupplc.com.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at Rowan House, Cherry 
Orchard North, Kembrey Park, Swindon, Wiltshire SN2 8UH on 
Thursday 26 January 2017 at 11.30am. The Notice of AGM sets out 
the business to be transacted. Shareholders who wish to attend the 
meeting should detach the Attendance Card from the Proxy Form 
and present it at the registration desk on arrival.
Proxy Form
Shareholders unable to attend the AGM should complete a Proxy 
Form. To be effective, it must be completed and lodged with the 
Company’s Registrars, Equiniti, by not later than 11.30am on 
Tuesday 24 January 2017.
Electronic proxy voting
You may if you wish register the appointment of a proxy for the 
meeting electronically, by logging onto the website www.sharevote.
co.uk. Full details of the procedure are given on the website. You will 
need to have your Proxy Form to hand when you log on as it contains 
information which will be required. CREST members may appoint a 
proxy electronically via Equiniti (ID RA19). Electronic proxy voting 
instructions must be received by not later than 11.30am on Tuesday 
24 January 2017.
Registrars
If you have any enquiries about your shareholding in Connect Group 
PLC or wish to advise of a change of address, please contact Equiniti, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA 
(telephone 0371 384 2771
1
 or from outside the UK +44 (0) 121 415 
7565). A textphone facility for shareholders with hearing difficulties is 
available by telephoning 0371 384 2255
1
. In addition, Equiniti provides 
a range of shareholder information online at www.shareview.co.uk (to 
register for this service you will need your shareholder reference 
number which can be found on the Proxy Form).
1 Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding UK 
bank holidays.
Financial calendar
Financial year end 31 August 2016
Results announced 18 October 2016
Annual Report published 28 November 2016
Final dividend ex-dividend date 12 January 2017
Final dividend record date 13 January 2017
Annual General Meeting 26 January 2017
Final dividend payment date 10 February 2017
Half-year end 28 February 2017
Interim results announced April 2017
Interim dividend ex-dividend date June 2017
Interim dividend record date June 2017
Interim dividend payment date July 2017
Financial year end 31 August 2017
Results announced October 2017
For the dates of events in the second half of the financial 
calendar, please check the Connect Group PLC website at 
www.connectgroupplc.com nearer the relevant time for further 
details, and to ensure that no changes have been made.
The dividend dates shown above are in respect of the Company’s 
ordinary shares of 5p.
Share dealing service
The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, a telephone and 
internet share dealing service offered by Equiniti, to be made available 
to UK shareholders wishing to buy or sell the Company’s shares. For 
telephone dealing, you may call 03456 037 037 between 8.30am and 
4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder reference 
number shown on your share certificate.
ShareGIFT
If you only have a small number of shares which are uneconomic 
to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to charity under 
ShareGIFT, a charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation. A ShareGIFT transfer form may be obtained 
from Equiniti. Further information about the scheme can be found on 
the ShareGIFT website at www.sharegift.org.
Warning to shareholders (‘boiler room’ scams)
In recent years, like other companies, we have become aware of 
a small number of investors who have received unsolicited calls or 
correspondence, in some cases purporting to have been issued by 
us, concerning investment matters. These typically make claims of 
highly profitable opportunities in UK or US investments which turn 
out to be worthless or simply do not exist. These approaches are 
usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals and are 
commonly known as ‘boiler room’ scams. Investors are advised to 
be wary of any unsolicited advice or offers to buy shares. If it sounds 
too good to be true, it often is.
See the Financial Conduct Authority website www.fca.org.uk/
consumers/scams for more detailed information about this or 
similar activity.
 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will 
be included in Company mailings.  Connect Group PLC
113
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
UK Capital Gains Tax (CGT)
Rights Issue 17 December 2014
Shareholders who acquired shares
For the purposes of calculating any chargeable gains or losses, any 
ordinary shares you acquired as a result of the Rights Issue (at a price 
of 102p each) are treated as being acquired at the same time as your 
original holding of ordinary shares and the subscription cost added to 
the base cost of your original holding. 
Shareholders who sold or renounced their rights or who 
allowed their rights to lapse
If you sold any or all of your rights to subscribe for the ordinary 
shares provisionally allotted to you, or if you allowed your rights 
to lapse and received a cash payment in respect of them, if the 
proceeds were ‘small’ as compared with the market value (on the 
date of sale or lapse) of your existing holding of ordinary shares in 
respect of which the rights arose, you will not generally be treated as 
making a disposal for CGT purposes. Instead, the proceeds received 
should be deducted from the base cost of your existing holding of 
ordinary shares. HMRC current practice is to regard a sum as ‘small’ 
for these purposes where either; (i) the proceeds do not exceed 5% 
of the market value (at the date of sale or lapse) of the ordinary 
shares in respect of which the rights arose; or (ii) the sum received 
is £3,000 or less, regardless of whether the 5% test is satisfied.
If the proceeds you received were not ‘small’ the sale is treated as a 
disposal and, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses, you 
need to apportion the original base cost of your existing holding of 
ordinary shares between the sale proceeds and your existing holding 
of ordinary shares in the ratio of the sale proceeds divided by the sale 
proceeds plus the market value of your existing holding of ordinary 
shares (on the date of sale or lapse). Further guidance can be found 
on the HMRC website www.gov.uk/capital-gains-tax-share-
reorganisation-takeover-or-merger.
Demerger 31 August 2006
Following the demerger of new WH Smith PLC on 31 August 2006, 
in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the 
disposal of shares after 31 August 2006, the original tax base cost 
of your old WH Smith PLC ordinary shares of 2
13
/
81
p (adjusted if you 
held your shares at 24 September 2004 and 22 May 1998 to take 
into account the capital reorganisations of 27 September 2004 and 
26 May 1998 respectively (see below)) will have to be apportioned 
between the shareholdings of ordinary shares of 5p in the Company 
and ordinary shares of 22
6
/
67
p (or 20p if the disposal took place 
before 22 February 2008) in new WH Smith PLC in the ratio of 
0.30415 and 0.69585 respectively.
Capital reorganisation 27 September 2004
If your shares result from a holding of old WH Smith PLC shares 
acquired on or before 24 September 2004, in order to calculate any 
chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 
24 September 2004, the original tax base cost of your old WH Smith 
PLC ordinary shares of 55
5
/
9
p (adjusted if you held your shares as at 
22 May 1998 to take into account the capital reorganisation of 
26 May 1998 (see below)) will have to be apportioned between the 
shareholdings of ordinary shares of 2
13
/
81
p and ‘C’ shares resulting 
from the capital reorganisation.
The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 2
13
/
81
p is 
calculated by multiplying the original base cost of your ordinary 
shares of 55
5
/
9
p (adjusted where necessary to take into account the 
capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 referred to above) by 0.73979.
Capital reorganisation 26 May 1998
If your shares result from a holding of old WH Smith PLC shares 
acquired on or before 22 May 1998, in order to calculate any 
chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 
22 May 1998, the original tax base cost of your old WH Smith PLC 
ordinary shares of 50p will have to be apportioned between the 
shareholdings of ordinary shares of 55
5
/
9
p and redeemable ‘B’ 
shares resulting from the capital reorganisation.
The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 55
5
/
9
p is calculated 
by multiplying the original cost of your ordinary shares of 50p by 
0.90714.
March 1982 values
If your shares result from a holding of old WH Smith PLC shares 
acquired on or before 31 March 1982, the tax base cost to be used 
in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the 
disposal of shares is the 31 March 1982 base values per share 
as follows:
Arising from an original 
shareholding of  
old WH Smith PLC
‘A’ ordinary 
shares
‘B’ ordinary 
shares
Ordinary shares of 5p 26.93p 22.25p
WH Smith PLC ordinary shares of 22
6
/
67
p 61.62p 50.92p
If you have a complicated tax position, or are otherwise in doubt 
about your tax circumstances, or if you are subject to tax in a 
jurisdiction other than the United Kingdom, you should consult your 
professional adviser.  Connect Group PLC
114
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Connect Group PLC (the ‘Company’)
Connect Group PLC, registered in England and Wales with  
registered no. 5195191.
The Group
Collectively, Connect Group PLC and its subsidiaries.
Connect News & Media division
The businesses principally operated by the following subsidiaries 
of Connect Group PLC:
Smiths News
The news businesses operated by Smiths News Trading Limited 
comprising Smiths News, Instore, Jack’s Beans, Pass My Parcel and 
Newsworks.
Dawson Media Direct (or DMD)
The international media business operated by a number of UK and 
international subsidiaries.
Connect Books division
The businesses principally operated by the following subsidiaries 
of Connect Group PLC:
Bertrams
The books business operated by Bertram Trading Limited.
Dawson Books
The books business operated by Dawson Books Limited comprising 
Dawson Books and the eBook platform ‘Dawsonera’.
Houtschild and Erasmus
The international books businesses operated by Houtschild 
Internationale Boekhandel BV, Erasmus Antiquariaat en Boekhandel 
BV and Erasmus Buchhandlung GmbH.
Connect Education & Care division
The businesses principally operated by a subsidiary of  
Connect Group PLC:
The Consortium
The education and care business operated by The Consortium for 
Purchasing and Distribution Limited comprising of the business of  
The Consortium.
West Mercia Supplies
The education and care business operated by The Consortium for 
Purchasing and Distribution Limited comprising of the business of  
West Mercia Supplies.
Connect Parcel Freight division
The businesses principally operated by a subsidiary of  
Connect Group PLC:
Tuffnells
The parcel freight business operated by Tuffnells Parcels 
Express Limited.
Glossary of terms Connect Group PLC
115
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financials
Notes  Connect Group PLC
116
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Notes   Connect Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Connect Group PLC
Rowan House
Kembrey Park
Swindon
Wiltshire
SN2 8UH
United Kingdom
0845 128 8888
connectgroupplc.com
