 Annual Report and Accounts | 2016
Conviviality Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 A unique business with  
significant growth potential
The UK’s leading independent wholesaler and 
distributor of alcohol and impulse products serving 
consumers through its franchised retail outlets 
or through hospitality and food service.
The acquisitions of Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB 
Group have built on Conviviality’s significant strength 
in the UK drinks market to create a unique proposition 
for its customers and provide further growth potential 
in both the on-trade and off-trade markets. 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
1 2016 highlights
2 At a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
5 Our customers’ views
12 Our business model
13 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
19 Our markets
22 Our strategy
24  Our principal risks and uncertainties
26 Financial review
28 Key performance indicators
29  Corporate social responsibility report
Corporate governance
32 Board of Directors
34  Corporate governance report
36 Remuneration Committee report
42 Directors’ report
45  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
45  Auditor and disclosure of information 
to auditor
46 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
47 Consolidated income statement
48  C o n s o l i d ate d s t ate m e n t 
of financial position
49  C o n s o l i d ate d s t ate m e n t 
of changes in equity
50  Consolidated statement of cash flows
51  Notes to the financial statements
82 Company balance sheet
83  Co m p a n y s t a t e m e n t 
of changes in equity
84  Company statement of cash flows
85  Notes to the Company 
financial statements
89 Directors, secretary and advisors
Contents
 -  C om p l et e d t r a n s f or ma t i on a l 
acquisition of Matthew Clark 
on 7 October 2015
 -  New management team and 
organisational structure in place
 -  Acquired Peppermint on 31 December 
2015, which is performing in line 
with expectations
 -  Post year end, completed 
complementary acquisition 
of Bibendum PLB Group
 -  Integration plan ahead of 
expectations for both Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group
 -  Conviviality Retail, Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group have all 
traded well during the acquisition 
processes, and are in line 
with expectations
Find out more online 
conviviality.co.uk
Revenue £m
£864.5m
+137%
15 16 14
355.7
364.1
864.5
Adjusted EBITDA £m
£30.2m
+135%
15 16 14
12.4
12.9
30.2
Financial highlights Operational highlights
2016 highlights
Adjusted diluted EPS p
14.2p
+27%
15 16 14
11.6
11.2
14.2 2 Conviviality Plc
At a glance
Our strategic goal is to be the drink and impulse products sector’s leading 
specialist wholesaler and distributor to the on and off-trade by being 
the most knowledgeable and inspiring partner for our customers.
A full service brand and wine 
agency with activation capability 
including festivals and events. 
New products can be developed 
through the whole lifecycle 
and through to the on-trade 
and off-trade.
Conviviality at a glance
The UK’s largest independent 
wholesaler to the on-trade 
serving over 23,000 outlets 
from national prestige hotel 
chains to independent food-led 
pubs and restaurants.
The UK’s largest franchised off licence 
and convenience chain with 370 
Franchisees and more than 700 
retail stores trading primarily 
under the fascias of Bargain Booze, 
Bargain Booze Select Convenience 
and Wine Rack. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
3 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Conviviality supports its customers and Franchisees by helping them to tailor 
their ranges to meet their consumers’ needs and offering great value for money 
across an assortment of over 10,000 alcohol products, 4,500 impulse products 
and 1,900 tobacco products. Conviviality’s customers and Franchisees have the 
reassurance of high standards of service and support through the Company’s 
experienced teams and excellent availability through the nationwide 
distribution network.
37+29+9+25+g 37%
29%
9%
Sales mix %
 Wine  Spirits  Soft drinks  LBC
2
25%
16+15+15+31+23+g 16%
15%
31%
Sales mix %
 Wine  Spirits  ISD
1
  Tobacco  LBC
2
15%
23%
11+89+g 11%
Sales mix %
 Events and experiential   Agency
89%
1. Impulse products and soft drinks.
2. Lager, beer and cider.
York
Grantham
Crayford
Park Royal
Shefford
Bristol
Dundee
Bellshill
Glasgow
Boldon
Runcorn
Crewe
Newcastle-under-Lyme
Birmingham
Didcot
Reading
Southampton
Shepton Mallet
 Owned, stocked  Owned, not stocked  Third party 4 Conviviality Plc
Chairman’s statement
A transformational year
We have focused on creating a long-term sustainable 
business, resilient to market and economic challenges.
Over the past three years, we have focused 
on creating a long-term sustainable business 
resilient to market and economic challenges. 
I am pleased to report that with the 
acquisitions of Matthew Clark and Bibendum 
PLB Group, we have made significant progress 
in achieving that aim and have significantly 
strengthened our organisation, providing 
future growth opportunities for our people, 
our Franchisees, our customers and our 
suppliers. I am delighted to welcome our 
new colleagues from both Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group into our Group.
We have rapidly reconfigured the business 
to successfully integrate our acquisitions and 
added key Executives to lead the delivery of 
our business units and planned synergies. 
In November 2015 we welcomed Sallyann 
Brookes as Group People Director to help 
ensure that we have a common set of guiding 
principles behind the growth and development 
of our people. In January 2016 we welcomed 
Mark Aylwin as Managing Director of Conviviality 
Direct; Mark joined the business from Booker 
Group Plc, where he held the position of 
Managing Director Booker Direct, and was 
appointed to the Plc Board in May 2016. 
Nigel Basey joined the Group in March 2016 
as Group Logistics Director. Nigel joined from 
DHL and was previously at Homebase. On 6 
June 2016 James Lousada joined the Group 
as Managing Director of Conviviality Trading; 
James was previously the Chief Executive 
Officer of Carlsberg UK. David Robinson also 
joined the Group as Managing Director of 
Conviviality Retail on 1 July 2016 and was 
previously the Chief Operating Officer of Argos. 
The Directors believe that these appointments 
have significantly strengthened the senior 
management team and provide the expertise 
to achieve the forecast synergy benefits of 
integrating the acquired businesses, whilst 
driving future growth to ensure Conviviality Plc 
reaches its potential market scale. 
I am pleased to report that the business 
integration is progressing well and I remain 
positive about the future and the 
opportunities ahead. 
Conviviality is a robust business across both 
the on-trade and off-trade markets enabling 
it, as the UK’s largest wholesaler and distributor 
of alcoholic drinks and impulse products, and 
following the acquisitions of Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group, to benefit from 
increased volumes and reach across 
the market.
Reflecting both the progress of the business 
and the strong future prospects, the Board 
is pleased to recommend a final dividend 
of 7 .4 pence per share, increasing the total 
dividend for the year by 14% to 9.5 pence 
per share.
This is an exciting time to be part of Conviviality. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all of our Franchise partners, customers and 
all of our people working in the business for 
their outstanding efforts which together have 
made the success of the past year possible.
David Adams
Chairman
18 July 2016
Conviviality Plc is 
a robust business 
with balance across 
the on-trade and 
off-trade markets. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
5 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Customers are at the  
heart of the business
Conviviality’s breadth of range, national logistics operation and expertise in alcohol 
and impulse products enables it to provide the support, advice and service that its 
customers need across both the on-trade and off-trade.
Conviviality hosts regular meetings to offer 
an insight into how the business is run, as well 
as a chance to meet up with other Franchisees.
Meeting 
local needs
I’ve been a Franchisee for four years and run 
a Bargain Booze Select Convenience store in 
Brentwood, Essex. As this is a start-up business, 
Conviviality’s competitive prices and head office 
support have been invaluable. Prices are up to 
10% cheaper than the major supermarkets, and 
Conviviality hosts regular meetings to offer an 
insight into how the business is run, as well as 
a chance to meet up with other Franchisees. 
Innovation is really important to Conviviality too 
and all ideas are welcome. I recently suggested a 
change to my point-of-sale, which was taken on 
board and implemented by Bargain Booze across 
all stores.
The real draw for me though was the business’ 
approach to delivering a truly local service for my 
customers. Bargain Booze helps me to recognise 
my store’s potential USPs and put them into action 
to ensure no customer leaves the store disappointed.
The range of products available and access to 
hyper-local suppliers is fantastic. For instance, 
I stock local ales from Brentwood Brewery and 
locally sourced frozen pie and mash ready meals, 
which gives me an edge over my competitors. 
Following consistent year-on-year growth, I’m now 
looking to put this winning formula to good use in 
other communities by opening additional stores.
Mital Patel
Bargain Booze, Brentwood, Essex
Our customers’ views 6 Conviviality Plc
Striving 
for excellence
We love working with Bibendum because 
we believe relationships can take businesses 
further, and the way that Bibendum nourishes 
our relationship makes us feel we are working 
with friends who care about us and what we do.
Bibendum has always been proactive with 
ideas and has constantly helped us with 
insightful data and advice.
Bibendum has a great customer service 
team and account management team that 
are always willing to ensure we get the best. 
Over the years Bibendum has listened to our 
feedback and is constantly improving to give 
us the best options for our business.
Tomas Maunier
Fazenda
Supporting customers 
to grow their businesses
As a property landlord and an owner of other businesses, 
I’m always looking for ways to expand and take on new 
challenges. Bargain Booze is a household name and so 
it represented an opportunity to diversify my business 
portfolio and start to build my retail experience.
Conviviality’s full support package, including local and 
national marketing, came highly recommended by friends 
who were already Bargain Booze Franchisees. It’s this 
proposition that has helped me to develop quickly and 
efficiently, opening five successful Bargain Booze stores 
in only 18 months.
Bargain Booze has a real family feel to it and Franchisees 
are placed at the heart of the business. We’re invited to 
meetings at head office to get to know each other, discuss 
store performance and hear about Conviviality’s latest 
innovations to help grow our businesses.
All feedback is taken into consideration and you can easily 
pick up the phone or send a quick email to the senior team at 
Conviviality for guidance – nothing is too much trouble for them. 
I also turn to other Franchisees for advice, whether at meetings, 
on the phone, or via the online franchisee forum, Fuse.
Paul Walker
Bargain Booze, Warrington
Bibendum has a great customer service 
team and account management team that 
are always willing to ensure we get the best. 
Our customers’ views continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
7 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Working 
in partnership
Traditionally we were hoteliers. We started 
off with Cadbury House Hotel in 2003 and 
started our association with Matthew Clark 
shortly after this, working with a local 
Account Manager, Kerry.
We built our portfolio up to 12 hotels, 
which we owned, managed or had 
invested in. Constantly reviewing our 
business made us aware of a gap in our 
trading within our hotels. Some of our 
restaurants were two rosettes within four 
star hotels, but we weren’t making any 
money. We needed to find a solution to 
this, and after reviewing various ideas 
and options we were introduced to 
Marco Pierre White, which led to our first 
collaboration where we converted three 
of our restaurants into Marco Pierre White 
Steakhouse Bar & Grills. That’s where 
our journey really started!
As we were putting it into our seventh hotel 
restaurant, we realised there was a bigger 
opportunity to pursue the branded 
franchise model with restaurants, not 
unlike IHG had done with hotels. 
We bought the master franchise business 
and in partnership with Marco we become 
the franchisor. We built our portfolio of 
restaurants up externally and quickly 
passed the 20 mark. We increased our 
investment and, working closely with our 
supply partners which included Matthew 
Clark, we drew up plans to escalate the 
development of the business across 
additional brands including New York 
Italian, Mr White’s Chophouse and our 
newest brand, Bardolino’s, along with other 
embryonic brands that are currently in the 
development pipeline.
We are a very loyal company and we 
don’t chop and change our partners, 
and we consider Matthew Clark a partner 
not just a supplier. It’s been a ten year 
journey developing our business and 
Matthew Clark has been there with us all 
the way as we travelled along this road. 
You have to work together. We have 
relationships with many other suppliers 
which are nothing like as strong as our 
relationship with Matthew Clark. Matthew 
Clark is the biggest relationship; it’s the 
strongest one we have. We are sitting on 
a board with Marco Pierre White, we are 
experts in food, but I think the beverage 
side of the business is a lot different, and 
I think that’s where we have always needed 
the support. Through working with the 
Matthew Clark team, I think we get the 
right advice and support to help us keep 
on trend and moving in the right direction. 
When we ask for things they happen very 
quickly, but it’s about surrounding yourself 
with experts, and with Matthew Clark as 
our partners, we make better decisions 
and save time and money by getting our 
ranging and marketing activity right 
first time. 
We work together as a joint team to 
continually develop and evolve the right 
ranges of wines and other drinks for each 
of our restaurant brands. I consider our 
Matthew Clark team as part of our Black 
and White team, and a part of our 
Head Office. 
To sum up our relationship, Matthew Clark 
has some fantastic people. People stay 
with you, and are loyal to the business, if 
you cut one of your team they would bleed 
Matthew Clark, and I love that, as it’s so 
aligned with our own culture at Black 
and White Ltd. I have not met anyone 
at Matthew Clark who does not have 
that mentality. 
You keep good, high quality people, and 
I love seeing people grow, you promote 
from within and that’s something I strive 
for in my business and a lot of my people 
have been with me for well over ten years 
in my different companies. In Matthew 
Clark you don’t chop and change people, 
and that allows us to learn things together 
and have life experiences together and we 
all become stronger, and it makes for 
a great working relationship. 
Our teams know how each other work, 
and this knowledge, which comes with 
longevity, helps to create loyalty from us, 
and I’m sure it’s the same with many 
of your other customers. 
It’s this continuity and one team attitude 
that is really important to us, and helps 
to sustain the true partner relationship.
Nick Taplin
CEO of Black and White Hospitality Ltd
We work together 
as a joint team to 
continually develop 
and evolve the right 
ranges of wines and 
other drinks for each of 
our restaurant brands. 8 Conviviality Plc
Delivering  
efficient service
I’m officially one of Bargain Booze’s longest serving 
Franchisees, and I’ve enjoyed every moment of 
working with the company over the last 16 years. 
As the owner of multiple franchises, I run 19 stores 
alongside my brother and son and have two more 
stores in the pipeline. This might seem daunting, but 
Conviviality’s broad range of support means I don’t 
have to think about the back-office administration 
associated with many other small businesses. 
In addition to terrific retail offers for my customers, 
all the buying, marketing and point-of-sale tasks are 
taken care of at head office, allowing me to be more 
efficient with my time on the shop floor. It also frees 
me up to support local community and charity 
initiatives, which is vital for a local business like ours.
When it comes to Conviviality’s efficiency, the best 
thing about the business is its fantastic delivery 
service. I order stock tailored to suit local customer 
demand, and it’s delivered on time and in good 
condition every time.
Doug McQueen
Bargain Booze, Liverpool
A strategic supplier
Hilton Worldwide is a leading global hospitality company operating over 
4,600 hotels, across 13 world class brands, in 102 countries. Our priority is to 
ensure our guests experience the highest quality products and environment 
and the best value. This is paramount to our everyday and a key factor to 
achieving this is based on the supplier partners we work with.
Matthew Clark, as a strategic supplier for beverages to our UK hotel estate, 
provides the expertise and consistency of service that we can rely on. 
Through our business relationship we recognise Matthew Clark as a 
leading example in providing quality, value and efficiency to our business.
Paul Farrow
Vice President Supply Management EMEA, Hilton Worldwide
The best thing about the business 
is its fantastic delivery service.
Matthew Clark, as a strategic supplier for 
beverages to our UK hotel estate, provide 
the expertise and consistency of service 
that we can rely on.
Our customers’ views continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Combining entrepreneurs 
and big business thinking
When I opened the store nearly 14 
years ago, I was looking for a change in 
direction and knew someone who had 
left their job to open a successful 
Bargain Booze store. The Bargain 
Booze franchise model made it very 
easy to both start and run the business 
myself. Since I’ve been part of the 
group, they’ve implemented a whole 
host of innovations, both in terms of 
logistics and store development. The 
new fascia and LED signage look 
fantastic, and the newly launched 
stock delivery system has made the 
process quick, easy and stress-free.
Conviviality provides support across 
the board and is forward-thinking and 
Franchisee-friendly. It really feels as if 
head office is invested in the success 
of individual Franchisees and, 
over the years, I’ve been impressed 
with the team’s professionalism and 
responsiveness. I enjoy the relative 
autonomy of being self-employed and 
also the people-facing nature of the 
role. As well as getting to know our 
regular customers, we are all really 
passionate about exploring ways 
to support the community.
The various financial incentive 
schemes Conviviality offers have been 
a great reward for all our hard work, 
also acknowledged by the North West 
“Store of the Year” status we achieved 
this year.
Anita Mansley
Bargain Booze, Manchester
Conviviality provides 
support across the board 
and is forward-thinking 
and Franchisee-friendly. 
Innovative 
approach 
to success
Over the last 12 months Peppermint 
has continued to do what it does best. 
Summer 2016 kicked off with events such 
as the Queen’s Birthday Celebration on 
the Mall, the launch of the London Riviera 
bars on the Southbank and Barclaycard 
British Summer Time at Hyde park with 
almost half a million visitors over six days. 
Working in partnership with Bargain Booze, 
Peppermint have successfully delivered the 
first ever festival click and collect service, 
which was launched at the Isle of Wight 
festival with a resounding success. 
Peppermint’s agency business, Equals, has 
won a contract with Moet and Chandon 
to activate at various festivals and events 
across the summer. Peppermint has 
further grown its event ATM business with 
investment in new machines and brand 
new technology, sealing a major contract 
win with the UK’s largest festival business, 
Festival Republic.
Adam Hempenstall
Peppermint 10 Conviviality Plc
Making it easier 
for customers
As a pharmacist I had plans to open 
a pharmacy, but I was discouraged by 
the red tape. Bargain Booze had been 
recommended to me by my financial 
advisor, and I was given the telephone 
number of a Franchisee to arrange a store 
visit. The Franchisee (Manish Parekh) spoke 
of Bargain Booze with high regard. He had 
been an engineer and wanted a change in 
career which allowed him more freedom to 
spend time with family. He mentioned the 
wide range of products, the freedom to run 
the business the way he wanted and most 
importantly, the strong support network 
at hand. 
I got in touch with the regional Business 
Manager, Gary Kemp, and we arranged a 
meeting. He told me that Bargain Booze 
was looking to grow in the south of England 
so my timing was perfect. I had already 
found a potential site for my shop and just 
needed a strong brand to support me. 
Gary guided me every step of the way with 
every aspect of the business and I always 
felt there was a network of people who 
were ready to help at any point. All this and 
before I even had a store! The team helped 
me with the legal aspects surrounding 
personal and premises licences, provided 
till training and merchandised the shop so 
that every inch of space was maximised. 
The team at head office is on hand to 
offer guidance and advice on anything 
and everything, including administration 
jobs such as tax returns. I had a visit at 
short notice from the tax office and all it 
took was a phone call to head office for 
all the required invoices to be sent in an 
email…easy.
The product range is reviewed regularly 
to ensure my customers have access to 
new and exciting products all the time, 
and I can tweak the choices in my store 
to reflect local demand. My Area Manager 
makes regular visits and offers advice on 
how to grow the business. Currently we are 
looking at expanding our soft drinks chiller 
as the weekly reports show that there is 
room for growth in this department. I am 
often too busy running the shop to review 
these reports so I appreciate feedback 
on where we can improve.
Developing a partnership with Bargain 
Booze made it much easier for me to set 
up my own business and continues to help 
my store flourish. I’m currently looking to 
expand in central London with a second 
store in the near future.
Jimmy Tun
Bargain Booze, Bermondsey
Developing a 
partnership with 
Bargain Booze made 
it much easier for 
me to set up my 
own business and 
continues to help 
my store flourish.
Proud to be  
part of the family
We began working with Catalyst Brands in 2014 having tried to grow 
our UK business for a number of years without success. Through a 
strong partnership plan with Catalyst Brands and Matthew Clark we 
have seen phenomenal growth with sales increasing 20-fold while 
growing distribution in high quality venues at a premium price. 
This is the fastest growth we have seen from any market globally 
and we are proud to be part of the Conviviality family!
Sandro Bottega
Owner and Chief Executive Officer, Bottega Spa, Italy
Our customers’ views continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
11 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Quality 
and service
AEG has enjoyed a partnership with Bibendum since 
2011. During this time, we have worked together to 
enhance the profile of wine across the entire venue 
- particularly in our VIP offering.
From suggesting suitable wine pairings at our suite 
holder food tastings to bringing relevant and engaging 
wine tasting sessions to our VIP licence holders, their 
input and recommendations are always highly trusted 
and appreciated.
We recognise that coming to The O2 is a special occasion 
to our customers, and appearing knowledgeable about 
our menu is important to us. Over the years, Bibendum 
has provided our staff with valuable training, giving the 
serving staff confidence to interact further with our 
customers and provide a better service in our bars. 
The team at Bibendum has always been supportive 
and open to exploring new ways to connect with our 
arena audiences.
Last year we launched NY-LON at The O2, a premium 
lounge from our dual airline partners Virgin Atlantic 
and Delta Air Lines. Bibendum advised the lounge 
operator, Levy, on a suitable wine menu and went over 
and above what was required by arranging the bar 
display in a way that looked appealing and promoted 
good quality, relevant products.
Despite our agreement being based on wine supply, 
our catering partner, Levy, orders the majority of its 
other stock (champagne, spirits, etc.) for The O2 
through Bibendum, which speaks volumes around 
the quality of service received. It’s a great relationship, 
and one we hope continues to grow in the future.
Suzi Arkley
AEG
Aligned goals
Since beginning our relationship with Catalyst brands (the premium 
brand distribution division of Conviviality Plc) in 2012, we agreed to 
several goals. This included launching into retail, continued growth in 
restaurants and hotels, and geographic expansion outside of London. 
Our combined efforts have resulted in doubling VOSS volume, and 
the outlook, given the brand’s momentum, continues to be hugely positive.
Jack Belsito
Chief Executive Officer, VOSS Water
It’s a great 
relationship, 
and one we 
hope continues 
to grow in 
the future. 12 Conviviality Plc
Our business model
A uniquely connected 
business model
With a business spanning retail outlets, pubs, restaurants, hotels, nightclubs, 
festivals and sporting events, Conviviality provides its 2,600 people with 
exciting and rewarding opportunities to develop their careers.
“Our strategic goal is to be the drinks and impulse products sector’s leading specialist wholesaler and distributor 
to the on and off-trade by being the most knowledgeable and inspiring partner for our customers.”
“Our aim is to influence every consumer drinking occasion, providing knowledge and insight to our customers, 
enabling them to tailor range and assortment to meet consumer needs by format, venue and location.”
Wine producers & importers Drinks suppliers Tobacco & convenience suppliers
Our customers Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
13 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
A business with the skills 
and expertise to help 
our customers, suppliers 
and Conviviality grow
We have successfully completed a transformational 
year for our business and our strong results reflect 
our transition to being the UK’s leading independent 
alcohol and impulse products wholesaler and distributor 
serving consumers through our franchised retail outlets 
or through hospitality and food service.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Overview
Conviviality Plc has reconfigured its 
business, building on its significant 
strength and expertise in the UK drinks 
market, providing the Group with further 
growth potential in both the on and 
off-trade markets. This directly fulfils the 
Group’s mission to satisfy all customers 
who want to drink alcoholic beverages 
at home or out of the home, whatever 
the occasion: serving customers directly 
via retail outlets or indirectly through 
hospitality and food service. The Group’s 
aim is to be the drink and impulse products 
sector’s leading specialist wholesaler and 
distributor to the on and off-trade and to 
be the most knowledgeable and inspiring 
partner for our customers and Franchisees. 
As a result, Conviviality is able to provide 
suppliers with unparalleled market access, 
insight and capabilities to develop brands 
in the UK and beyond. 
Conviviality is independent of major drinks 
brands and therefore able to supply an 
unrestricted selection of products whilst 
providing expertise in key categories to 
customers who value breadth of range 
whilst offering a compelling route to market 
for suppliers to access both the on and 
off-trade retailers. As the retail environment 
becomes more complex, Conviviality, 
through its expertise, is able to provide 
its valued customers with the solutions 
they need from distribution, ranging 
and merchandising, and marketing.
The acquisition of Matthew Clark on 
7 October 2015 and the subsequent 
acquisition of Bibendum PLB Group post 
year end on 20 May 2016 resulted in pro 
forma combined revenues for the enlarged 
Group of over £1.4 billion. Bibendum PLB 
Group will provide the Group with additional 
wine expertise, access to the premium 
on-trade, particularly in London, and 
significant capability in consumer 
insights across the alcohol sector.
The increased scale enhances our ability 
to reach more customers across both the 
on and off-trade markets and therefore 
we have become more attractive to our 
suppliers, allowing us to secure better trade 
terms. In addition there is further potential 
to realise organisational, distribution and 
revenue synergies from the acquired 
businesses as we share resources.  14 Conviviality Plc
Overview continued
By strengthening our position in the 
sector, we have developed excellent 
collaboration between our suppliers 
and our buying teams. More than 400 
suppliers are now working with the 
Group. The full offering that is available 
to Conviviality customers spans across 
10,000 alcohol lines, 1,900 tobacco lines 
and 4,500 convenience food lines. 
Conviviality has an unrivalled range of 
premium bottled ales with 250 lines; the 
spirits range has over 2,500 lines with 
more than 300 gins; and we have a range 
of 6,500 wines. This year across the Group 
we have been recognised for the hard 
work of our buying teams, winning “Drinks 
Buying Team of the Year” at the Drinks 
Awards 2016 and “Fine Wine Merchant 
of the Year” at the Sommelier awards.
Financial results
An important aspect of our business model 
is its flexibility, protecting our earnings 
through periods of significant change in 
our organisation and a competitive external 
environment. We have continued to deliver 
against our objectives set out at flotation 
in July 2013 and are pleased to report profits 
slightly ahead of expectations, during a year 
where we have significantly transformed 
our business. For the 53 weeks to 1 May 2016 
revenue was up 137% to £864.5m reflecting 
the benefit of the Matthew Clark acquisition 
from 7 October, as such, adjusted EBITDA 
increased 135% to £30.2m and adjusted PBT 
increased 124% to £21.7m, demonstrating the 
significant strength of the combined Group. 
Adjusted fully diluted EPS is up 27% to 
14.2 pence. The acquisition of Matthew Clark 
resulted in an increase of net debt; however, 
this is currently at £86.1m which is below 
consensus expectations. The full-year 
dividend has increased 14% to 9.5 pence 
per share in line with our progressive 
dividend policy and reflecting underlying 
confidence in the outlook for the Group.
Organisation
Conviviality has changed the structure 
of its core businesses by putting in place 
three business units to ensure operational 
focus on each channel and the continued 
delivery of excellent service to its customers:
Conviviality Retail: The UK’s largest 
franchised off-licence and convenience 
chain with over 370 Franchisees and more 
than 700 retail stores trading primarily under 
the fascias of Bargain Booze, Bargain Booze 
Select Convenience and Wine Rack.
Conviviality Direct: The UK’s largest 
independent wholesaler to the on-trade, 
serving over 23,000 outlets from national 
prestige hotel chains to independent 
food-led pubs and restaurants trading 
through two businesses, Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum.
Conviviality Trading: A full service 
brand and wine agency with activation 
capability including festivals and events 
where new products and brands can be 
developed through the whole lifecycle 
and through to the on and off-trade.
In addition Conviviality has created 
a Group support function comprising 
logistics, finance, IT, legal and human 
resources to support each business unit, 
focusing on delivering expertise and 
removing duplication of task.
Organisation
Conviviality is organised in three business units and a Group support function:
Agency  
businesses
Events 
and experiential
Franchised  
retail
On-trade  
wholesale
Premium on-trade 
wholesale
Group Support: Logistics, Finance, IT, Legal and Human Resources
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
15 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
David Robinson joined the Group on 
1 July 2016 as Managing Director of 
Conviviality Retail. During the year Franchisee 
like for like retail sales improved to (1.3%), 
reflecting the strategy to improve the quality 
of the estate and strengthen perceptions 
of the fascia and brands. We reported in 
the 2015 Annual Report that in the last 
two years the Group embarked on a major 
restructure of the Franchisee base and 
that the programme had been completed, 
arresting the number of closures and 
successfully building a pipeline of openings. 
It is therefore pleasing to report that during 
the year the number of store closures 
decreased to 34, almost half the prior year, 
and the number of stores increased by 15% 
to 716, ahead of plan. 38 Franchisees joined 
the Group and the number of stores owned 
by multi-site Franchisees increased by 42% 
to 364, a strong indication of the benefits 
of our model to independent businesses. 
The Company’s 370 Franchisees are local 
people, employing local people, and are 
passionate about their customers and 
the communities in which they trade. 
Our Franchisees make a real difference in 
their local communities through a relentless 
focus on meeting consumer needs, providing 
a unique customer experience. By operating 
at the heart of their communities they play 
a key role in re-energising their locality, their 
stores are exciting and energising places 
to shop, and their people serve with care, 
consideration and great responsibility. 
The Conviviality Retail pricing policy is 
to be everyday low promotionally priced. 
On average across our off-licence range we 
have maintained competitiveness in spite 
of the heavy discounting in the market. 
Value and consistent pricing are important 
to our customers and they appreciate the 
transparency of our pricing strategy, which 
in turn increases customer loyalty. 
The Conviviality Retail Strategy is to:
 - Strengthen the relationship with 
Franchisees to drive sustainable 
and profitable growth 
 - Attract quality new Franchisees 
and generate growth from within
 - Strengthen the Bargain Booze brand, 
Select Convenience and Wine Rack 
fascias by driving awareness 
and broadening their appeal 
to new shoppers
 - Build credibility and capability 
in wine to attract new more 
affluent customer groups
 - Undertake complementary 
acquisitions to drive long-term value 
and expand into new territories using 
a mix of fascias and formats
 - To be recognised as the suppliers’ 
strategic partner of choice for the 
off-licence and convenience channel
 - Leverage wholesale capability 
into new markets
It is also pleasing that Wine Rack continues 
to perform well. During 2016 we opened 
three new Wine Rack locations in Ascot, 
Wilmslow and Yarnton. Wine Rack’s like for 
like performance is up 3.2%, reflecting the 
importance of a specialist wine and spirits 
proposition on the high street. Six of our 
Wine Rack stores are now managed by 
existing Franchisees of the Group. 
Our offer to potential new Franchisees is 
increasingly compelling, enabling them to 
compete effectively and generate solid 
profits. Our core model is predicated by 
Franchisee loyalty and commitment to 
upholding the values of our brands. This, 
combined with the high standards that we 
set, help deliver our differentiated “local 
customer experience”. We have some of 
the highest levels of loyalty in the sector 
with our retail/wholesale ratio at 96.6%. 
Franchisees have seen the potential to 
improve their profits by over £6,000 per 
year, compared to two years ago, through 
a consistent improvement in retail margin 
and the benefits of our award-winning 
Franchisee share scheme. The scheme 
enables Franchisees to be awarded up 
to 3,500 shares per store for achieving 
annual standards targets. Conviviality 
Retail actively rewards Franchisee loyalty 
and compliance; this year 1.3m shares 
will be allocated and to date over £3.6m 
has been awarded through the over rider 
scheme to our Franchisees. 
Conviviality Retail
David Robinson
Managing Director Conviviality Retail 16 Conviviality Plc
Mark Aylwin, who joined the business 
in January 2016, has been appointed 
Managing Director Conviviality Direct 
and is responsible for Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum, the specialist wholesalers 
to the on-trade. Since the acquisition, 
Matthew Clark revenues have increased 
4.9% to £497m (corresponding prior 
period £474m) on a like for like basis. 
The number of outlets has increased 
by 2.9% and adjusted EBITDA is up 
18% to £18.1m. 
The integration of Matthew Clark is 
ahead of schedule with a full leadership 
team in place. Matthew Clark affords a 
range of over 7,000 alcohol lines to over 
6,000 customers and serves over 19,000 
outlets. Matthew Clark offers a one-stop 
solution to hotels, restaurants, bars and 
venues for their alcohol needs delivering 
next day consistent service nationwide. 
The Conviviality Direct Strategy is focused on:
 - Communicating the unique Direct 
proposition clearly to target 
customers and strategic partners 
in the on-trade
 - Strengthening the position as a 
centre of expertise in wine and at 
the forefront of range innovation, 
particularly in world beers and spirits 
in the dynamic drinks sector
 - Leveraging scale and reach to 
become the most competitive 
wholesaler in the drinks market
 - Growing the number of food-led 
outlets served and the mix of 
products across each outlet
 - Growing share in major cities and 
inner urban areas through a superior 
service proposition
 - Developing the tools and 
capabilities to ensure we provide the 
most value-adding customer service 
in the market
Matthew Clark is based in Bristol, 
where its support centre is located, and 
its sales force of over 230 employees are 
based across Scotland, the North, Central 
and South West, London and the South 
East, ensuring excellent service to its 
independent free trade customers. 
Matthew Clark has a 41 strong sales team 
to support its National Account business. 
The sales team has up-to-date information 
on industry sales trends, new product 
information and pricing and is able to 
recommend new or popular products 
to customers to help them optimise the 
breadth of products offered. Conviviality’s 
nationwide distribution network of 18 depots 
ensures customers benefit from a nationwide 
next day delivery service and timed 
delivery slots.
Conviviality Direct’s other trading business, 
Bibendum, affords a range of over 4,000 
wines, with strength in old world wines 
sourced from over 300 suppliers, some with 
exclusive distribution, across 20 different 
countries. Bibendum has significant skill 
and expertise in wine, providing excellent 
training to all of its team and support to 
its 3,500 strong customer base by advising 
them on the right ranges to meet their 
specific customer needs. Bibendum is 
based in London with a sales force of 109 
around the country. Consumer insight is 
a key strength of the Bibendum business 
and in turn its demographic profiling and 
ranging capability is valued by its customer 
base. The new Plonk app, which helps 
customers learn about wine whilst also 
sharing their wine and food experiences 
and favourites, is an exciting development 
from the team.
Bibendum PLB Group acquired Walker 
& Wodehouse in 2014. Walker & Wodehouse 
focuses on supplying independent wine 
merchants and regional wholesalers with a 
number of exclusive products and producers. 
The business is separate and distinct from 
Matthew Clark and Bibendum Wine in 
the on-trade. Whilst this is a small part 
of Conviviality it is building the business’ 
skills and capabilities in independent 
specialist wholesale.
Conviviality Direct
Mark Aylwin
Managing Director Conviviality Direct
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
17 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
James Lousada joined the Company as 
Managing Director of Conviviality Trading 
on 6 June 2016 formerly holding the role 
of CEO at Carlsberg UK. Conviviality 
Trading brings together PLB, Instil and 
Catalyst Brands, three specialist brand 
agency businesses, each with significant 
expertise in their respective categories. 
PLB was founded in 1982 and is a 
consolidator of wine suppliers and 
in turn manages the supply of wine to 
the off-trade, incorporating Bibendum 
Wine’s off-trade offering. PLB sells more 
than 9m nine-litre cases of wine per 
annum to the UK retail trade including 
high street retailers, specialists and 
supermarkets, and it has built a reputation 
for significant expertise in wine, brand 
and innovation. PLB’s supply base covers 
Europe, the Americas, Australasia and 
South Africa; its portfolio includes 
prestigious brands such as Blason de 
Bourgogne, Catena, Plaimont, Banfi and 
Kautz. PLB has capabilities in consumer 
insight, sourcing, ranging and supply that 
can add significant value to its customers 
by reducing the complexity of the wine 
category in large multiple national chains.
Instil Drinks Co is a brand agency business 
acting for brand owners to increase distribution 
of beer and spirits brands (for example 
Estrella Galicia) to both the on-trade and 
off-trade. Instil has significant expertise 
in the beer category, adding value to its 
customers through its understanding of 
world beers, craft beers and local and 
regional ranging.
Catalyst Brands is an agency acting for 
spirits and wine brand owners to increase 
distribution of brands to both the on-trade 
and the off-trade. Catalyst Brands includes 
Bottega wines and Prosecco, J&B Scotch 
whisky, Larios gin and VOSS water. 
In addition to the agency business, 
Conviviality Trading is also responsible 
for the development and growth of new 
business areas including Peppermint and 
Wondering Wine Co, which are both 
specialists in outdoor events and festivals, 
and Elastic, a brand activation agency 
that provides support and insight to many 
of Conviviality’s branded supply base.
Peppermint is an outdoor event bar 
operator with significant expertise in large 
scale events and festivals such as the 
Henley Regatta, the Isle of Wight Festival, 
Barclaycard British Summer Time and 
Bestival. In December 2015 Conviviality 
acquired 61% of the share capital of 
Peppermint Bars and Events Limited 
for a total consideration of £8.0m (£1.8m 
cash and £6.2m contingent consideration). 
Conviviality is committed to acquire the 
remaining 39% in the year ending April 2020 
or April 2021 based on EBITDA in the year 
ending April 2019 or April 2020. 
Wondering Wine Co is a premium 
outdoor bar operator formed as part 
of Bibendum PLB Group. The business 
complements the work of Peppermint and 
the Company expects to see growth of 
Wondering Wine Co through its association 
with the Peppermint business.
Elastic is a marketing agency focused 
on experiential promotional campaigns 
to launch or re-launch brands, utilising 
data to directly measure the impact of 
the promotional campaigns. Conviviality 
works closely with branded suppliers, 
many of whom not only want to increase 
distribution of brands but also build new 
brands or reinvigorate brands. Elastic has 
significant expertise in the drinks sector and 
as such supports many of Conviviality’s 
suppliers with brand activation.
Conviviality Trading’s key strategic aims 
are to:
 - Become the market leader and centre 
of expertise in wine sourcing, ranging, 
merchandising and activation 
providing its key customers with 
unrivalled service to meet their 
customer needs by format 
and location 
 - Develop a one-stop service for drinks 
brands leveraging distribution, sales, 
agency, marketing and event 
capabilities
 - Be at the forefront of range innovation 
in the dynamic drinks sector
 - Become recognised as the suppliers’ 
strategic partner of choice in the 
on-trade 
Group
The Group functions comprise wine buying, 
logistics, finance, legal, IT and human 
resources all of which provide the expertise 
and support to each of the business units, 
removing duplication and in turn enabling 
the business units to focus directly on serving 
their customers and working in partnership 
with their suppliers. The 18 depots nationwide 
are managed through the Group logistics 
function, driving best practice and 
efficiencies and ensuring that each and 
every customer and Franchisee receives 
consistent service and support across 
every outlet.
Conviviality Trading
James Lousada
Managing Director Conviviality Trading 18 Conviviality Plc
Operational efficiencies
With the greater scale of the Group there 
is the potential to realise lower costs 
through buying and distribution and 
improved organisational efficiency. A clear 
integration plan has been established to 
ensure the benefits of both the Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group acquisitions are 
achieved. By buying the two businesses in 
relatively close succession the Company is 
able to simplify the integration process 
particularly in the areas of logistics and IT. 
The key benefit areas are detailed as follows:
Buying benefits
There is overlap between suppliers and 
products across Conviviality and Matthew 
Clark and also Bibendum PLB Group. As a 
result, the Group expects buying benefits 
through pricing and terms harmonisation 
across the Group. The benefits from the 
Matthew Clark buying synergies are included 
in the Group forecasts. Further potential 
benefit will be realised over time by taking 
a Group approach to buying. The Group 
has put in place a Group Wine Buying 
Director, Andrew Shaw, previously Buying 
Director for Bibendum PLB Group, to set 
out the Group strategy for wine and take 
buying responsibility across the full Group. 
In turn the Group has put in place a 
Buying Director, Steve Jebson, previously 
Commercial Director at Greene King PLC, 
to buy spirits, lager beer and cider and 
soft drinks for the on-trade. Both of these 
important roles will help the Group ensure 
benefits are realised through increased 
scale and synergy benefits achieved.
Logistics and distribution
With the acquisition of Matthew Clark and the 
subsequent acquisition of Bibendum PLB 
Group, the depot network of Conviviality has 
increased from two to 18 depots nationwide 
and a third party logistics operation managed 
by DHL Trade T eam, as well as a fleet of over 
260 vehicles. This depot network provides 
the Group with the opportunity to deliver 
better service to its customers by being able 
to deliver nationwide next day with timed 
delivery slots and to drive a more efficient 
operation through better route planning 
and vehicle utilisation. It is our expectation 
to deliver synergies of between £1.0m 
and £1.5m in FY18. Furthermore it has given 
Conviviality the opportunity to set out a clear 
strategy to optimise the network for future 
growth over time as some leases of depots 
become available for review. To achieve 
this a Group logistics structure has been 
implemented and Nigel Basey has been 
appointed as Group Logistics and Distribution 
Director to lead this important work across 
the Group.
Organisation
The enlarged Group employs 2,639 people 
across 18 depots and three support offices 
and regional sales teams and as a result 
there is significant talent in the organisation. 
By bringing the respective teams in the 
businesses closer together we are seeing clear 
opportunities to drive greater efficiencies, 
develop talent across the business and drive 
operational savings. We expect organisational 
synergy benefits to be realised during FY18.
People
We see it as our responsibility to create 
a business that offers talented and 
committed people sustainable and 
worthwhile employment, and a safe 
and secure environment where our 
people can grow and thrive. Developing 
our management capability and developing 
our internal talent is key to our strategy.
In November 2015 we welcomed Sallyann 
Brookes as Group People Director to help 
ensure that we have a common set of 
guiding principles behind the growth and 
development of our people. In January 2016 
we welcomed Mark Aylwin as Managing 
Director of Conviviality Direct; Mark joined 
the business from Booker Group Plc, where 
he held the position of Managing Director 
Booker Direct, and was appointed to the 
Plc Board in May 2016. Nigel Basey joined 
the Group in March 2016 as Group Logistics 
Director. Nigel joined from DHL and was 
previously at Homebase. On 6 June 2016 
James Lousada joined the Group as 
Managing Director of Conviviality Trading; 
James was previously the Chief Executive 
Officer of Carlsberg UK. 
David Robinson also joined the Group as 
Managing Director of Conviviality Retail 
on 1 July 2016 and was previously the 
Chief Operating Officer of Argos.
Current trading
The Company and its businesses are trading 
in line with management’s expectations. 
Matthew Clark continues to trade at 4.8% 
above last year and it is pleasing to see 
that Bibendum PLB Group has brought 
in 110 new customers since acquisition on 
20 May 2016. We saw a strong start to the 
financial year in Conviviality Retail, although 
some softening has been experienced in 
June 2016 with like for like sales to 3 July 
2016 being (2.1%).
Outlook
We look to the year ahead with a stronger 
and more resilient business able to thrive 
in uncertain economic times. It is our 
intention to continue to deliver against our 
integration plan during the year, ensuring 
the benefits are realised from our 
transformational acquisitions. The 
performance of the businesses is 
encouraging, with the team’s relentless 
focus on serving their customers well 
and supporting Franchisees in the Retail 
business evidenced by the consistent 
delivery of results. We continue to review 
the market within which we trade ensuring 
that we strengthen our position as the 
UK’s leading drinks and impulse products 
wholesaler and distributor.
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2016
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
19 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The vast majority of the on-trade drinks wholesale market is 
sales to licensed premises. According to CGA, there are 119,000 
outlets in total, of which over 23,000 are served by Conviviality. 
Most outlets take their wholesale supply from more than one 
provider, so some outlets are served by both Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum albeit with only 3% overlap.
Conviviality Direct is well placed to capitalise on current market 
trends of:
Premiumisation
The average adult drinks 14% less alcohol in 2016 versus 2000 
(HMRC, ONS, BBPA); however, the market is premiumising as people 
drink better quality – the average price per litre rising in all categories 
bar sparkling wine. 
Category trends
Whilst vodka remains the largest spirit category, gin has grown in 
popularity with over 300 gins in the Conviviality assortment. Many 
outlets are now seeking a broader range of gins and cocktail menus, 
to complement the traditional wine list. This is further evidenced with 
the increase in cocktail bars in the UK rising to 31,000 (30% rise since 
2014). New areas of growth are being seen in tequilas and bourbon 
consistent with the trend of cocktail making.
Premium bottled ales and craft ales are seeing steady growth, aligned 
to the choice and treat customer trends. Both categories are seeing 
10% growth across the group and Conviviality carries an assortment 
of over 250 premium bottled and craft ales.
There is a growing interest in English wines aligned with the trend 
of shopping locally and a desire to know the provenance of product. 
Conviviality’s range of 36 English wines, notably Camel Valley, 
Chapel Down and Nyetimber have seen 38% growth.
Our markets
The markets Conviviality trades 
in are full of opportunity
Our markets
The market
Conviviality operates primarily in the alcoholic drinks wholesaling 
market (alcoholic drinks account for c.82% of Group revenue). This 
market is valued at £14.0 billion, with £8.3 billion in the on-trade 
channel and £5.7 billion in the off-trade channel. The on-trade 
channel includes restaurants, pubs, bars, hotels and venues. 
Conviviality sells into the on-trade mainly through Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum, with a combined market share of 11%. The off-trade 
channel includes multiple retailers, symbol groups and independent 
retailers. Conviviality sells into the off-trade mainly through 
Conviviality Retail and PLB, with a combined market share of 6%. 
On-trade
The on-trade drinks wholesale market was worth £8.3 billion in 2015, 
as estimated by IBISWorld. This breaks down into £3.2 billion of beer, 
lager and cider, £3.1 billion of wine, and £2.0 billion of spirits. The main 
driver of the drinks wholesale market is the drinks retail market, as 
consumer demand drives supply. As reported by the WSTA, the 
alcoholic drinks retail market is experiencing steady growth (c.1% per 
annum), with volumes broadly stable (0%) and values increasing 
owing to some continuing premiumisation. There are pockets of more 
rapid growth, such as 22% year-on-year growth in sparkling wine and 
10% year-on-year growth in gin, driven by changing consumer tastes. 
Market size, growth and breakdown
Beer Cider Still light 
wine
Sparkling 
wine
Fortified 
wine
Spirits RTDs Champagne
Change in average price per litre (MAT) %
Source: On-trade – CGA, year to 19 March 2016; off-trade – 
Nielsen, year to 23 April 2016
 On-trade  Off-trade
2%
1% 4%
0% 0% 0%
5%
-1%
16%
1%
-9%
0%
3%
1%
3%
2%
Market decomposition by channel £bn
Source: IBISWorld
14.0 5.7
8.3
Alcoholic drinks wholesaling
On-trade
Off-trade
Alcoholic drinks wholesaling £bn
Source: IBISWorld
13.3 13.5 14.0 14.3
14.6
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
+2% +2% +2% +4% 20 Conviviality Plc
Off-trade
Conviviality’s off-trade wholesaling is mainly through Conviviality 
Retail, which operates in the convenience retailing market, and PLB, 
which sells mainly to multiple retailers.
The convenience market, within which the franchise business trades, 
is expected to grow from £37 .1 billion in 2015 to £41.9 billion by 2021. 
Our brands are located at the hearts of their communities, providing a 
destination off-licence with convenience foods, and are well placed to 
capture share in this rapidly growing market. Our proposition enables 
us to have a unique point of difference, whether that is relative to our 
competitors in the convenience space or in the off-licence market.
Convenience market forecast £bn
Source: IGD 2016
364
2018 2015 2019 2016
37.1
41.9
41.1
40.1
39.0
38.1 37.5
2021 2020 2017
+2%
Estimated figures
The overall convenience market comprises 47,000 convenience 
stores, of which 15,000 are symbol groups and 19,000 are 
independent retailers. It is from the symbol group and independent 
parts of this market that Conviviality’s franchise operations 
of Bargain Booze, Select Convenience and Wine Rack attract 
Franchisees and, as such, new stores. The convenience market 
is expected to grow to £39 billion by 2018, a growth of 5% from 
2015, and as a result Conviviality forecasts net 50 growth per 
annum in store numbers over the next three years. 
PLB wholesales to multiple retailers, such as T esco and J Sainsbury, 
whose store estates are partially captured in the convenience market 
described above, and also include supermarkets. There are roughly 
6,000 supermarkets in the UK, which collectively make up a 
c.£90 billion market that IGD expects to stabilise after recent 
contraction driven by store closures.
Consumers 
With the need for good quality eating and drinking experiences 
as well as value for money, we are seeing more demand from 
consumers. The fall in alcohol consumption per capita has made 
the on-trade far more food-led. In the last three years, almost 
4,000 drinks-led pubs have closed and an additional 1,700 bars 
and clubs. Nearly 2,700 restaurants have taken their place. 
Conviviality Direct over-indexes in food-led as there is a greater 
tendency to offer a broad wine list, world beers and cocktails.
Change in licensed premises (May 2016–Feb 2013) %
Source: CGA On-Trade Outlet Database
1%
0%
2%
Drinks-
led
Sports/
social 
club
Restaurant Other Hotel Bar/
club
Food-
led pub
-9%
11%
3%
13%
Additionally, women are around 2.5 times more likely than men to cite 
wine as their most consumed drink. However, women visit the on-trade 
less frequently than men across all age groups; with the increase in 
food-led and more experiential outlets this is expected to increase.
Most consumed drink
Share of on-trade 
servings
Share of off-trade 
servings
 Beer  Cider  Wine (total)  Spirits (inc. RTDs)
29%
52%
20% 35% 39%
9%
7%
6%
16% 24%
18% 45%
On and off-trade sales and consumer preference by alcoholic drink %
Source:
Most consumed drink – TasteTest/YouGov
Share of on-trade servings – CGA, year to 19 March 2016
Share of off-trade servings – Nielsen, year to 23 April 2016
Our markets continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
21 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
More than 1 mile
Less than 1 mile
Less than 1/4 mile
Less than 100 yards
The key shopping trends influencing Conviviality’s performance in the 
off-trade continue to be little-and-often shopping, value shopping 
and shopping locally, as illustrated in the charts below.
Conviviality has a unique opportunity to leverage its strengths in 
alcohol and impulse products wholesaling across both the on and 
the off-trade in the drinks market. By serving over 23,000 on-trade 
outlets, as well as many leading multiple retailers, Conviviality has 
superior insight into UK consumers’ drinking and shopping habits, 
enabling it to identify market trends and act on them for its suppliers, 
customers and Franchisees.
Distance travelled to store %
Source: ACS and HIM 2015
78%
travel less 
than a mile
Wine participation 
in Conviviality Retail %
Source: Internal analysis
16.0%
of sales are wine
13/14 14/15 15/16
14.1%
15.6%
16.0%
Visit frequency %
Source: ACS and HIM 2015
39%
shop most days 
or every day
>1 week once 
a week
every 
other day
most  
days
every  
day
25%
14%
20%
24%
17%
50%
18%
78%
22% 22 Conviviality Plc
Delivering on our strategy
The Conviviality goal is to be the drinks and impulse products sector’s leading specialist 
wholesaler and distributor to the on-trade and off-trade by being the most knowledgeable 
and inspiring partner for our customers.
Progress
The acquisition of Matthew Clark and the 
subsequent acquisition of Bibendum PLB 
Group have positioned Conviviality firmly as 
the drinks sector’s leading wholesaler and 
distributor. With over 400 suppliers and an 
assortment of over 16,000 SKUs Conviviality 
can offer its 10,000 customers the right 
assortment to meet their consumer needs 
by format, outlet and region.
The enlarged Group has a competitive 
advantage being independent of major 
drinks brands, enabling it to supply an 
unrestricted selection of products to 
customers who value breadth of range, 
offering a compelling route for suppliers 
to access both on and off-trade retailers. 
By serving outlets in retail, pubs, clubs 
restaurants, hotels and bars this reach 
provides Conviviality with unique access 
to emerging trends in the UK market and 
significant insight into UK consumers’ 
drinking habits.
Looking ahead
Conviviality will develop its data and 
insight capability, enabling it to not only 
support its supply base but also help its 
valued customer base differentiate itself 
and meet its respective target consumer 
needs. Conviviality will further strengthen 
its capability by continuing to grow its 
businesses through organic growth in both 
the Franchise business and in the on-trade 
and a continued commitment to undertake 
complementary strategic acquisitions 
where and when appropriate.
MAXIMISING RETURNS
SUCCEEDING TOGETHER
DELIGHTING CONSUMERS
AGILITY
CUSTOMER FOCUS AND EXCELLENCE
PASSION
TEAMWORK
OUR  
STRATEGIC GOAL
To be the drinks and impulse 
products sector’s leading specialist 
wholesaler and distributor to the 
on and off-trade by being  
the most knowledgeable and 
inspiring partner for  
our customers
market leading range, service and value for money
for our customers and Franchisees through a
building careers for our people through
great opportunities and rewards for achievement
on every drinking occasion, on and off-premises
through choice, convenience and low prices
Our strategy Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
23 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The Conviviality strategy
Each of Conviviality’s business units has clear strategies (detailed on pages 14 to 17) 
that deliver against the strategic themes below and combined these strategies ensure 
the achievement of the Group’s goal.
Delighting our consumers in 
every drinking occasion, on and 
off-premises through choice, 
convenience and low prices.
Progress
The enlarged Group has access 
to 6,500 SKUs of wine, 1,000 lager, 
beer and cider, 2,500 spirits, 500 
soft drinks, 4,500 convenience foods 
and 1,900 tobacco. This extensive 
assortment enables each of the 
Group’s customers to access 
household name brands as well 
as exclusive ranges and own labels 
to directly meet their target consumer 
needs. The enlarged Group’s cost 
of goods sold of £1.2 billion enables 
it to ensure the best possible prices 
for its valued customers.
Looking ahead
Delivering consistent and excellent 
service to our customers is core to 
our business. The strong relationships 
with our suppliers and the expertise 
that exists within the enlarged Group 
will result in Conviviality customers 
being able to access the widest 
assortment to meet their needs as 
well as expertise and advice in the 
alcohol market. Conviviality will work 
with brand owners to maximise 
distribution potential across all 
drinking occasions, in home and 
out of the home, across a deeper 
product portfolio. The Group has 
the capability to develop exclusive 
agency brands and own label, as 
well as an extensive assortment.
Delighting  
consumers
Maximising returns for our 
customers and Franchisees 
through market leading range, 
service and value for money.
Progress
Conviviality continues to innovate 
in the market through developing 
new propositions, formats and its use 
of digital and social media. Bargain 
Booze currently has over 85,000 fans, 
the highest in its sector. Conviviality 
continues to grow the customer 
numbers of the “As if it wasn’t cheap 
enough” app with over 55,000 
downloads and the newly launched 
“PLONK” app has already reached 
over 3,500 downloads in its first two 
weeks. The acquisitions of Matthew 
Clark and Bibendum PLB Group has 
resulted in the Group now having 
access to a nationwide network of 
18 depots. In turn over time this will 
enable the Group to drive greater 
efficiency in its operation, by taking 
a more centralised view of the operation 
and its stock as well as providing better 
standards of service for its customers. 
Looking ahead
Success for our customers and our 
Franchisees is key to the Conviviality 
operating model. By standing in 
the shoes of our customers and 
understanding their needs the team 
is able to deliver solutions that ensure 
their success. The team continues 
to innovate, leveraging its enlarged 
scale to develop new brands and 
packaging for its customers as well as 
strengthening its marketing and insight 
capabilities. The greater scale of the 
enlarged Group provides the potential 
to realise lower costs through buying 
and distribution synergies, better service 
through improved organisational 
efficiency and increased revenues 
through more competitive pricing 
and enhanced range offering.
Succeeding together, building 
careers for our people through 
great opportunities and rewards 
for achievement.
Progress
As a result of the acquisition of 
Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB 
Group Conviviality now employs 
over 2,600 people. All of the key 
leadership roles have been recruited 
and the team is in place, with new 
team members adding significant 
value. Conviviality offers career 
development opportunities for all 
employees across the Group, 
enabling people to work in the 
Franchise business, through to 
the on-trade wholesale business, 
as well as career opportunities across 
logistics, marketing, buying and 
finance. In turn this benefits 
Conviviality by having a motivated 
and talented workforce that is 
flexible to new opportunities. 
Looking ahead
Conviviality has put in place an 
organisational structure that leverages 
the benefit of the enlarged Group. 
Conviviality will continue to grow and 
develop talent from within, ensuring 
we create a motivating and sustainable 
future for our employees.
Maximising  
returns
Succeeding  
together 24 Conviviality Plc
Key risks and mitigation factors
The Group is subject to a wide variety of risks. The key risks are outlined 
below together with actions being taken to mitigate these risks.
Risk and description Mitigation factors Level
Markets and competition
The alcohol wholesale market remains 
competitive with several companies seeking to 
grow organically and via acquisition to leverage 
the benefits of scale. 
The convenience retail market remains 
competitive with several larger companies 
seeking to expand. The market is starting to 
consolidate as companies seek to leverage the 
benefits of scale and independents find it 
increasingly hard to compete. The discounters’ 
reputation for price leadership is firmly 
established with consumers. 
The possible emergence of larger alcohol 
wholesale competitors and the continued 
growth of the discounters may impact on the 
development of future revenue streams.
Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB Group have a strong position 
in the alcohol wholesale market providing customers with a broad 
range of wines, spirits, beers and soft drinks available for next day 
delivery. The combination of Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB 
Group creates the opportunity to leverage scale, providing even 
broader choice and better value for our customers.
The Group’s retail brands have a unique proposition as off-licence 
led convenience stores providing a compelling combination of value 
and choice of our 1,500 alcohol ranges with 60% on promotion at any 
one time. We target our alcohol promotion prices to be at least 10% 
below the grocers and 14% below the grocers’ convenience stores 
whilst the extensive alcohol range and significantly improved 
impulse products and grocery ranges provide consumers the 
choice they demand.
Decreasing
The acquisitions of 
Matthew Clark and 
Bibendum PLB Group 
create a natural hedge 
to changes in consumer 
drinking habits by giving 
access to both the 
drink-at-home and 
drink-out-of-home 
markets.
Franchisee retention and quality
Retaining Franchisees and improving the 
overall quality of Franchisees is fundamental 
to the Group’s future growth. Failure to retain 
Franchisees could result in a reduction in the 
number of stores through higher store closures 
and fewer store openings as the Group’s ability 
to attract new Franchisees may diminish.
The quality of the Group’s Franchisees is a 
key driver of sales growth, brand reputation 
and reputation with end consumers. Any 
failure to maintain or improve Franchisee 
quality could result in lower sales per store 
with a consequential effect on profitability 
of both the Franchisee and the Group.
Franchisee engagement remains strong with the combination of the 
Franchisee share scheme and cash incentives providing Franchisees the 
opportunity to earn up to an extra £6,000 per annum. Almost 400 stores 
are benefiting from a new fascia and the number of store closures has fallen 
by 47% to 34 stores (FY15: 63). 
The Group continues to provide high levels of training and support for 
Franchisees and is working in an increasingly collaborative way to launch 
new services such as the new EPOS till system. 
The continued focus on improving store standards has resulted in 
significantly tougher standards and it is very pleasing that 251 stores 
achieved the Gold standard. 
Decreasing
Franchisee 
engagement and 
quality is improving.
Legal and regulatory
There is a risk that new and existing legal and 
regulatory requirements could impact revenue 
and costs.
The Group continues to monitor regulatory and legal developments 
to determine its strategic and competitive response and ensure 
compliance with its obligations.
The Group has joined the Association of Convenience Stores and the 
Wines and Spirits Trading Association which give the Group insight 
and access to current legislator thinking and debate.
Flat
Alcohol legislation 
remains on the political 
agenda and we 
continue to monitor.
Business integration
The Group is in the process of integrating 
Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB Group to 
delivery buying, distribution, revenue and 
organisational synergies. Failure to implement 
the integration plan effectively could result in 
lower synergies and result in short-term 
disruption to the Group’s business.
The Group has a robust and well-resourced plan covering both Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group. The integration of Matthew Clark commenced 
in October 2015 and is ahead of expectations. The methodologies used 
successfully in the Matthew Clark integration have been applied to the 
Bibendum PLB Group integration. A Change Board has been established 
to lead the change programme and meets monthly to review progress, 
risks and to ensure adequate resources are available.
Increasing
The acquisitions of 
Matthew Clark and 
Bibendum PLB Group 
have added this risk.
Our principal risks and uncertainties Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
25 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Risk and description Mitigation factors Level
Tobacco demand
The UK government and health industry 
continue to discourage smoking. On 6 April 2015 
smaller stores were required to comply with 
legislation restricting the display of tobacco 
products and in May 2017 plain packaging will 
be introduced.
Whilst tobacco sales do not make a significant 
contribution to the Group’s profits, tobacco 
remains a key driver of footfall into the stores.
Following the introduction of display restrictions the Group’s reputation 
for value has mitigated the impact with like for like tobacco sales down 
only 1.3%. We have reviewed the implications of plain packaging by 
monitoring the impact in Australia. 
The acquisitions of Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB Group reduce 
the Group’s exposure to tobacco, recent growth in the sale of electronic 
cigarettes provides a new revenue stream and the Group will further 
mitigate risk by continuing to broaden its convenience range.
Decreasing
Tobacco sales mix has 
fallen from 29% in 
2015/16 to 7% due to the 
acquisitions of Matthew 
Clark and Bibendum 
PLB Group. 
Data security and IT reliability
The Group relies on its IT infrastructure and in 
particular its EPOS, warehouse management 
and ERP systems to service its customers. 
A major breach or malfunction of these 
systems would cause significant disruption 
to the Group and its performance.
The acquisition of Matthew Clark has significantly enhanced the Group’s 
IT capabilities. The Group is undertaking a thorough review to determine 
how these enhanced capabilities can be leveraged across all of its 
businesses to improve data security and IT reliability.
Decreasing
Improved internal 
capabilities reduce 
this risk.
Reliance on key suppliers
The Group relies upon certain key suppliers. 
A breakdown in its relationships could result in 
short-term disruption to the Group’s business.
The acquisitions of Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB Group have 
transformed the significance of the Group to its alcohol suppliers. 
The Group has worked closely with key suppliers to leverage the 
opportunities available to suppliers from the enlarged scale of the Group. 
Joint business plans have been agreed with many key suppliers with 
regular review meetings and biannual conferences taking place. 
Robust contractual arrangements are maintained with key suppliers 
and the Group continually reassesses the strategic value of its supply 
relationship and the potential to utilise alternative sources.
Decreasing
The Group has a 
broader range of 
suppliers due to 
the acquisitions of 
Matthew Clark and 
Bibendum PLB Group.
Reliance on key customers
The Group relies upon certain key customers. 
The loss of a key customer could result in lower 
sales with a consequential impact on profitability. 
The Group works closely with its key customers to provide outstanding 
choice, value and service. The Group plans to utilise its enlarged scale 
to further improve the proposition for all customers.
Robust contractual arrangements are maintained with key customers 
and the Group continually reassesses its customer relationships.
Increasing
The acquisitions of 
Matthew Clark and 
Bibendum PLB Group 
have increased the 
reliance on a few 
key customers.
Reliance on key personnel
The Group has a relatively small leadership 
team and the loss of any key individual could 
impact on the Group’s future performance.
The Group has strengthened the leadership team by reorganising into 
three divisions: Conviviality Retail; Conviviality Direct; and Conviviality 
Trading. High quality Managing Directors have been appointed to lead 
each division and will be supported by the recently appointed Group 
People Director and Group Logistics Director. A clear succession plan 
is in place for each Executive.
The Group has introduced a consistent remuneration policy for the senior 
leadership team and launched a Long Term Incentive Plan. The enlarged 
Group provides enhanced opportunities for advancement.
Decreasing
The senior leadership 
team is far stronger.
Loss of a key operating system or a major health and safety incident
The Group operates from head offices in Crewe, 
Bristol and London and 18 distribution centres 
throughout the UK. The loss of a key operating 
site could seriously disrupt business activity.
A disaster recovery plan is in place to enable a proactive and effective 
response if a site should be severely impacted. There are regular and 
robust risk assessments to identify and mitigate business interruption 
risks in the distribution centres. The Board considers health and safety 
at each meeting.
Flat
Health and safety 
is a key priority. 26 Conviviality Plc
Overview
Following the transformational acquisition 
of Matthew Clark on 7 October 2015, sales 
grew 137% to £864.5m (FY15: £364.1m) 
and adjusted EBITDA increased 135% 
to £30.2m (FY15: £12.9m). 
Profit before tax, amortisation of intangible 
assets created on the acquisition of 
Matthew Clark, exceptional items and 
mark to market adjustments (“adjusted 
profit before tax”) increased by 124% to 
£21.7m (FY15: £9.7m). On the same basis, 
fully diluted adjusted earnings per share 
increased 27% to 14.2 pence 
(FY15: 11.2 pence).
The acquisition of Matthew Clark was 
funded in part by £80.0m of term loans which 
increased net debt at 1 May 2016 to £86.1m 
(26 April 2015: net cash of £1.2m). Leverage 
at 1 May 2016 was comfortably below the 
bank covenant of 2.50 times adjusted 
EBITDA at 1.96.
Revenue
Revenue increased by 137% to £864.5m 
(FY15: £364.1m) as the acquisition of 
Matthew Clark increased sales by £497.0m 
and Conviviality Retail’s sales for the 53 weeks 
ended 1 May were £366.9m (52 weeks ended 
26 April 2015: £364.1m). Conviviality acquired 
Peppermint, a small highly seasonal events 
business, in December 2015 which 
generated sales of £0.6m.
Financial review  
Underlying growth and a 
transformational acquisition deliver 
a strong financial performance
Operating costs (excluding exceptional items, 
depreciation, amortisation, share-based 
payment charges and mark to market 
adjustments on foreign currency contracts) 
increased by £44.9m due to Matthew Clark 
and Peppermint operating costs and the 
expansion of the Group function to drive 
synergies and provide strong governance. 
In December 2015 Conviviality acquired 
61% of the share capital of Peppermint 
Events Limited for an initial consideration 
of £1.8m. Conviviality is committed to acquire 
the remaining 39% in the year ending April 
2020 or April 2021 based on EBITDA in the 
year ending April 2019 or April 2020. The 
timing of the final earn-out will depend on 
whether Peppermint Events exceeds an 
EBITDA target that has been set for the year 
ending 2019. If the target is not met the 
earn-out moves to the year ending 2020. 
Assuming EBITDA targets are achieved 
the total consideration will be £8.0m. In 
accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill has been 
calculated on this basis at £7 .4m. Peppermint 
is a highly seasonal festival and events 
business and generated an adjusted EBITDA 
loss of £0.4m in the period ended 1 May 2016 
on sales of £0.6m.
During 2016 Conviviality managed 
Conviviality Retail, Matthew Clark and 
Peppermint as discrete trading entities and 
established a Group function. The adjusted 
EBITDA from each trading entity and the 
costs of the Group function are shown below. 
The results for 2015 have been restated to 
highlight Group costs and aid comparison.
FY16
Adjusted
EBITDA
£m
FY15
Adjusted
EBITDA
£m
Variance
£m
Conviviality 
Retail 14.6 14.5 0.1
Matthew Clark 18.1 — 18.1
Peppermint (0.4) — (0.4)
Group costs (2.1) (1.6) (0.5)
Total 30.2 12.9 17.3
Matthew Clark’s sales teams remained 
focused during the acquisition and 
subsequent integration and its customers 
responded well to the new ownership of 
Conviviality with sales 4.9% above the 
corresponding prior period. Sales to National 
Accounts grew 5.4% and sales to Regional 
Customers increased by 3.8%. The number 
of customers and outlets both increased 
2.9% and revenue per outlet increased 1.9%. 
Conviviality Retail’s sales increased 0.8% as 
the benefit of an extra week’s trading was 
offset by a reduction in very low margin 
services sales from Company-owned stores 
following the franchise of 36 stores to 
James Convenience Retail in April 2015.
During the year Conviviality Retail increased 
the number of stores by 15% to 716 (26 April 
2015: 624) as the number of Franchise stores 
grew 15% to 656 (26 April 2015: 571) driven by a 
42% increase in the number of stores owned 
by multi-site Franchisees to 364 (FY15: 257). 
Due to the timings of store closures and new 
store openings the average number of stores 
trading per week increased by 4.4% to 635 
(FY15: 608). 
Conviviality Retail’s sales grew more 
slowly than the average number of stores, 
reflecting like for like sales generated by 
Franchise and Company-owned stores 
of (1.3%), the impact of acquiring 37 
GT News stores in February 2015 which 
generated lower sales, and lower sales 
from stores closed or opened in the year.
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA increased 135% to 
£30.2m (FY15: £12.9m) as the impact 
of 137% sales growth and a 1.3% point 
improvement in gross margin was partly 
offset by an increase in operating costs.
Gross margin improved to 11.5% (FY15: 10.2%) 
as Conviviality Retail’s margins increased 
0.6% points and Matthew Clark generated 
gross margins of 12.0%. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
27 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Conviviality Retail’s adjusted EBITDA 
increased 0.7% as 0.8% sales growth 
coupled with a 0.6% point higher margin 
increased margin by £2.3m which was 
largely offset by higher operating costs 
to support future growth.
Matthew Clark’s adjusted EBITDA increased 
by 18% over the corresponding prior period 
due to strong sales growth, good margin 
management and tight cost control.
Peppermint is a highly seasonal business 
with over 80% of sales generated during the 
summer. In the period since acquisition, as 
expected, Peppermint generated a loss. 
Group costs include the costs of the Board, 
all costs associated with being a publicly 
quoted company and the costs of Group 
functions including finance, legal, human 
resources and logistics management. 
Group costs have increased due to the 
strengthening of the Group team to provide 
good governance and accelerate synergies. 
Profit before tax
Group profit before tax increased £0.1m. 
The £17 .3m increase in adjusted EBITDA 
and a £2.0m favourable mark to market 
adjustment on foreign exchange contracts 
were offset by higher finance costs, 
exceptional items, depreciation and 
amortisation, together with amortisation 
of Matthew Clark acquisition intangibles 
and an increase in share-based charges. 
Finance costs increased to £2.5m primarily 
due to interest on £80m of term loans 
drawn down to fund the acquisition 
of Matthew Clark and the amortisation 
of banking arrangement fees. 
Exceptional items includes Matthew Clark 
acquisition costs of £5.9m and integration 
costs of £3.3m. 
Depreciation and amortisation (excluding 
amortisation of Matthew Clark acquisition 
intangibles) increased £2.2m due to Matthew 
Clark and an increase in Conviviality Retail 
depreciation following investments in the 
store estate and IT systems since IPO.
The intangible assets created on the 
acquisition of Matthew Clark comprise the 
Matthew Clark brand of £23.9m and the 
customer base of £38.8m. The brand is 
being amortised over ten years and the 
customer base over 6.5 years resulting in 
an amortisation charge of £4.8m in the 
period from 7 October 2015 to 1 May 2016.
Share-based charges increased £0.7m 
due to our continued investment in the 
Franchise Investment Plan, Matthew Clark 
management retention options and an 
increase in share options granted to the 
leadership team.
Adjusted profit before tax increased 124% 
to £21.7m (FY15: £9.7m) as adjusted EBITDA 
of £30.2m was offset by finance charges 
of £2.5m, depreciation and amortisation of 
£4.2m and share-based charges of £1.8m.
Tax
The tax charge of £3.8m represents tax 
on Group profit before tax and exceptional 
items of £4.2m offset by a tax credit tax on 
exceptional items of £0.4m. The effective 
tax rate on Group profit before tax and 
exceptional items is 22.0% due to changes in 
the substantially enacted tax rates for future 
years and disallowable expenses in Matthew 
Clark. The tax credit on exceptional items is 
3.5% due to disallowable transaction costs 
on the acquisition of Matthew Clark.
Earnings per share
Adjusted profit after tax increased 117% to 
£17 .0m (FY15: £7 .8m) and the basic weighted 
average number of shares increased 76% to 
115.3m (FY15: 65.5m) following the issue of 
86.7m new shares to fund the acquisition 
of Matthew Clark. This resulted in basic 
adjusted EPS increasing 23% to 14.7 pence 
(FY15: 12.0 pence).
Fully diluted weighted average shares 
increased 71% to 119.4m (FY15: 69.7m) resulting 
in fully diluted adjusted EPS increasing 27% 
to 14.2 pence (FY15: 11.2 pence).
Cash flow and funding
The Group is strongly cash generative with 
free cash flow (adjusted EBITDA plus changes 
in working capital less capital expenditure, 
interest and tax) increasing by 100% to £11.4m 
(FY15: £5.7m) as adjusted EBITDA of £30.2m 
was offset by an increase in working capital 
of £1.8m, net capital expenditure of £11.6m, 
interest payments of £2.9m and tax 
payments of £2.5m.
Capital expenditure includes a continued 
investment in our Franchisee stores of £3.4m 
and the development of IT systems, including 
a new EPOS system, of £4.3m, and the 
building of a replacement depot in Shefford 
(£3.3m) which will be sold and leased back 
once construction is completed in the 
financial year ending 30 April 2017 .
Cash reduced by £11.9m as free cash flow of 
£11.4m was offset by a net cash outflow on 
the acquisition of Matthew Clark of £5.7m, 
restructuring and integration costs of £3.4m, 
consideration paid to acquire Peppermint 
of £1.8m, term loan repayments of £4.0m 
and dividend payments of £7 .4m.
The consideration for Matthew Clark was 
£199.0m which, together with £11.1m of debt 
acquired and acquisition costs of £5.9m, 
resulted in a total investment of £216.0m. 
This investment was funded by proceeds 
from the issue of new ordinary shares of 
£130.3m and new term loans of £80m 
generating a net cash outflow of £5.7m.
At 1 May 2016 the Group’s net debt totalled 
£86.1m (26 April 2015: net cash of £1.2m) and 
comprised £76.0m of term loans and £10.7m 
drawn down under the Group’s working 
capital facilities, less unamortised banking 
arrangement fees. The bank facilities include 
a leverage and an interest cover covenant. 
The leverage covenant requires debt 
(excluding any amounts drawn down on 
under Matthew Clark’s invoice discounting 
facility) to be less than 2.5 times the last 
12 months’ adjusted EBITDA. The interest 
cover covenant requires adjusted EBITDA 
to be at least four times net finance charges. 
At the measurement date of 30 April 2016 
leverage was 1.96 and interest cover was 12.1.
Bibendum PLB Group
On 20 May 2016 Conviviality acquired 100% 
of the share capital of Bibendum PLB Group 
for a cash consideration of £39.7m plus the 
assumption of Bibendum PLB Group’s 
debt on 29 April of £19.2m. Unaudited 
management accounts for the 12 months 
ended 31 March 2016 indicate EBITDA 
before exceptional items for the period 
of approximately £6.8m.
The acquisition was funded by the 
proceeds from the issue of new ordinary 
shares of £32.0m, a new term loan of 
£10.0m and the transfer of Bibendum 
PLB Group’s existing invoice discounting 
facility. The maximum draw-down on the 
invoice discounting facility is £30m and 
the net debt as at 1 May 2016 was £19.2m.  28 Conviviality Plc
Bibendum PLB Group continued
Post acquisition of Bibendum PLB Group, Conviviality 
has term loans of £86.0m and working capital facilities 
with a maximum draw-down of £110.0m. The working 
capital facilities comprise a £50m invoice discounting 
facility secured on Matthew Clark’s debtors, a £30m 
invoice discounting facility secured on Bibendum PLB 
Group’s debtors and a £30m revolving credit facility.
The definition of debt used to calculate leverage 
has been adjusted to include £20.0m which 
represents the core debt required by Bibendum PLB 
Group. The covenant remains that debt has to be 
less than 2.5 times the last 12 months’ EBITDA. 
The interest cover covenant is unchanged.
Segmental reporting
Following the acquisitions of Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group the Group is being 
restructured to enable buying, logistics, organisation 
and revenue synergies to be delivered. The restructuring 
will result in revenues being discretely reported for each 
of Conviviality’s trading divisions (Conviviality Retail, 
Conviviality Direct and Conviviality Trading) but the 
trading divisions will share a common supply chain, a 
single team will buy on behalf of all trading divisions with 
complex commercial terms that reflect the overall Group 
rather than specific businesses, and back office functions 
will support each trading division. 
The Board has carefully considered the requirements 
of IFRS 8 and has concluded that there is one segment of 
wholesale activities. However, to assist the understanding 
of performance we will disclose sales for each of 
Conviviality Retail, Conviviality Direct and Conviviality 
Trading. Due to the acquisitions that have taken place 
during the 53 week period ending 1 May 2016, additional 
information has been disclosed to show adjusted EBITDA 
by business unit; however, this will not be disclosed 
going forward. 
Dividend
Conviviality has a progressive dividend policy and aims 
to increase dividend cover (based on fully diluted 
adjusted EPS) to 2.0 times by the year ending 
April 2020. In line with this policy a final dividend of 
7 .4 pence per share is proposed. Subject to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 
will be paid on 7 October 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 9 September 2016. This increases the total 
dividend for the year by 14% to 9.5 pence per share 
(FY15: 8.3 pence per share) and increases dividend 
cover to 1.5 times (FY15: 1.3 times).
Andrew Humphreys
Chief Financial Officer
18 July 2016
Key performance indicators
Free cash flow £m
£11.4m
+100%
15 16 14
6.4
5.7
11.4
Financial review continued
Revenue £m
£864.5m
+137%
15 16 14
355.7
364.1
864.5
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 £m
£30.2m
+135%
15 16 14
12.4
12.9
30.2
Adjusted diluted EPS p
14.2p
+27%
15 16 14
11.6
11.2
14.2
1.  Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as profit before tax of £9,080,000 
(FY15: £8,986,000), adding back net interest of £2,502,000 
(FY15: £52,000), depreciation of £2,833,000 (FY15: £1,887,000), 
amortisation of £6,089,000 (FY15: £125,000), exceptional items 
of £9,855,000 (FY15: £731,000) and share-based payment charges 
of £1,767,000 (FY15: £1,073,000) and deducting fair value movements 
on foreign exchange derivatives £1,958,000 (FY15: £Nil). Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
29 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
A values-based approach 
to sustainability
We see it as our responsibility to offer our talented and committed people 
sustainable and worthwhile employment where they can grow and thrive  
in a safe and secure environment. 
Corporate social responsibility report
Our people
Conviviality employs 2,639 people and we 
are committed to providing our employees 
with rewarding roles and long-term career 
opportunities. The recent acquisitions of 
Matthew Clark and Bibendum PLB Group 
allow us to provide more diverse careers 
across our unique portfolio of brands. As a 
minimum we review our pay banding and 
reward levels each year against external 
market practice. The review is based on our 
business size and turnover and we aim to pay 
between the median and upper range of the 
market recognising the need to competitively 
reward our people. We are committed to 
developing our people and providing exciting 
career opportunities. We are delighted that 
Bibendum PLB Group was recently awarded 
Investors in People status and we will use the 
benefit of this award and experience to support 
our people across the whole of Conviviality.
2,639
employees
National Living Wage
The majority of our people are paid above 
the National Living Wage (“NLW”). We 
welcomed the introduction of the NLW 
as an opportunity to review pay for our 
colleagues. We ensure our employees’ pay 
is in line with government guidelines across 
our business and in our review the retail 
stores were the only area of the business 
where we paid the minimum wage to 
some colleagues under 25. As a result of 
the review these colleagues have received 
a pay increase of 7%. This level of award 
makes a real difference to people and 
demonstrates our business commitment 
to invest in a key part of our workforce.
Bonus schemes and incentives
Conviviality aims to ensure that all of our 
people, across all areas of the business, have 
clear targets aligned to driving our success, 
and when employees deliver their objectives 
and targets we reward them for the part they 
play. All Conviviality employees can join the 
bonus scheme and the share scheme after 
six months’ employment. To date 232 
employees have benefited from the 
performance share scheme, while 1,340 
employees have benefited from the bonus 
scheme and 514 employees participate 
in the share purchase scheme.
Training
A commitment to training and developing 
our people is part of what makes Conviviality 
special. We encourage employees to take 
professional qualifications for example in 
finance, HR, logistics and marketing. We have 
13 team members completing AAT, ACCA or 
CIMA qualifications, another in the final stages 
of Chartered Marketer status, two employees 
have achieved CAM Level 4 Diploma in 
Digital Marketing, one person undertaking 
CIPD and another awarded FCIPD. We also 
provide training and development in 
business and management skills as well as 
job skills at all levels. For instance, in our 
depots we supported eight newly qualified 
HGV drivers and we are committed 
to developing product knowledge in our 
people. During 2015 126 employees took 
WSET (Wine and Spirits Education Trust) 
courses in our induction programmes 
or as part of their career development. 
These important training courses build 
a deeper understanding of wines and 
spirits. In addition while more than five 
hundred of our customer’s employees 
also took WSET courses led by our 
expert and award-winning trainers. 
126
employees took WSET course 
Diversity and inclusion
I am pleased to see that our work to 
improve inclusion continues to make positive 
progress. We value our employees’ diverse 
backgrounds and perspectives and we reflect 
this in the way that we attract, develop and 
retain a diverse workforce. Three years ago 
our employee base lacked any real diversity 
with only 2% of employees declaring a 
minority race or country of origin, but 
I’m delighted to report this is 11% this year. 
Our business has a male to female ratio of 
70%/30%. This is skewed by our warehouse 
operations which, owing to the size and 
weight of products, appeals more to male 
workers. Removing warehouse staff, the 
ratio changes to 63% male and 37% female. 
As we have acquired new businesses the 
Executive team is not as well balanced 
as it was with 66% male to 34% female. 
11%
employees declaring a minority 
race or country of origin 30 Conviviality Plc
Apprenticeships 
Apprenticeships give us an opportunity 
to develop talent locally. Today we 
have seven apprentices across IT, 
HR, finance and facilities and two 
colleagues have recently completed 
their two-year apprenticeship 
programme securing careers within our 
business. Apprenticeship programmes 
are not just a way for us to find great 
people, they also strengthen our 
links with the communities where we 
operate. We also have plans to extend 
apprentices across all our business 
areas working with local colleges, 
providing opportunities for 
development and progression.
Community
Charitable giving 
We believe our businesses and 
people play an important role in 
the communities where we trade. 
All Conviviality’s businesses support 
charities as well as encourage and 
involve their people in charitable 
giving. During the last year more 
than 20 charities benefited from 
the support of Conviviality and our 
people with over £177,000 donated. 
Notable is Wine for Heroes, a 
successful campaign supporting 
Help for Heroes, with a pound 
per bottle sold and raising almost 
£25,000 in the year. Additionally, 
there were donations made to 
Action Against Hunger, NACOA, 
UNICEF and The Benevolent. 
The Company also supported 
Springboard, a charity dedicated 
to helping disadvantaged young 
people as well as adults develop 
skills and access careers in the 
hospitality industry. This year we 
will extend our involvement 
with Springboard through work 
placements and mentoring.
£177,000
donated to over 
20 charities 
Volunteering opportunities 
for employees
Conviviality operates a charity 
matching scheme that doubles the 
money our people raise for causes 
close to their hearts and encourages 
employee involvement. During the 
past year we have matched the 
charity fundraising efforts of over 
30 employees across the business. 
For example we saw 20 colleagues 
cycle from Crewe to Llandudno, 
stopping at all the Franchisee stores 
en route to raise funds for a local 
hospice. Conviviality also allows a paid 
day off for each of its employees 
to fundraise for charity.
Responsible retailing and drinking
Responsible retailing and drinking is an 
important part of how we do business. 
In line with this we contribute £5,000 
annually to the Drinkaware Trust. We 
support the WSTA with a member of 
the Executive team acting as a trustee 
as well as contributing £51,628 annually. 
We also support The Benevolent, the 
drinks industry charity, again with a 
member of the Executive team acting 
as a trustee as well as contributing 
£9,516 above any fundraising activities.
Food and equipment donation
Where possible we donate groceries 
and equipment to local charities. Our 
teams work with the local food banks 
to make food available to them when 
we have the opportunity.
Our culture and values
This year I asked teams from across all of 
our business units, and at all levels within 
the Company, to meet each other and 
share their thoughts on the values and 
culture of the Company. 
In their sessions they agreed four common 
values that mattered to them and these 
will be rolled out across the Group. 
These values guide us in how we 
work together and also underline the 
behaviours we expect from each other 
and our people. A common set of values 
and behaviour helps to embed our culture 
and sets us apart from our competitors. 
We have a team who are passionate 
about our products and dedicated to 
customer service. And the teamwork we 
see throughout Conviviality promotes an 
infectious enthusiasm to succeed.
Passion
We tackle challenges and opportunities 
with passion and enthusiasm. Across the 
business we have fun whilst we do it.
Agility
We are always flexible to the needs of the 
business. Our people generate innovative 
ways of working. In return our leadership 
embrace new ideas and opportunities.
Customer focus and excellence
We make a difference by going the extra 
mile for our customers and each other.
Teamwork
We work as one team to achieve a 
common goal. We support our customers, 
our retail Franchisees and each other.
Corporate social responsibility report continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
31 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Energy efficiency 
Conviviality is fully compliant with 
the ESOS regulations. Energy efficiency 
initiatives in both Conviviality Retail and 
Matthew Clark have continued to reduce 
overall energy consumption by 6%. 
Conviviality has PIR activated energy 
efficient lighting systems in place and 
have delivered the levels of reduction 
that were forecast with a 27% reduction 
in electricity usage against the prior year. 
The Matthew Clark business is registered 
with the Carbon Trust and we are looking 
to roll out this registration across the 
Group over the next two years.
Gas emissions
The enlarged Group operates a total of 
263 DAF and Mercedes trucks and vans. 
All our HGV vehicles meet the Euro 5 and 
Euro 6 emission standards. By the end 
of the year 34% of the fleet will be at the 
more stringent Euro 6 standard. Vehicles 
are replaced every six years on a rolling 
programme. As older vehicles are 
replaced the percentage of Euro 6 
compliant vehicles will continue to rise 
over the forthcoming years. Almost 72% 
of the fleet is now fitted with automatic 
gearboxes. With 90% of the fleet also 
fitted with telematics we are seeing that 
the combination of automatic gearboxes 
and telematics has a positive impact on 
fuel consumption mainly through correct 
gear usage and reducing over-revving. 
Telematics is also delivering further fuel 
savings through reducing idling times, 
harsh braking and harsh acceleration. 
Waste and recycling
Total waste produced by the Group 
reduced by 10% compared to the prior 
year. The percentage of waste sent to 
landfill has been reduced dramatically 
from 24% in 2014/15 to 11% for 2015/16. 
This performance has been driven by 
a range of initiatives and investments. 
Our programme to collect packaging 
waste from Franchisees has continued 
with great success. We have introduced 
more effective waste segregation at all 
sites and we have invested in new 
cardboard balers and compactors at a 
number of Matthew Clark sites. Working 
closely with our waste management 
partners has seen a number of positive 
changes in how waste is stored and 
collected that have also contributed 
to the reduction. 
ISO standards
Matthew Clark has retained its accreditations 
for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Both 
these standards are set to change their 
emphasis over the next few years and 
work is well advanced to ensure that we 
will continue to achieve the standards 
required. During 2016/17 our warehouses 
at both Crewe and Newcastle-under-Lyme 
will be operating to both 18001 and 
14001 standards. Matthew Clark also 
successfully achieved BRC warehousing 
and distribution accreditation.
The percentage of 
waste sent to landfill 
has been reduced 
dramatically from 
24% in 2014/15 
to 11% for 2015/16.
The Strategic report, as set out on pages 1 to 31, has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2016
On 2 April, 18 people including staff, Franchisees 
and family walked up Mount Snowdon raising 
money for When You Wish Upon a Star, a charity 
who aim to fulfil dreams of terminally ill children. 32 Conviviality Plc
Board of Directors
A strong leadership team 
committed to driving growth
David Adams
Chairman
Mark Aylwin
Managing Director 
Conviviality Direct
Andrew Humphreys
Chief Financial Officer
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
T erm of office T erm of office
David joined the Board 
in July 2013.
Diana joined the Board 
in February 2013.
Andrew joined the Board 
in June 2014.
Mark joined the Board 
in May 2016.
Jennifer joined the Board 
in May 2016.
Martin joined the Board 
in February 2014.
Steve joined the Board 
in February 2014.
Ian joined the Board 
in May 2015.
Previous experience Previous experience
David is an experienced Plc 
director who has served in both 
executive and non-executive 
capacities in the retail industry. 
Past roles include Finance 
Director and Deputy CEO at 
House of Fraser, Chairman of 
Jessops Plc and Moss Bros Plc 
and Non-Executive Director 
of HMV.
Prior to joining Conviviality, 
Diana held various roles at 
Waitrose, including Head 
of Merchandising, Director 
of Store Development 
and, latterly, as Convenience 
Director. Diana began her career 
at J Sainsbury plc where for over 
13 years she held numerous 
senior roles.
Andrew joined from Direct Wines, 
where he held the position of 
Chief Financial Officer, having 
previously held senior finance 
roles in the retail sector at 
Shop Direct Group and 
Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
Mark joined from Booker Group 
PLC where he was Managing 
Director of Booker Direct. Mark 
has over 35 years’ experience 
in the food and drinks industry 
and has served on the boards 
of Booker, Safeway and 
Blueheath plc.
Jennifer brings extensive brand 
and marketing expertise to the 
Board having spent over 30 years 
in the advertising industry. She 
recently retired from the Board of 
Intercontinental Hotel Group Plc 
where she was a Non-Executive 
Director for ten years. Previously 
Jennifer spent 16 years with 
Saatchi and Saatchi. Most 
recently as Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman of North America.
Martin’s previous roles have 
included Head of E-commerce 
for Burberry Group plc and 
T ed Baker plc, Interim Director 
of E-commerce for Pentland 
Brands plc as well as Head of 
Marketing for Harrods’ home 
shopping division.
Steve has significant public 
company experience, having 
been on the board of Headlam 
Group plc since 1991, where he 
has helped develop the business 
from its origin as a company 
with revenues of £21m to where 
it is today. He served on the 
board of Synergy Health Plc as 
Non-Executive Chairman for 
eight years between 2002 
and 2010.
Ian was previously at Homebase 
Ltd where he was Retail Director 
for nine years. During this period, 
Ian was also Distribution and 
Supply Chain Director for five 
years. Ian took a central role in 
repositioning Homebase as a 
home enhancement retailer and 
was responsible for 340 stores 
and 18,000 retail personnel.
Board committees Board committees
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee, Acting Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
member of the Audit Committee.
Diana is not a member of any 
of the Board committees.
Andrew is not a member of any 
of the Board committees.
Mark is not a member of any 
Board committees.
Chair of the Remuneration 
committee with effect 
12 September 2016 and 
Member of the Audit and 
Nomination committees.
Member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees.
Chairman of the Audit and 
member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Ian is a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
External appointments External appointments
David is currently Chairman of 
Ecovision Ltd, Park Cameras Ltd 
and Walk the Walk, a breast cancer 
charity. In addition he holds 
Non-Executive Director roles at 
Halfords Plc, Hornby Plc, Fever T ree 
Drinks Plc and Elegant Hotels Plc.
As part of these directorships, 
David chairs the Audit Committee 
at Halfords, Hornby and Fever 
T ree Drinks, and chairs the 
Remuneration Committee 
at Elegant Hotels.
Diana is a trustee of the Family 
and Childcare T rust and is on the 
board of the WSTA (Wine and 
Spirit T rade Association). Diana is 
also a T rustee of The Benevolent 
(the drinks industry charity).
Andrew has no 
external appointments.
Mark has no external 
appointments.
Jennifer is a T rustee of the IHG 
Foundation, an independent 
charity that works to set the 
foundations for stronger, 
healthier, more prosperous 
communities around the world.
She is currently Non-Executive 
Director of Premier Foods plc.
Martin is currently CEO 
of strategic multichannel 
consultancy Practicology 
and is a Non-Executive of 
the company White Stuff.
Steve Wilson is Group Finance 
Director of Headlam Group plc. 
Headlam is Europe’s largest floor 
coverings distributor and is listed 
on the London Stock Exchange’s 
Main Market.
Ian Jones is a member of 
the Retail Advisory Committee 
for Marie Curie. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
33 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Steve Wilson
Non-Executive Director
Martin Newman
Non-Executive Director
Jennifer Laing
Non-Executive Director
Ian Jones
Non-Executive Director
T erm of office T erm of office
David joined the Board 
in July 2013.
Diana joined the Board 
in February 2013.
Andrew joined the Board 
in June 2014.
Mark joined the Board 
in May 2016.
Jennifer joined the Board 
in May 2016.
Martin joined the Board 
in February 2014.
Steve joined the Board 
in February 2014.
Ian joined the Board 
in May 2015.
Previous experience Previous experience
David is an experienced Plc 
director who has served in both 
executive and non-executive 
capacities in the retail industry. 
Past roles include Finance 
Director and Deputy CEO at 
House of Fraser, Chairman of 
Jessops Plc and Moss Bros Plc 
and Non-Executive Director 
of HMV.
Prior to joining Conviviality, 
Diana held various roles at 
Waitrose, including Head 
of Merchandising, Director 
of Store Development 
and, latterly, as Convenience 
Director. Diana began her career 
at J Sainsbury plc where for over 
13 years she held numerous 
senior roles.
Andrew joined from Direct Wines, 
where he held the position of 
Chief Financial Officer, having 
previously held senior finance 
roles in the retail sector at 
Shop Direct Group and 
Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
Mark joined from Booker Group 
PLC where he was Managing 
Director of Booker Direct. Mark 
has over 35 years’ experience 
in the food and drinks industry 
and has served on the boards 
of Booker, Safeway and 
Blueheath plc.
Jennifer brings extensive brand 
and marketing expertise to the 
Board having spent over 30 years 
in the advertising industry. She 
recently retired from the Board of 
Intercontinental Hotel Group Plc 
where she was a Non-Executive 
Director for ten years. Previously 
Jennifer spent 16 years with 
Saatchi and Saatchi. Most 
recently as Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman of North America.
Martin’s previous roles have 
included Head of E-commerce 
for Burberry Group plc and 
T ed Baker plc, Interim Director 
of E-commerce for Pentland 
Brands plc as well as Head of 
Marketing for Harrods’ home 
shopping division.
Steve has significant public 
company experience, having 
been on the board of Headlam 
Group plc since 1991, where he 
has helped develop the business 
from its origin as a company 
with revenues of £21m to where 
it is today. He served on the 
board of Synergy Health Plc as 
Non-Executive Chairman for 
eight years between 2002 
and 2010.
Ian was previously at Homebase 
Ltd where he was Retail Director 
for nine years. During this period, 
Ian was also Distribution and 
Supply Chain Director for five 
years. Ian took a central role in 
repositioning Homebase as a 
home enhancement retailer and 
was responsible for 340 stores 
and 18,000 retail personnel.
Board committees Board committees
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee, Acting Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
member of the Audit Committee.
Diana is not a member of any 
of the Board committees.
Andrew is not a member of any 
of the Board committees.
Mark is not a member of any 
Board committees.
Chair of the Remuneration 
committee with effect 
12 September 2016 and 
Member of the Audit and 
Nomination committees.
Member of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees.
Chairman of the Audit and 
member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
Ian is a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
External appointments External appointments
David is currently Chairman of 
Ecovision Ltd, Park Cameras Ltd 
and Walk the Walk, a breast cancer 
charity. In addition he holds 
Non-Executive Director roles at 
Halfords Plc, Hornby Plc, Fever T ree 
Drinks Plc and Elegant Hotels Plc.
As part of these directorships, 
David chairs the Audit Committee 
at Halfords, Hornby and Fever 
T ree Drinks, and chairs the 
Remuneration Committee 
at Elegant Hotels.
Diana is a trustee of the Family 
and Childcare T rust and is on the 
board of the WSTA (Wine and 
Spirit T rade Association). Diana is 
also a T rustee of The Benevolent 
(the drinks industry charity).
Andrew has no 
external appointments.
Mark has no external 
appointments.
Jennifer is a T rustee of the IHG 
Foundation, an independent 
charity that works to set the 
foundations for stronger, 
healthier, more prosperous 
communities around the world.
She is currently Non-Executive 
Director of Premier Foods plc.
Martin is currently CEO 
of strategic multichannel 
consultancy Practicology 
and is a Non-Executive of 
the company White Stuff.
Steve Wilson is Group Finance 
Director of Headlam Group plc. 
Headlam is Europe’s largest floor 
coverings distributor and is listed 
on the London Stock Exchange’s 
Main Market.
Ian Jones is a member of 
the Retail Advisory Committee 
for Marie Curie. 34 Conviviality Plc
Corporate governance report
Maintaining the highest standards 
of corporate governance
The Board has been strengthened during the year 
and continually monitors our governance framework 
to ensure its effectiveness.
As an AIM-quoted company, the Group 
is not required to produce a corporate 
governance report nor comply with the 
requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. However, the Directors 
are committed to providing information 
on an open basis and present their corporate 
governance report as follows:
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises 
one Non-Executive Chairman; one 
Non-Executive senior independent 
Director; three Non-Executive Directors; 
and three Executive Directors, who are 
the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial 
Officer and the Managing Director 
of Conviviality Direct. 
The Non-Executive Directors demonstrate 
a range of experience and sufficient calibre 
to bring independent judgement on issues 
of strategy, performance, resources and 
standards of conduct, which are vital 
to the success of the Group.
The Board meets at regular intervals 
and is responsible for setting corporate 
strategy, approving the annual budget, 
reviewing financial performance, agreeing 
the renewal of and any new banking/
treasury facilities, approving major items 
of capital expenditure and reviewing and 
approving acquisitions. The Board is 
provided with appropriate information 
in advance of Board meetings to enable 
it to discharge its duties effectively. The 
Chairman ensures that the Directors are 
able to take independent professional advice 
as required at the Company’s expense.
During FY16 the Board met 15 times 
comprising 11 regular scheduled meetings 
and an additional 4 meetings relating to 
the acquisitions of Matthew Clark and 
Bibendum PLB Group.
# of meetings attended in 2016
D A R Adams 15/15
M D Newman 11/15
S G Wilson 12/15
I M W Jones
1
9/15
D Hunter 15/15
C A Humphreys 15/15
K Burchell
2
3/15
A Jones
2
3/15
1.  Meeting attendance due to absence 
on the grounds of ill health.
2.  Due to resignation.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised 
of David Adams as acting Chairman, 
Steve Wilson, Martin Newman, Ian Jones 
and Jennifer Laing. The Committee’s 
policy and the details of each Director’s 
remuneration are clearly explained in its 
report on pages 36 to 41 and in note 5 
to the accounts.
Audit Committee
The Committee is comprised of Steve Wilson 
as Chairman, David Adams and Jennifer 
Laing. The meetings are also attended, by 
invitation, by the other Directors. The Audit 
Committee has met on two occasions 
during the year and once since year end.
The Committee has primary responsibility 
for monitoring the quality of internal controls, 
ensuring that the financial performance of the 
Group is properly measured and reported 
on and for reviewing reports from the Group’s 
auditor relating to the Group’s accounting 
and financial reporting, in all cases having 
due regard to the interests of shareholders.
The Committee has established a Risk 
Committee for which the Chairman is the 
Group Chief Financial Officer. The Committee 
identifies, evaluates and manages risks 
faced by the Group. The Chairman of the 
Committee reports the outcome 
of the Risk Committee meetings 
to the Audit Committee. 
The Committee also oversees the 
relationship with the external auditor 
including approval of remuneration levels, 
approval of terms of engagement and 
assessment of its independence and 
objectivity. In so doing it takes into 
account UK professional and regulatory 
requirements and the relationship with 
the auditor as a whole, including the 
provision of non-audit services. KPMG LLP 
has been auditor to Matthew Clark (Holdings) 
Limited (“MCHL”) since 2003 and was 
appointed as auditor to the Group following 
completion of the reverse takeover 
of MCHL in November 2015.
Nomination Committee
The Committee is comprised of David Adams 
as Chairman, Steve Wilson, Martin Newman 
and Jennifer Laing. The Committee 
identifies and nominates for the approval 
of the Board, candidates to fill Board 
vacancies when they arise. The Committee 
meets at least once a year.
At each AGM of the Company, one-third 
of the Directors (or the number nearest 
to but not exceeding one-third when the 
number of Directors is not a multiple of 
three) shall retire from office. In addition, 
any Director who has been a Director at 
each of the preceding two AGMs shall 
also retire. Each such Director may, if 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
If the Company, at the meeting at which 
a Director retires, does not fill the vacancy, 
the retiring Director shall, if willing, be deemed 
to have been reappointed unless it is 
expressly resolved not to fill the vacancy 
or a resolution for the reappointment of the 
Director is put to the meeting and lost. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
35 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Internal control 
The Board is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The system is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve the Group’s strategic 
objectives and can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group and there is a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved for decision 
by the Board. 
Each year the Board approves the annual 
budget. Key risk areas are identified, reviewed 
and monitored. Performance is monitored 
against budget, relevant action is taken 
throughout the year and quarterly rolling 
forecasts are prepared. The reports reviewed 
by the Board include reports on operational 
as well as financial issues. 
Capital and development expenditure 
is regulated by a budgetary process 
and authorisation levels. For expenditure 
beyond specified levels, detailed written 
proposals have to be submitted to the 
Board for approval. Reviews are carried 
out after the purchase is complete. The 
Board requires management to explain 
any major deviations from authorised 
capital proposals and to seek further 
sanction from the Board. Due diligence 
work is carried out if a business 
is to be acquired.
Where the management of operational 
risk requires outside advice this is sought 
from expert consultants, and the Group 
receives this in the areas of employment 
law and health and safety management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal controls 
and has considered the need for an internal 
audit function. At this stage the Board has 
decided that an internal audit function is 
not required as the Group’s internal 
controls system in place is appropriate. 
The Board will keep this under review.
The Board also reviews the Group’s 
arrangements for its employees raising 
concerns, in confidence, about possible 
wrongdoing in financial reporting or other 
matters. The Board ensures that such 
arrangements allow for independent 
investigation and follow-up action.
Relations with shareholders
Communication with shareholders is given 
high priority. There is regular dialogue with 
major and/or institutional shareholders, 
including presentations after the Company’s 
announcements of the half-year and full-year 
results in February and July, respectively. 
Presentations are also made to analysts 
at those times to present the Group’s 
results and report on developments. This 
assists with the promotion of knowledge 
of the Group in the investment marketplace 
and with shareholders. The financial 
statements include a review of the business 
and future developments. These financial 
12+38+50+g 25+75+g 
Female    
 
Male
 
Chairman    
 
Executive    
 
Non-Executive
1
2
6
3
4
Board composition
statements and other corporate news 
relating to the Group are also available 
on the Group’s website.
Following the half-year and year-end 
presentations of results, the Executive 
Directors report to the Board on the 
feedback received from analysts and 
shareholders. In addition, the Company’s 
Nomad produces a feedback report from 
those meetings which is made available 
to all Directors. The Executive Directors 
also report to the Board on any meetings with 
shareholders or institutional investors that 
may take place at other times of the year.
The Board encourages shareholder 
participation at its Annual General Meeting, 
where shareholders can be updated on 
the Group’s activities and plans.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position 
are set out in the Strategic report. The 
financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described within the Financial 
review section of the Strategic report also. 
In addition, note 18 to the financial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives and policies 
of its financial risk management and details 
of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities and its exposure to credit risk 
and liquidity risk.
The Directors have prepared cash flow 
forecasts for the period until April 2019. 
Based on these, the Directors confirm 
that there are sufficient cash reserves to 
fund the business for the period under 
review, and believe that the Group is 
well placed to manage its business risk 
successfully. For this reason they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Andrew Humphreys
Company Secretary
18 July 2016 36 Conviviality Plc
Remuneration Committee report
Recognising the demands of the enlarged Group and 
to support integration we appointed a number of new 
colleagues into key roles in the Group during this year.
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s letter
On behalf of the Remuneration 
Committee I am pleased to present the 
Remuneration report for the financial 
period to 1 May 2016. This has been a year 
of significant change for Conviviality. 
During the year I have undertaken the 
role of acting Remuneration Committee 
Chair whilst Ian Jones took time off from 
his responsibilities to recover from an 
illness. Ian has now returned to his 
Non-Executive role. In May we announced 
the appointment of Jennifer Laing to the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director. 
Jennifer has significant plc experience 
with IHG plc and Premier Foods plc, 
where she chairs the Remuneration 
Committee. Following the AGM on 
12 September 2016 Jennifer will chair 
Conviviality’s Remuneration Committee. 
In October 2015 we undertook the 
acquisition of Matthew Clark. Recognising 
the demands of the enlarged Group and 
to support integration we appointed a 
number of new colleagues into key roles 
in the Group during this year. We also 
commissioned an independent consultant, 
Kepler, a brand of Mercer, to undertake an 
exercise to benchmark senior management 
remuneration. It was our express intention 
through the review to harmonise 
remuneration arrangements. We wanted 
to ensure that our senior leadership team 
was aligned as a team in driving organisation 
performance. All of our proposals for 
future remuneration arrangements were 
subject to extensive consultation, with 
major shareholders and shareholder 
representative bodies, the IA and ISS, 
and we were pleased to have received 
broad support for the final arrangements 
outlined in this report.
This process and the actions taken are 
described in this report, specifically the 
determination of market competitive 
remuneration arrangements for our 
three Executive Directors. 
Integral to the remuneration review has 
been the conclusion of our LTIP design 
for our senior management group which 
was part of a broader project that the 
Remuneration Committee has undertaken 
during the year. We extended the scope 
of the review to include the acquisition of 
Bibendum PLB Group after the year end.
A key topic for the Committee was setting 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors. 
In light of the additional size, complexity 
and overall responsibility of their new roles, 
the Committee set the salary of the Group 
CEO at £450,000 and the Group CFO at 
£300,000, effective from 7 October 2015, 
which positions them closer to median 
for comparable roles. Further details for 
Diana Hunter and Andrew Humphreys 
are included in the report. 
Given the scale and transformative nature 
of the acquisition of Matthew Clark, plus 
the strong financial performance of the 
business, the Committee has awarded 
bonuses for the year of £366,440 
for Diana Hunter and £175,781 for 
Andrew Humphreys. 
In conclusion, throughout the year the 
Committee has sought to establish a 
remuneration framework that is strongly 
aligned to the needs, values and direction 
of the Group as well as in the interests of 
shareholders and recognises the need to 
recruit, retain and appropriately incentivise 
high calibre colleagues in delivering the 
challenging plans we set.
I hope that you find this report both clear 
and informative. 
David Adams
Acting Chair of the Remuneration Committee
18 July 2016
The Committee has 
sought to establish 
a remuneration 
framework that is 
strongly aligned to 
the needs, values 
and direction of 
the Group as well 
as in the interests 
of shareholders.
The Committee 
During FY16, the Remuneration 
Committee comprised four members:
# of meetings attended in 2016
D A R Adams 8/8
M D Newman 7/8
S G Wilson 8/8
I M W Jones
1
5/8
1.  Meeting attendance due to absence 
on the grounds of ill health.
The Committee considered the 
following items during the year:
 - our Group remuneration principles; 
 - a market-based review of 
Executive salaries and benefits 
post acquisitions, including 
benchmarking review;
 - Executive Directors’ salaries;
 - development of a new LTIP 
and target-setting for first cycle 
for the period 2016–19;
 - executive bonus framework, 
including targets for 2016/17 
and assessment of payment 
for prior year; and
 - employer pension contributions. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
37 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors listed below all served throughout the period or between the dates 
indicated. Their interests in the issued share capital of the Company, as at 1 May 2016 
or at the date that they stepped down from the Board, were as follows. Also shown are 
the interests of the Directors in the issued share capital of the Company as at the date 
of this report, following the acquisition of Bibendum PLB Group (“BPLB”).
Director Date of appointment
Number at
the date of
this report
2016 
Number
at 1 May
2015 
Number
D Hunter
1
1 March 2013 826,809 826,809 826,809
D A R Adams 30 July 2013 48,163 33,163 13,163
M D Newman 1 February 2014 28,689 18,933 5,600
S G Wilson 1 February 2014 125,000 100,000 32,500
K P Burchell 3 March 2014 to
7 September 2015 — — —
C A Humphreys
1
16 June 2014 99,983 92,666 —
A J Jones 13 October 2014 to
7 September 2015 — — —
I M W Jones 11 May 2015 17,317 — —
1,145,961 1,071,571 878,072
1.  Directors’ interests for Diana Hunter and Andrew Humphreys include vested but unexercised options 
shown at the maximum level. 
Insurance cover is in force in respect of the personal liabilities that may be incurred 
by Directors of the Company in the course of their service with the Group, as permitted 
by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration information for those individuals who have served as a Director 
of the Company during the financial year ended 1 May 2016 is presented overleaf. 
The information presented in respect of these Directors is for the full financial period or, 
where a Director stepped down from the Board during the year, for the period during 
which they served as a Director.
Our remuneration 
policy recognises 
the need to recruit, 
retain and 
appropriately 
incentivise high 
calibre colleagues 
in delivering the 
challenging plans 
we set. 38 Conviviality Plc
Remuneration Committee report continued
Directors’ remuneration continued
Director
Basic
salary 
and fees 
1
£
Annual 
bonus 
2
£
Benefits 
3
£
Payment 
in lieu of 
pension
£
Total
£
Executive Directors 
D Hunter 407,461 366,440 29,394 42,050 845,345
K P Burchell
4
70,812 — 4,554 — 75,366
C A Humphreys 288,204 175,781 13,192 — 477,177
A J Jones
4
81,442 — 4,651 — 86,093
Non-Executive Directors 
D A R Adams
5
65,000 — — — 65,000
M D Newman 40,000 — — — 40,000
S G Wilson 40,000 — — — 40,000
I M W Jones
6
40,000 — — — 40,000
Total 1,032,919 542,221 51,791 42,050 1,668,981 
1.  Salaries for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed during the year as set out on page 39. Salaries for Diana Hunter and Andrew Humphreys 
were reviewed on 7 October 2015 in light of the additional size, complexity and overall responsibility of their new roles following the Matthew Clark acquisition.
2.  Bonus payments take into account the scale and transformative nature of the acquisition of Matthew Clark, and the strong financial performance of the business 
in the year. Financial performance was based on Group EBITDA. Targets for Group EBITDA were increased during the year to take account of the acquisition 
of Matthew Clark. 
3.  Benefits for Executive Directors in 2016 included car allowance, life assurance and private medical insurance.
4.  Remuneration shown is for the period served as a Director. Kenton Burchell and Amanda Jones stepped down from the Board on 7 September 2015. 
Both remain members of the senior management team.
5. Amounts payable in respect of this Director are charged as fees to the Company.
6. Appointed 11 May 2015.
Directors’ remuneration information for those individuals who have served as a Director of the Company during the prior financial 
year ended 26 April 2015 is presented below. The information presented in respect of these Directors is for the full financial period.
Director
Basic
salary 
and fees
£
Annual 
bonus
£
Benefits
£
Payment 
in lieu of 
pension
£
Payment 
on loss of 
office
£
Total
£
Executive Directors 
D Hunter 321,250 193,200 28,268 38,750 — 581,468
K P Burchell 190,000 78,000 19,625 — — 287,625
C A Humphreys 197,019 90,000 11,238 — — 298,257
A J Jones 122,692 44,000 8,612 — — 175,304
Non-Executive Directors
D A R Adams
1
65,000 — — — — 65,000
M D Newman 40,000 — — — — 40,000
S G Wilson 40,000 — — — — 40,000
Former Directors
2
K H Webb 58,333 — 5,998 — 124,771 189,102
J A Wirth 37,375 — 4,671 — 97,500 139,546
Total 1,071,669 405,200 78,412 38,750 222,271 1,816,302
1. Amounts payable in respect of this Director are charged as fees to the Company.
2. Keith Webb resigned 21 July 2014 and Julie Wirth resigned 27 June 2014. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
39 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Review of Directors’ remuneration 
during 2016
Following the acquisition of Matthew 
Clark in October 2015, and subsequent 
organisational changes, the Remuneration 
Committee undertook a thorough review 
of Executive remuneration arrangements. 
The purpose of this review was to help 
ensure remuneration arrangements are 
harmonised for the senior management 
team across the enlarged Group, to help 
align Executive interests with those 
of shareholders, to help reinforce the 
achievement of the Company’s strategy, 
to motivate and retain critical talent, and 
to introduce market leading practices as 
expected of a FTSE AIM organisation. 
During this process, we consulted with 
major shareholders holding 53.83 % of 
the share capital, as well as shareholder 
representative bodies, the IA and ISS. 
I am pleased to report that we received 
broad support for our proposals for 
ongoing Executive Director remuneration, 
which are outlined below.
Basic salary and benefits
As part of our review we benchmarked 
the pay of our senior management team 
against similar roles of comparable size 
and complexity in the market with the 
assistance of our independent consultants 
Kepler. Following the acquisition of 
Matthew Clark, Diana Hunter and Andrew 
Humphreys have stepped up to take on 
the role of Group CEO and Group CFO 
for the enlarged Group. The Committee 
determined that it would be appropriate, 
in light of the additional size, complexity 
and overall responsibility of these new 
roles, to move their salaries closer to 
market median for comparable positions. 
Executive Directors’ salaries have therefore been set as follows:
Director 2017 salary Effective date
D Hunter £450,000 7 October 2015
C A Humphreys £300,000 7 October 2015
M Aylwin £375,000 9 May 2016
As part of our broader work on harmonising 
remuneration arrangements across all 
of our businesses, we have undertaken 
a wholesale review of our pension and 
benefits arrangements. As a result of 
which all Executive Directors are eligible 
to receive a defined contribution pension 
or cash in lieu of 15% of salary and other 
benefits, including but not limited to car 
allowance, life assurance, and private 
medical insurance, in line with typical 
arrangements for their roles.
Annual bonus
For 2017, the maximum annual bonus 
opportunity will be 100% of salary for the 
Group CEO, 85% of salary for the Group 
CFO and 75% of salary for other Executive 
Directors. Bonuses will be based on 
Group EBITDA and personal/strategic 
objectives (to include delivery of synergies 
where appropriate). 
To the extent that in any year the bonus 
payment to an Executive Director is greater 
than or equal to 50% of maximum, then 
50% of the total bonus will be payable in 
shares, to be held for at least one year.
Malus (on deferred shares) and clawback 
(on any bonus paid) provisions will apply 
exceptionally in the event of serious 
financial misstatement, miscalculation 
or gross misconduct, for a period of two 
years following bonus payment.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The first awards will be made to Executive 
Directors and members of the senior 
management team under the new LTIP 
in August 2016. 
The LTIP will comprise annual awards 
of performance-vesting shares or nil-cost 
options, vesting based on three year 
growth in earnings per share (“EPS”). For the 
first awards, to be made in August 2016, 30% 
of awards will vest for achieving threshold EPS 
for the year ending 1 May 2019 of 20.3 pence, 
60% for EPS of 21.45 pence and 100% 
for EPS of 24.25 pence. No vesting will 
occur for EPS below the threshold level 
and vesting between these points will be 
on a straight-line basis. Additionally, for any 
shares to vest the Committee must satisfy 
itself that the EPS outcome is a fair reflection 
of the performance of the Company over 
the period and that the Company’s TSR 
performance over the performance period 
warrants vesting according to EPS. The 
Committee will have discretion to adjust 
these targets, maintaining the same level 
of difficulty, in the event of any future 
M&A activity, depending on materiality 
and funding.
The Committee intends to introduce a 
two-year holding period for Executive 
Directors, which will be phased in over 
the first few cycles. It is the Committee’s 
intention that LTIP awards made in 2016 
will have no additional holding period. For 
awards made in 2017, 50% will be subject 
to a one-year holding period, with the  40 Conviviality Plc
Remuneration Committee report continued
Long- T erm Incentive Plan (“L TIP”) continued
remaining 50% vesting immediately. For 
awards made in 2018, 50% will be subject 
to a one-year holding period and 50% 
subject to a two-year holding period. For 
awards made from 2019 onwards, 100% 
of awards will be subject to an additional 
two-year holding period.
Awards under the LTIP may be up to 250% 
of salary in exceptional circumstances this 
is an increase in the individual limit as 
outlined in our admission documents of 
100% of salary. We have discussed this 
new limit with shareholders and received 
broad support for our proposed award 
sizes. For 2017, awards of 100% of salary 
will be made to each of the Executive 
Directors, with the exception of Diana 
Hunter, who will receive an exceptional 
award of 250% of salary to reflect her 
criticality to the business over the next 
three years. From next year, it is intended 
that normal awards of 125% of salary for 
the Group CEO and 100% of salary for 
all other Executive Directors will be made 
on an annual basis.
Dividends will accrue over the vesting 
period (and any holding period), but will 
only be paid on shares which vest.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply 
exceptionally in the event of serious financial 
misstatement, miscalculation or gross 
misconduct, for a period of two years 
following LTIP vesting. 
For participants who are “good leavers”, 
e.g. due to ill health, disability, retirement 
in agreement with the Company, etc. 
unvested awards would be pro-rated for 
time where appropriate and vest subject 
to performance. Otherwise, LTIP awards will 
be forfeited upon cessation of employment. 
Such treatment will be subject to 
Remuneration Committee discretion, 
to ensure fairness to shareholders 
and participants. 
Executive Directors are expected to 
build up a shareholding of 100% of salary 
(200% of salary for the Group CEO) within 
five years.
Former incentive plans – Employee 
Share Option Plan (“ESOP”) 
Following the introduction of the new 
LTIP no further awards are anticipated to 
be made to Executive Directors under the 
ESOP. The ESOP was supervised by the 
Remuneration Committee. The awards 
granted on 26 February 2013 vested on 
successful admission to AIM. All subsequent 
grants vested on completion of one or 
three years’ service to the Company. 
The award price payable per share was 
determined by the Board but could not 
be less than the market value of the shares 
as at the date of grant. For awards granted 
on or around admission, the award price 
was taken to be the placing price. Options 
will be forfeited if the employee leaves 
the Company before the options vest. 
In addition to the completion of three years’ 
service, the vesting of awards made to 
Executive Directors were subject to the 
achievement of performance targets 
as follows:
 - achieving EBITDA targets, 
pre-share-based payment charge, 
of £12.0m, £12.7m and £13.5m for each 
of the years ended 27 April 2014, 
26 April 2015 and 1 May 2016 
respectively; and
 - if one year is missed, but the aggregate 
EBITDA for the three years is realised, 
the options will still vest.
In light of the achievement in respect of 
these performance conditions, outstanding 
ESOP awards to the current Executive 
Directors will vest in full, subject to 
continued employment, on their 
respective earliest date of exercise 
(see table opposite). 
Executive Directors 
are expected to build 
up a shareholding 
of 100% of salary 
(200% for the CEO) 
within five years. Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
41 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The Directors’ interests in share options under the ESOP are as follows:
Individual
Date of 
grant
Earliest 
exercise 
date
Expiry
 date
Exercise 
price 
pence
Number at 
26 April 
2015
Number 
vested
 during
the year
Number 
forfeited/
lapsed
 during
the year
Number
exercised
during
the year
Weighted 
average 
market
price on 
exercise 
pence
Number at 
1 May
2016
D Hunter 26/ 02/2013 31/ 07 /2013 25/ 02/2023 2.7 826,809 — — — — 826,809
31/ 07 /2013 31/ 07 /2016 30 / 07/2023 100.0 2,001,000 — — — — 2,001,000
C A Humphreys 18/ 09/2014 18/09/2017 17/ 09 /2024 170.5 263,929 — — — — 263,929
18/ 09/2014 18/09/2015 17/ 09 /2024 0.0 70,000 70,000 — — — 70,000
08/09/2015 09/ 09/2018 07/ 09/2025 155.0 — — — — — 149,517
Kenton Burchell and Amanda Jones stood down from the Board on 7 September 2015 and remain employed by the Group. 
Their unvested ESOP awards continue and will vest at the usual time.
The Group operates a number of share option and share award schemes for its employees. There are currently 746 employees in 
share schemes. The Executive Directors previously only participated in the Employee Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”), from 2017 
they will participate solely in the LTIP. Details of other schemes are provided in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
During the year, the Board reviewed Non-Executive Director fees and determined to revise these given the increase in size 
and complexity of the business, fees for 2017 will be set as follows:
Director
2017 Fees 
£ Comments
D A R Adams 120,000 Chairman
M D Newman 45,000
I M W Jones 45,000
S G Wilson 55,000 Senior Independent Director and Chair of Audit Committee
J Laing 50,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee
Directors’ service agreements 
and employment letters
The Executive Directors have entered 
into service agreements with the Company 
at the annual salaries shown on page 39. 
These are subject to annual review by the 
Remuneration Committee. The next review 
will be undertaken in May 2017. Each 
Executive Director’s employment will 
continue until terminated by either party 
by written notice. The notice periods 
applicable are six months or longer. 
The Company may elect to terminate 
the employment of each Executive 
Director by making a payment in lieu 
of notice equal to their basic salary in 
a lump sum or monthly instalments. 
Each of the Executive Directors has 
agreed to confidentiality undertakings, 
without limitation as to time, and have 
agreed to non-compete, non-solicitation 
and non-dealing restrictive covenants that 
apply for a period consistent with individual 
notice periods following termination 
of employment with the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors have 
entered into appointment letters. 
Under the terms of these letters, the 
Non-Executive Directors are entitled 
to an annual fee as set out above. The 
appointments are terminable by either 
party with one month’s written notice, 
with the exception of the Chairman for 
whom it is three months. The Company 
may pay the Non-Executive Directors 
in lieu of their notice period. 
David Adams
Acting Chair of the Remuneration Committee
18 July 2016 42 Conviviality Plc
The Directors present their report 
and consolidated financial statements 
for the 53 weeks ending 1 May 2016.
Directors
The Directors who served throughout the period and as at the date of this report are 
listed below:
Director
Date of appointment/
(resignation) 2013 2014 2015 2016
D Hunter 1 February 2013
S G Wilson 1 February 2013
D A R Adams 30 July 2013
M D Newman 1 February 2014
C A Humphreys 16 June 2014
I M W Jones 11 May 2015
K P Burchell (7 September 2015)
A J Jones (7 September 2015)
M Aylwin 9 May 2016
J C E Laing 9 May 2016
Insurance cover is in force in respect of the 
personal liabilities that may be incurred 
by Directors of the Company in the course 
of their service with the Group, as permitted 
by the Companies Act 2006.
Share listing 
The Company’s ordinary shares were 
admitted to and traded on AIM, a market 
operated by the London Stock Exchange, 
with effect from 31 July 2013. On 7 October 
2015 the Company issued 86,666,667 new 
ordinary shares at £1.50 per share increasing 
the issued share capital to £75,000. Post 
the balance sheet date, on 20 May 2016, 
the Company issued a further 15,609,757 
new ordinary shares at £2.05 such that 
at the date of this report the Company’s 
share capital is £77,000. The proceeds 
from the issue of new shares were used to 
acquire Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 
on 7 October 2015 and Bibendum PLB 
Group on 20 May 2016. Further information 
regarding the Company’s share capital is 
set out in note 21 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Capital structure
The acquisitions of Matthew Clark 
(Holdings) Limited on 7 October 2015 
and Bibendum PLB Group Limited 
on 20 May 2016 resulted in a significant 
change in the Group’s capital structure. 
As at 1 May 2016 the Group had term 
loans of £76.0m and working capital 
facilities of £80.0m. At 1 May 2016 the 
amount drawn down against the working 
capital facilities totalled £20.3m.
Post the balance sheet date, on 20 May 2016, 
term loans were increased to £86.0m and 
the working capital facilities were increased 
to £122.5m. The term loans and the 
working capital facilities are provided by a 
bank syndicate comprising RBS, HSBC 
and Barclays. Additional details of these 
facilities are provided in note 17 of the 
consolidated financial statements.
Governance 
The Directors acknowledge the importance 
of the principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014. The UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 is not compulsory 
for AIM-quoted companies and has not 
been complied with. 
Directors’ report Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
43 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
However, the Directors intend to apply 
the principles as considered appropriate 
given the size and nature of the Company 
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 and the QCA 
Corporate Governance Code for Small 
and Mid-Size Quoted Companies 2013.
On 9 May 2016 the Board was further 
strengthened by the appointment of Mark 
Aylwin and Jennifer Laing increasing the 
number of Directors to eight, of which 
three are Executive Directors and five are 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board reflects 
a blend of different experience and 
backgrounds (see Directors’ profiles on 
pages 32 and 33) and meets monthly to 
consider strategy, performance and the 
effectiveness of internal controls, amongst 
other things.
At each AGM of the Company, one-third 
of the Directors (or the number nearest 
to but not exceeding one-third when the 
number of Directors is not a multiple of 
three) shall retire from office. In addition, 
any Director who has been a Director at 
each of the preceding two AGMs shall also 
retire. Each such Director may, if eligible, 
offer themselves for re-election. 
If the Company, at the meeting at which 
a Director retires, does not fill the vacancy, 
the retiring Director shall, if willing, be deemed 
to have been reappointed unless it is 
expressly resolved not to fill the vacancy 
or a resolution for the reappointment of 
the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Steve 
Wilson and has primary responsibility for 
monitoring the quality of internal controls, 
ensuring that the financial performance 
of the Group is properly measured and 
reported on and reviewing reports from 
the Company’s auditor relating to the 
Group’s accounting and internal controls, 
in all cases having due regard to the interests 
of the shareholders. The Committee meets 
at least twice a year, with David Adams 
being the other Audit Committee member. 
The Audit Committee has established a 
Risk Committee chaired by the Group Chief 
Financial Officer to manage the Group’s 
risks and report to the Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by 
David Adams and identifies and nominates, 
for the approval of the Board, candidates 
to fill Board vacancies as and when they 
arise. The Committee meets at least once 
a year, with Steve Wilson and Martin Newman 
being the other Committee members.
The Remuneration Committee is currently 
chaired by David Adams. Following the AGM 
on 12 September 2016 Jennifer Laing will 
chair the Remuneration Committee. The 
Remuneration Committee reviews the 
performance of the Executive Directors 
and determines their terms and conditions 
of service, including their remuneration 
and the grant of options, having due 
regard to the interests of shareholders. 
The Committee meets at least once a 
year, with David Adams, Martin Newman 
and Steve Wilson being the other 
Committee members. 
Executive Directors are invited to attend 
Committee meetings as required from 
time to time.
The Directors understand the importance 
of complying with the AIM Rules relating 
to Directors’ dealings and have established 
a share dealing code which is appropriate 
for an AIM-quoted company.
Control environment
The Directors are responsible for the internal 
controls of the Group and have established 
a framework intended to provide reasonable 
but not absolute assurance against material 
financial misstatement or loss.
An annual budget is prepared against which 
specific objectives and targets are set. 
This budget is reviewed and approved by 
the Board on a regular basis, with trading 
activity monitored weekly and internal 
management accounts prepared and 
reviewed monthly, with comparisons 
against the latest plan and prior year. 
The Group will continue to review and 
develop operating documentation 
and controls as the business develops.
Health and safety
The Group is committed to high standards 
in health, safety and environmental 
performance. It is the Group’s policy to 
abide by all laws, directives and regulations 
relevant to its operations and to act in a 
manner so as to minimise the effects of 
its operations on the environment. The 
Group seeks to provide safe places and 
systems of work, plant and machinery 
and handling of materials and ensures 
appropriate information, instruction 
and training is in place. The Group has 
procedures relating to the appropriate 
reporting and monitoring of accidents, 
incidents and dangerous occurrences 
and employees are encouraged to identify 
and report on any potential policy breach 
to ensure preventative actions are taken 
to avoid any unsafe work practices. 
Emphasis is placed on all employees 
having a responsibility to maintain 
a safe working environment. 
Financial risk management
Financial risk is managed through a 
formal quarterly update by the Board and 
informally on an ongoing basis. The key 
risks relating to the Group are outlined in 
more detail in note 18 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Regulatory risks
The Group’s Risk Committee is 
responsible for monitoring, controlling 
and ensuring all regulatory obligations are 
complied with on an ongoing basis. 44 Conviviality Plc
Directors’ report continued
Responsible retailing
The Group acknowledges that alcohol misuse and underage drinking are issues causing 
real concern. The Group takes these matters very seriously and is committed to the 
responsible retailing of alcohol in order to mitigate their impact. The Group is a supporter 
of Drinkaware, the government sponsored trust that promotes responsible drinking, 
and, in addition, the Group operates the Challenge 25 scheme to ensure that minors 
are not able to purchase alcohol in our stores. Responsible retailing is re-enforced 
through awareness training for both our employees and Franchisees. We insist on high 
levels of training for Franchisees and regular store audits. We believe that our independent 
Franchisee retailers take their responsibilities very seriously and, through their excellent 
local community links, are in a strong position to exercise responsible retailing effectively.
Substantial shareholdings
At 30 June 2016, the Company had been notified of the following interests of over 3% 
of the issued unused share capital:
Number
of shares
Percentage of
shareholding
AXA Investment Managers UK 16,901,409 9.89
Premier Asset Managers 14,685,994 8.60
Henderson Global Investors 14,185,152 8.30
River & Mercantile Asset Management 11,146,801 6.52
Miton Asset Management Limited 10,740,652 6.29
Artemis Fund Managers Limited 10,256,177 6.00
Hargreave Hale 9,114,207 5.33
Unicorn Asset Management 8,970,728 5.25
Schroder Investment Management 8,180,698 4.79
Majedie Asset Management 7,641,095 4.47
Octopus Investments 6,833,188 4.00
Ruffer LLP 6,826,476 4.00
Jupiter Asset Management 5,964,298 3.49
GLG Partners 5,566,153 3.26
Post balance sheet events
On 20 May 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Bibendum 
PLB Group Limited for the cash consideration of £39.7m and the assumption of debt 
of £19.0m.
Future developments
Future developments are included in the Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
on pages 13 to 18.
By order of the Board
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
45 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report, the Strategic report, 
the Directors’ report and the financial statements
Auditor and disclosure 
of information to auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Strategic report, 
the Directors’ report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare Group and parent company 
financial statements for each financial 
year. As required by the AIM Rules of the 
London Stock Exchange they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial 
statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and parent company and of their profit or 
loss for that period. In preparing each of 
the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to: 
 - select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
 - make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
 - state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU; and 
 - prepare the financial statements 
on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the parent company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility 
for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets 
of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2016
Each Director in office at the date of approval 
of this report has confirmed that:
 - so far as he/she is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 - he/she has taken all reasonable steps 
that he/she ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make himself/herself 
aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
In accordance with Section 489 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a resolution will 
be proposed at the AGM that KPMG 
will be reappointed as auditor.
By order of the Board
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2016 46 Conviviality Plc
We have audited the financial statements 
of Conviviality Plc for the period ended 
1 May 2016 as set out on pages 47 to 88. 
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU 
and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the 
Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s 
members, as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
responsibilities statement, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit, and express 
an opinion on, the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit 
of financial statements is provided on 
the Financial Reporting Council’s website 
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
 - the financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the parent company’s affairs as 
at 1 May 2016 and of the Group’s profit 
for the year then ended; 
 - the Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
 - the parent company financial 
statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU and as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006; and 
 - the financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in 
the Strategic report and the Directors’ 
report for the financial period for which 
the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect 
of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us 
to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 - adequate accounting records have 
not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or 
 - the parent company financial 
statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or 
 - certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
 - we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. 
Nicola Quayle (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP 
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants 
1 St Peter’s Square
Manchester
M2 3AE
15 July 2016
Independent auditor’s report 
To the members of Conviviality Plc Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
47 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Note
Before
exceptional
items
2016
£000
Exceptional
items
(note 4b)
2016
£000
Total
2016
£000
Before
exceptional
items
2015
£000
Exceptional
items
(note 4b)
2015
£000
Total
2015
£000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2, 3 864,496 — 864,496 364,092 — 364,092
Cost of sales (765,330) — (765,330) (327,093) — (327,093)
Gross profit 99,166 — 99,166 36,999 — 36,999
Operating expenses 4 (77,729) (9,855) (87,584) (27,230) (731) (27,961)
Operating profit 3, 4 21,437 (9,855) 11,582 9,769 (731) 9,038
Finance income 6 24 — 24 23 — 23
Finance costs 6 (2,526) — (2,526) (75) — (75)
Profit before income tax 18,935 (9,855) 9,080 9,717 (731) 8,986
Income tax expense 7 (4,159) 349 (3,810) (1,895) (59) (1,954)
Profit for the financial period 14,776 (9,506) 5,270 7,822 (790) 7,032
Other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedge reserve 22 (86) — (86) — — —
Total comprehensive income 14,690 (9,506) 5,184 7,822 (790) 7,032
Earnings per ordinary share
– Basic 8 4.6p 10.7p
– Diluted 8 4.4p 10.1p
The results for the financial period are derived from continuing operations.
All of the profit for the financial period and total comprehensive income are attributable to the owners of the parent.
Consolidated income statement
For the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 48 Conviviality Plc
Note
2016
 £000
2015
£000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 15,249 7,224
Goodwill 11 173,446 42,870
Intangible assets 12 66,158 1,833
Deferred taxation asset 19 1,419 647
Trade and other receivables 14 6,424 —
Total non-current assets 262,696 52,574
Current assets
Inventories 13 61,825 12,357
Trade and other receivables 14 151,928 33,669
Cash and cash equivalents 15 9,540 1,203
Derivatives 18 1,236 —
Total current assets 224,529 47,229
Total assets 487,225 99,803
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 (183,253) (46,321)
Borrowings 17 (28,137) (9)
Current taxation payable (2,815) (780)
Provisions 20 (449) —
Total current liabilities (214,654) (47,110)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (67,510) (3)
Deferred tax liability 19 (11,165) —
Trade and other payables 16 (6,159) —
Provisions 20 (4,912) —
Total non-current liabilities (89,746) (3)
Total liabilities (304,400) (47,113)
Net assets 182,825 52,690
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 21 75 57
Share premium 22 164,342 34,020
Share-based payment and other reserves 22 3,847 2,002
Retained earnings 14,561 16,611
Total equity 182,825 52,690
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 July 2016.
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
Conviviality Plc
Company registration number: 5592636
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 1 May 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
49 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Note
Share
capital
£000
Share
 premium
£000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£000
Other
reserves
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 27 April 2014 57 34,020 1,014 (58) 14,818 49,851
Profit for the financial period — — — — 7,032 7,032
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — — 7,032 7,032
Transactions with owners:
Transfer of share-based payment charge 22 — — (25) — 25 —
Dividends 9 — — — — (5,264) (5,264)
Disposal of shares from EBT 22 — — — 32 — 32
Share-based payment charge 27 — — 1,032 — — 1,032
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge 22 — — (178) — — (178)
Excess deferred tax deduction on share options 22 — — 185 — — 185
Total transactions with owners — — 1,014 32 (5,239) (4,193)
Balance at 26 April 2015 57 34,020 2,028 (26) 16,611 52,690
Profit for the financial period — — — — 5,270 5,270
Cash flow hedge reserve for interest rate swap 22 — — — (86) — (86)
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — (86) 5,270 5,184
Transactions with owners:
Issue of new ordinary shares 21 18 130,322 — — — 130,340
Transfer of share-based payment charge 22 — — (94) — 94 —
Dividends 9 — — — — (7,414) (7,414)
Share-based payment charge 27 — — 1,661 — — 1,661
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge 22 — — 364 — — 364
Total transactions with owners 18 130,322 1,931 — (7,320) 124,951
Balance at 1 May 2016 75 164,342 3,959 (112) 14,561 182,825
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 50 Conviviality Plc
Note
2016
£000
2015
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 23 27,250 11,496
Interest paid (2,898) (75)
Income tax paid (2,524) (1,645)
Net cash generated from operating activities 21,828 9,776
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 10 (7,710) (4,166)
Purchases of intangible assets 12 (4,158) (806)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 240 281
Interest received 13 23
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) 28 (200,412) (6,495)
Net debt and debt like items on purchase of subsidiary undertaking 28 (11,085) —
Exceptional costs incurred on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (8,956) —
Purchase of other business combinations 11, 28 (796) (2,146)
Proceeds from sale of other business combinations 195 —
Net cash used in investing activities (232,669) (13,309)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 9 (7,414) (5,264)
Repayments of borrowings (4,025) (6)
Proceeds from sale of shares 21 130,340 —
Proceeds from sale of shares held by EBT 22 — 32
Proceeds from term loans 17 80,000 —
Net cash proceeds generated from/(used in) financing activities 198,901 (5,238)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (11,940) (8,771)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 15 1,203 9,974
Effect of movements in exchange rates of cash held 22 —
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 23 (10,715) 1,203
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
51 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1. General information
The principal activity of Conviviality Plc (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together, the “Group” or “Conviviality”) is that 
of wholesale of beers, wines, spirits, tobacco, grocery and confectionery to the UK on-trade and off-trade markets. 
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is Weston Road, Crewe, 
Cheshire CW1 6BP. The registered number of the Company is 5592636.
The financial information presented is for the 53 week period ended 1 May 2016 and the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015. The consolidated 
financial information is presented in Sterling, which is also the functional currency of the parent company, and has been rounded 
to the nearest thousand (£000).
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial information are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial information has been prepared on a going concern basis 
and under the historical cost convention.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the period until April 2019. Based on these, the Directors confirm that there 
are sufficient cash reserves to fund the business for the period under review, and believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risk successfully. There is also new funding in place as a result of the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) during the 
financial period and the Group is forecasted to be cash generative going forward. For this reason the Directors continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The financial information comprises a consolidation of the financial information of Conviviality Plc and all its subsidiaries. The financial 
period ends of all Group entities are coterminous.
Subsidiaries are all entities to which the Group is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated except to the extent they provide evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) and a Franchisee Incentive Trust (“FIT”) for the purposes of acquiring shares 
to fund share awards made to employees and Franchisees respectively. The assets and liabilities of these trusts have been included 
in the consolidated financial information. The cost of purchasing own shares held by the EBT and FIT are accounted for in other reserves.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of acquisition is measured 
at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date. 
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded 
as goodwill. 
Acquisition costs are charged to exceptional items.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Notes to the financial statements 52 Conviviality Plc
2. Accounting policies continued
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts 
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the 
amount, event or actions, actual events ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes certain estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, 
seldom equal the related actual results. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 
and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial information, are considered to relate to:
(a) Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units (“CGU”) to which 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise 
from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. The estimation of the timing and value of underlying 
projected cash flows and selection of appropriate discount rates involves management judgement. Subsequent changes to these estimates 
or judgements may impact the carrying value of the goodwill, which as at 1 May 2016 was £173,446,000 (note 11). Other intangible assets, 
including brand names and customer bases have been valued at fair value using the relief from royalty valuation method for brand 
names and the multi-period excess earnings (“MEEM”) valuation method for customer bases. The estimation of royalty rates, 
future cash flows and customer attrition rates required for these methods involves management judgement. 
(b) Impairment of trade receivables
The assessments undertaken in recognising provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with IAS 39. A provision for the 
impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all outstanding 
amounts in full due to the receivables being classified as “bad” or there are indications that the collection is “doubtful”. The amount 
of any loss is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are 
credited against cost of sales in the income statement. The gross amount of trade receivables at 1 May 2016 was £131,506,000 and the 
associated provision was £1,859,000 (note 14).
(c) Share options
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model (Black-Scholes pricing model), 
consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen, and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately 
vest. The key assumptions are on expected life of share options, volatility of share price, the risk-free yield to maturity and expected 
dividend yield. The total charge for equity and cash-settled share-based payments for the financial period was £1,767,000 (note 27).
(d) Provisions and contingent consideration
The recognition and measurement of provisions and contingent consideration require management judgement to assess the likelihood 
and magnitude of the future outflow if resources and payments of consideration.
(e) Acquisition accounting and fair values
Acquisition accounting and fair value adjustments require management judgement to assess the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired to ensure they are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date.
(f) Classification of exceptional items 
The classification of exceptional items requires management judgement to assess the particular items, which by virtue of their scale 
and nature, should be classified as exceptional items.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker 
(“CODM”). The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, has been 
identified as the Chief Executive Officer.
Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial information of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated financial information is presented in Sterling, 
which is the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ functional and presentation currency.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
53 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
2. Accounting policies continued
Foreign currency translation continued
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the exchange 
rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on translation are recognised in the income statement for the 
period except for differences arising on qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated 
at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Revenue
Revenue relates to the wholesale supply of goods in the UK to the on-trade and off-trade markets, and is recognised when the 
significant risks and benefits of ownership of the product has been transferred to the buyer. Revenue is the total amount receivable 
by the Group for goods supplied excluding VAT. 
Wholesale revenue is recognised on delivery of the product to the customer. Retail revenue generated by Company-owned stores 
is recognised at the point of sale to the buyer. Events revenue is generated through the operation of temporary bars at events 
and is recognised as the event occurs.
Supplier income
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts, collectively known as “supplier income”, are recognised on an accruals basis as they are 
earned for each relevant supplier contract within cost of sales. The accrued value at the reporting date is included in accrued income.
The most common types of supplier income which the Group receives are:
 - retrospective discounts typically based on an agreed sum per item sold on promotion for a period;
 - fixed amounts agreed with suppliers to support specific promotions; and
 - supplier rebates typically based on sales targets on an annual calendar year basis.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales represent the cost to the Group of the product sold. It consists of all external costs incurred in procuring goods for 
resale and delivering them to the distribution warehouses, as well as any adjustments to inventory and any bad debt expense. 
Operating costs
Operating costs consists of distribution costs, administrative expenses, head office costs, and the costs associated with running 
corporately owned stores.
Fees for the provision of continuing services to Franchisees (e.g. IT support, marketing, training, etc.) are recognised as operating income 
within operating expenses in the consolidated income statement as the services are rendered. Initial fees are recognised as operating 
income when performance of all the initial services and other obligations required of the franchisor have been substantially accomplished.
Financing income and expenses
Financing expenses comprise interest payable and finance leases recognised in the profit and loss account using the effective interest 
method. Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested. Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for 
impairment. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset into working 
condition for its intended use.
Land is deemed to have an infinite life and is not depreciated. Depreciation is recognised on a straight-line basis to write down the 
cost less estimated residual value of buildings, plant and equipment and motor vehicles. The following useful lives are applied:
Leasehold buildings shorter of lease term and 50 years
Plant and equipment two to 15 years
Motor vehicles  three years 54 Conviviality Plc
2. Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment continued
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each reporting date. 
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the 
buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and less accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets 
of the acquired subsidiary or businesses at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing. A CGU is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets that 
generate largely independent cash inflows, and that which is reviewed by management for monitoring and managing the business. 
The Group’s CGUs are Bargain Booze, Wine Rack, GT News (Holdings), Matthew Clark (Holdings) and Peppermint Events.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value 
in use. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal 
of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date. 
(b) Other intangible assets
Brand names and customer base: Brand names and customer bases acquired in a business combination that quality for separate 
recognition are recognised as intangible assets at their fair values. The fair values have been calculated using the relief from royalty 
method for brand names and the multi-period excess earnings method (“MEEM”) for customer bases. 
Internally developed software: Expenditure on the research phase of projects to develop new customised software for IT and 
telecommunication systems is recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly attributable to a project’s development 
phase are recognised as intangible assets, provided they meet the following criteria:
 - the development cost can be measured reliably;
 - the project is technically feasible and viable;
 - the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete the project;
 - the Group has the ability to use or sell the software; and
 - the software is expected to generate probable future economic benefits.
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Intangible assets arising on acquisition 
of subsidiaries or businesses are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value of these assets can be identified separately 
and measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset. The useful life of the Group’s 
intangible assets is 6.5 years to 20 years for brands and customer bases and five years for other intangibles which are predominately software.
Impairment reviews are carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement when the asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount. Its recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Impairment losses are not reversed.
Inventory
Inventory comprises goods held for resale which are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the 
first in, first out method. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable 
selling expenses. Provision is made for slow moving and obsolete stock if required. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
55 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
2. Accounting policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all outstanding amounts in full due to the 
receivables being classified as “bad” or there are indications that collection is “doubtful”.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the 
income statement within operating costs. When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for 
trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating costs in the income statement.
Other receivables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term highly liquid investments 
maturing within three months or less from the date of acquisition that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which 
are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services which have been acquired in the commercial operations of the Group. 
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability. 
Dividends
Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid. Final dividends on ordinary shares 
are recognised when they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating leases
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the statement of financial position. Rental payments are charged directly 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free 
periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Finance leases
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding future lease obligations are shown in short-term and long-term 
borrowings. Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. 
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability.
EBT
The assets and liabilities of the Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) have been included in the Group accounts. The assets of the EBT 
are held separately from those of the Company. Any assets held by the EBT cease to be recognised on the consolidated statement 
of financial position when the assets vest unconditionally in identified beneficiaries.
Finance cost and administrative expenses of the EBT are recorded in the Company’s income statement where material; gains and losses 
on the purchase, sales, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own shares are recorded as movements on reserves. Neither the purchase 
nor sale of own shares leads to a gain or loss being recognised in the Group consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Investments in the Company’s own shares held by the EBT are presented as a deduction from reserves and any dividend income 
received by the EBT is deducted from the aggregate of dividends paid and proposed. The number of such shares held by the EBT 
is deducted from the number of shares in issue when calculating earnings per share. 56 Conviviality Plc
2. Accounting policies continued
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Taxation
The tax expense for the period comprises of current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or in equity. In this case, the tax is recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income or in equity.
(a) Current taxation
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid 
to the tax authorities.
(b) Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised using the statement of financial position liability method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in the historical financial information. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax 
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current assets 
against current liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Pension costs
The Group operates a stakeholder defined contribution pension scheme. The total expense recognised in the income statement 
represents contributions payable to the fund by the Group as specified in the rules of the scheme.
Exceptional items
The Group discloses as exceptional items those items of income or expense which possess a high degree of abnormality which arise 
from events or transactions that fall outside the ordinary activities of the Group and which are not expected to recur.
The Directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale and nature, should be classified as 
exceptional items. The Directors consider that separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the item being hedged.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly 
probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the 
hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees and Franchisees. Equity-settled share-based 
payments are measured at fair value, excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions, at the date of grant. The fair value 
determined at the grant date, is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares 
that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected useful life used in the models has been adjusted, based 
on management’s best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. For cash-settled share-based 
payments, a liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each 
reporting date. National Insurance is accrued periodically in line with the share-based payment charge.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
57 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
2. Accounting policies continued
Equity
Equity comprises the following:
 - “share capital” represents the nominal value of equity shares;
 - “share premium” represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, 
net of expenses of the share issue;
 - “share-based payment reserve” represents the IFRS 2, “Share-based Payment” charge for the year;
 - “other reserves” incorporates movement in the Group’s EBT and the hedging reserve created for the interest rate hedge; and
 - “retained earnings” represents cumulative retained earnings.
New standards and interpretations
At the date of authorisation of the financial information, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective, 
and have not been early adopted by the Group. These are all effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 
and the adoption of these standards and interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the Group in the period they 
are applied:
 - IFRS 14, “Regulatory Deferral Accounts”
1
 - Amendments to IFRS 11, “Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations” 
 - Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38, “Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation”
 - Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41, “Agriculture: Bearer Plants”
 - Amendments to IAS 27, “Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements”
 - Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28, “Sale or Contribution of Assets Between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture”
 - Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28, “Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception”
 - Amendments to IAS 1, “Disclosure Initiative”
 - Various standards: Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012–2014
At the date of authorisation of the financial information, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective, 
and have not been early adopted by the Group. The adoption of these standards and interpretation is expected to have a material 
impact on the Group in the period they are applied and the Directors are currently assessing the impact on the Group’s financial 
statements in the period of initial application:
 - IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement (2013)” (effective date 1 January 2018)
1
 - IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (effective 1 January 2018)
1
 - IFRS 16, “Leases” (effective 1 January 2019)
1
1. Not yet endorsed by the European Union.
3. Segment information
The Group’s activities consist of the wholesale and retail distribution of beers, wines, spirits, tobacco, grocery and confectionery within 
the United Kingdom to both the on-trade and off-trade market. The Chief Executive Officer is considered to be the chief operating 
decision maker (“CODM”). 
Each trading division within Conviviality Plc wholesales to businesses that retail alcohol via stores, pubs, bars, restaurants and events. 
The performance of each division is therefore driven by the UK market for alcohol consumption, which is a single market with a single 
set of economic characteristics and risks. In addition 90% of the Group’s sales are of the same products and the sales process is similar 
in each division and is serviced by a single supply chain. Consequently, all activities are reported as one segment. To assist with the 
understanding of performance, however, an analysis of sales are disclosed for each of the trading divisions. 58 Conviviality Plc
3. Segment information continued
Due to the acquisitions that have taken place during the 53 week period ended 1 May 2016, additional information has been disclosed 
for adjusted EBITDA by business unit for this financial period. This information will not be monitored internally and therefore will not 
be provided in the segmental analysis in future periods.
Conviviality
Retail
£000
Matthew
Clark
£000
Peppermint
Events
£000
Group
costs
£000
Total
2016
£000
Total
2015
£000
Revenue 366,915 497,003 578 — 864,496 364,092
Adjusted EBITDA 14,646 18,065 (408) (2,135) 30,168 12,854
Exceptional costs (9,855) (731)
Share-based payment charge (1,767) (1,073)
Depreciation and amortisation (4,168) (2,012)
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets (4,754) —
Fair value of foreign exchange derivatives 1,958 —
Operating profit 11,582 9,038
The CODM manages the business using adjusted EBITDA pre-exceptional costs. The table below provides a reconciliation from this 
figure, to the reported profit before tax in the consolidated income statement.
2016
£000
2015
£000
Adjusted EBITDA 30,168 12,854
Depreciation (2,833) (1,887)
Amortisation of non-acquisition intangible assets (1,335) (125)
Share-based payment charge (1,767) (1,073)
Net finance expense (2,502) (52)
Adjusted profit before income tax 21,731 9,717
Exceptional costs (9,855) (731)
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets (4,754) —
Fair value of foreign exchange derivatives 1,958 —
Profit before income tax 9,080 8,986
No individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Group’s revenue in either 2016 or 2015.
4. Operating profit
(a) Operating profit is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Note
2016
£000
2015
£000
Distribution costs 33,761 6,571
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 2,833 1,887
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 6,089 125
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (65) (28)
Operating lease payments:
– Land and buildings 4,187 2,216
– Plant and machinery 3,621 1,527
Share-based payment expense (non-exceptional) 27 1,767 1,073
Fair value of foreign exchange derivatives 18 (1,958) —
Exceptional items 4(b) 9,855 731
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
59 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
4. Operating profit continued
(b) Exceptional costs
The exceptional costs, which are recognised within operating costs, are analysed below:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Costs associated with the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 5,941 —
Costs associated with the integration of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 3,322 —
Costs associated with other business combinations 170 257
Other non-recurring events and projects 422 474
Total exceptional items 9,855 731
The costs associated with the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited include professional fees incurred during the acquisition.
The costs associated with the integration of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited include management restructuring and consultancy costs 
associated with the generation of buying, logistics and organisational synergies.
Costs associated with other business combinations include £58,000 additional costs incurred in respect of the purchase 
of GT News (Holdings) Limited, £81,000 relating to the acquisition of Peppermint Events and £31,000 relating to the acquisition 
of Bibendum PLB Group. Further details of these transactions are included in note 28. 
Costs associated with other business combinations in 2015 include £237 ,000 incurred in respect of the purchase of GT News (Holdings) Limited 
and £20,000 of additional costs in respect of the trade and assets purchase of 31 stores from RNB Stores Limited.
Other non-recurring events and projects of £422,000 (2015: £474,000) relate to professional and consultancy charges arising from 
one-off transactional activity of £208,000 (2015: £19,000) and restructuring and reorganisation costs of £214,000 (2015: £455,000) 
following an exercise to create efficiencies and streamline processes.
(c) Auditor remuneration
During the period the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 38 41
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the subsidiary financial statements 132 —
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services:
– Audit-related assurance services 18 5
– Taxation compliance services — 7
– Other assurance services 6 1
– Transaction related services — 32
– Non-audit services — 23
Total fees payable to the Company’s auditor 194 109
5. Employee costs
(a) Employee benefits expense
2016
£000
2015
£000
Wages and salaries 37,401 10,556
Social security costs 3,694 938
Pension contributions 836 54
Social security costs on share-based payment charge (note 27) 106 47
Share-based payment charge (note 27) 768 342
Compensation for loss of office 1,742 252
Employee benefit expenses included in operating profit 44,547 12,189 60 Conviviality Plc
5. Employee costs continued
(a) Employee benefits expense continued
The average monthly number of people (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the period was:
2016
Number
2015
Number
Directors 7 7
Administration 550 77
Marketing, selling and distribution 1,328 167
Retail staff 311 291
2,196 542
(b) Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors comprises:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Salaries, fees and other short-term employee benefits 1,627 1,555
Compensation for loss of office — 222
Payment in lieu of pension contribution 42 39
Total salaries and other short-term employment benefits 1,669 1,816
Share-based payments charge (operating expenses) 309 299
Gains on exercise of share options — 1,758
1,978 3,873
Number Number
Directors exercising share options during the financial period — 2
Directors accruing a pension during the financial period 3 4
The highest paid Director’s compensation is as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Salaries, fees and other short-term employee benefits 845 581
Gains on exercise of share options — 1,330
845 1,911
6. Finance income and expense
2016
£000
2015
£000
Finance income
Bank interest receivable 24 23
Total finance income 24 23
Finance expense
Receivables financing facility 310 75
Term loans 1,436 —
Revolving credit facility 66 —
Tobacco guarantees 229 —
Amortisation of arrangement fees 231 —
Non-utilisation charges 235 —
Other bank interest 19 —
Total finance expense 2,526 75
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
61 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
7. Income tax expense
2016
£000
2015
£000
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the period 4,579 1,737
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (25) 4
Total current tax 4,554 1,741
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (884) 212
Changes in taxation rate 140 1
Total deferred tax (note 19) (744) 213
Income tax expense 3,810 1,954
2016
£000
2015
£000
Tax on profit before exceptional items 4,159 1,895
Tax on exceptional items (349) 59
Total income tax expense 3,810 1,954
2016
£000
2015
£000
Amounts recognised in equity
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge 364 (178)
Excess deferred tax deduction on share options — 185
Total amounts recognised in equity 364 7
The tax charge differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the 
consolidated entities as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Profit before tax 9,080 8,986
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.00% (2015: 20.93%) 1,816 1,881
Tax effects of:
– Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,764 114
– Changes in taxation rate 165 1
– Share option movements (16) 19
– Adjustment in respect of prior periods 132 (61)
– Movement in deferred tax not provided (46) —
– Other differences (5) —
Tax charge 3,810 1,954
Factors that may affect future tax charges
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective 1 April 2014) and to 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were substantively 
enacted on 2 July 2013. Further reductions to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective from 1 April 2020) were substantively 
enacted on 26 October 2015. An additional reduction to 17% (effective 1 April 2020) was announced in the Budget on 16 March 2016. 
This will reduce the Company’s future tax charge accordingly and the relevant deferred tax balances have been re-measured.
8. Earnings per ordinary share
As at 26 April 2015 66,940,383 ordinary shares were in issue. During the year, an additional 88,298,105 ordinary shares were issued 
giving 155,238,488 shares in issue as at 1 May 2016 (note 21).
2016 2015
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (£000) 5,270 7,032
Basic earnings per share (pence) 4.6 10.7
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 4.4 10.1
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity holders by the weighted 
average number of shares. 62 Conviviality Plc
8. Earnings per ordinary share continued
2016
Number
2015
Number
Basic weighted average 115,263,828 65,452,630
Diluted weighted average 119,429,816 69,654,641
The basic weighted average number of ordinary shares is calculated as follows:
2016
Number
2015
Number
Ordinary shares in issue at 26 April 2015 66,940,383 66,713,020
– Effect of Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) shares held (954,755) (2,116,279)
– Effect of shares issued for the Share Inventive Plan (“SIP”) 178,098 119,889
– Effect of shares issued for the Matthew Clark acquisition 48,355,795 —
– Effect of shares issued for the Zeus Capital warrant 744,307 —
– Effect of shares options granted — 736,000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 1 May 2016 115,263,828 65,452,630
The difference between the basic and diluted average number of shares represents the dilutive effect of share options and warrants 
in existence. The weighted average number of shares can be reconciled to the weighted average number of shares including dilutive 
shares as follows:
2016
Number
2015
Number
Basic weighted average shares 115,263,828 65,452,630
Diluted effect of: 
– Exceptional employee share incentive plans, resulting from IPO 814,749 812,298
– Warrant granted to Zeus Capital — 472,910
– Employee Share Incentive Plan 1,280,019 811,553
– Franchisee Share Incentive Plan 2,071,220 2,105,250
Total dilutive effect of share incentive plans 4,165,988 4,202,011
Diluted weighted average number of shares 119,429,816 69,654,641
Adjusted earnings per share
Although not presented on the face of the income statement, the adjusted earnings per share, profit after tax, but before 
exceptional items, is calculated below:
2016 2015 
Adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (£000) 16,950 7,822
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 14.7 12.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence) 14.2 11.2
Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the adjusted profit before income tax of £21,731,000 (note 3), 
less tax at the effective rate of 22% (£4,781,000), by the weighted average number of shares, which is the same as disclosed in the 
table above.
9. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the period comprise:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Final dividend for 2015 of 6.3 pence and 2014 of 6.0 pence per ordinary share 4,235 4,006
Interim dividend for 2016 of 2.1 pence and 2015 of 2.0 pence per ordinary share 3,260 1,339
Less amounts received by the Employee Benefit Trust (81) (81)
7,414 5,264
The 2016 final proposed dividend of £12,643,000 (7.4 pence per share) has not been accrued as it had not been approved by the 
period end. Sufficient reserves are in place to pay the final proposed dividend.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
63 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
10. Property, plant and equipment
Leasehold
land and
buildings
£000
Plant and
equipment
£000
Motor
 vehicles
£000
Total
£000
Cost 
At 27 April 2014 896 9,995 69 10,960
Acquisitions through business combinations 637 997 17 1,651
Additions 27 4,076 63 4,166
Disposals — (297) (86) (383)
At 26 April 2015 1,560 14,771 63 16,394
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 28) 729 2,656 — 3,385
Additions 150 7,560 — 7,710
Disposals (277) (179) (11) (467)
At 1 May 2016 2,162 24,808 52 27,022
Depreciation
At 27 April 2014 452 7,077 34 7,563
Charge for the period 98 1,758 31 1,887
Disposals — (224) (56) (280)
At 26 April 2015 550 8,611 9 9,170
Charge for the period 276 2,541 16 2,833
Disposals (73) (152) (5) (230)
At 1 May 2016 753 11,000 20 11,773
Net book value
At 1 May 2016 1,409 13,808 32 15,249
At 26 April 2015 1,010 6,160 54 7,224
The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 1 May 2016 is £122,000 (2015: £8,000). The obligations under finance 
leases are secured on the assets to which they relate.
The net book value of land not depreciated as at 1 May 2016 is £1,969,000 (2015: £Nil).
11. Goodwill
Total
£000
Cost and net book value
At 27 April 2014 35,510
Acquisitions through business combinations 7,115
Other acquisitions 245
At 26 April 2015 42,870
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 28) 129,910
Other acquisitions (note 28) 796
Other disposals (130)
At 1 May 2016 173,446
Other acquisitions relate to a number of individual smaller store acquisitions for a total cash consideration of £796,000, all of which 
has been recognised as goodwill. When purchasing individual stores the Group is purchasing both the trade and assets of the store. 64 Conviviality Plc
11. Goodwill continued
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business 
combination or are established as a result of the business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Bargain Booze 37,084 36,418
Wine Rack 720 720
GT News (Holdings) 5,748 5,732
Matthew Clark (Holdings) 122,438 —
Peppermint Events 7,456 —
At 1 May 2016 173,446 42,870
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is subject to annual impairment testing. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined 
from value-in-use calculations. The value in use is the present value of the pre-tax cash flow projections. The key assumptions used 
in determining value in use are growth rates and the discount rate. 
For each CGU, cash flow projections are based on the most recent financial budgets approved by management for one year. 
Subsequent cash flows are extrapolated using an estimated annual growth rate of 2% for a further nine years and terminal growth 
rates of 0% are then applied to perpetuity. These rates are below the average growth rate for the industry. The rate used to discount 
the projected cash flows, being a pre-tax risk-adjusted discount rate, is 7.4% (2015: 7.6%). This has been calculated using the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital, taking account of market assessment of risks. Risk factors are similar in each of the Group’s CGUs. 
All assumptions apply to all CGUs due to each CGU wholesaling to businesses that retail alcohol via stores, pubs, bars, restaurants 
and events and the performance of each CGU is therefore driven by the UK market for alcohol consumption which is a single market 
with a single set of economic characteristics and risks.
Management has reviewed the key assumptions in the forecast and has concluded that no impairment is required in respect of the 
carrying values of the goodwill. A sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU’s carrying value including reducing sales 
levels and increasing the discount rate has also been carried out. At 1 May 2016, no reasonably expected change in the key assumptions 
would give rise to an impairment charge for any CGU, and the assumptions accordingly, are not sensitive.
12. Intangible assets
Other
£000
Brands and
customer base
£000
Total
£000
Cost
At 27 April 2014 — 838 838
Acquisitions through business combinations — 342 342
Additions 806 — 806
At 26 April 2015 806 1,180 1,986
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 28) 3,313 62,943 66,256
Additions 4,158 — 4,158
At 1 May 2016 8,277 64,123 72,400
Amortisation
At 27 April 2014 — 28 28
Charge for the year 79 46 125
At 26 April 2015 79 74 153
Charge for the year 1,252 4,837 6,089
At 1 May 2016 1,331 4,911 6,242
Net book value
At 1 May 2016 6,946 59,212 66,158
At 26 April 2015 727 1,106 1,833
Acquired brands and customer bases are initially recognised at their fair value on acquisition. Acquired brands are amortised over 
ten or 20 years and customer bases are amortised over their expected life of 6.5 years. 
Other intangible assets are predominantly software costs which are initially recognised at their cost on acquisition and amortised 
over five years.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
65 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
13. Inventories
2016
£000
2015
£000
Goods for resale 61,825 12,357
No security has been granted over inventories. The Group operates a bonded warehouse and as such the majority of the licensed 
stock held is under bond and valued excluding duty. The duty payable when sold will be £22,330,000 (2015: £6,545,000). Of this 
amount, £270,000 has been provided as a guarantee to HRMC. 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounts to £765,330,000 (2015: £327,093,000).
14. Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables due in greater than one year
2016
£000
2015
£000
Other debtors 3,757 —
Prepayments 2,667 —
6,424 —
Trade and other receivables due in less than one year
2016
£000
2015
£000
Trade receivables 131,506 30,207
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (1,859) (1,385)
Net trade receivables 129,647 28,822
Other debtors 7,222 1,133
Accrued income 6,643 1,718
Prepayments 8,416 1,996
151,928 33,669
The £50,000,000 receivables financing facility (note 17) is secured over the trade receivables of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 
totalling £94,242,000.
The difference between the carrying value and fair value of all receivables is not considered to be material. As of 1 May 2016, trade 
receivables of £6,813,000 (2015: £809,000) were past due but not impaired. These relate to customers and Franchisees for which 
there is no recent history of default. The increase in past due but not impaired is due to the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) 
during the period, on a comparative basis the equivalent balance in 2015 would have been £3,682,000.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Opening 1,385 1,629
Charge for receivables impairment 297 160
Provision acquired through business combinations 956 114
Receivables written off as uncollectable (779) (518)
Closing 1,859 1,385
Provisions are estimated based upon past default experience and management’s assessment of the current economic environment. 
The creation and release of receivables is charged/(credited) to cost of sales in the income statement. Trade receivables consist of a 
large number of Franchisees and customers for whom there is no significant history of default. The credit risk of the Franchisees and 
customers is assessed by taking account of their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors. Individual Franchisee 
and customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the 
carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above. In the event of a default in payment by a Franchisee, the Group may 
recover unpaid inventory held in the Franchisee’s store.  66 Conviviality Plc
15. Cash and cash equivalents
2016
£000
2015
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 9,540 1,203
16. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables due in greater than one year
2016
£000
2015
£000
Other creditors (6,159) —
(6,159) —
Trade and other payables due in less than one year
2016
£000
2015
£000
Trade payables (131,551) (40,389)
Social security and other taxes (9,624) (2,138)
Accruals (42,078) (3,794)
(183,253) (46,321)
Trade and other payables due in greater than one year relate to contingent consideration arising on the acquisition 
of Peppermint Events Limited (note 28).
Trade and other payables due in less than one year comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average 
credit period taken for trade purchases is 55 days (2015: 36 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other 
payables approximates to their fair value.
17. Borrowings
2016
£000
2015
£000
Current
Term loan A (8,000) —
Arrangement fees on term loans 165 —
Receivables financing facility (20,255) —
Obligations under finance leases (due in less than one year) (47) (9)
Total current (28,137) (9)
Non-current
Term loan A (28,000) —
Term loan B (40,000) —
Arrangement fees on term loans 565 —
Obligations under finance leases (due between two and five years) (75) (3)
Total non-current (67,510) (3)
Total (95,647) (12)
The Group has tills under finance leases totalling £3,000 as at 1 May 2016, that were acquired through the acquisition 
of GT News (Holdings) Limited. The Group also has assets required for events such as marquees under finance leases totalling 
£119,000 as at 1 May 2016, that were acquired through the acquisition of Peppermint Events Limited during the year. The obligations 
under finance leases are secured on the assets to which they relate. 
The Group entered into a receivables financing agreement dated 9 October 2015. Under this agreement the Group can sell any debts 
owed to Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited by its customers who have purchased goods or services from Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited. 
The maximum facility available is 80% of the allowable trade receivables up to £50,000,000. At 1 May 2016, the amount drawn down 
under this facility was £20,255,000 (2015: £Nil). The discount margin for the funding of debts is 1.25%. There is a non-utilisation fee 
of 0.5% of the available facility payable during the minimum period of the facility, being 24 months from the date of the agreement. 
The agreement terminates on 9 October 2020. An arrangement fee of £250,000 was incurred on this agreement, which is being 
amortised over five years.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
67 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
17. Borrowings continued
The Group entered into a senior term and revolving facilities agreement with a £10,000,000 Accordion option on 7 September 2015. 
Under this agreement the Group drew down two term facilities (term loan A of £40,000,000 and term loan B of £40,000,000) to fund 
the acquisition of Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited on 7 October 2015. The Group also has a revolving credit facility (“RCF”) of £42,500,000. 
The Accordion option allows the Group to request an increase to the RCF up to a maximum of £10,000,000 during the term 
of the agreement. 
The Group has put in place bank-issued guarantees for the benefit of certain suppliers amounting to £12,500,000 at 1 May 2016 
(2015: £12,500,000). These have been drawn down from the RCF. The remainder of the RCF totalling £30,000,000 has not been 
drawn at 1 May 2016. In addition the Accordion option of £10,000,000 has not been utilised at 1 May 2016.
The interest margin payable on the two terms loans and the RCF is 2.5% above Libor. A non-utilisation fee of 1.0% is payable on the 
RCF up to the agreement termination date of 7 September 2020. An arrangement fee of £1,260,000 was incurred on this agreement. 
The element relating to the RCF (£437,000) is being amortised through prepayments over the life of the agreement. The element 
relating to the term loans (£823,000) is being amortised over the life of the agreement with the balance as at 1 May 2016 of £730,000 
being netted off against the term loans in short-term and long-term borrowings.
The senior term and revolving facilities agreement terminates on 7 September 2020 and the two term loans are repayable as follows:
Term loan A
£000
Term loan B
£000
24 April 2016 4,000 —
23 October 2016 4,000 —
30 April 2017 4,000 —
29 October 2017 4,000 —
29 April 2018 4,000 —
28 October 2018 4,000 —
28 April 2019 4,000 —
27 October 2019 4,000 —
26 April 2020 4,000 —
Termination date (7 September 2020) 4,000 40,000
Total 40,000 40,000
The RCF is repayable at the end of each interest period. The interest period can be selected by the Group at the point of draw-down 
and can be one, three or six months.
All amounts outstanding under the facilities are secured by debentures over certain assets of the Group.
18. Financial risk management and financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the risk of default 
by counterparties to financial transactions, the availability of funds to meet business needs, interest rate movements and foreign 
exchange movements. These risks are managed as described below.
The Group’s risk management is coordinated at its headquarters, in close cooperation with the Board of Directors, and focuses 
on actively securing the Group’s short to medium-term cash flows by minimising the exposure to financial risks.
The Group does not actively engage in the trading of financial assets for speculative purposes nor does it write options. The most 
significant financial risks to which the Group is exposed are described below.
(a) Credit risk
The Group’s principal assets subject to credit risk are cash deposits, cash and trade receivables. The credit risk associated with cash 
is limited. The principal credit risk arises from non-recovery of trade receivables. In order to manage credit risk, the franchise agreement 
states collection by direct debit, and credit limits are set for customers based on a combination of payment history and third party 
credit references. Credit limits are reviewed by the credit controller on a regular basis in conjunction with debt ageing and collection 
history. In addition, a receivables financing facility is used and any debts owed to Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited by its customers, 
up to a maximum of 80% of the allowable trade receivables balance can be sold up to the maximum facility level of £50,000,000. 68 Conviviality Plc
18. Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
(b) Market risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, ordinary shares, a receivables financing facility of £50,000,000, 
term loans of £76,000,000 and an RCF of £42,500,000. The Group also has available a £10,000,000 Accordion option which allows 
the RCF to be increased at any time. At 1 May 2016, the draw-down on receivables financing facility was £20,255,000 (2015: £Nil) and 
the draw-down on the RCF was £12,500,000 to put in place bank-issued guarantees for the benefit of certain suppliers. The Accordion 
option has not been utilised and the term loans had been drawn in full to fund the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited. 
The headroom on the facilities as at 1 May 2016 was £69,745,000 (£29,745,000 receivables financing facility, £30,000,000 RCF 
and £10,000,000 Accordion option).
(c) Interest rate risk
The Group has interest rate risk on the term loans of £76,000,000. Interest is payable at a discount margin plus Libor. The interest 
rate risk on 100% of the £40,000,000 term loan B, which is not repayable until 7 September 2020, has been mitigated by entering 
into an interest rate swap dated 25 April 2016 until 7 September 2020. The interest rate swap fixes the Libor rate at 1%.
The interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities of the Group is shown below.
2016
Fixed
£000
Floating
£000
Zero
£000
Total
£000
Financial assets
Cash and short-term deposits — 9,540 — 9,540
Trade receivables — — 129,659 129,659
Financial liabilities
Trade payables — — (131,551) (131,551)
Obligations under finance leases (122) — — (122)
Term loan A — (36,000) — (36,000)
Term loan B (40,000) — — (40,000)
Receivables financing facility — (20,255) — (20,255)
Total (40,122) (46,715) (1,892) (88,729)
2015
Fixed
£000
Floating
£000
Zero
£000
Total
£000
Financial assets
Cash and short-term deposits — 1,203 — 1,203
Trade receivables — — 28,822 28,822
Financial liabilities
Trade payables — — (40,389) (40,389)
Obligations under finance leases (12) — — (12)
Total (12) 1,203 (11,567) (10,376)
The Group had the following available undrawn facilities:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Against trade receivables 29,745 10,467
Revolving credit facility 30,000 —
Accordion option 10,000 —
Total 69,745 10,467
The interest rate swap has been valued at fair value by using the mark to market rate and has been hedge accounted as a cash flow 
hedge through other comprehensive income. As at 1 May 2016 the mark to market valuation of the interest rate swap was £88,000:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Opening fair value — —
Amounts recognised through equity (88) —
Closing fair value (88) —
Any change to the fair value is taken through equity except for any part of the hedge with is deemed to be ineffective. At 1 May 2016 
the hedge was deemed to be 100% effective and therefore all of the hedge has been recognised through equity. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
69 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
18. Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
(c) Interest rate risk continued
The interest rate swap has been used to hedge the three month Libor interest rate exposure on the £40,000,000 term loan B which is 
repayable in full on 7 September 2020. Under the hedge, interest payments are payable every quarter at month end January, April, 
July and October at the discount margin of 2.5% plus the hedged Libor rate of 1.0% until the final repayment on 7 September 2020. 
Cash flows under the hedge at present value are expected to be:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Within one year (402) —
Between one and two years (399) —
Between two and five years (924) —
Total (1,725) —
The movements in the fair value of the hedge at present value are expected to be:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Within one year (147) —
Between one and two years (68) —
Between two and five years 127 —
Total (88) —
Sensitivity analysis: A 0.25% increase in the interest rate curve would result in a fair value of £303,000 asset. A 0.25% decrease 
in the interest rate curve would result in a fair value of £502,000 liability. 
(d) Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to an element of foreign exchange risk, with a number of supplies from abroad. All sales are made in the UK. 
The Group manages this risk by entering into forward exchange contracts for Euros only. The forward exchange contracts taken out 
are based on forecasts of supply for the next 12 months. The forward exchange contracts are valued at fair value by using the mark 
to market rate. As at the 1 May 2016 the Group had 50 forward exchange contracts outstanding with a positive mark to market 
valuation of £1,324,000:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Opening fair value — —
Derivatives acquired through business combinations (note 28) (634) —
Amounts recognised in the income statement during the year 1,958 —
Closing fair value 1,324 —
Any change to the fair value is taken through the income statement each period. The forward exchange contracts mature between 
18 May 2016 and 15 February 2017 and the total amount payable on maturity is £37,456,000.
The carrying amount of trade payables are translated from the following currencies:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Sterling (125,844) (40,340)
Euros (5,198) (49)
US Dollars (442) —
Australian Dollars (67) —
Closing fair value (131,551) (40,389)
(e) Liquidity risk
The Group seeks to manage financial risk by ensuring sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash 
safely and profitably. The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash forecasting, against available 
facilities. Short-term flexibility is achieved by the use of a receivables financing facility and an RCF, the details of which are set out 
in the table above. The maturity of borrowings is set out in note 17.  70 Conviviality Plc
18. Financial risk management and financial instruments continued
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to 
shareholders through optimising the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents 
and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in 
the consolidated statement of changes in equity. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount 
of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group’s capital 
is not restricted. Management may seek additional external borrowings to fund the future investment and growth of the Group.
In addition the Group has entered into a receivables finance facility agreement under which the maximum facility available is 80% of the 
allowable trade receivables up to £50,000,000 and an RCF agreement under which the maximum facility is £42,500,000. The Group 
draws down on these facilities from time to time as required to support short-term working capital movements. The amount drawn 
down at 1 May 2016 is £20,255,000 (2015: £Nil) on the receivables finance facility and £12,500,000 on the RCF (2015: £Nil) to put in 
place bank-issued guarantees for the benefit of certain suppliers. The Group has an Accordion option on the RCF that allows the Group 
to increase the RCF by a further £10,000,000 if required.
The Group has a progressive dividend policy which aims to increase the value of ordinary dividends over time, taking into account 
the results of the past year and the outlook.
Borrowings and cash
The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity 
of these instruments.
The carrying value of long-term borrowings is held at amortised cost which is considered to equate to fair value.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The carrying values of all the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities approximate to their fair values because of the short-term 
maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of trade receivables and payables is considered to be equal to the carrying values of these items due to their short-term 
nature. All other financial assets and liabilities are carried at amortised cost. Cash is held with counterparties with a credit rating of A1, 
A2 and BBB+.
19. Deferred taxation asset and liability
£000
At 27 April 2014 1,117
Charged to the income statement (213)
Charged to equity (178)
Arising on acquisition of subsidiary (79)
At 26 April 2015 647
Charged to the income statement (note 7) 744
Charged to equity 364
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries (note 28) (11,877)
Acquired through business combinations (note 28) 376
At 1 May 2016 (9,746)
The deferred tax is made up as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Deferred tax asset 1,419 647
Deferred tax liability (11,165) —
Net deferred tax liability (9,746) 647
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
71 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
19. Deferred taxation asset and liability continued
The deferred tax (liability)/asset is made up as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Accelerated capital allowances 342 330
Tax on trade losses 119 30
Tax on share-based payments 696 406
Tax on intangible asset recognised on acquisition of subsidiary (11,157) (221)
Short-term temporary differences 239 102
Tax on interest rate hedging 15 —
(9,746) 647
The recoverability of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits in excess of those arising from the reversal of deferred 
tax liabilities. The deferred tax asset has been recognised to the extent that it is considered to be recoverable based on forecasts for 
future periods. At 1 May 2016, the value of the unrecognised deferred tax asset is £329,000 (2015: £Nil).
20. Provisions
£000
At 26 April 2015 —
Acquired through business combinations (note 28) (5,770)
Released to the income statement 409
At 1 May 2016 (5,361)
Provisions are made up as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Provisions less than one year (449) —
Provisions greater than one year (4,912) —
Total provisions (5,361) —
Provisions relate to certain onerous contracts that were in place at the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited and provisions 
to recognise that renovation works need to be carried out at certain Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited depots acquired at acquisition. 
The provisions are expected to be utilised over the next ten years. 
Provisions less than one year represent the short-term element of provisions for onerous contracts that were in place at the acquisition 
of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited and the short-term element of provisions to recognise that renovation works need to be carried 
out at certain Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited depots acquired at acquisition.
21. Share capital
2016
£000
2015
£000
Authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid
155,238,488 ordinary shares of £0.0002 each (2015: 66,940,383) 31 13
217,058,802 deferred shares of £0.0002 each (2015: 217,058,802) 44 44
Total 75 57
The Company entered into additional block listing arrangements with AIM in respect of the notification to AIM of allotments of 15,000 
new ordinary shares of £0.0002 each in the capital of the Company to satisfy the requirement to allot matching shares at the time 
of purchase of partnership shares for the Bargain Booze Share Incentive Plan (note 27). In this regard, 24,632 shares were issued during 
the year.
In addition, 272,806 free shares were issued to employees under the Bargain Booze Share Incentive Plan (note 27) during the 53 weeks 
to 1 May 2016.
On 2 October 2015, 86,666,667 ordinary shares of £0.0002 each were issued at a price of £1.50 a share in relation to the Matthew Clark 
(Holdings) Limited acquisition, creating a share premium of £128,989,000 net of costs. A further 1,334,000 shares were issued on 
this date, at a price of £1.00, relating to a warrant that was held by Zeus Capital. This created a further share premium of £1,333,000. 72 Conviviality Plc
21. Share capital continued
Holders of deferred shares do not have any right to receive notice of any general meeting or to attend, speak or vote at any general 
meeting of the Company. No dividend shall arise on deferred shares save for a cumulative fixed rate dividend of 0.000001% per annum 
of the nominal value of the deferred shares. On a return of capital on a winding up, holders of deferred shares shall receive only an 
amount equal to each deferred share’s nominal value after all other shares have received £1,000,000 and deferred shares shall have 
no other rights to participate in the assets or profits of the Company. The Company may redeem or purchase all or any of the deferred 
shares for an aggregate sum equal to the accrued but unpaid dividend due on such shares and any Director may execute any transfer 
of such deferred shares on behalf of the holders of such deferred shares.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share 
at meetings of the Company.
Details of dividends paid in respect of these shares in the 53 weeks to 1 May 2016 are disclosed in note 9.
22. Other reserves
Share
premium
£000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£000
Other
reserves
£000
At 27 April 2014 34,020 1,014 (58)
Share-based payment charge — 1,032 —
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge — (178) —
Excess deferred tax deduction on share options — 185 —
Transfer of share-based payment charge for vested options — (25) —
Disposal of shares from EBT — — 32
At 26 April 2015 34,020 2,028 (26)
Share-based payment charge (note 27) — 1,661 —
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge (note 19) — 364 —
Transfer of share-based payment charge for vested options — (94) —
Hedging reserve for interest rate swap — — (86)
Premium arising on shares issued in the period 130,322 — —
At 1 May 2016 164,342 3,959 (112)
Included within the Group operations is Bargain Booze Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT”). The EBT purchases shares to fund the 
share option schemes. At 1 May 2016, the Trust held 954,755 ordinary shares (2015: 954,755 ordinary shares) with a cost of £26,000 
(2015: £26,000). The market value of these shares as at 1 May 2016 is 213.50 pence per share (2015: 143.50 pence per share). Of these 
shares, 896,809 are under option as at 1 May 2016 (2015: 896,809).
During the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 the Trust did not sell any shares to satisfy the exercise of share options.
23. Cash generated from operations and net debt
2016
£000
2015
£000
Profit before tax including acquisitions 9,080 8,986
Adjustments for:
– Depreciation 2,833 1,887
– Amortisation 6,089 125
– Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (65) (28)
– Loss on sale of shares held by EBT — 1
– Equity-settled share options charge (note 27) 1,661 1,032
– Fair value of foreign exchange derivatives (1,958) —
– Net finance costs (note 6) 2,502 52
– (Increase)/decrease in inventories (5,358) 649
– Increase in trade and other receivables (7,984) (1,169)
– Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 11,904 (296)
– Decrease in provisions (410) —
– Costs associated with acquisition of subsidiaries (note 28) 8,956 257
Cash generated from operations 27,250 11,496
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
73 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
23. Cash generated from operations and net debt continued
The operating cash flows include an exceptional outflow of £422,000 in the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 (2015: £474,000) which 
relates to professional and consultancy charges arising from transactional activity and other one-off projects. The costs associated 
with acquisition of subsidiaries have all been treated as exceptional items. 
Net debt at
26 April 2015
£000
Cash flow
£000
Net debt at
1 May 2016
£000
Cash and cash equivalents (note 15) 1,203 8,337 9,540
Receivables financing facility (note 17) — (20,255) (20,255)
Total cash and cash equivalents 1,203 (11,918) (10,715)
Other borrowings – short term (note 17) (9) (7,873) (7,882)
Borrowings – long term (note 17) (3) (67,507) (67,510)
1,191 (87,298) (86,107)
Add back cash (1,203) (8,337) (9,540)
Net debt (note 17) (12) (95,635) (95,647)
24. Commitments under operating leases
At the reporting date the Group had the following future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Land and buildings Other
2016
£000
2015
£000
2016
£000
2015
£000
Within one year 6,159 2,241 3,526 1,438
Between two and five years inclusive 22,113 5,739 6,547 2,849
After five years 16,612 3,912 — —
Total 44,884 11,892 10,073 4,287
There are no significant obligations or incentives attached to any of the Group’s lease agreements. The significant operating leases 
relate to head office buildings, regional depots, corporate stores and vehicles used for distribution.
25. Capital commitments
At 1 May 2016, amounts contracted for but not provided in the consolidated financial statements for the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment amounted to £1,755,000 (2015: £96,000).
26. Pension commitments
The Company operates a stakeholder pension scheme.
Contributions recognised as an employee benefit expense for the 53 week period ended 1 May 2016 were £836,000 (2015: £54,000). 
Pension contributions accrued and therefore not yet paid over to the pension provider as at 1 May 2016 were £42,000 (2015: £62,000).
27. Share-based payments
The Group makes equity-settled share awards to Senior Executives, employees and Franchisees under three different share option 
plans. An accrual has been made for national insurance due on exercise of share options and treated as a cash-settled share-based 
payment. Further details of the three plans are provided below. The amounts recognised in respect of these schemes is as follows:
2016
Non-exceptional
£000
2016
Exceptional
£000
2016
Total
£000
2015
Non-exceptional
£000
2015
Exceptional
£000
2015
Total
£000
Equity-settled share-based payment
ESOP 586 — 586 310 5 315
SIP 182 — 182 27 — 27
FIP 893 — 893 690 — 690
Total equity-settled share-based payment 1,661 — 1,661 1,027 5 1,032
Cash-settled share-based payment
Employers national insurance on ESOP and SIP 106 — 106 46 1 47
Total share-based payment charge 1,767 — 1,767 1,073 6 1,079 74 Conviviality Plc
27. Share-based payments continued
(a) Bargain Booze Unapproved Employee Share Option Plan 2013 (“ESOP”)
Under the ESOP, the share options are awarded at a price which is determined by the Board but is not less than the market value of the 
shares as at the date of grant. The awards granted on 26 February 2013 vested on successful admission to AIM. All subsequent grants 
become exercisable between one and ten years after grant and upon the achievement of performance criteria in relation to EBITDA 
targets or service conditions. All options lapse on the day immediately after the expiry date to the extent they have not been exercised. 
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Company in the first three years following grant. The following table provides details 
of all existing grants under the ESOP. None of the options are cash settled.
Date of grant
Subscription
price (pence) Performance conditions
Earliest
exercise date Expiry date
26/02/2013 2.7 achieving IPO 31/07/2013 25/02/2023
31/07/2013 100.0 2014 to 2016 aggregate EBITDA of £38.2m 31/07/2016 30/07/2023
03/03/2014 187.0 2014 to 2016 aggregate EBITDA of £38.2m 03/03/2017 02/03/2024
18/09/2014 170.5 2014 to 2016 aggregate EBITDA of £38.2m 18/09/2017 17/09/2024
18/09/2014 0.0 one-year service condition 18/09/2015 17/09/2024
13/10/2014 147.5 2014 to 2016 aggregate EBITDA of £38.2m 13/10/2017 12/10/2024
08/09/2015 155.0 2014 to 2016 aggregate EBITDA of £38.2m 08/09/2018 07/09/2025
01/12/2015 1.0 one-year service condition 01/12/2016 30/11/2026
04/01/2016 1.0 one-year service condition 04/01/2017 03/01/2027
The tables below summarises the movement on share options in the period:
2016 2015
Share
 options
(number)
Weighted
average
exercise
price
(pence)
Share
 options
(number)
Weighted
average
exercise
price
(pence)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 3,510,745 85 4,622,537 60
Free share award omitted in prior year — — 38,300 —
Granted 474,496 50 483,082 139
Exercised — — (1,161,524) 3
Forfeited — — (471,650) 96
Outstanding at the end of the period 3,985,241 81 3,510,745 85
Exercisable at end of the period 826,809 826,809
Exercise price 2.7 pence 2.7 pence
Weighted average remaining contractual life 7.67 years 8.34 years 
No share options were exercised during the 53 week period to 1 May 2016. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise 
for share options exercised during the 52 week period to 26 April 2015 was 157 pence.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the date of grant 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value 
for the ESOP is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model. The inputs into the option pricing model are provided below:
Financial year 2016 2016 2016
Grant date 08/09/2015 01/12/2015 04/01/2016
Exercise price (pence) 155.0 1.0 1.0
Expected volatility 29% 28% 28%
Expected life 4 years 4 years 4 years
Expected dividend yield 2.1% 1.9% 1.8%
Risk-free interest rate 1.06% 1.00% 1.11%
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period in relation to the ESOP was 152.1 pence (2015: 45.2 pence).
Due to the short period of share trading activity, expected volatility was determined by reference to the historical volatility of the share 
price of comparable listed companies over the previous four years. The volatility of the Group’s share price on each date of grant was 
calculated as the average of annualised standard deviations of daily continuously compounded returns on the stock, calculated over 
four years back from the date of the grant.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
75 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
27. Share-based payments continued
(a) Bargain Booze Unapproved Employee Share Option Plan 2013 (ESOP) continued
The risk-free rate is the yield to maturity on the date of grant of a UK Gilt Strip, with term to maturity equal to the life of the option. 
The expected life of each option is equal to the vesting period plus a one-year exercise period.
(b) Bargain Booze Share Incentive Plan 2013
The Group operates a Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”), approved by HMRC on 14 October 2013, approved by the Board on 11 October 2013 
and commenced 1 November 2013. All UK resident tax-paying employees of Conviviality and its participating subsidiaries are eligible 
to participate in the SIP subject to completing a minimum qualifying period of service of six months.
Under the SIP, the Group can:
(a) give 10% of salary, up to £3,000 worth of free shares in each tax year to an employee (“Free Shares”);
(b) offer an employee the opportunity of buying up to £1,500 of shares a year (“Partnership Shares”);
(c)  give an employee a matching share for each Partnership Share bought (“Matching Shares”). Each employee must complete three 
years’ service before these shares are awarded; and
(d)  in addition to buying up to £1,500 of Partnership Shares each year, allow employees to purchase more shares (“Dividend Shares”) 
using dividends received on Free Shares, Partnership Shares and Matching Shares up to percentage limits set by the Company.
Awards of “Matching Shares” under this scheme are at £Nil cost and therefore their fair value is equal to the share price on the date 
of issue, at the time when each grant is allocated. If a person ceases to be an employee prior to the exercise date, the “Matching Shares” 
will be forfeited. Details of all “Matching Share” grants in the year are below, none of which are exercisable at the period end: 
Date of grant
Fair value
at grant
Pence Exercise date
Number of options
Opening Granted Forfeited Closing
22/11/2013 163.00 22/11/2016 1,585 — (47) 1,538
23/12/2013 168.00 23/12/2016 1,747 — (66) 1,681
22/01/2014 184.00 22/01/2017 1,608 — (61) 1,547
24/02/2014 190.00 24/02/2017 1,741 — (68) 1,673
24/03/2014 160.00 24/03/2017 1,920 — (71) 1,849
22/04/2014 168.00 22/04/2017 1,853 — (67) 1,786
22/05/2014 172.50 22/05/2017 1,919 — (74) 1,845
23/06/2014 173.00 23/06/2017 1,782 — (66) 1,716
22/07/2014 159.50 22/07/2017 1,931 — (68) 1,863
22/08/2014 166.00 22/08/2017 1,999 — (79) 1,920
22/09/2014 169.00 22/09/2017 1,789 — (66) 1,723
22/10/2014 160.00 22/10/2017 1,956 — (70) 1,886
24/11/2014 146.00 24/11/2017 2,037 — (62) 1,975
22/12/2014 145.00 22/12/2017 2,045 — (78) 1,967
22/01/2015 127.75 22/01/2018 2,493 — (100) 2,393
23/02/2015 154.00 23/02/2018 1,956 — (73) 1,883
23/03/2015 148.50 23/03/2018 2,210 — (94) 2,116
06/05/2015 144.00 06/05/2018 — 2,192 (103) 2,089
08/06/2015 149.50 08/06/2018 — 1,974 (96) 1,878
06/07/2015 154.00 06/07/2018 — 2,273 (130) 2,143
08/09/2015 187.00 08/09/2018 — 1,883 (49) 1,834
06/10/2015 183.80 06/10/2018 — 1,937 (58) 1,879
10/11/2015 201.75 10/11/2018 — 3,183 (65) 3,118
07/12/2015 214.00 07/12/2018 — 2,228 (44) 2,184
06/01/2016 220.49 06/01/2019 — 2,220 (34) 2,186
08/02/2016 207.75 08/02/2019 — 2,420 (36) 2,384
07/03/2016 213.50 07/03/2019 — 2,508 (35) 2,473
06/04/2016 236.93 06/04/2019 — 2,225 — 2,225
32,571 25,043 (1,860) 55,754
Weighted average share price (pence) 160.67 194.74 165.78 175.19 76 Conviviality Plc
27. Share-based payments continued
(b) Bargain Booze Share Incentive Plan 2013 continued
Awards of “Free Shares” under this scheme are at £Nil cost and therefore their fair value is equal to the share price on the date of issue, 
at the time when each grant is allocated. If a person ceases to be an employee prior to the exercise date, the “Free Shares” will be forfeited. 
Details of all “Free Share” grants in the year are detailed below, none of which are exercisable at the period end: 
Date of grant
Fair value
at grant
Pence Exercise date
Number of options
Opening Granted Forfeited Closing
16/10/2014 149.50 16/10/2017 194,691 — (13,815) 180,876
09/09/2015 155.00 09/09/2018 — 274,183 (22,650) 251,533
194,691 274,183 (36,465) 432,409
Weighted average share price (pence) 149.50 155.00 152.92 152.70
(c) Franchisee Incentive Plan (“FIP”)
The FIP is intended to provide issued ordinary shares as awards to Franchisees subject to the achievement of performance conditions 
and then at the discretion of the Board. There are four categories of proposed award all of which are subject to approval, at the discretion 
of the Board, at the end of the third year of measurement, being September 2016 (for shares awarded for the financial year ended 
27 April 2014) and September 2017 (for shares awarded for the financial year ended 26 April 2015):
 - Part 1 – Store Standards Incentive Plan – All Franchisees could be entitled to one-third of their maximum allocation on passing 
each of three annual store audits.
 - Part 2 – Group EBITDA target – Awards may be made, at the discretion of the Board, based on Group EBITDA targets over a three 
year period and will be shared between all stores equally.
 - Part 3 – Individual franchisee performance awards – Annual awards may be made subject to the achievement by a store 
of certain key performance indicators.
 - Part 4 – New franchisee incentives – Awards may be made, at the discretion of the Board, three years after passing a store audit.
The shares are transferred to the Franchisees for no payment. If a person ceases to be a Franchisee prior to the vesting of any award, 
that award will lapse entirely. The awards are subject to Board approval in September 2016, and September 2017, therefore the service 
period commences prior to the grant date. The fair value of each grant is calculated as the best estimate of the share price on the date 
of grant, being the year-end share price.
Date of grant
1
Start of
vesting
period
Estimated fair
value
Pence
Exercise 
date
Number of options
Opening Adjustment 
2
Forfeited Closing
30/09/2016 31/07/2013 143.50 30/09/2016 1,099,470 — (91,250) 1,008,220
30/09/2017 31/07/2014 143.50 30/09/2017 1,364,720 (179,720) (122,000) 1,063,000
2,464,190 (179,720) (213,250) 2,071,220
Weighted average share price (pence) 143.50 155.00 155.00 155.00
1. Date of grant is subject to Board approval.
2. Adjustment reflects the Company’s estimation of how many awards will actually vest.
(d) Warrants
On 18 July 2013, the Company issued warrants to Zeus Capital giving them the right to subscribe to 1,334,000 shares for £1, conditional 
on successful admission to AIM, exercisable from 31 July 2014 to 31 July 2023. Management considers this to be a share-based payment 
and has fair valued the options using a Black-Scholes model.
Upon admission to AIM a share-based payment charge of £397,000 was recognised within exceptional costs.
The warrant was exercised by Zeus Capital on 2 October 2015. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
77 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
28. Business combinations
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited
On 7 October 2015, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire the entire issued share capital of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 
for a total consideration of £199.0m in cash. Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited is a leading independent wholesaler in the drinks industry. 
This acquisition is consistent with the Group’s ongoing strategy of expanding the Group’s wholesaling expertise and entering new markets 
and channels. The acquisition, together with the current businesses in the Group, creates a unique offering that addresses both the 
on-trade and off-trade retailers. Significant synergies across buying, distribution, organisational efficiencies and additional revenue 
generation are expected to be achieved by bringing the businesses together. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, and the amount of assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date.
Book value
£000
Fair value
adjustment
£000
Fair value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 4,074 (891) 3,183
Intangible assets 3,624 (311) 3,313
Inventories 44,238 (266) 43,972
Trade and other receivables 116,738 (359) 116,379
Net debt and debt-like items (10,838) (247) (11,085)
Trade and other payables (122,979) (1,084) (124,063)
Derivatives (634) — (634)
Deferred tax liability (note 19) 402 (11,859) (11,457)
Provisions (603) (5,167) (5,770)
Total identifiable net assets 34,022 (20,184) 13,838
Allocation to intangible assets - brands (note 12) 23,900
Allocation to intangible assets – customer base (note 12) 38,800
Goodwill (note 11) 122,438
Total consideration satisfied by cash 198,976
Cash flow
Cash consideration 198,976
Debt acquired with subsidiary 11,085
Acquisition costs (expensed to exceptional operating costs) 9,263
Acquisition costs (accrued and not yet paid out) (477)
218,847
Adjustments made to the fair value of assets acquired include the recognition of the deferred tax liability relating to the intangible asset 
(£11,859,000), additional provisions and accruals to recognise three onerous contacts that were in place at acquisition (£4,851,000), 
additional provisions to recognise that renovation works needed to be carried out at specific depots (£1,000,000) and impairments 
for property, plant and equipment that is impaired at the point of acquisition (£891,000).
The goodwill arising on acquisition represents the premium paid to acquire Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited and the future economic 
benefits arising from other assets acquired in the business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognised 
on the acquisition of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited; these largely relate to synergy and integration benefits. Goodwill has been 
allocated to the Matthew Clark (Holdings) CGU.
Acquisition costs of £9,263,000 have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period (note 4). 
These represent costs incurred during the acquisition and costs associated with the integration of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited including 
management restructuring and consultancy costs associated with the generation of buying, logistics and organisational synergies.
From the date of acquisition, Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited and subsidiaries have contributed revenue of £497.0m and £16.7m to 
profit before tax to the Group’s results. If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the financial period, it is estimated that 
the Group revenue for the period would have been £1,228.1m and total Group operating profit would have been £20.2m. 78 Conviviality Plc
28. Business combinations continued
Peppermint Events Limited
On 31 December 2015, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 61% of the issued share capital of Peppermint Events Limited 
for a total consideration of £1.8m in cash plus contingent consideration of £6.2m. This is contingent on meeting EBITDA targets for 
financial years ended 2017, 2018 and 2019. The transaction is subject to an initial earn-out performance based payment during 2017 
and 2018 up to a total of £800,000. There is an earn-out put option in respect of the remaining 39% of the ordinary share capital. The 
put and call option allows the non-controlling shareholder to require sales of their shares to the Group at an agreed pricing method 
between 2019 and 2020 based on EBITDA up to a total of £9,200,000 for the final earn-out. The timing of the final earn-out will 
depend on whether Peppermint Events exceeds an EBITDA target that has been set for financial year 2019. If the target is not met 
the earn-out moves to financial year 2020. 
The Company has agreed to pay the vendors additional consideration dependent on the performance of Peppermint Events over 
the subsequent four financial years. The estimated range of the additional consideration payment is estimated to be between £Nil 
and £10,000,000. The Company has included £6,159,000 as contingent consideration related to the additional consideration, which 
represents the amount determined at the acquisition date based on forecast EBITDA for the next three years discounted to net 
present value.
The valuation model for the contingent consideration considers the present value of the expected payment, discounted using a 
risk-free rate of 2.3%. The expected payment is determined by considering the possible scenarios of forecast revenue and EBITDA, 
the amount to be paid under each scenario and the probability of each scenario.
The acquisition of Peppermint Events Limited has been accounted for using the anticipated acquisition method as if the put and call 
option has already been exercised and therefore no non-controlling interest has been recognised.
Peppermint Events Limited is an independent events company specialising in bars and events in the outdoor event arena including 
festivals. This acquisition is consistent with the Group’s ongoing strategy of focusing on new markets and channels.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Peppermint Events Limited and the amount of assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed recognised at the acquisition date.
Book value
£000
Fair value
adjustment
£000
Fair value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 225 (23) 202
Inventories 152 (15) 137
Trade and other receivables 179 (12) 167
Cash and cash equivalents 536 — 536
Trade and other payables (596) — (596)
Borrowings (short term) (46) — (46)
Current tax payable (6) — (6)
Deferred tax liability (note 19) (26) (48) (74)
Borrowings (long term) (60) — (60)
Total identifiable net assets 358 (98) 260
Allocation to intangible assets - brands (note 12) 243
Goodwill (note 11) 7,456
Total consideration 7,959
Cash flow
Cash consideration 1,800
Contingent consideration (payable April 2017, April 2018 and April 2019) 6,159
Cash acquired with subsidiary (536)
Acquisition costs (expensed to exceptional operating costs) 81
7,504
Significant adjustments made to the fair value of assets acquired include the recognition of the deferred tax liability relating 
to the intangible asset, provision for doubtful debts and obsolete stock and impairments for property, plant and equipment.
The goodwill arising on acquisition represents the premium paid to acquire Peppermint Events Limited in a key channel providing 
significant opportunities for increased wholesale sales and cross-selling and other synergies. Goodwill has been allocated to the 
Peppermint Events CGU.
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
79 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
28. Business combinations continued
Peppermint Events Limited continued
Acquisition costs of £81,000 have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period (note 4). 
These represent legal costs incurred during the acquisition.
From the date of acquisition, Peppermint Events Limited has contributed revenue of £0.6m and £0.4m loss before tax to the Group’s 
results. If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the financial period, it is estimated that the Group revenue for the period 
would have been £877.0m and total Group operating profit would have been £12.0m.
In addition to the acquisitions set out above, the Group has also completed a number of individual smaller store acquisitions for a total 
cash consideration of £796,000, all of which has been recognised as goodwill. The Group also sold two stores in the 53 week period ended 
1 May 2016 for a total consideration of £195,000. When purchasing individual stores the Group is purchasing both the trade and assets 
of the store.
GT News Group
On 4 February 2015, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire the entire issued share capital of GT News (Holdings) Limited 
for a total consideration of £6.0m in cash plus normalised working capital on a debt/cash free basis. GT News (Holdings) Limited is a 
leading independent convenience led retailer, and operates 37 stores, predominantly in and around the East Midlands and Yorkshire. 
This acquisition is consistent with the Group’s ongoing strategy of focusing on key regions to improve store density and drive logistics and 
marketing efficiencies. The majority of stores have been rebranded under the Bargain Booze or Bargain Booze Select Convenience fascia.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for GT (News) Holdings Limited and the amount of assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed recognised at the acquisition date.
Book value
£000
Fair value
adjustment
£000
Fair value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 1,166 (12) 1,154
Inventories 1,227 — 1,227
Trade and other receivables 929 (71) 858
Net debt (258) — (258)
Trade and other payables (2,689) (113) (2,802)
Borrowings (short term) (12) — (12)
Current tax payable (32) — (32)
Deferred tax liability (note 19) (11) (38) (49)
Borrowings (long term) (4) — (4)
Total identifiable net assets 316 (234) 82
Allocation to intangible assets – brands (note 12) 342
Goodwill (note 11) 5,748
Total consideration satisfied by cash 6,172
Cash flow
Cash consideration 6,000
Payment for normalised working capital (paid 12 June 2015) 172
Net debt acquired with subsidiary 258
Acquisition costs (expensed to exceptional operating costs in financial year ended 26 April 2015) 237
Acquisition costs (expensed to exceptional operating costs in financial year ended 1 May 2016) 58
6,725
Significant adjustments made to the fair value of assets acquired include the recognition of the deferred tax liability relating 
to the intangible asset, provision for doubtful debts and a provision for a claim from a supplier. 
The goodwill arising on acquisition represents the premium paid to acquire GT News (Holdings) in a key region providing significant 
opportunities for increased wholesale sales and cross-selling and other synergies. Goodwill has been allocated to the GT News (Holdings) CGU.
Acquisition costs of £58,000 have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the period (note 4). 
Acquisition costs of £237,000 were charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the prior period ended 
26 April 2015. 80 Conviviality Plc
28. Business combinations continued
RNB Stores
On 16 May 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire certain trade and assets of RNB Stores Limited (asset acquisition 
only), including 26 stores, for a total consideration of £1.70m in cash. On 27 June 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to 
acquire a further five stores, for a total consideration of £0.18m in cash.
At the time of purchase all stores operated under the Rhythm & Booze brand and were immediately rebranded to an appropriate 
Conviviality Retail Plc fascia. The purchase of these stores opens up a key region in which the Group had limited presence and is 
consistent with the Group’s ongoing strategy to expand into new territories. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid and the amount of assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised 
at the acquisition date.
Book value
£000
Fair value
adjustment
£000
Fair value
£000
Property, plant and equipment 497 — 497
Total identifiable net assets 497 — 497
Goodwill 1,383
Total consideration satisfied by cash 1,880
Cash flow
Cash consideration 1,880
Acquisition costs (expensed to exceptional operating costs in financial year ended 26 April 2015) 20
Acquisition costs (expensed to exceptional operating costs in financial year ended 27 April 2014) 166
2,066
The goodwill arising on acquisition represents the premium paid to acquire a cluster of stores in a key region providing significant 
opportunities for increased wholesale sales and cross-selling and other synergies. Goodwill has been allocated to the Bargain Booze CGU. 
No other material intangibles have been identified.
Acquisition costs of £186,000 have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement in prior periods.
29. Events occurring after the reporting date
On 20 May 2016 the Group entered into an agreement to acquire the entire issued share capital of Bibendum PLB Group for a cash 
consideration of £39,663,000. This was financed by an additional placing of 15,609,757 ordinary shares and a £10,000,000 term loan 
drawn down under the Group’s revised bank facilities with its existing lenders. In addition, an extension of Bibendum PLB Group’s 
existing receivables financing facility was agreed up to £30,000,000.
The shares were placed at a price of 205 pence, therefore raising funds of £32,000,000. This placing, along with an issue of 2,551 ordinary 
shares to satisfy the requirement to allot matching shares at the time of purchase of partnership shares for the Bargain Booze Share 
Incentive Plan, takes the total allotted ordinary share capital to 170,850,796.
Bibendum PLB Group is one of the largest wine, spirit and beer distributors and wholesalers to the UK on-trade and off-trade 
markets. This acquisition is consistent with the Group’s ongoing strategy of focusing on new markets and channels and the acquisition 
strengthens the Group’s expertise in premium trade wines and deepens the Group’s presence in London and the South East. 
Due to the proximity of the acquisition date to the approval of these financial statements, a full analysis of the book value and fair 
value of the assets and liabilities acquired, as required by IFRS paragraphs 59-62, is not yet available. 
Intangible assets are expected to be identified relating to brands and customer contracts. Goodwill arising on the acquisition is expected 
to arise relating to the premium paid to acquire Bibendum PLB Group and the future economic benefits arising from assets acquired in 
the business combination that are not individually identified and separable, largely relating to synergy and integration benefits. 
Goodwill will be allocated to a separate CGU.
A full analysis of the assets and liabilities, and fair value adjustments, will be presented in the Group’s interim statements for the 
period to 30 October 2016. 
Acquisition costs of £31,000 have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement during the period. 
These represent costs incurred during the acquisition and prior to the period end. 
Notes to the financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
81 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
30. Subsidiary audit exemption
Under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, the Group is claiming exemption from audit for the subsidiary companies listed below:
Company name Company number
Conviviality Stores Limited 05501974
Bargain Booze EBT Trustees Limited 04451429
Wine Rack Limited 06880288
Conviviality Retail Logistics Limited 09329476
GT News (Holdings) Limited 06510628
GT News Limited 03931912
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 06133835
31. Related parties
During the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 the Group purchased services totalling £13,000 (2015: £280,000) from Practicology Limited. 
Martin D Newman is a Non-Executive Director of Conviviality Plc and also a 52% shareholder of Practicology Limited. There are no 
amounts outstanding to Practicology as at 1 May 2016.
During the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 the Group made donations of £5,000 (2015: £Nil) to The Benevolent which is a drinks industry 
charity. Diana Hunter is the CEO of Conviviality Plc and also a trustee of The Benevolent. 
Dividend payments totalling £Nil were made from the Company to Directors during the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 (2015: £4,000).
Key management comprises the Executive and Non-Executive Directors. Information on their emoluments is provided in note 5. 82 Conviviality Plc
Note
2016
£000
2015
£000
Fixed assets
Investments 2 47,400 46,048
Current assets
Debtors 4 142,803 945
Cash — 19
142,803 964
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (906) (10,842)
Net current liabilities 141,897 (9,878)
Net assets 189,297 36,170
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 75 57
Share premium account 165,336 34,020
Share-based payment reserve 3,977 2,052
Other reserves (26) (26)
Profit and loss account 19,935 67
Shareholders’ funds 189,297 36,170
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 July 2016.
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
Conviviality Plc
Company registration number: 5592636
Company balance sheet
As at 1 May 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
83 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
£000
Share-based
payment
reserve
£000
Other
reserves
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Total
equity
£000
Balance at 27 April 2014 57 34,020 1,012 — 8,117 43,206
Loss for the financial period — — — — (3,036) (3,036)
Total comprehensive loss for the period — — — — (3,036) (3,036)
Transactions with owners:
Prior year movement on EBT — — — (58) 331 273
Dividends — — — — (5,345) (5,345)
Disposal of shares from EBT — — — 32 — 32
Share-based payment charge — — 299 — — 299
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge — — 8 — — 8
Share options granted to subsidiary employees — — 733 — — 733
Total transactions with owners — — 1,040 (26) (5,014) (4,000)
Balance at 26 April 2015 57 34,020 2,052 (26) 67 36,170
Profit for the financial period — — — — 27,269 27,269
Total comprehensive income for the period — — — — 27,269 27,269
Transactions with owners:
Issue of new ordinary shares 18 131,316 — — — 131,334
Transfer of share-based payment charge — — (94) — 94 —
Dividends — — — — (7,495) (7,495)
Share options granted to subsidiary employees — — 1,352 — — 1,352
Share-based payment charge — — 310 — — 310
Deferred tax on share-based payment charge — — 357 — — 357
Total transactions with owners 18 131,316 1,932 — (7,401) 125,858
Balance at 1 May 2016 75 165,336 3,977 (26) 19,935 189,297
Company statement of changes in equity
For the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 84 Conviviality Plc
2016
£000
2015
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash (used in)/ generated from operating activities (151,629) 6,097
Cash flows from investing activities
Exceptional costs incurred on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (877) —
Increase in investments (1,352) (733)
Net cash used in investing activities (2,229) (733)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid (7,495) (5,345)
Dividends received 30,000 —
Proceeds from sale of shares 131,334 —
Net cash proceeds generated from/(used in) financing activities 153,839 (5,345)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (19) 19
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 19 —
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period — 19
Company statement of cash flows
For the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
85 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation of financial statements
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”) for the first time. In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, 
measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”) 
but makes adjustments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements of Conviviality Plc, which are presented separately, have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Investments
Investments are included at cost less any provision for impairment.
Share-based payments
Share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The charge relating to grants to employees of the Company is recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in the profit and loss 
account, spread over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the 
effect of non-market based vesting conditions. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised in the Company’s financial statements in the year in which they are approved in general meeting by the 
Company’s Shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid. Final dividends are recognised when they have been approved 
by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Taxation
The tax expense for the period comprises of current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or in equity. In this case, the tax is recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income or in equity.
(a) Current taxation
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid 
to the tax authorities.
(b) Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised using the statement of financial position liability method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in the historical financial information. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax 
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are offset against each other when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current assets against current liabilities 
and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
2. Investments
£000
At 27 April 2014 45,315
Share options granted to subsidiary employees 733
At 26 April 2015 46,048
Share options granted to subsidiary employees 1,352
At 1 May 2016 47,400
Notes to the Company financial statements 86 Conviviality Plc
2. Investments continued
The Company is the holding company of the Group. The following table contains details of the Company’s directly and indirectly 
held subsidiaries:
Company name Principal activity
Country of
incorporation
Percentage
ownership
Conviviality Stores Limited Holding company England 100%
Bargain Booze Limited Wholesale, marketing, logistics and franchisor England 100%
Bargain Booze EBT Trustees Limited Trustee of EBT England 100%
Wine Rack Limited Retail distributor of beers, wines, spirits, tobacco, 
grocery and confectionery
England 100%
Conviviality Retail Logistics Limited Distribution company England 100%
GT News (Holdings) Limited Holding company England 100%
GT News Limited Retail distributor of beers, wines, spirits, tobacco, 
grocery and confectionery
England 100%
GT News (Nottingham) Limited Dormant England 100%
Rhythm & Booze Limited Dormant England 100%
Conviviality Retail Limited Dormant England 100%
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited Holding company England 100%
Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited Wholesale distributor of beers, wines and spirits England 100%
Elastic Productions Limited Marketing agency England 51%
Peppermint Events Limited Events company England 61%
Matthew Clark Limited Dormant England 100%
Matthew Clark and Sons Limited Dormant England 100%
Matthew Clark Wholesale Bond Limited Dormant England 100%
Matthew Clark (Scotland) Limited Dormant England 100%
The Wine Studio Limited Dormant England 100%
A2 Contractors Limited Dormant England 100%
Odyssey Intelligence Limited Dormant England 100%
Under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is claiming exemption from audit for the subsidiary companies 
listed below:
Company name
Company
number
Conviviality Stores Limited 05501974
Bargain Booze EBT Trustees Limited 04451429
Wine Rack Limited 06880288
Conviviality Retail Logistics Limited 09329476
GT News (Holdings) Limited 06510628
GT News Limited 03931912
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited 06133835
3. Directors’ remuneration
The Directors are the only employees of the Company. Further details of Directors’ remuneration are provided in note 5 
of the consolidated financial statements. 
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
87 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
4. Debtors
2016
£000
2015
£000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 142,102 504
Prepayments and accrued income 31 40
Deferred tax asset (note 6) 670 401
142,803 945
5. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2016
£000
2015
£000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings — (10,059)
Accruals and deferred income (906) (628)
Corporation tax — (155)
(906) (10,842)
6. Deferred tax asset
2016
£000
2015
£000
At beginning of period 401 890
Charged to the profit and loss account (88) (497)
Credited to equity 357 8
At end of period 670 401
The deferred tax asset is made up as follows:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Other timing differences 670 401
The deferred tax asset relates to timing differences on share-based payment charges.
The recoverability of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits in excess of those arising from the reversal of deferred 
tax liabilities. The deferred tax asset has been recognised to the extent that it is considered to be recoverable based on forecasts for 
future periods. At 1 May 2016, the value of the unrecognised deferred tax asset is £Nil (2015: £Nil).
7. Share capital
2016
£000
2015
£000
Authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid
155,238,488 ordinary shares of £0.0002 each (2015: 66,940,383) 31 13
217,058,802 deferred shares of £0.0002 each (2015: 217,058,802) 44 44
Total 75 57
Details of share capital transactions are provided in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 88 Conviviality Plc
8. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to ordinary shareholders in the period comprise:
2016
£000
2015
£000
Final dividend for 2015 of 6.3 pence and 2014 of 6.0 pence per ordinary share 4,235 4,006
Interim dividend for 2016 of 2.1 pence and 2015 of 2.0 pence per ordinary share 3,260 1,339
7,495 5,345
The 2016 final proposed dividend of £12,643,000 (7.4 pence per share) has not been accrued as it had not been approved 
by the period end. Sufficient reserves are in place to pay the proposed dividend. 
9. Related party transactions
Dividend payments totalling £Nil were made from the Company to Directors during the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016 (2015: £4,000).
10. Transition to IFRS
As stated in note 1, these are the Company’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The accounting policies set 
out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 1 May 2016, the comparative information 
presented in these financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2015 and in the preparation of an opening IFRS balance sheet 
as at 28 April 2014.
On transition to IFRS the Company has made no measurement adjustments.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued  
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Directors, secretary and advisors
Directors:
David A R Adams (Chairman)  
Diana Hunter (Chief Executive Officer) 
C Andrew Humphreys 
Mark T Aylwin 
Martin D Newman (Non-Executive Director) 
Stephen G Wilson (Non-Executive Director) 
Ian M W Jones (Non-Executive Director) 
Jennifer C E Laing (Non-Executive Director)
Registered Office:
Weston Road  
Crewe  
Cheshire  
CW1 6BP
Company Secretary:
C A Humphreys
Company website:
www.conviviality.co.uk
Independent auditors: 
KPMG LLP
1 St Peter’s Square  
Manchester 
M2 3AE
Solicitors to the Company:
DLA Piper UK LLP
101 Barbirolli Square 
Manchester  
M2 3DL
Company registrars:
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU
Bankers:
Royal Bank of Scotland
Manchester Corporate Business Centre
2nd Floor
1 Spinningfields Square
Manchester 
M3 3AP
Nominated advisor:
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Conviviality Plc’s commitment to environmental issues 
is reflected in this annual report which has been printed on 
Symbol Freelife Satin, which is an FSC
®
 Mix Certified paper, 
ensuring that all virgin pulp is derived from well-managed 
forests and other responsible sources. 
89 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Conviviality Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Conviviality Plc
Weston Road 
Crewe 
Cheshire 
CW1 6BP
www.conviviality.co.uk
