 Bringing people and 
property together
 C o u nt r y w i de p lc Annual Report 2016
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report
02 At a glance
04 Our chairman’s review
06 Our chief executive officer’s review
08 Our business model
10 Our strategy
15 Our markets
17 Risk management
23 Segmental review
 23 Retail
 26 London
 28 Financial Services
 30 B2B
33 Our chief financial officer’s review
36 Our people
Corporate governance
38 Board of directors
40 Chairman’s introduction to 
corporate governance
41 Corporate governance statement
43 Report of the Nomination 
Committee
46 Report of the Audit and 
Risk Committee
52 Directors’ remuneration report
67 Directors’ report
69 Directors’ responsibilities report
Financial statements
70 Independent auditors’ report
76 Consolidated income statement
77 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
78 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
79 Consolidated balance sheet
80 Consolidated cash flow statement
81 Notes to the financial statements
121 Independent auditors’ report
123 Company balance sheet
124 Company statement of changes 
in equity
125 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
129 Appendix (forming part of the 
financial statements)
135 Company information
136 Forward-looking statements
Customers are at the heart of our business. We are uniquely placed to 
support them at every stage of their property journey through a combination 
of national reach and local expertise – available online, on the phone and on 
the high street. This is supported by a diverse range of products and services: 
sales and lettings, mortgages and insurance, surveying, conveyancing, 
land and new homes, asset management and commercial.
For more information,  
view our website: 
www.countrywide.co.uk
Countrywide is the UK’s leading 
integrated property services group     Volatile residential  
property market
• 
Stamp duty changes
• 
Additional 3% stamp duty land tax 
on buy to let/second homes
• 
EU referendum creates uncertainty
Focus on key organic 
strategic initiatives
• 
Record level of mortgage market share
• 
Significant improvement in 
remortgage activity
• 
Encouraging trend in landlord retention
Investment in foundations 
for future success
• 
Multichannel proposition
• 
Lettings customer service
• 
Underlying infrastructure
Operational highlights
Financial highlights
Total income (£m)
737.0 +0%
Operating profit (£m)
28.9 -46%
Basic EPS (p)
8.0 -58%
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m)
83.5 -26%
Adjusted EPS
2
 (p)
19.3 -40%
702.2
84.9 30.8 121.1 36.7
14 14 14 14 14
733.7
53.8 18.9
113.0 32.2
15 15 15 15 15
737.0
28.9
8.0
83.5
19.3
16 16 16 16 16
1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional items, contingent consideration, share-based payments and share of profits 
from joint venture, referred to hereafter as ‘EBITDA’.
2  Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, contingent consideration 
and share-based payments (net of taxation).
• 
Maintained income through market share gains, benefit  
of 2015 acquisitions
• 
Challenging residential market, investment to support 
future growth impacts profitability and cash flow
• 
Positive progress in Lettings, Financial Services 
and Surveying
• 
Key cost initiatives underway to underpin  
future profits
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 01 Our experienced leadership team
  Our chairman’s review 
page 4
  Our chief executive officer’s review 
page 6
  Our chief financial officer’s review 
page 33
Our diverse 
offering
Customers are at the heart of our business. We bring 
people and property together to help our customers 
at every step of their property journey.
Our focused strategy
Our customers Our portfolio Our people
Read about our Board page 38
Read more on our strategy page 10
Delivering a better, more personalised 
customer experience
Creating an internal environment for  
great people to flourish
Aligning our portfolio to where the 
growth is, thereby creating greater 
shareholder value
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 02
Strategic report
At a glance Our national reach and local expertise...
...with a strong brand portfolio, including:
66,000+
properties exchanged*
991
branches**
127,000+
properties under management*
 £1 5. 7bn
of mortgages completed*
Our diverse products and services
Sales
Conveyancing
Lettings
Land and New Homes
Mortgages and insurance
Asset management
Surveying
Commercial
TO LET FOR SALE
  * For the year ended 31 December 2016.
** As at 28 February 2017.
Read more on our business model page 8
Read more on our portfolio page 14
Read more on our segmental reviews page 23
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 03
Strategic report My first year as chairman coincided with a particularly 
challenging market backdrop. Overall the property market 
was destabilised by fiscal change and heightened economic 
uncertainty, which inevitably had an impact on transactions. 
Changes to the stamp duty regime, the UK’s decision to leave 
the European Union and proposed changes to tenants’ fees all 
had an effect on the sector and the Group. Property will always 
be a part of the national conversation and how the industry reacts 
to these conditions will remain a key focus for a wide variety of 
stakeholders going forward.
Tough market conditions can act as a catalyst for necessary 
change and true leaders show their strength by responding, 
transforming their business model to build and ultimately to 
thrive. I have been impressed at how quickly Countrywide has 
faced into these challenges and how the executive team has 
responded, by accelerating our transformation agenda.
2016 results delivered a modest growth in income to £737.0 million 
(2015: £733.7 million), despite the unpredictable residential 
sales market. EBITDA decreased by 26% to £83.5 million 
(2015: £113.0 million), and statutory operating profit by 46%, 
as a result of a reduced sales transaction market and investment 
in key areas of our business, impacting underlying profitability.
The Company is at a critical point in its evolution, and is determined 
to reinforce its leadership by developing a business that better 
reflects the needs of our customers. We accept that the market 
will continue to be constrained and that we need to transform 
our business, but we do so from a position of strength. We have 
genuine national reach, a broad service offering and a portfolio 
of high quality, well known brands. 
Building for 
the future
In summary
• 
Diversified portfolio helped contribute 
to maintaining revenue against a very 
challenging backdrop
• 
Tough market conditions are a catalyst for 
accelerating our transformation agenda 
• 
Executive team is committed to building 
a customer focused company, driving 
and delivering efficiency and creating 
a sustainable and profitable business 
The Company is at a critical 
point in its evolution, and is 
determined to reinforce its 
leadership by developing a 
business that better reflects 
the needs of our customers.
Strategic report
Our chairman’s review
04 As we transform, the executive team is committed to building 
a customer focused company, driving and delivering efficiency 
and maintaining a sustainable and profitable business. Some of the 
decisions taken this year have put us ahead on this journey, not least:
• 
defining a new operating model which will include resizing 
the retail estate, updating the technology platform and driving 
down our cost base
• 
implementing a multichannel offering through a comprehensive 
digital, phone and high street presence
• 
seizing the growth opportunity represented in the financial 
services sector
• 
pausing all M&A activity after the first quarter of 2016 and 
focusing primarily on organic growth, delivering what we do 
already, but better.
As previously stated, we commenced a strategic review of our 
commercial business, Lambert Smith Hampton, during 2016 
to consider how best to maximise value in that sector over the 
coming years. That review continues and we anticipate it will 
conclude later this year.
Despite the uncertain market environment, we remain committed 
to reducing our leverage and at the same time enable the management 
team to future proof the business and exploit growth opportunities. 
To that end, and following consultations with our major shareholders, 
the Board has decided to make a small placing of up to 9.99% of 
our share capital available via a cash box structure today. In addition, 
we have reviewed our dividend policy and have rebased that to 
between 30 and 35% of earnings going forward. No final dividend 
will be paid for 2016.
I am confident that we are building a business for the long term, 
working towards a more resilient and efficient operating model 
that promotes organic growth through customer retention and by 
building on our unique strengths to be the best in the market at 
what we do.
Peter Long
Chairman
9 March 2017
Recommended
more than any other company in the 
property sector.
Recognised
as one of the best places to work 
in the UK.
Transforming
the reputation of our industry.
Celebrated
for excellent sustainable 
financial performance.
Our vision
Our values
1
Personal
We are a people business. We care 
about our customers and each 
other. We have fun.
Straightforward
We keep it simple, dealing with 
the complicated things so our 
customers don’t have to.
Passionate
We love working with property and 
we work hard, knowing what we do 
really matters.
Responsible
We do the right thing. We listen, 
take time to understand and always 
tell the truth.
2
3
4
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 05
Strategic report 2016 was a year of two halves for the property market in the UK. 
The first half of the year saw Countrywide benefit from a strong 
residential sales market and the actions we took to strengthen 
the core business in both Sales and Lettings. The changes to stamp 
duty land tax on second homes provided a lift to first quarter 
volumes as our sales team capitalised on those buying second 
homes – most notably investor landlords who pulled forward 
transactions to beat the April deadline for the additional 3% 
levy. However, the introduction of higher rate stamp duty land 
tax rates for second home purchasers combined with previous 
stamp duty land tax rate rises on £1 million homes suppressed 
the market. This was most evident at the upper end of the sector 
where the stamp duty burden is greatest, inevitably meaning 
that this – effectively geographic – tax hurts aspiring working 
households in London and the South East more than anywhere 
else in the UK. 
Neighbourhood City
Price of a
two bed
terrace house
Stamp duty  
f o r o w n e r  -
 occupiers
Stamp duty for 
investors/
second home 
buyers
Wimbledon London £714,000 £25,700 £47,120
Moseley Birmingham £272,000 £3,600 £11,760
Gosforth Newcastle £198,000 £1,460 £7,400
Source: Countrywide 2016
Read more on our markets page 15
The outcome of June’s referendum on the UK’s membership 
of the European Union predictably had an impact on confidence 
in the housing market in the second half of the year. Transactions fell 
in the third quarter, and in the fourth quarter were also down 
(9% year on year); consumers showed an appetite for mitigating 
risks and the number of customers seeking to remortgage was 
up, with approvals up by 14% compared to 2015, with the 
number of loans at its highest level since 2009. 
Thanks to the diversity of our geographic footprint and service 
offer, despite these headwinds, we maintained Group revenue 
at the same level as 2015. We increased our market share in 
Mortgages and Surveying, maintained our leading market share 
position in both Sales and Lettings, and took a significant step 
forward in our ability to grow the number of properties under 
management in our Lettings business. 
Geographic and  
service diversification 
underpins performance in uncertain markets
In summary
• 
A year of unprecedented change
• 
Focus on organic growth, execution and 
acceleration of proposition improvements, 
and business transformation
• 
Growth in market share in Mortgages and 
Surveying, maintenance of our leading market 
share position in Sales and Lettings and growth 
in the number of properties under management 
• 
Successful launch of our multichannel proposition
• 
Streamlining our branch footprint as we move to 
fewer, bigger brands and fewer, better branches
Our focus on building a business 
which is genuinely multichannel 
in nature, delivers more choice 
and flexibility to customers and 
lowers our cost of doing business 
is imperative.
Strategic report
Our chief executive officer’s review
06 and focus on growing our business through achieving more for 
our customers. Seeing colleagues leave our business is never 
easy and, although tough, the decisions we took in 2016 will stand 
us in good stead as we navigate the market challenges ahead. 
As we enter 2017 we do so with confidence – both in the capabilities 
our business and our people have to serve our customers, and in 
our clear plans for transformation. The progress made, and momentum 
gained from responding rapidly to the changing market conditions 
in 2016, put us firmly on the front foot and mean we are well placed 
to deliver on our strategy: delivering a better, more personalised 
customer experience; creating an internal environment for great 
people to flourish; and aligning our portfolio to where the growth is. 
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
9 March 2017
Our focus on delivering improved levels of service to our landlords 
and their tenants has been a core focus for Countrywide over the 
last year and the turnaround in performance is really pleasing. 
Challenges in the property market are likely to be with us for some 
time whilst uncertainty around the UK economy weighs heavily on 
consumer confidence. The Chancellor’s intent to remove tenants’ 
fees brings further challenges to the rental sector, where increasing 
regulatory burdens risk some agents putting quality a poor second 
to rates of return. 
In our view, these market conditions create an impetus to change 
our business faster. Our focus on building a business which is 
genuinely multichannel in nature, delivers more choice and flexibility 
to customers and lowers our cost of doing business is imperative 
for us now. The launch of our digital sales pilot in summer 2016 
has surpassed our ambitions and we have now accelerated the 
rollout to more than 25% of our network. Whilst that rollout will 
continue at pace development is now focused on building both 
telephone and digital channels in our Mortgage and protection 
business and our across our Lettings proposition.
Our focus on reducing the cost base came immediately post the 
EU referendum and has continued at pace. We initiated significant 
cost cutting, with estimated run rate reductions of £10 million 
already embedded and a further £9 million expected in 2017. 
The strategic review of our Commercial business is underway as 
we seek a route to enable our growth agenda without increasing 
our debt. These exceptional costs of restructuring our business 
of £27.7 million (including £1.4 million impairment of brands we 
rationalised) were incurred in parallel with goodwill impairment 
charges of £19.6 million arising from market conditions.
The current market provides an opportunity to accelerate towards 
our vision of being recognised as the most recommended company 
in the property sector. The work we started in 2015 to improve our 
customers’ experience, while increasing the efficiency and productivity 
of our business, continues at pace. In 2016 that marked a shift away 
from growth delivered though acquiring independent businesses 
to organic growth. In building a multichannel network we have 
taken the opportunity to review our footprint across the UK and 
in pursuit of fewer, bigger, better brands and branches, we closed 
200 branches across the UK. That, coupled with a reduction in the 
layers of management, has enhanced our ability to move at pace, 
This strategic report was approved by the Board of directors on 
9 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: 
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 07
Strategic report  
 
 Multichannel
 
Customers are at  
the heart of what we do
Customers at  
the heart of  
our business 
Online
On the phone On the high street
 
 Diversified
Products  
and services
Geography
Price points
Read more on our multichannel proposition page 12
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 08
Strategic report
Our business model We operate across the UK 
residential property market and 
have over 900 branches around 
England, Scotland and Wales.
How this benefits us
Our national reach and local expertise give 
us unrivalled access to, and knowledge of, 
customers and communities up and down 
the country. This diversified brand footprint 
also helps ensure that our overall business 
model is more resilient as we offer our 
products and services to customers all  
over Britain, not just in particular parts  
of the country.
Our focus is on having the right 
brand in the right location to reach 
customers across all price points. 
How this benefits us
Last year we exchanged over £17 billion 
worth of properties across the country – 
more homes than anyone else – and we  
had over 90,000 properties under our 
management, representing the largest 
portfolio in the sector.
We’re not just estate and lettings 
agents – we are also the largest 
single mortgage broker in the UK, 
and we are experts in surveying, 
conveyancing and the commercial 
market too, supporting our 
corporate clients with all of their 
commercial needs. 
How this benefits us
We bring people and property together and, 
with our diverse range of products and 
services available to customers around the 
country in an increasingly multichannel way, 
we are able to:
• 
support our customers at every step 
of their property journey 
• 
diversify our revenue streams
• 
give customers the added peace 
of mind to move seamlessly across 
channels if needed.
Geography
Resilience through diversification
Price points
Products and services
Network of over
50
brands 
TO LET FOR SALE
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 09
Strategic report The headwinds of 2016 have not caused us to move 
away from our core belief – that as an organisation we 
will maintain our leadership in this sector by focusing 
on three strategic priorities:
• 
delivering a better, more personalised 
customer experience
• 
creating an internal environment for great  
people to flourish
• 
aligning our portfolio to where the growth is, 
thereby creating greater shareholder value
• 
Pilot and launch of our multichannel proposition 
in six brands
• 
Extended branch opening hours
• 
Increased Group net promoter score by 58%
• 
Introduction of a new Fixflo application for tenants 
to report maintenance and repairs issues
• 
Retained 78.0% of landlords 
• 
Invested in our recruitment model, training and 
IT infrastructure
• 
Accelerated rollout of our multichannel proposition 
to the majority of our branch network 
• 
Further improvement in net promoter scores, 
particularly in Lettings
• 
Further improving landlord retention rates
• 
Further improving remortgage rates
Delivered in 2016
Focus in 2017
Our customers
Our strategic priorities
We will deliver on these priorities by creating a resilient business 
with a shape that reflects market conditions and customer preference. 
This will be achieved through focus on the following key areas:
In some cases market conditions have given us licence to accelerate 
our change programme, for example: the rollout of our multichannel 
proposition; the reshaping of our brand and branch network; and the 
shift from growth primarily through M&A to organic growth. 
• 
Building a robust balance sheet and driving cash generation
• 
Putting our M&A plans on hold 
• 
Investing in organic growth 
3 Reassessing capital allocation
• 
Fewer, better branches 
• 
Fewer, bigger brands
• 
Rationalising our back office functions
• 
Updated technology platforms
2 Delivering cost optimisation
• 
Continuing the rollout of our multichannel offering for customers 
• 
Continuing to deliver growth in our Financial Services business 
• 
Continuing to grow landlord retention and properties 
under management
1 Growing our business
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 10
Strategic report
Our strategy • 
Held senior leadership programmes throughout the year 
to improve management skills and drive performance
• 
Launch of first Group-wide intranet, ‘Our Place’
• 
Introduction of ‘Under One Roof’ – a new benefit 
programme helping colleagues, and their families, 
move and save money
• 
Completed our largest national investment in training 
our listing colleagues
• 
Organic growth and M&A – improvements in our core 
service yielded strong returns and helped us grow our 
market share across the Group. The rollout of our 
multichannel proposition also improved productivity 
and made adding more high street branches unnecessary
• 
Almost doubled remortgage rates year on year, from 
13% in 2015 to 25% in 2016
• 
Reviewed and consolidated brands and branches 
ensuring we have the strongest performing brands 
and branches with the most sustainable future
• 
Acquisitions of Finders Keepers, The Buy to Let 
Business, Mortgage Bureau and Capital Private Finance 
• 
Better trained colleagues, supported by better IT 
• 
Identifying our leaders of the future
• 
Designing a range of development initiatives to nurture 
our existing talent
• 
Increasing referrals and improving our ability to cross sell
• 
Delivering new leadership programmes to enhance the 
knowledge, skills and capability of our leaders
• 
Transforming our operating model
• 
Organic growth with less M&A – our focus will shift 
further towards organic growth and away from using 
our capital to acquire businesses. We see potential for 
greater returns from accelerating our progress by 
having better products, propositions and channels
• 
Fewer, bigger brands
• 
Fewer, better branches in locations that are convenient 
for customers 
• 
Even greater growth of the Financial Services business 
as we seek to become the preferred partner offering 
the best advice in mortgages and protection for 
customers throughout their lives
• 
Balance sheet – we will aim to bring down the ratio 
of debt to earnings, to below 2x earnings over a period 
of time, and broadly maintain that level as we invest 
to grow organically 
Delivered in 2016 Delivered in 2016
Focus in 2017 Focus in 2017
Our portfolio Our people
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 11
Strategic report Our 
customers
Our ambition to be ‘the most 
recommended company in the 
property sector’ means putting 
customers at the heart of our business. 
In 2015, we carried out our largest ever 
piece of customer research (>3,000 
people) to identify their needs and 
sharpen our customer segmentation 
– this insight is the foundation for 
everything we do as we centre the 
business around our customers.
Our breadth of services provides a strong platform to support 
customers throughout their whole property journey. Trust, reliability, 
efficient communication, personal connection – the same needs are 
common across customer segments, and the industry as a whole is 
still not delivering consistently. We will be known for delivering on our 
promises. We continue to invest in our recruitment model, our training 
and our IT infrastructure to provide a better customer experience across 
all our channels. It is essential that we communicate well at key handover 
points as customers avail themselves of various services across the Group.
Strategy in action
Deliver what we say we are going to
Property transactions are often complicated and emotional journeys, and 
all customers are different. We aim to better understand each customer 
at the start of their journey – whether in sales, lettings or financial services 
– so we can match their needs. With the launch of our multichannel 
proposition we are tailoring the journey to give customers more choice 
– choice of product, choice around how they interact with us, and choice 
in where they value support and where they want to take more control 
themselves. It allows for more convenience and greater transparency in 
the services they are paying for. We piloted and launched our multichannel 
proposition in 2016 and will roll this out to the majority of our branch 
network in 2017.
Personalise our customers’ journey
Case study: Multichannel proposition
In line with our strategy of putting customers at the heart 
of what we do, in June 2016 we launched our new and unique 
multichannel proposition. It was informed by extensive 
consumer research which revealed that people are looking 
for choice, control, convenience and support when selling 
their home. Our unique proposition was designed specifically 
to meet these needs. It gives customers the greatest choice 
in the market: the ability to manage the process themselves 
online for a competitive fixed fee or use our full high street 
service providing the expertise and knowledge of our local 
teams, plus the flexibility and choice to switch at any time 
from the online service to the full high street service. 
1
In a competitive marketplace, the reputation of our people and our 
brands is what drives customers to choose us ahead of others. We have 
rolled out net promoter scores in all our branches, and at regional and 
business unit level, which are core to how we manage and reward our 
people. We have continued to see an upward trend in scores at key 
touchpoints in the customer journey. 
Measure the right things 3
2
Key performance indicators
Level of remortgages
25% +91%
(2015: 13%)
Net promoter scores
58%  
Landlord retention
78.0% +3%
(2015: 75.4%)
Six of our brands offered our 
multichannel proposition by 
the end of 2016
It was really important to have a choice and it was great  
to see your services are based around what the  
customer wants.
Mr J C
Customer
improvement year on year
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 12
Strategic report
Our strategy continued Our 
people
To deliver a world class experience 
for our customers, Countrywide needs 
to be a great place to work. We must 
ensure our colleagues have the right 
tools for the job in an environment 
that is safe and one in which they 
can continually develop. By being 
recognised as one of the best places 
to work in the UK, we can continue 
to attract, develop and retain talented 
people who will take the Group forward 
throughout 2017 and beyond.
Connecting our people to our purpose motivates us all to deliver our 
best. Our people will feel valued, engaged and committed to providing 
a brilliant and personalised customer experience. We will ensure that 
our people have a great experience from the moment they join 
Countrywide and throughout their career with us. 
We want to give our people everything they need to bring our values 
to life, excel in their role and delight our customers. It is clear that by 
taking action on the feedback we receive from the MyCountrywide 
survey, and working together with our people across the business, 
we can continue to make changes that bring us ever closer to being 
recognised as one of the best places to work in the UK.
We are proud that our apprenticeship and graduate recruitment schemes 
continue to bring high quality people into Countrywide. These programmes 
run alongside City & Guilds accredited training for our colleagues within our 
Retail operations, including the opportunity of sponsorship to achieve 
recognised professional qualifications that are relevant to our sector. 
As well as this, our trainee surveyor programme continued to provide 
additional capacity for our surveyor network during 2016, with a further 
34 colleagues achieving Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
accreditation and Registered Valuer status as part of an in house career 
development route.
We are also looking to maximise the Apprenticeship Levy and 
the opportunities it presents in line with each of our business areas. 
For 2017 we will focus on upskilling our colleagues as we develop 
a solid platform to build on in the years to come. 
Our great people
Great people flourish with the support of great leaders. Throughout the 
year, we held events to support and mentor our wider leadership team 
across the Countrywide Group, so they can lead our people effectively 
and drive performance. This was supported by the creation of a dedicated 
online community for our leaders to share information and best practice 
and discuss business topics, as well as providing business research, 
analytics and key communications.
Striving for a high performance culture 
Developing and training our talent
1
3
2
Annualised staff attrition
35% -3%
(2015: 34%)
Staff engagement levels
66% -6%
(2015: 70%)
Key performance indicators
Case study: Under One Roof 
Our exclusive employee benefit scheme has been a huge 
success since it was introduced in 2016. Employees, and their 
close family, get discounts on Countrywide products and 
services. Some key benefits are an average £2,000 saving on 
estate agency fees, reduced survey and conveyancing rates, 
50% off landlord property management services and free 
mortgage advice. So far, our colleagues have saved over 
£1.2 million. 
As a first time buyer, using Under One Roof saved me 
£2,000 which will definitely help towards the cost of all 
the new kitchen appliances I need to buy. I found keeping 
the whole process within Countrywide so helpful and 
much less daunting!
Sam Foster
General Insurance Team Leader, Milton Keynes
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 13
Strategic report Our 
portfolio
Our growth agenda is aligned with 
demand and addresses areas where 
we are under-represented, reducing 
potential cyclical exposure to UK 
residential property sales.
Financial Services market share
7% +17%
(2015: 6%)
1
2
Grow existing customer value.
We are the UK’s single largest mortgage broker and the growth of our 
Financial Services business within the Group, particularly within the 
remortgage market, was one of our biggest success stories in 2016.
The remortgage conversion rate for existing customers has almost 
doubled, from 13% to 25%, and there are opportunities for us to increase 
this further. We are committed to helping first time buyers and home 
movers to get the best possible mortgages for their circumstances, as 
well as ensuring that this also happens for our existing customer base. 
We see further potential within the financial services market and remain 
committed to growing this part of the Group, strengthening our diversified 
portfolio and retaining customers as their property and financial needs 
evolve throughout the course of their lives.
Financial Services 
Leverage our existing brands and branches across the whole of the 
property value chain, increasing referrals and cross-selling opportunities.
Lettings
We are the UK’s largest lettings agent with over 90,000 homes under 
our management across the country. 
In 2016, we increased our share of lettings listings in London from 
4.5% to 4.8% and maintained our listings in Retail at 6.4%. We believe 
that there are opportunities to increase our volume and share of lettings 
in this expanding market in 2017.
We aim to continue improving our landlord retention rate and grow 
the number of properties we manage, driven by the improvements 
to service levels for both landlords and their tenants. 
Sales 
We are the largest estate agent in the UK and in 2016 sold over 61,000 
homes across the country, more than anyone else in the sector.
We have strengthened our overall customer offering with the launch of 
our multichannel proposition and through this will gain further market 
share in estate agency. 
Investment in our people and processes is driving better conversion 
of opportunities to instructions and lower withdrawal rates.
We have the largest market share in London and see significant 
potential for growth specifically within the £350,000–£1,000,000 
segment of the market.
Increase take-up of the range of services offered
Opportunities to increase take-up of mortgages, insurance and 
conveyancing by tailoring our product offering and services to meet 
the needs of our customers in Retail and London.
Organic growth
Key performance indicators
Properties exchanged (Retail and London)
61,314 -2%
(2015: 62,490)
Properties under management 
(Retail and London)
91,144 +11%
(2015: 81,917)
Deliver a new, more efficient and effective operating model that 
ensures cost competitiveness by having:
• 
fewer, bigger brands
• 
fewer, better branches
• 
rationalised back office functions
• 
updated technology platforms.
Cost optimisation 3
Strategy in action continued
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 14
Strategic report
Our strategy continued Housing markets in 2016 were heavily influenced by external factors, 
namely the introduction of the 3% additional stamp duty charge 
for second home owners and weaker housing market sentiment in 
the run up to and after the EU referendum. In addition, the market 
in London in particular continued to be adversely impacted by the 
changes that were made to stamp duty land tax in December 2014.
Sales
The introduction of an increase in rates of stamp duty for second 
home buyers caused a surge in sales activity at the start of the 
year as investors brought forward purchases to avoid the charge. 
41% more homes were sold in Q1 2016 (299,439 Land Registry 
and Registers of Scotland) compared to Q1 2015 (213,261). While 
we expected a lull in activity in the following months, the underlying 
trend in activity also seems to have softened somewhat, 
particularly in Southern England.
Uncertainty weighing on housing sentiment in the run up to and 
after the EU referendum combined with the hangover from stamp 
duty has led to falling sales volumes since April. In H2 2016, 8% 
fewer homes were sold than in the same period in 2015 according 
to HMRC, with the Land Registry reporting a reduction in Q3 2016 
of 13% compared to Q3 2015.
Both the after effects of the 3% stamp duty charge and uncertainty 
related to the referendum have had a much more pronounced impact 
on the London sales market. Markets in the Midlands, the North, 
Wales and Scotland have seen transaction levels fare much better.
Combined with the softening in transactions, there has been a 
slowdown in house price growth across the country too – again, 
more pronounced in the South and coinciding with the result of 
the referendum, although that is not the only cause. Deteriorating 
affordability has had a part to play, particularly in the South, but so 
has the change in expectations about future price growth which plays 
a big part in pricing. When combined with weaker house price growth 
expectations this makes potential buyers keener to negotiate on price. 
Lettings
Stamp duty and the EU referendum have also affected the rental 
market, increasing stock and contributing to growth of the sector. 
The number of homes coming onto the rental market rose by 12% 
over 2016, twice the rate of tenant growth (6%). 
Increased investment activity from landlords at the start of the 
year, combined with some owners deciding to let rather than sell, 
meant stock of homes to rent was high for most of 2016. The 
growth in stock outpaced tenant demand, leading to rental price 
growth slowing in 2016. Rents grew by 1.6%, half the rate of  
2015 (3.1%).
While the gap between London rents and those in the rest of the 
country hit a high watermark in 2015, 2016 was the year the gap 
started to narrow. The pressure on affordability and the number 
of homes coming onto the rental market in the capital, partly as 
a result of the stamp duty surcharge, meant that rents are likely 
to lag behind the rest of the country over 2017.
The mortgage market
Total gross mortgage lending reached £245 billion in 2016, 
11% higher than in the previous year. There were 1.47 million 
mortgage loans in the year, but higher average loan sizes means 
that the total increase in the number of loans was just 6% higher 
than in 2015 (Bank of England (BoE)). 
The mortgage market was also distorted by the introduction of the 
stamp duty surcharge on additional homes in April. This caused 
a spike in activity at the start of the year (approximately 30% more 
mortgage transactions in March than the average for the rest of 
the year), although a significant proportion of total additional sales 
in the period were not mortgaged. Buy to let activity was responsible 
for much of this increase, and the estimated (from mortgage 
approvals data) increase in average loan sizes implied in this 
period suggests that activity was skewed to more expensive 
parts of the country. 
A look back over the 
past twelve months... 
...and a look forward to what 2017 has in store
Jan 15
Feb 15
Apr 15
Jun 15
Aug 15
Oct 15
Dec 15
Mar 16
Apr 16
Jun 16
Jul 16
Aug 16
Sep 16
Oct 16
Nov 16
May 16
Feb 16
Mar 15
May 15
Jul 15
Sep 15
Nov 15
Jan 16
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
45,000
Number of loans
Mix of loans for house purchase
First-time buyers Home movers Buy to let
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 15
Strategic report
Our markets The mortgage market continued
Remortgage lending was buoyant in 2016 with approvals up 15% 
on 2015. Average loan sizes and numbers increased as deals were 
churned, but with added reception to this from borrowers wanting 
to take advantage of falling rates at a time when the potential for 
further falls in mortgage rates is slim.
Credit availability was supported by loose monetary policy and 
something of an increase in lenders’ risk appetites during the year. 
Available lending rates across all loan-to-value (LTVs) came down 
during the year, helping to encourage both house purchase and 
remortgage transactions.
Looking forward to 2017
2017 is a particularly difficult year to forecast. The path of the 
housing market is dependent on economic performance in the 
face of the UK’s negotiations to leave the EU, consumers’ 
confidence in the housing market and policy responses from 
Government. The Housing White Paper seems to point to little 
additional intervention in the sales market from Government for 
now, but it does reaffirm its position on banning tenant fees.
The same challenges of affordability and a lack of housing supply 
that the housing market faces every year remain. This structural 
undersupply of new homes will continue to support prices, 
although deterioration in the state of household finances and 
uncertainty about the labour market and the UK’s economic 
prospects will weigh against that. While the economy has 
outperformed most expectations in recent months, the outlook 
is faced with many risks. 
Sales
Transaction volumes in 2017 are likely to be slightly down on 
2016. Activity in the first quarter will be much lower, mainly due 
to the stamp duty distortion, but should settle at around average 
2016 levels for the rest of the year. Credit is available and cheap, 
but sentiment is fragile and subject to changing economic 
circumstances. The risks are balanced, but with a wide range. 
In London, weaker house price expectations and twitchiness over 
the prospects for the City of London are likely to drag on activity 
and lead to more negotiation on price. In the prime markets, the 
price adjustments of the last two years combined with weaker 
Sterling will help to support activity, but at low levels. In the rest 
of the market we expect activity to be softened by uncertainty, 
but not significantly below 2016.
In 2017, our forecast is for a small fall in house prices across 
the country, but with a larger adjustment in London and the 
South East, reflecting previous rapid price growth and the 
resulting weakening in expectations. A weaker economy and 
tighter household finances lie behind our predictions, but the 
continuing supply issue could become a bigger supporting factor 
as existing owners as well as housebuilders bring less stock to 
the market. As a result the risk to our house price forecasts are 
to the upside. 
Lettings 
Many of the challenges facing the sales market in 2017 should 
support the private rental sector. Labour market uncertainty 
and weaker house price growth expectations are likely to delay 
first-time purchase decisions, adding to the demand for rented 
accommodation. That will support rental growth rates, meaning 
we expect overall rents to grow in line with incomes. 
On the supply side, lower than usual landlord investment activity 
due to last year’s increase in stamp duty and the upcoming 
tapering of income tax relief on mortgage interest payments will 
likely be offset by weaker housing market sentiment, meaning 
more potential vendors choose to let rather than sell their home.
Overall the prospects for the rental market are good, but there 
are risks. These are mainly to do with the regulatory and policy 
environment that landlords operate in as uncertainty about the 
availability of credit and additional taxation on purchase, sale 
and ongoing tax reliefs have still to play out. Wider uncertainties 
about economic performance, particularly if wage growth slows 
or employment falls, could also affect the sector. 
Mortgages
The availability of credit to households drives the performance 
of the mortgage lending market. The latest evidence from the 
Bank of England’s Credit Conditions survey suggests that lenders’ 
market share objectives will continue to support credit growth 
into 2017. In addition, the Bank of England’s loose monetary 
policy stance will support the availability of credit at low rates 
through the Term Funding Scheme and a low base rate. Although 
the bank rate is expected to remain anchored until at least the 
second half of the year, rising inflation will increase expectations 
of a rise. This will feed into swap rates and cause mortgage rates 
to begin to rise, from current lows.
The prospect of rising rates will give consumers reason to 
remortgage or purchase, supporting growth of the market. 
Higher mortgage rates though would increase the difficulty 
of affordability tests, particularly when combined with tight 
household finances, which could limit lending growth in 2017. 
We expect gross lending to be only slightly higher in 2017 
reflecting higher prices rather than increased purchase activity. 
Buy to let purchases are likely to be below 2016 levels, but the 
appetite for remortgaging in both the home ownership and buy 
to let sectors should remain. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 16
Strategic report
Our markets continued Successful management of risks is essential to support the 
achievement of our strategic objectives. Therefore, risk management 
is at the heart of what we do at Countrywide. The Group’s Risk 
Management Framework (RMF) provides a number of key processes 
and tools for management to ensure consistent and effective 
identification, assessment and control of risks across the business. 
The RMF has been approved by the Board and during 2016 it was 
strengthened to ensure it aligns to business needs and evolving 
regulatory requirements. Selected key 2016 priorities that have 
been delivered during the year to further enhance the RMF have 
been to:
• 
articulate and agree the Group’s appetite by developing and 
agreeing statements and limits to guide and inform our strategic 
decision-making throughout the period
• 
develop a number of key policies, sponsored by the Group 
executive, covering Countrywide’s main risks, members of senior 
management who own the policy and are responsible for successful 
implementation, principles for managing these risks and minimum 
control standards that are expected to mitigate them
• 
continue to roll out our three lines of defence model for risk 
management (see overleaf for further detail)
• 
implement more consistent processes to identify and assess 
risks, improve our understanding of key risk drivers, enhance 
the measurement of top risks, broaden the awareness of risk 
across the business and increase our ability to adapt to our 
changing landscape
• 
continue to develop our quarterly risk reporting covering key risks, 
incidents and progress on planned mitigating actions. These outputs 
are discussed regularly by the Group Executive and respective 
leadership teams in each of the main business units.
Internal control
Controls operate across the Group at entity level, through policies 
and control standards, and at a local business unit level where local 
controls are operated in accordance with specific operational 
processes. Assurance on the effectiveness of the control environment 
is provided to the Group Executive and the Board by each of the 
three lines of defence. Specifically, management considers outputs 
from reviews performed by the:
• 
First line – risk management activity in areas such as quality 
assurance, customer complaints, KPI monitoring and other aspects
• 
Second line – thematic risk reviews which over the past twelve 
months have been completed in areas such as health and safety, 
business continuity, anti-money laundering, information security, 
data protection and governance
• 
Third line – Internal Audit’s delivery of the programme of agreed 
audits and related findings, recommendations and progress in 
overseeing the implementation of agreed management actions. 
The results of this assurance activity are reported and escalated to 
the relevant level including key committees and individuals within 
the Group. A number of key aspects of the control environment have 
been improved this year. This includes enhancing decision-making 
processes relating to the Group’s annual business plans and 
establishing the Group Change Committee to oversee the approval 
of major change programmes/investments and the monitoring of 
the delivery of associated benefits.
An integral component of 
protecting shareholder value
During 2016 we have continued 
to invest in and strengthen our 
approach to risk management. 
It’s a critical component of 
our customer, people and 
portfolio focused strategy.
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 17
Strategic report
Risk management Internal Audit
The scope of the Internal Audit team’s programme of work has 
continued to expand to cover new areas of risk including topics 
such as information leakage and conduct, as well as key business 
areas such as HR and Marketing. 
During 2016 we developed and implemented a new web-based 
system to store internal audit reports, analyse findings and track 
progress on actions across the business. The roll out and use of 
the new system has been important in continuing to increase the 
engagement of senior management in completing required 
actions to address key audit findings in an effective and timely 
manner throughout the year. 
Group-wide projects covering risk and compliance matters
During 2016 we launched some important Group-wide risk and 
compliance related projects to ensure our ongoing and future 
compliance with changing or increasing legal and regulatory 
expectations. These projects cover increasing expectations of our 
regulators and other stakeholders for continued compliance with: 
• 
the new General Data Protection Regulations
• 
the increasing expectations of various stakeholders in areas such 
as anti-money laundering
• 
evolving internal and external requirements for branch audit and 
quality assurance so that it remains fit for purpose and aligned to 
the organisational changes that have been made during the year.
Risk culture
During 2016 we continued to refine, enhance and embed the 
expectations of our leadership community in understanding its 
role in owning and managing risks within Countrywide. We have 
therefore ensured that each member of the Group Executive 
had a clear risk-based objective in 2016 and, as such, this aspect 
of their performance is considered as a priority and measured 
as objectively as possible. We are rolling out similar risk-based 
objectives for Countrywide’s top 100 senior managers in 2017.
Underpinning the Countrywide RMF is the ‘three lines of defence’ model:
1 First line of defence
Senior management is responsible for 
ensuring risks associated with our business 
activities are identified, assessed, controlled, 
monitored and reported.
2 Second line of defence
Our ‘control’ functions, or Group Executive 
Committee, set policy and frameworks for 
managing key risks.
3 Third line of defence
Internal Audit supports the Group 
Audit and Risk Committee and provides 
independent assurance on the system 
of risk and internal control. 
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee
Financial Services  
business unit
Retail and London  
business unit
Group functions’ 
leadership teams
B2B business unit
Group Executive Committee
Executive Risk Committee (ERC)
Group Risk and Compliance 
Committee
Group Information 
Security Committee
Group Change Committee
Group Health and Safety  
Committee
Third line
• 
Review first and second lines
• 
Provide an independent 
perspective and challenge 
the process
• 
Objective assurance over 
the control environment
First line
• 
Deliver day to day 
risk management
• 
Follow the Group RMF
• 
Apply internal controls 
and risk responses
Second line
• 
Develop and oversee the RMF
• 
Oversee and challenge 
risk management
• 
Provide guidance and direction
• 
Set policy
Three lines of defence:
Countrywide plc Board
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 18
Strategic report
Risk management continued The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the Group’s 
principal risks, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. Crystallisation 
of these risks could cause the Group’s future results of operations, 
financial condition and prospects to differ materially from current 
expectations. This includes the ability to meet debt covenant ratios 
and dividend expectations, maintain appropriate levels of capital 
or achieve stated targets, commitments and other expected 
benefits. In addition, risks relating to the Group that are not currently 
known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may individually 
or cumulatively have the potential to have a material adverse effect 
on the Group’s future operations, financial condition and prospects. 
The table below sets out the principal risks faced by the Group, 
together with mitigating factors and associated commentary on 
any changes in risk profile.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group
Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary
Exposure to UK housing market trends 
The UK housing market continues 
to follow cyclical trends and has 
been impacted in 2016 by changes 
to stamp duty and continuing 
uncertainty around the implications 
of the UK’s exit from the EU. There 
is a high correlation between the 
volumes and prices of houses sold 
and business performance within 
areas such as estate agency, 
conveyancing, surveying, mortgage 
broking and other complementary 
services that we offer.
We carry out continuous high level reviews 
of UK housing market results and trends 
including analysis of a number of key forward 
looking indicators. This helps us to be able to 
anticipate and plan for likely market changes 
in advance. We have also actively diversified 
the mix of products and services that  
we offer in recent years to reduce our 
dependency on UK house prices and sales 
volumes. For example, we have increased 
the size of our Lettings business which, 
by its nature, tends to be more stable and 
counter-cyclical to the UK housing market. 
Additionally, we have taken positive action 
to manage our cost base and will continue 
to see this as an area of focus in 2017.
Increase
A core component of our strategy has been 
to integrate our Sales and Lettings business 
across the country. These changes have helped 
to simplify our organisational arrangements, 
increase the resilience of our revenue streams, 
improve the diversity of our offerings and make 
better use of our people and resources. 
The core driver for the UK housing market 
remains a lack of supply – particularly in the 
South East of England. We therefore anticipate 
that the reduction in the number of new 
houses being built since the financial crisis will 
continue to restrict supply and, as such, that 
sales and letting markets will continue to 
show relatively high levels of demand 
compared to supply in 2017.
Potential loss of a major business partner or contract
The Group has a number 
of important commercial 
relationships with major banks, 
insurers and other firms that 
may affect revenues in more  
than one area of our business. 
The regulatory requirements 
placed on UK financial services 
firms continue to increase and, 
in line with this, the expectations 
of these companies from their 
commercial partners are following 
a similar trend. The loss of such 
key partners or contracts, or a 
significant reduction in volumes 
or fees, could have a significant 
impact on our future profitability. 
We have a centralised team responsible for 
liaising with key customers and developing 
new contracts. The business areas also 
carry out regular reviews with key clients 
at leadership team level and other levels of 
management. Regular reviews also take 
place at Group level of Countrywide’s most 
material partners and contractual relationships. 
A key outcome from this work is that we 
have contingency plans in place to help 
manage and mitigate the impact of the loss 
of a key business partner or contract. 
No change
We continue to benefit from strong 
relationships with our corporate partners 
and we have retained, as well as won, 
a number of contracts with key clients. 
We recognise the importance of the 
continuing success of the key partner 
alliances that we have in place and the 
confidence that these partners have in us 
on an ongoing basis means that we have 
resilience to loss.
Resilience of IT infrastructure and arrangements for protection of data
Dependence on efficient systems 
for operational performance and 
financial information would be 
impacted by significant failures 
or interruptions to IT services. 
Data security is also essential 
to the secure processing,  
storage and transmission 
of personal, confidential 
and proprietary information.
There has been notable ongoing 
investment to support our operational 
expansion and transformation of our 
IT systems and infrastructure. 
We have established a Group-wide 
project to support the business areas 
in delivering the additional data-related 
safeguards required as a result of the 
planned introduction of the General Data 
Protection Regulations in May 2018. 
Routine penetration testing is 
also conducted.
No change
During 2016 we have continued to complete 
activities to transform our IT infrastructure 
in line with our planned development 
roadmap. This has included strengthening 
our core IT team and technical capabilities.
This year we also completed an independent 
review of our IT infrastructure’s exposure to 
cyber risk and have developed action plans to 
address increasing requirements in this area. 
As part of the ISO 27001 certification which 
we have achieved for a number of our key 
business areas, there are business continuity 
plans in place for key business processes.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 19
Strategic report Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary
Professional indemnity exposure
The previous downturn in the 
UK housing and commercial 
markets and impact of sub-prime 
lending exposed the Group to 
a higher level of professional 
insurance claims within the 
Surveying division.
Monitoring arrangements include operational 
controls implemented for review of surveyor 
outputs and targeted use of automated 
valuation models in perceived higher risk 
cases, as well as maintenance of risk 
management arrangements. In respect 
of legacy issues, we continue to review the 
claim trends and inputs underpinning the 
existing professional indemnity provision.
We carry different professional indemnity 
insurance arrangements for our commercial 
business – Lambert Smith Hampton – 
as potential individual exposures could be 
larger. By doing this we protect our overall 
Group cover and effectively ring fence 
commercial risks delivering a financially 
beneficial position for the Group overall.
Decrease
We have continued to see improvements 
in this area and through maintained focus 
during 2016, and the volume of claims has 
considerably reduced. In addition, we have 
seen a positive experience in the number 
of claims withdrawn, which has resulted in 
a reversal of previously held reserves. 
Risk management remains a top priority 
for us and delivers recognisable benefits 
for our clients as well as for Countrywide. 
Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people
Our success depends on the 
service provided by our employees 
and their experience in providing 
valuable advice to our customers. 
The performance of our leadership 
population is also key in the 
delivery of our strategy.
Remuneration policies are regularly reviewed 
to ensure employees are appropriately 
incentivised. Succession planning and 
leadership development programme 
outputs are also considered by the Board. 
Management reviews trends, including the 
views of leavers in exit interviews, and the 
views of employees which are expressed in 
our annual employee engagement surveys 
to develop action plans accordingly.
No change
We have worked throughout 2016 to build 
an employer of choice brand for Countrywide 
and are continuing this work into 2017.  
Our organisational structure has evolved 
to meet the needs required to deliver our 
strategy and we have continued to strengthen 
our leadership and development programme, 
and developed our performance metrics 
and related action plans to support these.
Financial misstatement or fraud
Material financial misstatement 
may arise due to error or fraud, 
in the form of fraudulent financial 
reporting or misappropriation 
of assets. 
Reputational damage and 
inappropriate decision-making 
data availability to management 
may arise from non-fraudulent 
misstatement in financial reports 
and financial loss to the Group 
may occur as a result of 
misappropriations. 
Our key financial controls include clear 
segregation of duties within the business 
areas to ensure robust preventative and 
detective controls are in place. Independent 
financial reviews are undertaken within the 
businesses as an additional control which 
is also supplemented by centralised 
monitoring of financial performance 
against targets. 
The risk of misappropriation of funds is 
mitigated by centralised treasury monitoring 
of all bank accounts. Additional operational 
controls ensure clear delegation of 
authority, restricted access to accounts 
and mandated dual authorisation controls.
No change
We have reviewed and enhanced a number 
of key policies to manage a range of risks  
from a treasury and financial reporting 
perspective. These policies are owned by 
senior finance directors across the various 
business areas and include control standards 
which are expected to be met.
We have continued to monitor key financial 
controls and conduct independent 
management reviews across each of our 
main business areas. We have also ensured 
that where best practice developments 
emerge these are shared across the business 
and implementation plans are developed 
accordingly. In addition, we have continued 
to adopt recommendations arising from 
internal and external audits and reviews. 
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group continued
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 20
Strategic report
Risk management continued Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary
Increasing competition in the evolving markets that we operate in 
Countrywide operates across 
a range of highly competitive 
markets, a number of which are 
experiencing changes in the 
traditional operating models. 
Competition could lead to a 
reduction in market share 
and/or a decline in revenues.
Our business strategy is to concentrate 
on our strengths of bringing people and 
property together, increasing customer 
choice through, for example, providing 
digital solutions to complement our core 
service offering. We continue to focus on 
retaining existing customers as well as 
winning new customers by ensuring that 
our service offering continually improves 
to meet and exceed their expectations.
During 2016 we have taken significant 
steps to simplify our organisational 
structures to improve our agility, streamline 
decision-making process and reduce costs. 
We have also taken notable steps to review 
the number and locations of our branches 
in light of changing customer expectations 
and evolving market trends which we 
expect to continue over the medium 
and longer terms. 
Increase
During 2016 we have made significant 
inroads in digital with the development, 
launch and implementation of our 
innovative multichannel sales model – 
offering potential sellers the ability to not 
only list and transact online at a really 
competitive fee, but, uniquely, to upgrade 
to a full supported service without losing 
a penny of the fees they have already paid. 
We have clear plans to progress this 
through 2017.
Our strengths lie in the expertise and 
advice we are able to offer our customers 
across our range of services. We are 
continuing to evolve our propositions to 
support our customers and their changing 
needs to ensure their overall experience 
with Countrywide is a positive one. 
Changing regulatory environment
Failure to meet current or 
increased legal or regulatory 
requirements could result 
in reputational and financial 
damage, including withdrawal 
of authorisation or licences for 
the conduct of business streams. 
Expertise within the main business areas 
continues to be supported by centralised 
legal and compliance teams which closely 
monitor existing business practices and 
any reform proposals. Employees receive 
appropriate training and our managers 
attend industry forums and Government 
consultations. Robust complaints 
management systems are in place across 
all operating divisions, with root cause 
analysis in place.
Increase
We maintain close links and open dialogue 
with our regulatory bodies and have 
continued to monitor regulatory developments 
and their impacts on the business.
Our Group executive and senior management 
are actively involved in ongoing consultations 
with the UK Government following the 
announcement of its planned changes to 
current estate agent methods of charging 
fees to tenants in England and Wales.
We also have a positive ongoing relationship 
with the Financial Conduct Authority and 
will provide input to it as required to support 
its planned industry-wide review of mortgage 
brokers and risks relating to conflicts of 
interest across the sector.
Where appropriate, we have developed 
implementation plans to deliver required 
changes and enhancements. We have also 
continued to adopt recommendations 
arising from internal and external audits 
and reviews. Where necessary, we deploy 
specialist external resource to supplement 
our in house expertise on legal and 
regulatory change.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 21
Strategic report Viability statement
The Group’s prospects are assessed through the Group’s 
strategic planning process, including review by the executive 
team of three year rolling plans with business unit functional 
leaders. The Board participates by means of an annual 
strategic away day and approval of the operating plan. 
Financial projections for the next three years are compiled 
from estimates of financial performance after taking into 
account principal risks. A central review of debt covenant 
compliance and headroom is completed.
Key assumptions underpinning the strategic plan include: 
market volume forecasts in line with consensus; market share 
growth forecasts aligned to operating model developments, 
including benefits from existing major rationalisation benefits; 
no impact from future acquisitions until H2 2018; no assumptions 
were necessary around refinancing as the maturity of the 
revolving credit facility extends beyond the three year 
timeframe to March 2020.
Assessment of viability
The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over 
a three-year period, taking account of the Group’s current 
position and the potential impact of the principal risks and 
mitigating actions detailed above. The directors have determined 
that a three year period to 31 December 2019 is the most 
appropriate timeframe as: this period aligns with the Group’s 
business planning and budgeting cycle and the performance 
measurement period for the long term incentive plan; and 
demand is driven by consumer confidence which is difficult 
to project beyond a three-year period.
The strategic plan reflects the directors’ best estimates 
of the prospects of the business. The plan was then flexed 
by overlaying the possible financial impact of a number of 
scenarios beyond those included in the plan. These scenarios 
are based on those principal risks (above) considered to be 
most important, namely: exposure to UK housing market 
trends (volumes and house price levels); increasing competition 
(volumes and fees); and regulatory compliance (incorporating 
professional indemnity and changing regulatory environment).
These scenarios tested against: an aggressive but short term 
house price crash/decline in transactional volumes with a slow 
return to growth; and a slower, yet continuing, decline in house 
prices/transactional volumes. These scenarios included the 
relative knock-on impact of reduction in earnings within our 
agency operations and to other cross related areas of the 
business. The results take into account the availability and 
effectiveness of mitigating actions, including the flexing of 
capital expenditure and acquisition investment and changes 
to our cost base. Each of these actions would be potentially 
available to avoid or reduce the impact of the identified risks.
The directors considered the financial and operational impact 
of these severe, but plausible scenarios to determine their 
overall effect on the Group’s financial position. This assessment 
considered the Group’s expected financial position, existing 
banking facilities and potential management actions. The results 
of the stress testing showed that the Group would be able to 
withstand the impact of those scenarios by adjusting its 
operating plans. 
Viability statement
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, 
the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending 
31 December 2019. The directors also considered it appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, 
as explained in the basis of preparation paragraph in note 2 of 
the accounts.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group continued
The EU referendum
The result of the EU referendum in June 2016 and the proposed exit of the UK from the EU has increased the overall level of macroeconomic 
uncertainty. The Group considered the impact of this uncertainty on the business, recognising the potential knock-on effect on property 
prices, mortgage approvals and volume of transactions. The directors believe the Group’s strategy creates a diversified stream of revenues 
which reduces the impact as outlined in the ‘exposure to UK housing market trends’ risk.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 22
Strategic report
Risk management continued Retail
Highlights
• 
Revenue up 3%; EBITDA down 28%
• 
50,891 properties exchanged – up 1%
• 
10% improvement in landlord retention
• 
Multichannel sales proposition launched
Operating review
The market was unique in 2016 with the second home stamp 
duty charge and the EU referendum accelerating activity in the 
first quarter and subduing the second half. We sought to maximise 
the opportunities that were available and managed to actually 
exchange more homes in 2016 than 2015 whilst introducing 
our multichannel proposition to the market. Although acquisition 
activity was limited, we did bring Finders Keepers, the market 
leading lettings business in and around Oxford, into the Group 
in the first quarter.
Investment in the foundations to support future growth, combined 
with challenging market conditions impacted our profitability and 
EBITDA reduced by 28% to £31.0 million. Exceptional costs of 
£19.9 million further depressed our profit before tax and arose as 
a result of our focus on reducing branches and layers of management, 
and include a £5.0 million impairment charge arising as a result of 
the market changes and a £1.4 million impairment charge arising 
from rationalisation of four brands.
Sales
We started the year very strongly with a significant increase in 
activity aided in part by the impending 3% additional stamp duty 
charge for second home owners that came into effect in April 2016. 
This led to a record conversion of our sales pipeline in March: property 
exchanges across the Group were 29% ahead compared to the 
same period in 2015, as buyers – primarily landlords – brought 
forward transactions to meet the deadline. Leading up to the EU 
referendum in June, the second quarter saw a slowing of activity 
as uncertainty increased in the run up to the vote. 
In the second half of the year the June referendum had a sustained 
impact on sentiment, with fewer buyers and sellers coming to 
the market. In the immediate wake of the vote, we also saw higher 
levels of sale cancellations and a reduction in front end activity. 
As a result of these exceptional circumstances, the number of 
potential homebuyers registered was down 3% year on year at 
886,000 and the number of homes exchanged only increased by 
1% year on year. Positively, we continued to improve productivity 
with better conversion of valuations to instructions in the second 
half of 2016, up by 4%. Overall our delivery for customers improved 
and we agreed sales on a higher proportion of our new instructions 
in the year, improving performance by 7%. 
Lettings
Overall, demand continued to outstrip supply, with more than 430,000 
potential applicants in Retail registering an interest in property, 
which is up 11% on last year. Demand slowed in the second half 
of the year and the quality of stock and competitiveness of rents 
came to the fore. 
Our ongoing focus on delivering greater service to our landlords 
delivered 10% better client retention than in 2015, and we also 
grew properties under management by over 8,500 or 14%. 
As such our Lettings revenue grew by 13%. 
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 23
Strategic report
Segmental review Digital innovation
The major development in our customer offering has been the 
pilot and subsequent rollout of our multichannel proposition which 
offers sellers the ability to not only list, monitor and complete the 
full property sale transaction online at a very competitive fixed fee, 
but uniquely to upgrade to a fully supported service without putting 
at risk the fees they have already paid. Customers have told us that 
they value the choice, transparency and peace of mind that our 
proposition – which is unique to Countrywide – offers them. With 
six of our brands offering this at the end of 2016, we will roll this 
out to the majority of our branch network in 2017.
Continuing with the theme of leveraging digital technology to enhance 
the customer experience, we introduced the Fixflo reporting system 
into our Lettings business in summer 2016. This provides tenants 
with an online tool to help them report repairs quickly and more 
accurately. As a result, our property managers are able to deal 
with repair issues much more efficiently for our tenants. This service 
has been well received by landlords and tenants alike and reflects 
our desire to provide the highest levels of service to both.
Brand and branch efficiency
In 2016 we focused our business on organic growth and driving 
improved results from our national branch network. This has led 
to increased focus on meeting all of our customers’ needs in a 
property transaction as well as maintaining our leading market 
share position in Sales and Lettings. 
A detailed review of our branch network has been completed, 
ensuring we have the right presence in the right locations to deliver 
sustainable growth. We saw some branches close as a result of this 
review as we looked to retain the strongest brands and branches 
with the greatest customer bases and potential for growth. Strong 
control on our external recruitment meant that we retained almost 
all colleagues affected by the branch closures, redeploying them 
within the business and retaining their expertise. Our management 
structure has also been aligned to the branch network and drives 
a focused and more effective performance culture. 
We acquired Finders Keepers, the number one lettings business 
in the Oxford area with excellent customer service and reviews. 
Finders Keepers now forms a key component of our premier offering, 
working in partnership with our Hamptons International brand.
Outlook 
2016 was a challenging year for the property sector and we expect 
the market to remain uncertain throughout 2017. We anticipate sales 
transactions will be slightly down on 2016. Our forecast for house 
price growth in 2017 is for a small fall in prices across the country.
Many of the risks facing the sales market in 2017 should support 
the private rental sector. Labour market uncertainty and weaker 
house price expectations are likely to delay first time purchase 
decisions, adding to the demand for rented accommodation.
In last year’s Autumn Statement it was announced that tenants’ 
fees will be banned. The timing of any ban being introduced is 
uncertain at present, but it is anticipated that this will have some 
effect on our revenue. However, work is already underway as part 
of our existing plans to improve the resilience of our business 
operating model to mitigate this. Furthermore, our continued focus 
on customer service for both landlords and tenants will help with 
both retention and growth in this sector.
With our customers at the heart of what we do, we believe we are 
well placed to support them in navigating these uncertain times 
as they seek out experienced, informed, trusted and reputable 
agents. Our focus on customer service and our multichannel 
sales proposition offers them choice and transparency coupled 
with a strong high street presence that is unique in the UK market. 
This provides us with a strong foundation for growth in 2017. 
Plans for 2017
The Retail business will have a more streamlined and focused 
footprint delivering our multichannel offering across an increased 
proportion of our network. We will continue to invest in our 
customer journey, specifically around the initial valuation, and we 
will continue to leverage our technology to enhance the overall 
customer experience and ensure a successful sale or let. 
We remain committed to ensuring organic growth and retaining 
customers, both new and those from our existing portfolio.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 24
Segmental review continued
Strategic report Total income (£m)
262.3 +3%
265.7
14
254.5
15
262.3
16
Number of exchanges
50,891 +1%
55,422
14
50,396
15
50,891
16
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
31.0 -28%
58.6
14
43.3
15
31.0
16
Properties managed
68,740 +14%
56,204
14
60,272
15
68,740
16
Q
A
What have been your highlights of 2016?
It’s an exciting time to be in the sector and I’m incredibly 
fortunate to be supported by an amazing group of people. 
We’ve accomplished a lot over the last twelve months: 
we launched our multichannel proposition with additional 
training for our colleagues; we have maintained our leading 
market share position in Sales and Lettings; plus we are 
building the operating model that will become the future 
of our business for Sales and Lettings.
What is the benefit of bringing the Retail and 
London divisions together?
There are unique differences between many of our brands; 
however, the core of our customer journeys are essentially 
the same, whether that’s across different brands, 
geographies or price points. Bringing Retail and London 
together has delivered a more streamlined approach 
across the business. There is a clear, consistent focus 
on operational excellence, standardisation, simplifying 
processes and systems for our colleagues, and optimising 
our resources to make improvements to our overall customer 
experience. Our new structure has reduced leadership 
layers and we benefit from being closer to our customers 
and our colleagues. We are also more agile and able 
to deploy future business change.
What are you most excited about for 2017?
The continued roll out of our multichannel proposition 
within our Estate Agency business, but also our relentless 
drive to improve our customer experience. Being able to 
see the results of our hard work reflected in overall 
performance is always thrilling. We also have a real 
determination to improve our back office operations 
to increase productivity and improve our colleague 
experience in branches, support centres and property 
management centres.
A Q
with Sam Tyrer 
MD Retail and London
Q
Q
A
A
Key performance indicators
With our customers at the heart of 
what we do, we believe we are well 
placed to support them in navigating 
these uncertain times as they seek 
out experienced, informed, trusted 
and reputable agents.
Sam Tyrer
MD Retail and London
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 25
Strategic report London
Highlights
• 
Revenue down 10%; EBITDA down 47%
• 
10,423 properties exchanged, down 14%
• 
Improved performance of listers, increasing conversion 6%
• 
Improvement in landlord retention with a 4% increase 
in managed properties
• 
Progress on creating leaner, more customer focused 
network and brand proposition
Operating review 
The London market, more than any other part of the UK, was most 
impacted by the external factors referenced earlier: the 3% additional 
stamp duty charge for second home owners, a weaker housing 
market sentiment in the run up to and after the EU referendum and 
the adverse impact of increases in stamp duty land tax on homes 
valued over £1 million. 
Overall revenues in London benefited from the continued 
diversification of its income stream, with Lettings now representing 
a greater proportion of total London income at 42% vs 36% in 2015. 
During the first quarter of 2016, we also completed the acquisition 
of Patterson Bowe, adding a portfolio of managed lettings properties 
to the Hamptons International network.
Uncertainty weighing on housing sentiment in the run up to and 
after the EU referendum, combined with the hangover from stamp 
duty changes, had a more pronounced impact on the London sales 
market. Our EBITDA reduced by 47% to £18.0 million, but key cost 
initiatives were implemented to restructure our cost base. Exceptional 
costs of £20.6 million were principally driven by a £13.5 million 
impairment charge arising as a result of the market changes and costs 
arising from our transformation agenda and restructuring the business.
Sales 
With the challenging sales environment, the average fee in the year 
was 4% lower even though the average sale price increased by 
7%, and overall we exchanged on 10,423 properties, 14% lower 
than in 2015. 
Demand was a key factor in the London market with the number of 
potential buyers coming to the market down 18% on 2015 at 242,000. 
As a result of negative market sentiment, the likelihood of a sale 
falling through increased by 15% in 2016. 
Lettings 
Our London Lettings business continued to perform well in the 
market, with 13,700 properties let in 2016, in line with the prior 
year. Revenue grew by 7.2% and the number of properties under 
our management increased 4% to over 22,000. As part of our 
targeted strategy to capitalise on the strength and breadth of our 
branches, London continued to diversify its revenue streams, with 
Lettings now representing almost half (42%) of revenue in 2016 
compared with just over a third (36%) in 2015. This demonstrates 
the strength of our branch network, supporting our differentiated 
brands and associated price point propositions for tenants and 
landlords across the capital.
We improved our referrals from Sales to Lettings and between 
brands and branches, contributing to the growth in our London 
Lettings market share, which increased from 4.5% in 2015 to 4.8% 
in 2016. With particular focus on the opportunity in the London 
mid-market, we increased our market share of instructed properties 
(in this segment) from 4.1% in 2015 to 4.3% in 2016.
Digital innovation 
In line with our strategy of putting customers at the heart of what 
we do, we continued to invest in and adopt our use of technology 
to improve the customer experience through developments such 
as webchat, the rollout of net promoter scores across all London 
brands and the relaunch of our new innovative proposition, Urban 
Spaces. Focused on a ‘property as a service’ ethos, Urban Spaces 
follows a branchless estate agency model that leverages technology 
to enhance the customer’s experience. This makes it simpler for 
customers to interact with the brand through the use of client 
portals for property management and virtual reality viewing.
Brand and branch efficiency
London also consolidated its branch network during the year, closing 
a number of smaller branches and creating impactful hub-style 
branches with more colleagues and extended opening hours. The 
hubs were deployed in brands including Gascoigne-Pees, Hamptons 
International and Greene & Co. Early signs are encouraging as these 
branches show good levels of activity, driven by greater collaboration 
across Sales and Lettings and a wider geographic reach from a single 
base, enabling us to meet customer needs more effectively.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 26
Strategic report
Segmental review continued
Strategic report International 
Hamptons International benefited from the launch of a new property 
website, built over the course of 2016. The leading international 
site represents circa 150,000 listings across the world from over 
7,000 partner international offices. In addition, the enhanced 
international volumes help drive traffic to the main UK site.
Building on firm foundations established in 2015, our international 
department continued to grow throughout 2016 with new partners 
in the Canary Islands, Switzerland, Ibiza and mainland Spain. 
Countrywide brands Hamptons International, John D Wood & Co 
and Bridgfords now represent one of the largest international 
property portfolios in the UK. 
Outlook
In London, we expect that weaker house prices are likely to drag 
on activity and lead to more negotiation on price. While we expect 
a small decrease in house prices nationally, we anticipate there will 
be a larger adjustment in London and the South East. 
The undersupply of housing is more acute in London, meaning a greater 
reliance on the private rented sector. However, stamp duty on homes in 
excess of £1 million has an effect on mobility throughout the housing 
chain, as does the stamp duty on second homes, which has had an 
impact on people looking to move home as well as buy to let landlords.
Plans for 2017
We remain committed to growing organically by focusing on 
enhancing the services we offer to our customers and by using 
our strong portfolio of London brands to play across the different 
segments of the market.
Total income (£m)
160.4 -10%
172.6
14
178.0
15
160.4
16
Number of exchanges
10,423 -14%
13,338
14
12,094
15
10,423
16
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
18.0 -47%
37.1
14
34.2
15
18.0
16
17,652*
14
21,645*
15
22,404
16
Key performance indicators
Operating as an innovation lab within Countrywide, Urban Spaces focuses 
on adopting new technology with a view to creating a low fixed-cost 
operating model capable of delivering ‘second to none’ services for the 
customer of tomorrow.
Urban Spaces operates a branchless model leveraging advancements 
in virtual reality, removing the geographic constraints associated with 
a traditional branch model. Guided by their personal property consultant, 
customers are able to attend virtual viewings from the comfort of their 
own home, office or cafe. 
Innovation in customer relationship management and data strategy has 
improved operational efficiency and customer intimacy. By using the latest 
technology and implementing a cross-departmental platform focused around 
the customer*, our colleagues can pick up a conversation with our customers 
precisely where they left off, regardless of channel used. Whether a customer 
has just enquired online or met with one of our account managers in the 
field, our model enables a more personal conversation and deeper 
understanding of their needs.
By introducing a revised account management model that combines sales 
and lettings, Urban Spaces is able to provide clients with a bespoke service 
tailored specifically to meet their needs plus a single point of contact 
throughout their entire customer journey. This high tech, high touch 
approach provides Urban Spaces with the capability to service a wide 
spread of market segments including high value city property. 
The business is focused on customer centricity and employee engagement, 
which underpin the success of Urban Spaces. Every colleague plays an 
important part in shaping the future of the brand, allowing the Company 
to stay ahead of the curve in an evolving market.
Case study: Urban Spaces
Properties managed
22,404 +4%
* Restated prior year comparatives.
Brilliant estate agent, a million times better than 
the competition, a joy to work with!
Mr A, Buyer
Ben, Jake and Sarah worked perfectly as a team, 
providing excellent communication, fantastic 
customer service and regular updates.
Mr J, Seller
Urban Spaces did an excellent job selling our 
unique property. Medal-worthy. 
Ms S, Seller
* This is currently in the implementation phase.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 27
Strategic report Operating review 
Mortgage market conditions in the first half of 2016 were stronger 
than the same period in 2015, with gross lending 40% ahead in 
Q1 and 9% ahead in Q2. Activity in Q1 was driven principally by 
buying demand ahead of the 3% stamp duty surcharge on second 
homes and buy to let properties, and we observed the purchase 
end of the market cool after April. This was then followed by a wider 
slowdown in the residential estate agency markets as uncertainty 
grew around the outcome and, subsequently, the future of the 
country post the EU referendum. As a result, the property market 
was more challenging in the second half of the year, with only 
3% year on year lending growth in Q3 and a 1% contraction 
in lending in Q4. Overall gross lending finished at £245 billion 
(2015: £222 billion), representing 11% year on year growth. 
Despite these market conditions, we were very encouraged by the 
performance of our businesses, with Mortgage Intelligence achieving 
26% growth by value, The Buy to Let Business 35%, Mortgage Bureau 
11% and Slater Hogg 22%. Our main employed sales force, with 
close links to our Estate Agency operations, experienced more 
challenging trading, though still increased exchanged mortgages 
8% year on year. 
The decisions of the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee 
were closely followed during the year and the move to decrease 
interest rates to a record low of 0.25% in August ensured that the 
mortgage landscape continued to be as competitive as ever. 
Despite the remortgage market growing in 2016, many customers 
are still choosing to wait and see rather than remortgage due to 
the record low interest rates and without the spectre of imminent 
interest rate rises. Nonetheless, we have continued to focus on 
building long-lasting relationships with our existing customers and 
it was encouraging to see our remortgage conversion for existing 
customers increasing to 25% (2015: 13%). 
This year we have also achieved encouraging results from both 
our core protection and general insurance sales, with 4% growth 
in protection income and 3% overall growth in our general insurance 
book. We continue to work with our protection and general insurance 
partners to improve both the available benefits and the value of 
the products offered and this will continue in 2017 with further 
product launches. 
Outlook 
2016 was a year of volatility in the mortgage and real estate 
markets and we expect that uncertainty around the future of the 
country is set to continue into 2017. Whilst we forecast the mortgage 
markets to remain broadly flat in 2017, we see excellent opportunities 
to help our existing customers navigate these uncertain times and 
widen our reach to new customers needing expert advice. 
Plans for 2017
As part of the Group’s strategy we have worked tirelessly during 
the year to progress our transformation agenda, both with a series 
of strategic acquisitions to strengthen our specialist capability 
in specific markets (The Buy to Let Business, Mortgage Bureau 
and Capital Private Finance) and also through organic changes 
to our core proposition. Our most notable achievement in the core 
business was the deployment of our new point of sales technology, 
Highlights
• 
10% EBITDA growth 
• 
In our field sales force, remortgage conversion for existing 
customers has increased from 13% to 25% year on year
• 
12% increase in protection revenues
• 
Market share now stands at 7%, up from 6% at the 
end of 2015
Financial 
Services
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 28
Strategic report
Segmental review continued enabling us to provide high quality advice in a flexible, efficient and 
user-friendly way, whilst giving access to the full suite of premium 
protection and general insurance products from our partners.
We have continued our focus on building the best team through 
investing resources in the training and development of our existing 
sales force. We have also supported our consultants through the 
recruitment of additional field-based business assurance managers in 
order to boost on the job training and maintain our high standards 
of quality advice.
As we look to 2017, our growth agenda concentrates on transforming 
the mortgage buying experience for our customers – through 
making the process more efficient and transparent and providing 
consumer flexibility and choice in how they can access our services. 
Total income (£m)
88.2 +9%
76.4
14
80.1
15
88.2
16
Total mortgages exchanged
90,262 +19%
70,529
14
75,939
15
90,262
16
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
22.7 +10%
18.6
14
20.7
15
22.7
16
Mortgage lending (£bn)
15.7 +29%
10.3
14
12.2
15
15.7
16
Key performance indicators
What were the highs and lows for you in 2016?
It was encouraging to see the resilience and tenacity 
of our sales force in what was a challenging year. We 
focused on helping our existing customers to remortgage 
to a better deal when their current mortgage product 
came to an end and we are certainly gaining traction in 
this area. We also want to make sure that customers are 
all adequately protected and there is plenty more to do 
on both accounts. That being said, we have worked on 
improving the number of customers receiving protection 
advice and subsequently committing to taking out the 
right product for their individual needs. The selling of the 
right protection products lies at the heart of our advice 
mindset and this will continue into 2017.
What excites you most about 2017?
We have the opportunity to significantly increase 
our share of the mortgage market through a robust 
customer contact strategy, where we ensure our 
existing customers continue to receive great mortgage 
and protection advice. We are also looking to build a 
digital offering which is both compelling and intuitive 
for all customers who are looking for help with their 
mortgage and protection needs. 
A Q
with Peter Curran 
MD Financial Services
Q
A
Q
A
We have continued our focus on 
building the best team, through 
investing resources in the training 
and development of our existing 
sales force.
Peter Curran
MD Financial Services
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 29
Strategic report Segmental review continued
B2B
Highlights
• 
Strong performance from Surveying business 
delivering 4% revenue growth and a 14% increase 
in EBITDA contribution
• 
Conveyancing revenues declined in line with housing 
market transactions; EBITDA margin improved by 3%
• 
Other professional services revenue fell by 4% principally 
due to a declining repossessions market 
• 
Land and New Homes performance grew with the 
addition of Lanes Property Agents and Lanes Land
• 
Lambert Smith Hampton, like other commercial property 
businesses, was affected mid-year as the transactional 
and capital markets paused around the EU referendum, 
but finished the year strongly
Operating review 
2016 was our first full year for this portfolio of businesses working 
together and we are pleased to report a solid performance in the face 
of a difficult market. Working together to deliver coherent professional 
services for Countrywide’s corporate client base we have increased 
revenues from our lender clients by 8% year on year, retained all 
our asset management client contracts and secured surveying 
panel management contracts for 2017. Further, 10% of the Group’s 
house exchanges were on behalf of B2B clients.
Our Surveying business has performed extremely well during 2016. 
While survey instructions broadly tracked increased mortgage and 
remortgage approvals, the business delivered EBITDA growth of 
14% owing to an increase in the average fee of 5% and moderate 
marginal expenses arising from this additional revenue. Following 
the result of the EU referendum we experienced a clear North/South 
divide in demand for valuations. The South and South East in 
particular slowed down compared to our northern regions and 
it was several months before productivity began to recover.
Professional indemnity claims have been a significant focus for the 
business over the past eight years and we are pleased to report that 
we received very few valuation claims in 2016 and our operating costs 
reduced by £500,000 as a result. In addition, we have been successful 
in defending a number of claims and this has led to a revision of the 
balance sheet provision and the release of £2.9 million.
Managing risk on behalf of our clients is a key service we provide. 
In order to build on our experience we are upgrading our operational 
systems and successfully rolled out new hardware with minimal 
disruption to service. During 2017 we will deliver additional functionality 
to support the evaluation of risk and develop a broader range of 
services provided directly to home buyers.
Our Conveyancing business suffered lower volumes reflecting 
the reduced house exchanges across the Group and a decline in 
penetration rate from 51.5% to 48.6%. Nevertheless, the business 
delivered £30.6 million (2015: £32.2 million) of Group revenue and 
a gross margin of 43% (2015: 37%) (before internal payaway) and 
it provides a key service to our home mover customers.
At the beginning of 2016 we set out to improve our service and 
throughout 2016 we have steadily seen this change. Our complaints 
have reduced and our net promoter score has increased significantly.
The in house Conveyancing business delivered 69% (2015: 68%) 
of the completions through its three property law centres; the 
remainder are outsourced to panel firms. In view of the reduced 
volumes and excess capacity in our centres, the decision was 
taken to close the smallest centre in Bridgend removing £1.2 million 
from the cost base and reducing our spare capacity in the remaining 
centres. This process will be completed in Q1 2017. At the same 
time we will complete our investment in our customer portal 
technology in the first half of 2017 and this will deliver improved 
service to customers and efficiencies for our employees.
Other professional services comprise a portfolio of small 
businesses which have been brought together under a single 
leadership team, offering asset management primarily around the 
repossessions market, block management, emergency relocation 
and auctions. During 2016 these businesses delivered 30.6% 
(2015: 29.2%) EBITDA margin before internal payaway. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 30
Strategic report Key performance indicators
Total income (£m)
222.5 +2%
182.3
14
219.1
15
222.5
16
Surveys and valuations
364,957 +2%
332,290
14
357,033
15
364,957
16
Adjusted EBITDA (£m)
30.8 -5%
21.4
14
32.3
15
30.8
16
Conveyances  
completed
33,053 -5%
36,441
14
34,851
15
33,053
16
Corporate properties
under management
36,635 +14%
34,164
14
32,049
15
36,635
16
Exchanges –  
new homes
4,896 -6%
4,690
14
5,187
15
4,896
16
What have been the successes of 2016?
I was delighted to see surveyors realise such strong 
growth following investment in 2014 and 2015 in 
our graduate programme, supported by contract wins. 
We have broadened our asset management client base, 
countering the impact of a declining repossessions 
market and our block management and relocation 
teams delivered record results.
What are you most excited about for 2017?
We’re launching new technology to transform our 
Surveying business. Similarly we will complete the roll 
out of Countrywide Connect, refreshing our Conveyancing 
customer experience and improving interaction between 
customer, estate agent and lawyer. The Vista UK 
Residential Real Estate Fund will launch two significant 
build to rent schemes in Liverpool and Manchester.
Are there any major industry changes 
that are coming into effect?
We anticipate several changes ahead. The White Paper 
and Government focus on diversifying the housebuilder 
market to bring in smaller and medium size housebuilders 
plays to our strengths in this area. We have already seen 
the rise of office to residential development and we 
expect that to continue. Recognition of the importance 
of build to rent schemes to increase the availability 
of good quality rental stock allows us to expand our 
expertise in this area. The residential property valuation 
market is undergoing change with lenders seeking 
to increase valuation automation and property risk 
assessment. With increasing non-disclosure of 
valuation reports by lenders, we expect greater 
demand from homebuyers seeking survey reports.
A Q
with Paul Creffield 
MD B2B
Q
A
Q
Q
A
A
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 31
Strategic report Segmental review continued
Operating review continued
Land and New Homes held its own during 2016 and delivered 
EBITDA growth of 15% despite lower new homes exchanges 
across the country, due to the acquisition of Lanes, a specialist 
Land and New Homes business in Hertfordshire. Performance in 
this sector was severely impacted by the EU referendum particularly 
in and around London. It took several weeks for developers to assess 
the longer term impact on price and during the third quarter we 
experienced a material number of cancellations as buyers pulled 
out due to being nervous about the future. Whilst we have seen 
sales recovering, this was late into the fourth quarter. Our pipeline 
is some £700,000 lower as we move into 2017 and reflecting this 
we have removed some management heads to reduce costs.
Finally, our commercial business, Lambert Smith Hampton, 
experienced a difficult year as a result of the EU referendum. 
While income was flat year on year, EBITDA reduced by 18% to 
£11.3 million (2015: £13.8 million). The decline in transactional 
business was offset by an increase in consultancy revenues but 
not to the extent that the costs had increased owing to the full 
year impact from acquired businesses.
Outlook 
2016 was the first year the portfolio of B2B businesses came 
together as a division and, moving into 2017, we will build on 
the foundations we have established. Our plans are focused 
on four key issues: development of the risk hub in Surveying; 
driving increased referrals from the branches and delivering 
further efficiencies though Conveyancing; growth in new homes 
sales; and streamlining our estate and asset management services.
Plans for 2017
We do not anticipate that the mortgage and housing markets will 
grow in 2017. However, our contracts with lender and corporate 
clients together with a healthy number of instructions from developers, 
supports our expectation of modest growth in the coming year. 
The outlook for commercial for London is expected to recover 
but not to the levels experienced in 2015. However, regional 
markets show signs of more activity.
Total income
2016
£’000
2015
£’000 Change
Survey and valuation 68,672 66,295 +4%
Conveyancing 30,572 32,206 -5%
Other professional services 18,680 19,605* -4%
Professional services 117,924 118,106 —
Land and New Homes 28,146 27,736 +1%
Commercial 101,973 101,686 —
Total gross revenue generated by B2B clients 248,043 247,528 —
Income passed to other business units (25,568) (28,477)* -10%
B2B net income 222,475 219,051 +2%
* Restated to include the commission from asset management paid to our Estate Agency branches.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 32
Strategic report Creating further 
organic growth
Introduction
Despite the considerable external challenges in 2016, the 
Group demonstrated its resilience by marginally growing total 
income. As expected, the investment in key areas of our business, 
together with the impact of a reduced sales transaction 
market, impacted our underlying profit performance.
There are a number of immediate challenges in our sector 
which, together with the current uncertainty around the UK 
economy, will impact our areas of focus in coming months. 
This will include a plan to reduce our current levels of debt, 
putting M&A activity on hold and increased focus on organic 
growth opportunities.
We have also commenced work to reduce and restructure 
our costs to reflect our current strategic plan for the Group. 
This involves significant branch rationalisation as well as 
streamlining our back office functions. Exceptional costs of 
restructuring our business amounting to £27.8 million (including 
£1.4 million impairment of brands we rationalised) were incurred 
in parallel with goodwill impairment charges of £19.6 million 
arising from market conditions. Further details are provided 
in note 10.
The reduction in appetite for M&A activity increases the focus 
on delivering our organic growth plan. This includes rolling out 
our multichannel proposition across our branch network and 
other key areas for organic growth including our Financial 
Services business.
Results
Our business units reported improvements in income, with the 
exception of London, which experienced challenging market 
conditions. 2016 has been a period of investment in our 
Financial Services business unit to provide foundations for 
the next stage of our growth. Our central costs remained 
comparable to 2015 and will remain a focus. 
Income statement, cash flow and balance sheet items
Depreciation and amortisation
Our depreciation and amortisation charge continues to be 
separated on the face of the income statement to indicate the 
depreciation and amortisation that relates to assets purchased 
for use in the business and amortisation arising on those intangible 
assets that have been recognised as a result of business 
combinations. The underlying depreciation and amortisation 
charge increased by £1.3 million, the principal driver of which 
was £1.6 million in respect of leasehold improvements as a result 
of branch refurbishments. Amortisation of intangible assets 
recognised through business combinations has increased by 
£0.2 million as a result of the incremental rate of growth in 
acquisitions during the year. It should be noted that £6.6 million 
of the annual charge relates to intangible assets recognised in 
2007, when the Group was taken private, and this will end in 2017.
In summary
• 
Income supported by market share gains 
and benefit of 2015 acquisitions
• 
Investment in foundations to support future 
growth impacts profitability
• 
Positive progress in Lettings, Financial Services 
and Surveying
• 
Key cost initiatives underway to underpin 
2017 profit outlook
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 33
Strategic report
Our chief financial officer’s review Income statement, cash flow and  
balance sheet items continued
Share-based payments
Share-based payment charges are also reported separately on the 
face of the profit and loss account. The most significant proportion 
of this charge relates to a specific scheme granted at the point of 
the IPO in 2013 when we granted 7.2 million options to employees 
who were former equity holders of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd 
under the IPO plan. The majority of these nil-cost options vested 
based on adjusted Group EBITDA for 2014 in March 2015 (80%) 
and the residual balance due to directors vested in March 2016. 
The charge to the income statement in 2016 was £0.3 million 
(2015: £3.3 million; 2014: £10.6 million).
In addition, we also operate annual grants under a three-year long 
term incentive plan (LTIP) to senior managers which commenced 
in September 2013. These are nil-cost options which will vest 
subject to certain performance criteria disclosed within the 
remuneration report and the charge for the year was £1.3 million 
(2015: £0.5 million credit). 
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration charges amounting to £6.8 million 
(2015: £8.9 million) have been incurred. Each of these contingent 
consideration arrangements require the vendors to remain in 
employment and as such have been treated as a post-combination 
employment expense and excluded from consideration. Values 
are being accrued over the relevant periods of one to five years 
(2015: one to three years) specific to each of the agreements. 
Exceptional items
We have reported net exceptional costs of £12.5 million, which 
have been disclosed in further detail within note 10, comprising: 
• 
non-recurring costs of £26.4 million related to the branch 
restructuring undertaken during the year, accelerating our 
transformation agenda and resizing the Retail estate, principally 
comprising £8.1 million of redundancy costs and £15.8 million 
of property closure costs;
• 
£19.6 million of goodwill impairment charges arising from write 
downs to recoverable value in Retail (£5.0 million) and London 
(£13.5 million) as a result of changing market conditions, and 
£1.1 million from closure of conveyancing operations; 
• 
£1.4 million of brand impairment charges in Retail from abandoning 
the use of four smaller brands in pursuit of our fewer, better 
brands strategy; and 
• 
£0.9 million of acquisition expenses.
Offset by: 
• 
£32.8 million of income in respect of the sale of our remaining 
shareholding in ZPG Plc; and
• 
£2.9 million in respect of an exceptional credit arising from the 
release of professional indemnity provisions (originally booked 
as exceptional costs). Despite the judgemental nature of the 
provision, the progress made during the year on individually 
significant claims, aligned with the low level of claims made, has 
resulted in the assessment of a £2.9 million release in provision.
Finance charges
Our draw down on bank borrowing facilities increased from £200 
million at the prior year end to £290 million at 31 December 2016. 
Consequently, our finance costs have increased by £3.3 million 
and are now incurred at a margin of 2.75% over LIBOR.
To mitigate exposure and volatility arising from interest rate 
changes, the Group entered into an interest rate swap to convert 
floating levels of interest on the revolving credit facility into a fixed 
rate of 0.766% on specified levels of revolving credit facility draw 
down from 20 June 2016. The interest cash flows on the first 
proportion of the revolving credit facility have been hedged, and 
therefore this value moves over the period to March 2020 in line 
with the forecast drawdowns.
Taxation
Our total tax charge for 2016 of £2.0 million (2015: £5.9 million) 
represents an effective tax rate of 10.0% (2015: 12.5%). The 
principal reasons for the lower effective rate are the £32.8 million 
gain on the disposal of ZPG Plc shares being sheltered by 
unrecognised capital losses and the impact of a further 1% 
reduction in the tax rate on deferred tax liabilities generated a 
£2.3 million tax credit. 
Countrywide’s business activities operate predominantly in the UK. 
All businesses are UK tax registered apart from small operations 
in Hong Kong (which are in the process of closure), and Ireland. 
We act to ensure that we have a collaborative and professional 
relationship with HMRC and continue to enjoy a low risk rating. 
We conduct our tax compliance with a generally low risk approach 
whilst endeavouring to maintain shareholder value and optimise 
tax liabilities. Tax planning is done with full disclosure to HMRC 
when necessary and being mindful of reputational risk to the 
Group. Transactions will not be undertaken unless they have a 
business purpose or commercial rationale. 
In addition to our corporation tax contribution, our businesses 
generate considerable tax revenue for the Government in the UK. 
Segment results
Total income Adjusted EBITDA
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Variance
%
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Variance
%
Retail 262,275 254,451 3 31,004 43,343 (28)
London 160,408 177,982 (10) 18,024 34,162 (47)
Financial Services 88,174 80,994 9 22,682 20,709 10
B2B 222,475 219,051 2 30,791 32,302 (5)
Central services 3,623 1,258 188 (18,953) (17,539) (8)
Total Group 736,955 733,736 — 83,548 112,977 (26)
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 34
Strategic report
Our chief financial officer’s review continued For the year ended 31 December 2016, we will pay corporation 
tax of £5.2 million (2015: £8.5 million) on profits for the year, we 
collected employment taxes of £158 million (2015: £172 million) 
and VAT of £94 million (2015: £99 million), of which the Group 
has incurred £44.3 million and £3.3 million (2015: £61 million and 
£2.5 million) respectively. Additionally, we have paid £12.8 million 
(2015: £12 million) in business rates and collected £41.7 million 
(2015: £35.5 million) of stamp duty land tax though our 
Conveyancing business. 
Cash flow
Net cash generated from operating activities decreased by £37.5 million 
to £29.6 million for the year (2015: £67.1 million). Both years have 
been impacted by payments to settle professional indemnity claims. 
Payments in 2015 were lower than expected at £10.8 million, 
principally due to the timing of settlements, and as a result payment 
levels increased, as anticipated, to £13.8 million during 2016.
Capital expenditure
Cash expenditure on capital items in the year amounted to £29.0 million 
(2015: £22.0 million), principally relating to an ongoing programme 
of planned branch refurbishments, and an additional £11.1 million 
(2015: £5.4 million) has been incurred on software, including new 
technology platforms to deliver online offerings to our customers, 
which has been treated as an intangible asset.
Net assets
At 31 December 2016, our net assets per issued share were 
£2.18, a total of £479.5 million (2015: £544.6 million) a decrease 
of £65.1 million, or 12%, driven by a post-tax profit for the year of 
£17.5 million offset by £29.9 million of reserve movements from 
realisation of gains on the sale of Zoopla shares, dividend returns 
to shareholders of £33.0 million and the purchase of treasury 
shares of £18.1 million.
Net bank debt
At 31 December 2016 we had cash balances of £45.3 million 
(2015: £24.3 million) and £290 million drawn down within our revolving 
credit facility (RCF) (2015: £200 million). The £69.0 million increase 
in net bank debt arose principally as a result of net outflow on 
acquisitions amounting to £35.4 million and £29.0 million capital 
expenditure during the year. 
Shareholders’ funds amounted to £479.5 million (2015: £544.6 million) 
giving balance sheet gearing of 34% (2015: 25%). Net bank debt 
represented 63% of the Group’s market capitalisation at 
31 December 2016, and 293% of the Group’s adjusted 
EBITDA for the year.
Committed bank facilities
The Group’s available bank facilities (excluding overdraft 
arrangements available) at 31 December 2016 comprised of a 
£340 million revolving credit facility repayable in March 2020.
In February 2016, the Group increased its borrowing capacity to 
facilitate the strategic plans announced during 2015 and renegotiated 
our existing £250 million RCF, which was repayable in March 2018, 
to a £340 million RCF with the existing lenders and an accompanying 
£60 million accordion facility repayable in March 2020.
Dividend policy
Following consultations with major shareholders we have reviewed 
our dividend policy and there has been a change to the Group’s 
previously stated policy in respect to normal dividends which 
was previously stated as 35-45% of underlying profit after tax. 
As noted in the Chairman’s Statement, in light of the uncertainty 
surrounding the outlook for the residential property market and 
our desire to invest in key organic strategic initiatives, our policy 
has been slightly revised to 30-35% of underlying profit after tax. 
Underlying profits are measured as profit after tax but before 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, contingent 
consideration and share-based payments. 
The Board do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 
(2015: 10.0 pence), giving a total 2016 dividend of 5.0 pence (net) 
per share (2015: 15.0 pence). 
Events after the balance sheet date
Despite the uncertain market environment, we remain committed 
to reducing our leverage and at the same time facilitate the 
acceleration of our ability to future proof the business and exploit 
growth opportunities. To that end, and following consultations with 
our major shareholders, the Board has decided to make a small 
placing of up to 9.99% of our share capital available via a cash box 
structure today. 
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
9 March 2017
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 35
Strategic report Our people
Our colleagues are our biggest single group of ambassadors and 
they are key to achieving our vision.
If we want our customers to see us as the best, then we need to 
put them at the heart of everything we do. However, we can only 
do that if we treat our people as customers first, engaging and 
motivating them to understand how they support our mission, 
vision, values and business objectives.
We must support our people so that, as well as feeling connected 
to our purpose, they are inspired to be the best they can be 
and feel valued, engaged and committed to providing a brilliant 
customer experience.
We also believe in attracting the right, people into the right roles. 
In 2016 we invested in our Talent Acquisition function that gives 
us a fully aligned, Group-wide team which supports our hiring 
managers in bringing the best people into the business.
Aligned to this, we have launched a new careers website for 2017 
and standardised our recruitment processes to ensure that every 
potential colleague has the best experience possible when they 
interact with us as part of the recruitment experience. 
Further, we have identified the need to ensure a great onboarding 
experience from the moment someone considers joining Countrywide, 
as well as throughout their career with us. 
Developing a high performance culture 
We created a series of senior leadership programmes throughout 
the year, supporting management to lead our people effectively 
and drive performance.
The ‘One Countrywide’ senior leadership community launch event 
in January brought together all of our senior leaders from every 
area of the business for the first time in a single event. 
Following this, a series of leadership communications and events 
was delivered throughout the year to drive momentum and maintain 
focus. This was supported by the creation of an exclusive online 
community for our leaders to share information and best practice 
and discuss business topics, as well as providing business research, 
analytics and key communications.
Development and training
To further support our senior management, we have been developing 
a number of component parts of our talent development and leadership 
approach. We have produced a new Countrywide leadership model 
and framework which incorporates our purpose, brings our values 
to life and helps define the leadership skills needed for a strong 
future and to create a high performing culture. This has helped 
us identify a robust internal pipeline of skilled, engaged and 
motivated leaders throughout our senior population and allows 
us to move our talented colleagues around the business 
to where they are needed most.
As well as identifying our leaders of the future we are designing 
a range of development initiatives to bring through and grow our 
internal talent. During 2017 we will be delivering new leadership 
programmes to build the knowledge, skills and capability of our 
‘leaders of people’ in branches and offices and our ‘leaders of 
leaders’ across our wider leadership community.
Listening to our people
In 2016 we carried out a three-week staff engagement survey. 
Over 9,000 people across the business took part in the first 
MyCountrywide Pulse survey, comparable with the number 
of people who took the full MyCountrywide survey in 2015.
The overall MyCountrywide engagement score was 66%, with 
76% of our people saying that they feel motivated to go beyond 
expectations to deliver for Countrywide.
It is clear that only through taking action on the feedback received 
and working together to make the right improvements can we deliver 
performance improvements. This will be a key focus in 2017 where 
we will also carry out a full MyCountrywide survey that will allow us 
to benchmark against the previous full engagement survey in 2015. 
Across Countrywide we will continue to listen to our people and 
make the changes that bring us ever closer to being recognised 
as one of the best places to work in the UK.
Communication and engagement
We use engaging, clear and honest communication to inform 
and inspire our people, as well as reinforce our purpose. 
We work collaboratively with our leadership teams across Countrywide 
providing insight, guidance, expertise and tools to support performance 
and drive business growth.
During 2016 we launched our first ever Group-wide intranet, 
‘Our Place’. This is designed to be the hub of internal communications 
and engagement going forward and work will continue in 2017 
to fully establish this channel as a news and information resource. 
Colleagues across the business have been trained and developed 
to enable all areas of Countrywide to contribute information about 
their area of work. This work is supported by our Agents of Change, 
a group of staff ambassadors selected to tell stories across the 
business, highlighting good practice, supporting the cascade 
of key information and recognising instances where our people 
go above and beyond in delivering their work. In addition, this 
platform, and leadership cascades, ensures we achieve an 
awareness with all employees of the financial and economic 
factors that affect the performance of the Group.
Our people are also encouraged to become shareholders in the 
Company. The Group’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP) has been running 
successfully since its inception in October 2013. During 2016 we 
made changes to the offering for the benefit of our colleagues. 
The SIP is now open to all Countrywide employees who are normally 
referred to as UK tax resident and have been in our employment 
for at least twelve months at the time the first salary deduction into 
the scheme is made. The Company now also gives two free matching 
shares for every three partnership shares acquired (within the 
maximum investment terms established by HMRC).
We know that we are only 
as good as our people
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 36
Strategic report
Our people Towards the end of 2016 we formed a new people engagement 
team which, during 2017, will deliver activities to help colleagues 
understand how Countrywide is fulfilling its mission, vision and 
values and is performing against its business objectives. Further, 
the team will ensure our employees feel included and supported 
as they work towards helping Countrywide, and themselves, 
achieve ambitious, but realistic goals.
In 2016 the first Countrywide calendar was launched with a 
competition for children of employees to draw a picture of their 
home and tell us why they love living there. The winning pictures 
went on to form the calendar for 2017 which is hosted on our 
intranet, ‘Our Place’. Every child who submitted a picture received 
a personalised thank you card which displayed their picture as well 
as a small prize.
Charitable giving
Countrywide supports a workplace charitable giving scheme so 
that employees can donate to their favourite charities directly 
through a payroll deduction scheme, which is also tax efficient.
We operate in local markets, our people are local and our brands 
are local, making our contribution to the local community another 
important part of our charitable giving. Our subsidiary businesses 
are encouraged to support causes within their local communities, 
and employees from across the country participated in a number 
of local initiatives last year.
For example, Hamptons International raised over £10,000 for 
Cancer Research UK with a ‘Relay Around the Regions’. The relay 
took place over a two-week period around Hamptons International’s 
95 branches, spanning London and the South of the UK. Over 300 
colleagues took part in the event, which saw teams travel from 
branch to branch using various modes of transport. 
Some teams walked, cycled, ran or roller-skated, whilst others 
used more unusual means of transport including a horse and cart 
and a convoy of classic cars – there was even a dragon boat race 
down the Thames. In total, our colleagues travelled a distance of 
over 1,000 kilometres in 20 different ways as part of their 
fundraising efforts.
Equal opportunities
We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity and diversity 
in employment and recognise that this is essential to ensuring 
the success and growth of the organisation.
To this end, we make every effort to select, recruit, train 
and promote the best candidates for the job.
We aim to treat all employees and applicants fairly and 
appropriately, regardless of age, gender reassignment, civil 
partnership or marital status, pregnancy or maternity leave, 
disability, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation, 
to ensure that all opportunities are available to everyone and 
that no one suffers discrimination, harassment or intimidation.
Human rights
The Group is accountable to investors, but we take into account 
the interests of all our stakeholders – including our employees, 
our customers and our suppliers, as well as the local communities 
and the environments we operate in.
Countrywide’s reputation is one of its key assets, and as a leader 
in the UK property services sector it is vital that we adhere to and 
promote the highest standards of integrity, personal conduct, 
ethics and fairness.
Due to regulatory requirements in the UK, we have judged that 
human rights are not a material risk for the business. We do, 
however, work closely with our third-party external suppliers to 
ensure their human rights and ethics policies are aligned with 
those of Countrywide.
Our support function in India, WNS, has the WNS Cares 
Foundation, providing education and many other facilities and 
benefits for children within local communities. This foundation 
exists in all the countries WNS operates from and is actively 
involved in child education.
More information on the foundation can be found by visiting  
www.wnscaresfoundation.org.
Modern slavery
We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery, 
or human trafficking, in our supply chains, or in any part of our 
business. Our Anti-Slavery Policy reflects our commitment to 
acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships, 
and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls 
to ensure slavery and human trafficking are not taking place 
anywhere in our business or in our supply chains.
Gender diversity
Board
6,481 3 26
5,192 6 63
Employees Senior management*
Male Female
*  Senior management comprises employees with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant 
part of it. Directors of subsidiary companies are included only to the extent that the subsidiary is significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
We believe that great people plus 
a great environment will deliver 
a world class experience for our 
people and our customers.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 37
Strategic report As at the date of signing the directors’ report,  
the following people were directors of the Company:
Peter Long
Non-executive chairman*
Cathy was appointed 
non-executive director 
of the Company and 
chairman of the Company’s 
Remuneration Committee 
on 31 July 2013. Cathy 
is also a non-executive 
director and chair of the 
remuneration committee 
for Aldermore PLC and 
Old Mutual Wealth. She 
is a partner at the senior 
advisory firm Manchester 
Square Partners LLP. She 
is an honorary fellow of 
UNICEF UK and a member 
of the board of the Gurkha 
Welfare Trust. She is a 
former council member 
of the Royal College of Art. 
She has extensive industry 
experience working with 
Deloitte & Touche, Ernst 
& Young and Towers 
Watson in her early career. 
She subsequently joined 
Barclays PLC, where she 
was a member of the group 
executive committee with 
responsibility for human 
resources, corporate 
affairs, strategy and brand 
and marketing. During her 
time with Barclays she was 
also director of investor 
relations for four years and 
had extensive experience 
in remuneration in her 
many roles. She was chief 
administrative officer of 
Lloyds Banking Group PLC. 
Cathy is a graduate of the 
University of Lancaster.
David joined the Group 
in September 2013 as 
non-executive director 
of the Company and was 
appointed chairman of the 
Audit and Risk Committee 
and subsequently senior 
independent director. 
David is currently a 
non-executive director 
of Ageas UK, Kames 
Capital plc, Hermes Fund 
Managers Limited and 
T R Property Investment 
Trust plc. He chairs the 
audit committees of 
Hermes Fund Managers 
Limited and T R Property 
Investment Trust plc. 
He has extensive 
industry and accounting 
experience. David has 
had a distinguished career 
as a finance director. Most 
recently he was finance 
director of the general 
insurance division of Aviva. 
Prior to that he held various 
other senior financial roles 
at Aviva and at Prudential 
and M&G Group. David 
is a chartered accountant 
and a graduate of City 
University Business School.
Jim joined the Group in 
November 2007. He was 
previously finance director 
and company secretary 
of JD Wetherspoon and 
has previously worked 
for David Lloyd Leisure (a 
division of Whitbread plc) 
and HP Bulmer Holdings 
plc. Jim is a graduate of 
Stirling University and he 
qualified as a chartered 
accountant in 1984.
Peter was appointed 
non-executive director of 
the Company in February 
2016 and took over as 
non-executive chairman 
at the Company’s AGM 
on 27 April 2016. Peter 
is chairman of Royal 
Mail plc and in April 
2016 was appointed 
non-executive chairman 
of Parques Reunidos 
Servicios Centrales 
S.A.U. Having ceased to 
be joint chief executive 
of TUI AG with effect 
from 9 February 2016 
he is a member of TUI 
AG’s supervisory board. 
Prior to this, he held a 
variety of senior roles 
in the travel and leisure 
sector. He was formerly 
senior independent 
non-executive director 
of RAC plc (2001-2005) 
and Rentokil Initial plc 
(2005-2014). He was 
also a non-executive 
director of Debenhams 
plc (2006-2009).
*  Grenville Turner served 
as chairman from 
1 September 2014 
to 27 April 2016.
None None
David Watson
Deputy chairman 
and senior independent 
non-executive director
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
Cathy Turner
Independent 
non-executive director
R N A N A R
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Alison joined the Group in 
September 2014. Alison 
was previously managing 
director at Bupa, 
responsible for international 
development markets, and 
has held a range of senior 
posts including chief 
operating officer of the UK 
private hospitals business at 
Bupa and a number of key 
positions at British Airways. 
In April of 2016 Alison 
joined the board of Tesco 
Plc as a non-executive 
director. Between 2012 
and 2016 she was a 
non-executive director 
of Cable & Wireless 
Communications plc. 
From 2009 to 2013 she 
was chair of Opportunity 
Now, which seeks to 
accelerate change for 
women in the workplace. 
She was a non-executive 
director of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) between 2005 and 
2010, and in the 2011 
New Year Honours she 
was appointed a CMG for 
her services to the board 
of the FCO.
Board of directors
N
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 38
Corporate governance  Chairman 1
 Executive directors 2
 Independent non-executive directors 5
 Non-independent non-executive director 1
Key to Committee 
membership:
Richard was appointed 
non-executive director of 
the Company in June 2014 
and chairman of the 
Company’s Audit and Risk 
Committee in August 
2014. A chartered 
accountant qualifying with 
KPMG in 1982, Richard 
has nearly 30 years’ 
experience as a finance 
director of private and 
listed businesses having 
gained a wealth of 
experience from executive 
and non-executive roles 
spanning the media, 
infrastructure, construction 
and services sectors. In 
February 2017, Richard was 
appointed non-executive 
director of FirstGroup plc 
and chair of its audit 
committee. He is also 
senior independent 
non-executive director of 
Countryside Properties plc 
and chairs its audit 
committee. From April 
2007 to December 2016 
Richard was group finance 
director of Carillion plc 
and before that of 
Associated British Ports 
Holdings plc. He was 
previously non-executive 
director and chairman of 
the audit committee of SSL 
International plc. Richard 
is a graduate of the 
University of Reading.
Jane was appointed 
non-executive director 
of the Company in June 
2014. She has spent her 
career in broadcast media, 
including chief executive 
officer of Channel 5 
Broadcasting, CEO of 
Flextech plc and founder 
and CEO of Minotaur 
International. She was 
formerly non-executive 
director at Paddy Power 
plc, a senior independent 
director at Trinity Mirror, 
a trustee of the Royal 
Television Society, 
governor of the National 
Film and Television School 
and a member of British 
Screen Advisory Council.
Rupert was appointed 
non-executive director 
of the Company in June 
2014. He is chairman of 
the board of trustees of 
Historic Royal Palaces and 
also chairs the Honours 
Committee for Arts and 
Media. Rupert has a range 
of other board positions, 
at both chairman and 
director level in a variety 
of businesses, with a 
strong consumer bias. 
Most recently he was 
chief executive officer 
of Odeon and UCI 
Cinemas Group between 
2005 and 2014. He was 
previously at the BBC 
where he was chairman 
and chief executive of BBC 
Worldwide and also at BT 
where he was managing 
director of the consumer 
division, prior to which he 
was at the Dixons Stores 
Group latterly as deputy 
managing director.
Richard Adam
Independent 
non-executive director
Jane Lighting
Independent 
non-executive director
Rupert Gavin
Independent 
non-executive director
A N N N A R R R
Caleb joined the Group 
in May 2009 and was 
appointed as a director. 
He is a managing director 
and portfolio manager 
(Europe) at Oaktree 
Capital Management 
(UK) LLP. Prior to joining 
Oaktree in 2000, Caleb 
co-founded Seneca 
Capital Partners LLC, a 
private equity investment 
firm. From 1994 to 1996, 
Caleb was employed by 
Archon Capital Partners, 
an investment firm. Prior 
to 1994, Caleb was an 
associate in mergers and 
acquisitions at Dillon Read 
and Co. Inc. and an analyst 
at Merrill Lynch and Co. 
Inc. Caleb received a BA 
degree in economics from 
the University of Virginia.
None
Caleb Kramer
Non-executive director
A 
Audit and Risk 
Committee 
N 
Nomination 
Committee 
R 
Remuneration 
Committee 
 
Chairman of 
Committee 
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 39
Corporate governance Dear shareholder
I am pleased to introduce my first corporate governance statement 
as non-executive chairman of the Board of Countrywide plc. 
My predecessor, Grenville Turner, took his responsibility for 
maintaining high standards of corporate governance very seriously, 
and this will continue to be a priority throughout my tenure.
In his chairman’s statement last year, Grenville indicated his desire 
to step down from the role of chairman and on 11 February 2016, 
the Company announced he would retire as chairman and 
I was appointed non-executive director. My appointment as 
non-executive chairman was confirmed at the Annual General 
Meeting on 27 April 2016. There were no other Board changes 
in 2016.
Your Company continues to be led by a strong and balanced 
Board, which is well qualified to challenge, motivate and support 
the management of the business. The Nomination Committee 
will continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure 
that we have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
diversity and independence to support building a sustainable 
business for the long term.
The Board aims to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. It understands 
the importance of effective reporting, risk management and 
internal control procedures. In 2015, as part of the strategic 
planning process, the Group reviewed its risk appetite and 
ensured there were governance improvements to align our risk 
and internal audit capabilities. I am pleased to report that we 
continued to make significant progress in these areas during 
2016. The appointment of a chief risk and compliance officer 
during 2015 continues to provide an integrated assurance plan 
and has made significant steps in co-ordinating our approach 
to the Group’s risk management and audit activities.
Future priorities
My role as chairman is to lead the Board and ensure that it is 
operating effectively and focusing its time, energy and attention 
on the right areas. In 2016, following the results of the initial phase 
of the external Board evaluation review (which concluded during 
February 2016) we agreed a set of priorities against which we can 
report progress. This is discussed in further detail on page 44.
Your Board is fully committed to supporting both the principles 
and application of best practice in corporate governance. 
In 2016 we continued to make excellent progress in significantly 
strengthening effective corporate governance systems and 
procedures which will underpin building a sustainable business 
for the long term.
Peter Long
Non-executive chairman
9 March 2017
Since taking over as 
non-executive chairman in 
April 2016, maintaining our 
high standards of corporate 
governance continues to be 
a priority for both me and the 
Company. We believe that good 
governance is an essential 
part of the way we conduct 
our business on a daily basis, 
while maintaining effective risk 
management, control and 
accountability, and is pivotal 
to building a sustainable 
business for the long term.
Corporate governance
Chairman’s introduction to corporate governance
40 Introduction
This corporate governance report intends to give shareholders a clear understanding of Countrywide’s 
corporate governance arrangements and their operation within the Group during the year, including an analysis 
of the level of compliance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) issued by 
the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014. The Code can be viewed at www.frc.org.uk.
Compliance with the 2014 Code
The directors have considered the contents and requirements of 
the Code and note the following instance of non-compliance: the 
appointment of Grenville Turner as chairman from 1 September 2014 
to 27 April 2016, having held the position of chief executive officer 
immediately prior to that date, results in non-compliance with 
provision A.3.1 of the Code that a chief executive should not go on 
to be chairman of the same company. Additional counterbalances 
were in place for this period and, following my appointment as 
Grenville’s successor, I am delighted to confirm that with the 
exception of provision A.3.1 for the period stated above, the 
Company has complied in all respects with the provisions 
of the Code.
The corporate governance report comprises pages 41 to 51. 
Additional information in respect of the operation, and terms 
of reference, of the Remuneration Committee is included 
within the separate directors’ remuneration report.
The role of the Board, decision making and division 
of responsibilities
The Board provides leadership to the Group and is collectively 
responsible for the long term success of the Company. It sets the 
strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring that acceptable 
risks are taken and appropriate governance structures and controls 
are in place. It ensures that the right people and resources are in 
place for the Group to meet its objectives, review management 
performance and deliver long term value to shareholders and 
other stakeholders.
In pursuit of these leadership objectives, the Board retains control 
of key decisions and has in place a formal schedule of matters 
specifically reserved for its approval which can be found at 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/corporate-governance/. 
The Board retention of decision making and control of these key 
areas ensures effective stewardship and risk management by 
providing integrated reporting, e.g. in respect of strategic priorities 
and associated risk and mitigating governance controls. 
Specific decisions reserved for the Board are summarised 
as follows:
Responsibility Specific actions during the year
Strategy and direction Approval of strategy and 
annual budgets.
Authorisation of acquisition 
and disposal activity.
Review of internal control 
arrangements and affirmation 
of risk management strategies. 
Risk management and 
accountability controls
Approval of financial statements, 
other updates to the market and 
recommendations on dividends.
Approval of authority levels and 
financial and treasury policies.
Review of internal control and 
risk management, including 
health and safety.
Governance Appointments to and removals 
from the Board.
Terms of reference for and 
membership of the Board.
Review of governance 
arrangements. 
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated, clearly 
defined and approved by the Board. A copy of the division of 
responsibilities between the roles of the chairman and the 
chief executive is available to view on the corporate governance 
section of the Company’s website. 
The Board delegates matters to the three Board Committees 
(Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration), in line with their 
terms of reference and the formal schedule of matters reserved for 
Board approval. Further information on the work of these Committees 
during the year can be found in each of their separate reports 
following this corporate governance introduction and the specific 
terms of reference for each of the Committees can be found on 
the corporate governance section of our website. The Board 
delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by 
the Board and the day to day operational aspects of the business 
to the executive directors. 
Effectiveness
The Board and its Committees continue to benefit from an 
appropriate balance of expertise, experience, independence 
and knowledge of the Group and its business sectors. 
At 31 December 2016, the Board comprised two executive 
and seven non-executive directors. 
The Nomination Committee considers the skill set and sector 
experience of the Board, appointments to the Board, director 
development and succession planning. Details of these activities 
and the process of Board evaluation and development are discussed 
in the Nomination Committee report on pages 43 to 45.
The Board has eight scheduled meetings during the year; additional 
meetings are arranged if required. The Board Committee meetings 
are scheduled around the regular Board meetings. The directors’ 
attendance at the scheduled Board meetings and Board Committee 
meetings is shown in the table on page 42. Attendance is expressed 
as the number of meetings that each director attended out of the 
number they were eligible to attend as chairmen or Committee 
members (i.e. excluding attendance where this was by 
invitation only).
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 41
Corporate governance
Corporate governance statement Board attendance
Director Date of appointment
Board
meetings 
1
Audit and Risk
Committee 
meetings
Nomination
Committee 
meetings 
2
Remuneration
Committee 
meetings
Peter Long 11 February 2016 8/8 — 1/1 —
Alison Platt 1 September 2014 9/9 — — —
Jim Clarke 28 December 2012 9/9 — — —
Caleb Kramer
3
19 February 2013 7/9 — — —
David Watson
3
2 September 2013 8/9 4/4 2/2 7/7
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 9/9 4/4 2/2 7/7
Richard Adam 9 June 2014 9/9 4/4 2/2 7/7
Jane Lighting
3
9 June 2014 8/9 4/4 2/2 7/7
Rupert Gavin
3
25 June 2014 9/9 — 2/2 6/7
Grenville Turner
4
19 February 2013 3/3 n/a 0/1 n/a
1 There were eight Board meetings during the year and one additional Board meeting to discuss a corporate transaction. 
2  One formal Nomination Committee meeting was held during the year with an additional sub-committee meeting held in connection with Peter Long’s 
appointment as non-executive chairman. 
3   Caleb Kramer was engaged in overseas activities which meant he was unable to attend two Board meetings. David Watson, Jane Lighting and 
Rupert Gavin were also absent from each of the specific meetings above due to unexpected, unavoidable personal commitments.
4  Grenville Turner resigned from the Board with effect from 27 April 2016. He was not present at the Nomination Committee meeting as a result of the 
formation of a separate sub-committee.
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover for its directors and officers. The Company has made qualifying 
third-party indemnity provisions (as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors during the year; these provisions 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Independence
The Code notes that the Board should identify in the annual report 
each non-executive director that it considers to be independent. 
Excluding the former chairman until his departure on 27 April 2016, 
each of the non-executive directors is considered to be independent, 
with the exception of Caleb Kramer as he holds the position 
of managing director at Oaktree Capital Management (UK) LLP, 
a substantial shareholder of the Company. As stated above, 
Grenville Turner was not deemed to be independent prior 
to his appointment as chairman from 1 September 2014.
The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the 
chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by 
the Board to be independent. Excluding the chairman, there are 
five (of a possible six) non-executive directors determined to be 
independent and two executive directors, and therefore the Board 
complies with recommendation B.1.2 of the Code. Similarly, the 
composition of the three Board Committees complies in all 
respects with the independence provisions of the Code.
Accountability
The Board remains committed to presenting a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects 
and of the importance of effective reporting, risk management and 
internal control procedures. Both the Audit and Risk Committee and 
the Board received drafts of the annual report to facilitate review and 
provide an opportunity for challenge and discussion.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the 
significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. 
Principal risks associated with the Group’s business are summarised 
on pages 19 to 21 of the strategic report. The Board has an Audit and 
Risk Committee which monitors and reports on the Group’s risk 
management systems. The Audit and Risk Committee also considers 
how the Board should apply corporate reporting and internal control 
principles and is responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship 
with the Group’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The report of 
the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on pages 46 to 51.
Remuneration
Details relating to the Company’s policy on remuneration together 
with the level and components of remuneration available to the 
Company’s directors are provided in the Remuneration 
Committee’s report on pages 52 to 66.
Dialogue with shareholders
As chairman, I ensure that views of shareholders are communicated to 
the Board as a whole and offer non-executive directors the opportunity 
to attend discussions with major shareholders. 
We actively seek channels through which to engage with investors 
and during 2016 the Company undertook a wide variety of investor 
relations activities, including road shows in the US and the UK. 
Institutional shareholders represent the largest group of shareholders 
and much of the activity is focused on this group. The chief executive 
officer and the chief financial officer host or attend the majority of the 
events held, whilst key senior executives also participate in meetings 
and activities with institutional shareholders.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board. The prime 
means of communication with the majority of our shareholders is via 
the interim and annual reports, supplemented by interim trading 
updates, which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding 
of the Group’s activities and results. General presentations are given to 
both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the interim 
and annual results and at other appropriate points to share the 
strategic plans and offer an opportunity to engage with the business 
unit managing directors and other senior executives.
Constructive use of the AGM
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the 
chairman and the chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees at the AGM, where all directors will 
be in attendance. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the 
AGM. Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the 
AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do 
so by writing to the company secretary at the registered office 
address given in note 1 to the financial statements.
Peter Long
Non-executive chairman
9 March 2017
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 42
Corporate governance
Corporate governance statement continued 2016 saw the Committee 
continue its focus on Board 
evaluation and succession 
planning, including my 
appointment as non-executive 
chairman of the Board.
Dear shareholder
I became chairman of the Nomination Committee with effect 
from 27 April 2016. In 2016 the Committee continued its focus 
on Board evaluation and Board Committee composition and 
succession planning, including my own appointment as 
non-executive chairman following Grenville Turner stepping 
down as chairman.
Role and responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the composition 
of the Board and its Committees is appropriate and enables it to 
function effectively. This requires evaluation of the balance of 
skills, experience, knowledge and diversity and the resultant 
identification of any gaps, either in the short, medium or longer 
term, and recommendations to address these. Succession 
planning for key Board positions forms part of our wider remit 
and, as such, we have insight into the Group’s Leadership and 
Development Programme.
We are also responsible for agreeing the annual Board effectiveness 
review process and monitoring any actions arising.
Committee composition
The membership of the Committee during 2016, together with 
appointment date, is set out below:
Member Nomination Committee member since
Peter Long 
(chairman from 27 April 2016) 27 April 2016
Grenville Turner 
(chairman until 27 April 2016) 1 September 2014 * 
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013
David Watson 2 September 2013
Richard Adam 9 June 2014
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
*  Grenville Turner resigned from the Board, and therefore the Committee, 
with effect from 27 April 2016.
The composition of the Committee changed during the period 
with Grenville Turner resigning as chairman from the Board 
and Committee in April 2016, and my subsequent appointment 
as non-executive chairman of the Board and the Committee. 
We therefore remained in full compliance with the Code 
recommendation that a majority of members should be 
independent non-executive directors throughout the period.
Attendance by members at the meetings is shown on page 42.
The Committee’s work
The Committee held one formal meeting in November 2016.
Further to the Board authorising the Committee to establish a 
sub-committee in October 2015 chaired by Cathy Turner (which 
excluded Grenville Turner due to having a potential conflict of 
interest) to engage in the search and selection process for a 
new chairman, one formal sub-committee meeting was held 
in January 2016 to review my appointment and proposed 
remuneration terms. The main matters that the Committee 
considered during the year are described on page 45.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available at: 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 43
Corporate governance
Report of the Nomination Committee Board and Committee composition 
As described above, the Board went through a period of change 
with the appointment of me as non-executive chairman. 
The Company believes that diversity of experience and approach, 
including gender and race diversity, amongst Board members is 
of great importance and it is the Company’s policy to give careful 
consideration to issues of Board balance and diversity when 
making new appointments. The search for candidates and any 
subsequent appointments are, therefore, made purely on merit 
regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability in order to 
secure an appropriate balance of skills and attributes that are 
needed to ensure effective stakeholder engagement and delivery 
of the business strategy. 
Given our commitment to appointing the best people and 
ensuring that all employees have an equal chance of developing 
their careers within the Group, we do not think it is appropriate to 
set targets for Board appointments. As gender diversity remains 
a topic of significant discussion, we note that three of the nine 
members of our Board are female. In addition to Board diversity, 
we believe in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation 
and further details of our workforce diversity are set out on 
page 37.
Following my appointment to the Board, as with all directors of the 
Company, I received a tailored induction programme which provided 
me the opportunity to gain a good understanding of the Group 
business and organisation, operations and governance environment, 
and allowed me to maximise my contribution to the Board as quickly 
as possible. Key stages of the induction programme are: provision 
of documents in relation to the Board, strategy, performance and 
corporate governance; meetings with the executive directors 
to gain an overview of the business and current trading and key 
commercial issues; meetings with other directors and senior 
executives to discuss commercial issues and projects; and site 
visits, as required, to key locations to gain an understanding 
of the business and operations.
All directors are also offered subsequent training to suit their 
needs and continuous professional development requirements. 
All directors also have access to the advice and services of 
the company secretary in addition to access to independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense where they 
judge it necessary to discharge their duties as directors.
Board effectiveness 
During 2015, the Board appointed an independent agency, 
Lintstock, to conduct a formal externally facilitated evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, its Committees, the directors and 
the chairman in compliance with the Code recommendation for 
triennial external evaluation. Lintstock has no prior connection 
with the Group. 
The Board instructed Lintstock to provide a phased three-year plan:
• 
2015: During November 2015, questionnaires were distributed 
to all directors to cover: full Board review; individual performance 
review; chairman review; and review of each of the three Board 
Committees. These questionnaires were also supplemented to 
include Lintstock interviews with each of the directors.
• 
2016: Completion of questionnaires as detailed above. 
• 
2017: Completion of questionnaires as supplemented again by 
Lintstock interviews with each of the directors. By 2017, following 
my appointment in 2016, the Board memberships will have been 
in operation for a full year and will thus provide a well grounded 
base of experience to refresh an effective discussion of opportunities 
to improve Board effectiveness.
The initial phase of this process concluded in February 2016 and 
Lintstock produced a report which addressed the following areas 
of Board performance:
• 
the size and composition of the Board was considered, as were 
the attributes to prioritise in new non-executive appointments;
• 
the Board members’ understanding of Countrywide’s businesses 
and of technological issues facing the Company was reviewed, 
as was the Board’s knowledge of the views and requirements 
of Oaktree Affiliates and other major shareholders, customers 
and regulators;
• 
the involvement of the non-executives outside Board meetings 
was assessed, and the relationships between Board members, 
the Chief Executive and top management were considered;
• 
the annual cycle of work and the agenda were addressed, 
as were the Board packs and the presentations made by 
management at meetings;
• 
the effectiveness with which the Board tests and develops strategy 
and reviews its implementation was assessed, as was the adequacy 
of the KPIs that inform the analysis of the performance of the business;
• 
the Board’s oversight of risk was considered, as were the structure 
of Countrywide at senior levels and the oversight of development 
and succession plans for management; and
• 
the performance of the Committees of the Board was also 
addressed in the review, as was the performance of the chairman 
and that of the individual directors.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 44
Corporate governance
Report of the Nomination Committee continued Further to these areas of core performance the review also included a case study concerning the effectiveness of the Board’s 
recent Strategy Day. 
The table below summarises key headline recommendations and action taken in 2016.
Recommendation Action taken in 2016
Strategic oversight
Review suite of key performance indicators (KPIs).
Shift towards overseeing strategic execution.
Group management information (MI) pack revised to address consistency 
of style and message-standard KPIs developed. Review strategic KPIs 
as part of 2017 annual operating planning process.
Reworked Board agenda format to provide more focus on 
strategy-related papers.
Time management 
More focused Board meetings, tracking key metrics 
of performance.
Supported by the implementation of a revised Group MI pack and time 
scheduled in Board agendas for discussion of key strategic matters.
Board dynamics 
Introduce less formal opportunities for the Board to 
meet, such as Board dinners and front-line visits.
Board dinners were introduced, along with a series of front-line location visits 
across the Countrywide Group.
Board information and support
Review the balance of information the 
Board receives.
Improve Board packs.
Consider improving the dissemination of 
Board papers.
Implementation of:
• 
a revised Group MI pack;
• 
pro-forma papers and decision criteria; and 
• 
a web-based system for managing, preparing and distributing Board 
and Committee papers electronically.
Lintstock issued a further questionnaire in January 2017, in order 
to follow up on the issues raised. The review content for each 
subsequent evaluation is designed to build upon learning gained 
in the previous year to ensure that the recommendations agreed 
in the review are implemented and that year-on-year progress 
is measured.
Following the externally facilitated evaluation, I am pleased to 
confirm the effective performance of each non-executive director 
and the time commitment of each non-executive director. I am 
therefore confident that each of them is in a position to discharge 
their duties to the Company in the coming year and, accordingly, 
as detailed in the notice of the AGM, all directors will stand 
for re-election.
Peter Long
Chair of the Nomination Committee
9 March 2017
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 45
Corporate governance Dear shareholder
During the year, the Committee continued its key financial 
oversight role for the Board, outlined in its terms of reference, to 
reassure shareholders that their interests are properly protected 
in respect of the Group’s financial management and reporting. 
During 2016, the Committee has: 
• 
continued to monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and satisfy itself that any significant financial 
judgements made by management are sound;
• 
supported the Board with its ongoing monitoring and evaluation 
of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal 
controls systems;
• 
determined the focus of the Group’s internal audit activity, 
monitored its effectiveness, reviewed its findings and verified 
that recommendations were being appropriately implemented;
• 
scrutinised the activities, performance, independence and 
effectiveness of the external auditors;
• 
commenced the tender of the external audit during the year, 
resulting in the recommendation to the Board to approve 
the reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), 
which is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on  
27 April 2017; and
• 
reviewed management assessments of going concern and our 
viability statement including the advantage of strengthening the 
Group’s balance sheet through a share placing.
The assurance framework required by the Committee is provided 
by complementary contributions from management reports, 
internal and external audit reports and risk management and 
compliance reports. However, as chairman of the Committee 
I have also held meetings with the Company’s internal (Deloitte) 
and external (PwC) auditors, the chief financial officer, the 
chief risk and compliance officer, senior members of the Group 
finance department, and other senior executives in which 
key issues relevant to the Committee’s work were discussed.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any 
questions about the work of the Committee.
Richard Adam
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
9 March 2017
The Committee’s terms of reference are available at: 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance
The Committee continued its 
key financial oversight role to 
reassure shareholders that their 
interests are properly protected.
Corporate governance
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee
46 Committee composition
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment 
date, is set out below:
Member Audit and Risk Committee member since
Richard Adam (chairman) 9 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013
David Watson 2 September 2013
There have been no changes to the composition of the Committee 
during 2016 and therefore the Committee remained in full 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) 
recommendation of a minimum of three independent non-executive 
directors throughout the period.
The Committee members have all been selected with the aim of 
providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise 
necessary to fulfil the Committee’s duties. The Board considers 
that as chartered accountants both David Watson and I have 
recent and relevant financial experience. The biography of 
each member of the Committee is set out on pages 38 to 39.
Attendance by members at the meetings is shown on page 42. 
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the chief financial officer, 
the Group chief risk and compliance officer, the Group financial 
controller, the company secretary and the Group’s external 
auditors, PwC. In addition, the Group’s outsourced internal audit 
provider, Deloitte, is invited to attend appropriate sections of the 
meetings. The Committee holds private sessions with both the 
external and internal auditors which are not attended by management.
The Committee’s work
The Committee works to a structured programme of activities, 
developed from its terms of reference, with agendas for the four 
scheduled meetings of the Committee during 2016 organised 
to coincide with key events in the annual reporting cycle. 
As chairman of the Committee, I report at each subsequent 
Board meeting on the business of the Committee meeting and 
recommendations made by the Committee. The main matters that 
the Committee considered during the year are described below.
Financial reporting and significant judgements
Financial reporting
The Board and the Committee have reviewed this annual report, 
the half year financial statements, as well as the going concern 
basis of preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements at these points, in particular the underlying 
assumptions and sensitivities.
We considered the presentation of the financial statements and, 
in particular, the compliance with financial reporting and disclosure 
requirements associated with the Group’s premium listing. In respect 
of each of these matters, the Committee reviewed papers presented 
by management and discussed critical judgements and estimates 
inherent within the conclusions, providing challenge where 
necessary. The Committee also reviewed the reporting from the 
external auditors, incorporating accounting and reporting matters, 
internal control findings and their management representation 
letter to ensure that these matters had been considered and 
consistent conclusions had been reached.
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies 
have been adopted and whether management has made 
appropriate estimates and judgements. The Committee also 
considered the Group’s tax strategy and concluded that 
management’s current approach remained appropriate.
The Committee also considered whether the 2016 annual report 
was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided 
the necessary information for the shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. In reaching 
this view, the Committee took into account: its own knowledge of 
the Group, and its strategy and performance in the year; debates 
and discussions regarding principal risks and uncertainties; robust 
processes to ensure internal verification of the factual content 
within the document; and a detailed review, by senior management 
and the external auditor, to ensure consistency and overall 
balance. After careful review and consideration of all relevant 
information, the Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, 
the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
affirmed that view to the Board. 
Prior to the publication of the 2016 annual report, the Committee 
undertook a detailed assessment of the viability statement and 
reviewed with management the appropriateness of the Group’s 
choice of a three-year assessment period, the Group’s current 
position and future plans and potential impact of risks to the business 
and recommended to the Board that the directors can believe that 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year period of their assessment. The Committee noted 
the positive impact that the Company’s proposed share placing 
would have on the prospects for the Group as part of this review.
The viability statement, together with further details of the Group’s 
approach, appears within our risk section of our strategic report 
on page 22.
During February 2016, the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) 
Corporate Reporting Review Team concluded its review of the 
Group’s 2014 annual report. The Committee monitored the 
dialogue between the Company and the FRC and discussed with 
the external auditor the matters raised and responses provided by 
the Company. The Committee noted that there were no significant 
findings and, pursuant to the review, appropriate limited enhanced 
disclosures were made in the 2015 annual report. 
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 47
Corporate governance Financial reporting and significant judgements continued
Financial reporting continued
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements
In the year under review, the Committee considered the following significant matters, which include an element of judgement, 
in relation to the financial statements.
Matter Action the Committee has taken
Impairment of goodwill and 
intangibles with an indefinite life
Management provided the Committee with a paper assessing the recoverable value and the 
associated headroom against the carrying value of the goodwill and, where relevant, the brand 
names in each of the cash generating units of the Group.
Management adopted a robust approach to assessing the reasonableness of future cash flows 
in light of the continued impact of political and economic uncertainty on market confidence, 
with particular regard to the London property sector. Management concluded that an impairment 
charge against goodwill of £5.0 million and £13.5 million in respect of the Retail and London cash 
generating units respectively was appropriate.
As a result of the restructuring undertaken during the year, management identified impairment charges 
of: £1.4 million required to write off four brand names which had ceased usage during the year; and 
£1.1 million required to write off goodwill associated with conveyancing operations being closed.
We reviewed the discounted cash flows and sensitivities prepared by management, discussing 
assumptions adopted and resultant levels of headroom. Based on the work performed, the 
Committee concurred that: 
• 
the impairment charge against goodwill of £5.0 million and £13.5 million in respect of the 
Retail and London cash generating units respectively was appropriate in current market conditions 
and would be disclosed as an exceptional charge; and
• 
the impairment charges of £1.4 million identified by management in respect of brand names and 
£1.1 million in respect of conveyancing goodwill were appropriate and, having arisen as a result 
of the strategic review concluded as part of the restructuring during the second half of the year, 
would be disclosed as an exceptional charge. 
For more detail in respect of impairments see notes 10 and 14a.
Acquisition accounting including 
assignment of fair values and the 
treatment of contingent 
consideration
The Board approved a number of acquisitions which concluded in the first half of 2016. 
We reviewed a management paper summarising the acquisitions undertaken during the year, 
which included:
• 
the fair valuation of intangible assets. We were satisfied with the fair value accounting approach  
and intangible asset valuations proposed by management and resultant goodwill recognised; and
• 
a summary of the contingent consideration that was linked to both the future performance of the 
business and the continued employment of the vendors. We discussed the estimates in relation to 
deemed remuneration in respect of current year acquisitions and accruals in respect of prior year 
acquisitions and concurred with the approach taken by management.
For more detail in respect of acquisitions see note 29.
Presentation and disclosure 
of exceptional items
As a result of the Group restructuring during the year, management compiled a summary 
demonstrating the nature of the expenditure, and the rationale for presenting these items as 
exceptional. We reviewed this summary, providing challenge to management to demonstrate the 
robust classification of items as exceptional, including consistency of the application of the term 
to the treatment of debits and credits. Following discussion, including the external auditor at the 
February Committee meeting, we were satisfied with the judgement exercised in the presentation 
and disclosure of exceptional items.
For more detail in respect of exceptional items see note 10.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 48
Corporate governance
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Matter Action the Committee has taken
Professional indemnity provisions The Committee receives quarterly updates on the status of the professional indemnity provision 
which includes the status of existing claims, including legal updates on those cases which are 
individually significant, and the number and nature of new claims arising.
At the year end, we reviewed the methodology and resultant professional indemnity provision 
prepared by management and provided robust challenge to any underlying assumptions adopted 
in respect of claim rates, claim liability rates, average loss per claim and provisions on discrete 
cases of significance based on current legal advice.
The Committee concluded that the methodology and assumptions adopted were reasonable, 
and concurred with the release of £2.9 million within exceptional items. However, we note that 
evaluating these potential liabilities is highly judgemental and in smaller populations of claims, 
estimates can be significantly affected by the outcome, good or bad, of a limited number of 
claims. Accordingly additional sensitivity disclosures have been provided in note 3.
Going concern The Committee reviewed a management paper detailing the ability of the Group to continue as 
a going concern, including: future profitability of the Group, forecast future cash flows, associated 
headroom under financing facilities (due to mature in March 2020) and banking covenants. The key 
judgements, assumptions and estimates underpinning this review, and the associated sensitivities, 
were discussed and considered and the Committee concluded that the adoption of the going concern 
basis of preparation of the financial statements was appropriate.
Viability statement Management provided the Committee with a paper on the viability of the Group, over a three-year 
period, which included a review of the principal risks and considered and modelled a number of severe 
but plausible scenarios. The key judgements, assumptions and scenario modelling were discussed. 
The Committee approved the viability statement and recommended its adoption by the Board.
For further information on the critical accounting estimates and assumptions refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements on 
page 87. For a discussion of the areas of particular audit focus by the auditor, refer to pages 71 to 73 of the independent auditors’ report.
Risk management and internal control
The Board recognises that the successful management of risk 
as part of our everyday activities is essential to support the 
achievement of our strategic objectives. Through delegation 
by the Board, the Committee is responsible for reviewing and 
monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
systems and internal control. Operation of the Group’s Risk 
Management Framework, which is designed to support 
consistent and effective management of risk throughout 
the Group is overseen by an oversight structure, as detailed 
on pages 17 and 18, which includes the Committee.
The Board has an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and 
manage the significant risks faced by the Group. This was in 
place throughout the year and up to the date of the approval 
of the annual report. This process is regularly reviewed by 
the Board and accords with UK Corporate Governance Code 
guidance. Management is responsible for the identification, 
evaluation and management of significant risks applicable to its 
areas of the business together with the design, operation and 
monitoring of suitable controls to manage risks to an acceptable 
level. These risks are assessed on a continual basis at business 
unit leadership meetings and updated accordingly in the 
quarterly Board risk report.
The Committee considered, discussed and made decisions in 
relation to a range of risk and internal control-related matters 
during the course of the year, the most significant of which are 
outlined below: 
• 
reviewed the outputs of a review into the Group’s risk management 
practices and approved the revisions to the Group’s Risk 
Management Framework;
• 
reviewed, and recommended to the Board for approval, changes 
to the Committee’s terms of reference and calendar of duties;
• 
reviewed, and recommended for Board approval, the Group’s risk 
strategy and risk appetite; 
• 
reviewed the quarterly Countrywide Group Risk Report from 
the Group Executive Risk Committee on the ‘top risks’ facing 
the Group, the relative assessment of impact and likelihood 
and actions underway/taken to deliver target risk ratings in 
a six-month horizon;
• 
approved the annual internal audit plan, outlining those 
areas to be covered by the work of internal audit during 2017 
and monitored the progress against the plan at each meeting. 
This included updates on management actions relating to findings 
and the closure of recommended actions. The Committee also 
receives and approves updates on changes to the plan for the 
forthcoming year;
• 
completed an annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function, under the direction of the Group chief risk 
and compliance officer, using a questionnaire for key stakeholders 
as an underlying framework; 
• 
received updates from the Group chief risk and compliance 
officer in relation to the Group’s FCA-regulated operations, 
including regulatory relationship matters and outputs from the 
Financial Services business unit’s internal audit committee;
• 
approved the 2017 Group risk function plan, outlining the 
objectives and activities of the Group risk function for the 
forthcoming year;
• 
monitored the risks and associated controls over the financial 
reporting processes, including the process by which the Group’s 
financial statements are prepared for publication;
• 
reviewed reports from the external auditors on any issues 
identified during the course of its work, including a report on 
control weaknesses identified; and
• 
reviewed, and recommended for approval, the Group’s risk 
management disclosures for inclusion within the annual report 
and accounts, including the consideration of the Group’s viability 
statement as required under the Code.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 49
Corporate governance Oversight of the external audit
The Committee’s oversight of the external auditors includes 
reviewing and approving the annual audit plan. In reviewing 
the plan, the Committee discusses and challenges the auditors’ 
assessment of materiality and financial reporting risk areas most 
likely to give rise to material error. 
PwC reported to the Board and confirmed its independence 
in accordance with ethical standards and that it had maintained 
appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and 
objectivity. Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, 
subject to controls by management that have been agreed by 
the Committee to monitor and maintain the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditors.
To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors, the Committee has a formal policy governing the 
engagement of the external auditors to provide non-audit services, 
providing details of prohibited, audit-related and permitted services. 
The Committee has approved changes to this policy during the 
year to align with revised FRC Ethical Standard 2016 and EU audit 
regulations. The policy requires approval by the chief financial 
officer of any work undertaken by PwC and mandates Committee 
approval, prior to the commencement of work, of all non-audit 
assignments with an individual fee above a de minimis threshold 
of £50,000, as assignments below this threshold have been 
deemed to be ‘clearly trivial’.
The total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid to PwC during the 
year is set out in the table below:
Matter
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Audit-related assurance services 50 44
Accounting advisory services — 11
Tax advisory services 40 9
Other non-audit services 16 —
Non-audit fees 106 64
Audit fees (excluding audit-related 
assurance services) 579 606
Amounts paid to PwC were reported to and considered by the 
Committee. Non-audit fees incurred in 2016 represent 10% of 
the recurring base audit fee, falling below the 70% cap set by the 
European Union, and will remain subject to scrutiny and approval 
by the Committee.
Following their initiation and 
supervision of the process, the 
Committee concluded their 
recommendation to the Board 
to approve the reappointment 
of PwC.
Richard Adam
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
The assessment of the effectiveness of our external auditors 
is based on a framework setting out the key areas of the audit 
process for the Committee to consider. The framework takes the 
form of an annual questionnaire covering all key aspects of the 
audit, including the contribution of management to an effective 
audit process, and is completed by each member of the Committee 
and by the chief financial officer. Feedback was also sought from 
other members of the Group finance team, divisional management 
and the Group chief risk and compliance officer. Based on responses 
to the questionnaires, management produced a report for detailed 
consideration by the Committee. The feedback from this process 
was considered by the Committee and noted a joined up approach to 
significant issues for discussion. Following robust debate and challenge, 
action plans were developed in relation to better communication 
during the audit cycle with divisional teams. In its evaluation of the 
external audit function, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied 
with the work of PwC and that PwC continued to be effective, 
objective and independent. 
The Committee considered the findings of the FRC’s Audit 
Quality Review (AQR) team’s report into the conduct of PwC audits 
generally. In addition, the AQR team selected to review the audit 
of the Group’s 2015 financial statements as part of its 2016 annual 
inspection of audit firms. The chairman of the Committee received 
a copy of the findings of the AQR team and has discussed this with 
PwC. Whilst there were no significant findings, some matters were 
identified as requiring improvement and we are satisfied with the 
responses implemented by PwC in the audit of the Group’s 2016 
financial statements. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 50
Corporate governance
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued External audit tender
As indicated in its 2015 annual report, the Group decided to put 
its external audit contract out to tender in advance of its 2017 audit. 
This was because as a listed company, also in the FTSE 350 at the 
time of the decision, the Group would be obliged by the following 
regulations/legislation to tender its audit for the year ending 
31 December 2017:
• 
the UK Corporate Governance Code has recommended audit 
tendering every ten years (on a comply or explain basis) since 2012;
• 
the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) issued its final 
order (The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014), following 
investigation into the statutory audit market, which came into 
effect from 1 January 2015. This requires that FTSE 350 
companies must have held a tender for the audit appointment 
within the last ten years; and
• 
the new EU Audit Regulations, introduced in June 2014 and 
effective from 17 June 2016, require that EU public interest entities 
must rotate their audit firms after a maximum period of tenure. 
This will currently require mandatory rotation at the 20-year point 
if a competitive tender is held at the ten-year point.
As a result, the Committee initiated the process for the tender of 
the external audit during the final quarter of 2016 in order to allow 
the process to conclude for consideration and recommendation 
to the Board in the February 2017 Committee meeting. There were 
no contractual obligations restricting our choice of external auditors 
and no auditor liability agreement had been entered into. However, 
Deloitte provides internal audit services to the Group and, to allow 
continued provision of services, was excluded from the tender 
process by mutual consent. 
Consistent with the new European regulations, invitations to 
tender were restricted to four firms based on decision-making 
criteria of: industry expertise, FTSE 250 market segment expertise, 
breadth of sector experience and specialist expertise required to 
deliver an audit of the desired quality. Accordingly, the Committee 
issued a request for proposal (RFP) for audit services to four firms 
which identified the criteria of importance to the Committee and 
management in an audit relationship. Evaluation criteria were, in 
no particular order of importance: team competence and rapport; 
understanding our business (including our competitive position), 
industry and related risks; audit quality; transition planning; 
service approach; communication; and fees.
Following access to a data room, the evaluation was undertaken by 
a process of meetings with the Committee chairman and management 
(at both head office and business unit level). In accordance with the 
RFP, the assessment of firms at these meetings, along with scoring 
of the proposal, by way of scorecards detailed in the RFP, formed 
part of the overall selection process and subsequent shortlisting 
for progression to presentation stage.
Following the meeting stage and submission of proposal documents, 
the Committee invited two firms (KPMG and PwC) to present in 
January 2017 to a selection panel led by the Committee chairman but 
also incorporating the senior independent non-executive director 
(and Committee member), the chief executive officer, the chief 
financial officer, the chief risk officer and the group financial controller.
Following its initiation and supervision of the process, the 
Committee concluded its deliberations at its meeting in February 
2017, resulting in the recommendation to the Board to approve the 
reappointment of PwC, which is subject to shareholder approval at 
the AGM on 27 April 2017. 
During the year, the Group can confirm that it has complied with 
the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.
Annual evaluation of Committee performance
The Committee’s activities formed part of the evaluation of Board 
effectiveness performed in the year. Details of this process and 
the actions taken arising from the external evaluation undertaken 
by Lintstock can be found on page 44.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 51
Corporate governance Policy review
At the 2014 AGM we obtained shareholder approval for our 
existing directors’ remuneration policy. Mindful of the fact that 
the policy will expire in 2017, the Remuneration Committee 
has conducted a full review of our current approach to senior 
executive remuneration. 
This review was conducted in the context of the macroeconomic 
environment and the specific developments in our sector. 
Countrywide is responding to changing customer behaviour 
and expectations as well as embracing digital capability within its 
service offerings. Our belief, being increasingly evidenced through 
piloting new digital developments, is that an integrated multichannel 
approach will offer customers the best choice. Transforming the 
business, systems, cost base and culture to achieve this will take 
several years to fully deliver. We are making good progress, with 
such progress and associated investment being maintained 
notwithstanding the increasingly challenged macroeconomic 
environment that unfolded throughout 2016. 
The market, in terms of transactional volumes, was tough in 
2016 (lower volumes than in 2015) and is likely to continue to 
be so in 2017. We are in the process of responding to multiple 
external headwinds – changes in stamp duty, the EU referendum, 
the announcement to ban tenant fees in the rental market, etc. 
Therefore, the focus of our review has been to support the 
strategic change agenda whilst responding tactically to each 
external development. As a result, we are disappointed that the 
harsh environment impacts our short term profitability but are 
confident that we are refashioning the business for sustained 
market leadership.
It is in this context that the Committee has decided that continuity 
in the underlying structure of our remuneration policy is appropriate, 
with some broadening of the performance measures used in our 
bonus plan and LTIP to align further with our strategic priorities 
and to reflect the increasing trend in the market to adopt a richer 
mix of performance drivers in assessing overall performance 
and associated remuneration. We have also used this review as 
an opportunity to update our share ownership guidelines which 
will result in an increased requirement relative to current policy. 
Therefore, in the round, the new policy for which we are seeking 
shareholder approval at the AGM does not fundamentally differ 
from the existing policy.
Consequently, no changes are proposed to be made to the 
underlying structure of Alison Platt and Jim Clarke’s remuneration 
(our CEO and CFO respectively), which will remain as follows:
Element of pay Approach
Base salary
• 
Alison Platt – £575,000
• 
Jim Clarke – £340,000
• 
No base salary increases in 2017
Pension
• 
15% cash supplement
Other benefits
• 
Include car allowance and private medical 
and life insurance, etc.
Annual bonus
• 
120% maximum
• 
One-third of any bonus deferred into shares 
for three years
• 
Malus/clawback provisions operate
LTIP
• 
Regular annual awards under the LTIP
• 
Policy award level of 150% for the CEO 
and 130% for the CFO*
• 
Two-year post-vesting holding period
• 
Malus/clawback provisions operate
*  Higher awards were made on a ‘one-off’ basis in 2016 as explained 
in last year’s report.
Annual statement
Dear shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present 
our directors’ remuneration report for the year 
ended 31 December 2016. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available at: 
www.countrywide.co.uk/investor-relations/
corporate-governance
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
52 However, we are intending to broaden the performance conditions for the annual bonus and LTIP to align further with our strategy. 
Plan Current approach Approach for 2017 onwards
Annual bonus
• 
70% – Financial through Group-adjusted 
EBITDA targets
• 
15% – Customer
• 
15% – Personal/strategic
• 
70% – Financial through: a blend of profit-related and other financial and 
operational metrics. For 2017, this will be 40% Group-adjusted EBITDA, 
15% Group revenue growth and 15% Group cost to income ratio
• 
15% – Customer
• 
15% – Personal/strategic
• 
 Underlying performance underpin applies to all non-EBITDA metrics
LTIP
• 
Two-thirds – EPS
• 
One-third – Relative TSR*
• 
37.5% – EPS
• 
37.5% – Relative TSR
• 
25% – Strategic objectives which, for 2017, will relate to market 
share (5%), people engagement (10%) and customer experience 
(10%), subject to an underlying performance underpin
* The 2016 awards had an equal 50:50 weighting between EPS and TSR to reflect the higher one-off award level explained on page 62.
The Committee believes that evolving our performance evaluation 
in this way has a number of advantages:
Annual bonus:
• 
the 70% weighting on financial targets in the annual bonus 
is retained, albeit now using a broader range of metrics which 
provide a more rounded assessment of overall performance 
as Countrywide’s strategy evolves;
• 
no more than 30% of bonus continues to be allocated to non-
financial (but still stretching) targets; and
• 
to guard against inappropriate payouts, no portion of the 
non-EBITDA elements of the bonus will be payable unless 
the Committee is satisfied that Countrywide’s underlying 
performance warrants such payouts.
LTIP:
• 
the majority of awards remain subject to EPS and relative 
TSR measures;
• 
again, a broader range of metrics will provide a more rounded 
assessment of overall long term performance, with the strategic 
element allowing the Committee to set long term targets that are 
directly related to delivery against objectively measurable key 
strategic priorities which will drive the generation of sustainable 
long term returns to shareholders; 
• 
in addition, the introduction of strategic targets for the executive 
directors’ awards for 2017 onwards will reflect the policy change 
made in 2016 for below Board LTIP awards, where a portion 
of awards made to these participants were made subject to 
the achievement of three-year strategic objectives (in addition 
to EPS/TSR), thereby providing alignment across the senior 
executive population and providing a sharper focus on the critical 
requirements to deliver the strategic plan; and
• 
again, to guard against the payment of inappropriate rewards, 
no vesting of the strategic element will be allowed unless the 
Committee considers that Countrywide’s underlying performance 
over the vesting period warrants such vesting.
In tandem, to reflect best practice developments:
• 
the share ownership guidelines for the executive directors will 
be increased to 200% of salary (from the current 100%);
• 
formal caps will be applied to base salary increases, pension 
provision and benefits;
• 
the Committee will reserve the right to adjust the bonus outturn/L TIP 
vesting if payouts/vesting based on a formulaic assessment 
of performance against the targets does not reflect shareholders’ 
experience and/or underlying performance; and
• 
the application of a two-year post-vesting holding period for 
LTIP awards made after 2016 will be formalised.
In finalising this review, the Committee also took into account 
that whilst there was strong shareholder support for our 2015 
remuneration report, a significant number were dissatisfied 
with several aspects of the LTIP awards made in 2016.
2016 performance and reward
During 2016, against challenging market conditions, Group adjusted 
EBITDA of £83.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 
26% below the £113.0 million achieved in 2015.
The Committee acknowledged and supports the strategic 
transformation being led by management but was disappointed 
with the absolute level of profitability. This outcome, coupled with 
our commitment to pay for performance, led to significant negative 
remuneration outcomes for the 2016 financial performance:
• 
annual bonus: no bonuses were payable to the executive directors 
for 2016; and 
• 
L TIP: there will be no vesting of 2014 L TIP awards for Alison Platt 
and Jim Clarke, due to the non-achievement of the challenging 
absolute EPS and relative TSR-based performance conditions 
attached to these awards.
Other than considering the above matters and conducting the 
policy review, the Committee undertook no other material activities 
during the course of the year.
Structure of this report and 2017 AGM resolutions
This directors’ remuneration report is divided into the following 
three sections:
• 
this annual statement, summarising and explaining the major 
decisions on, and any substantial changes to, the directors’ 
remuneration in the year;
• 
the remuneration policy report, setting out the proposed new 
remuneration policy that will, subject to the passing of the binding 
vote to be tabled at the 2017 AGM, apply immediately following 
the AGM; and
• 
the annual report on remuneration, explaining the remuneration 
earned by the directors in the year ended 31 December 2016 
and a statement of how the proposed new remuneration policy 
will be implemented in 2017 that will be subject to an advisory 
vote at the 2017 AGM.
I hope that you find this report informative in respect of how we 
remunerate and incentivise our directors through an evolving 
remuneration policy that is supportive of, and aligned to, the 
Company’s strategic aims and objectives.
Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2017
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 53
Corporate governance Introduction
This report contains the material required to be set out in the 
directors’ remuneration report for the purposes of Part 4 of 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, which amended 
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 (‘the Regulations’). 
Part A of this report represents the directors’ remuneration policy. 
Part B constitutes the implementation sections of the report 
(‘Annual Report on Remuneration’). The auditor has reported 
on certain sections of Part B and stated whether, in its opinion, 
those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. Those sections of Part B which have been 
subject to audit are clearly indicated.
PART A: DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY 
The remuneration policy as set out in this section of the remuneration 
report will take effect for all payments made to Directors from the 
date of the AGM to be held on 27 April 2017. The policy has been 
developed with regard to the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
is felt to be appropriate to support the long term success of the 
Company while ensuring that it does not promote inappropriate 
risk-taking.
Remuneration strategy
Our remuneration strategy is underpinned by remuneration 
packages that are designed to motivate high performing people 
to deliver our strategy. These packages: 
• 
are transparent and aligned with the interests of our shareholders; 
• 
are weighted to incentivise performance over the short and long term;
• 
are structured to ensure higher rewards are only achieved for 
exceptional performance against challenging targets; and 
• 
encourage management to adopt a level of risk commensurate 
with the risk profile of the business as approved by the Board.
Statement of employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Company
The remuneration policy described within this report provides an 
overview of the structure that operates for the most senior executives 
in the Group. The remuneration policy for the executive directors 
is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other 
employees to make a greater part of their pay conditional 
on the successful delivery of the business strategy.
This aims to create a clear link between the value created for 
shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive 
directors. When setting the policy for remuneration for the executive 
directors the Committee takes into account the overall approach 
to reward for employees in the Group, including consideration of 
salary increases for the general employee population (disclosed 
in the annual report each year); overall spend on annual bonus; 
Group-wide benefit offerings; and any other relevant factors 
as determined by the Committee.
Although the Company has not carried out a formal employee 
consultation regarding Board remuneration (policy or implementation), 
in accordance with prevailing commercial practice, it does take 
due account of regulations and practices regarding employee 
consultation more broadly (with the Committee keeping abreast 
of developments in this area). The Group people director ensures 
that the Committee is made aware of any relevant employee 
feedback regarding the Company’s remuneration policy. 
The Committee is mindful of the requests from, amongst others, 
the Investment Association, for companies to publish ratios 
comparing CEO to employee pay. The Company has prepared this 
analysis internally and it has been reviewed and considered by the 
Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee has not, 
however, published this data in this report as it is concerned that 
no common methodology has yet been established amongst UK 
companies and their investors for these comparisons; the 
Company’s expectation is that it will publish ratios showing 
comparisons in future years when, as can be expected, UK 
regulations or guidance develop a common methodology.
Further information about our engagement with employees across 
the Group is provided on page 36 of the annual report.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Company welcomes dialogue with its significant shareholders 
and, in the event that material changes to the policy are proposed, 
will consult with major shareholders and representative bodies in 
advance of changes being made (as has been the case in connection 
with the proposed new policy). 
Summary remuneration policy
The table below summarises the Committee’s future policy on 
the remuneration of executive directors which, if approved by 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM on 27 April 2017, will replace 
the existing policy for which shareholder approval was obtained 
at the 2014 AGM and will become binding immediately thereafter. 
The material differences between the existing and proposed new 
policy (which has also been designed with due account taken of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code) are explained in the Committee 
chairman’s letter and in the table below. It is currently intended that 
the policy will remain valid until the 2020 AGM.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 54
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART A: remuneration policy report Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Applicable 
performance measure
Salary and fees
To aid the recruitment, 
retention and motivation 
of high performing people
To reflect their experience and 
importance to the business
Fixed annual sum normally payable 
monthly and reviewed annually
Review reflects changes in scope 
of role and responsibility, personal 
and Group performance and 
increases throughout the rest 
of business
Salary of newly appointed 
directors may be phased to take 
account of experience
During the life of this policy, no 
executive director’s base salary shall 
increase by an average of more than 
10% p.a. (save following a recruitment 
– see below)
The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the broader 
employee population but may 
decide to award a higher increase 
for executive directors to recognise, 
for example, an increase in the scale, 
scope or responsibility of the role, to 
apply salary progression for a newly 
appointed director and/or to take 
account of relevant 
market movements
n/a
Benefits
To provide support and 
protection and the ability to 
focus on effective delivery
Benefits currently include 
company car allowance, private 
medical insurance and life 
assurance. Other benefits may 
be provided where appropriate
No executive director will receive 
benefits of a total aggregate value 
exceeding £50,000 per annum
n/a
Annual bonuses
To incentivise the delivery of 
stretching short term business 
targets and strategic and/or 
personal objectives
To recognise performance 
through variable remuneration, 
allowing flexible control of the 
cost base and response to 
market conditions
All measures and targets 
are reviewed and set by 
the Committee as soon as 
is practicable following the 
beginning of the year and 
payments are determined 
after the year end based on 
performance against targets
One-third of any bonus payable 
will normally be deferred into 
options/awards over ordinary 
shares with a three year 
vesting period
Dividend equivalent payments 
(cash and/or shares) may be 
payable on awards to the extent 
they vest
Non-pensionable
120% of salary per annum The performance measures 
applied may be financial or 
non-financial, corporate, 
divisional or individual 
and in such proportions 
as the Committee 
considers appropriate
When determining the 
portion of bonus that is 
payable for achieving any 
threshold and target level of 
performance for any measure, 
the Committee will take account 
of a number of factors such as 
(i) the stretch inherent in the 
threshold/target performance 
level, (ii) how that threshold/
target level compares with 
internal and external forecasts, 
(iii) bonus outturns and 
associated performance in 
the prior year and (iv) the 
general financial and market 
conditions that apply when 
the targets are set 
Malus and clawback 
provisions operate for 
deferred bonuses
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 55
Corporate governance Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Applicable 
performance measure
Long Term Share Incentive Plans
To incentivise value creation 
over the long term and reward 
execution of our strategy 
To align the long term interest 
of directors and shareholders
To promote retention
Annual grant of awards
Structured as nil-cost 
options/conditional awards
Non-pensionable
Dividend equivalent payments 
(cash and/or shares) may be 
payable on awards to the extent 
they vest
Awards made to executive 
directors from 2016 are subject 
to a two-year post-vesting 
holding period
Normal grant limit
Up to 150% of salary per annum
Maximum limit
200% of salary per annum
Exceptional limit
300% of salary per annum
The Committee may set 
such performance conditions 
on awards as it considers 
appropriate, whether financial 
or non-financial and whether 
corporate, divisional 
or individual
Performance periods may 
be over such periods as the 
Committee selects at grant, 
which will not be less than, 
but may be longer than, 
three years
No more than 25% of 
awards vest for attaining 
the threshold level of 
performance conditions
Malus and clawback 
provisions operate
Pensions
To help recruit and retain high 
performing executives
To reward continued 
contribution to the business 
by enabling executive directors 
to build long term savings
Participation into a money 
purchase pension scheme 
and/or cash equivalent
Directors will receive a pension 
contribution appropriate to their 
role either as a formal pension 
and/or cash equivalent
Pension contributions will not 
exceed 20% of salary per annum
n/a
All Employee Share Plans
To encourage all employees to 
make a long term investment 
in the Company’s shares in a 
tax-efficient manner
Share Incentive Plan and/or 
Save As You Earn Plan as per 
HMRC-approved rules
Consistent with prevailing 
HMRC limits
n/a
Share ownership 
guidelines
To provide close alignment 
between the longer term 
interests of directors and 
shareholders in terms of 
the Company’s growth 
and performance
Executive directors to retain 
no less than 50% of net of tax 
shares from vesting of share 
options/awards until such time 
as a shareholding equivalent 
in value to 200% of base salary 
has been achieved
n/a n/a
Summary remuneration policy continued
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 56
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART A: remuneration policy report continued Purpose/link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Applicable 
performance measure
Non-executive directors
To provide fees reflecting 
time commitments and 
responsibilities of each role, 
in line with those provided 
by similarly sized companies
Cash fee paid on a monthly basis
Fees are reviewed annually
Non-executive directors do not 
participate in any cash or share 
incentive arrangements
Non-executive directors may 
receive benefits (including travel 
and office support, together with 
any associated tax liability that 
may arise)
The maximum aggregate fees 
payable to the non-executive 
directors is as set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association 
(currently £2 million)
The Committee is guided by 
market rates, time commitments 
and responsibility levels
No additional fees are payable for 
membership of Board Committees, 
though additional fees may be paid 
for specific additional responsibilities 
such as chair of Audit Committee, 
chair of Remuneration Committee 
and senior independent director or 
to reflect a substantially greater time 
commitment than normal in any year
n/a
Notes to summary policy table
1  A description of how the Company intends to implement the remuneration 
policy for 2017 is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
2  The performance-related elements of remuneration take into account 
the Group’s risk policies and systems, and are designed to align the 
senior executives’ interests with those of shareholders. The Committee 
reviews and sets the metrics and targets applying to awards to the 
executives every year, in order to ensure that they are aligned with 
the Group’s strategy. All financial targets will (where appropriate) be set 
on a sliding scale. Non-financial targets are set based on individual and 
management team responsibilities and strategic objectives. A summary 
of the targets to be used in 2017 under the annual bonus and LTIP can be 
found on page 60. Appropriate levels of reward are available for achieving 
threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial 
out-performance of challenging strategic plans. The Committee retains 
discretion to set different targets and introduce additional metrics in line 
with the Company’s strategy for future awards providing that, in the opinion 
of the Committee, the new targets are no less challenging in light of the 
prevailing circumstances than those set previously. If substantially different 
targets to those used previously are proposed, major shareholders will 
be consulted. Furthermore, the Committee reserves the right to adjust any 
bonus outturn and/or LTIP vesting that is based on a formulaic assessment 
of performance against the targets if such outturn/vesting does not 
reflect shareholders’ experience and/or underlying performance.
3  The Committee operates incentive arrangements for executive directors 
in accordance with their respective rules and the Listing Rules and HMRC 
rules where relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, 
retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and 
administration of the plan rules. These include (but are not limited to) 
the following:
• 
 who par ticipates;
• 
 the timing of grant of award and/or payment;
• 
 the size of an award (up to plan/policy limits) and/or a payment;
• 
 the result indicated by the performance conditions;
• 
 discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event 
of a change of control or reconstruction;
• 
 determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) 
for incentive plan purposes;
• 
 adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, 
corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
• 
 the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional 
events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
4  For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors’ remuneration 
policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former directors (such as the payment 
of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards).
5  The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above 
for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take 
account of a change in legislation, without obtaining shareholder approval 
for that amendment.
6  The regulations and related investor guidance encourage companies 
to disclose a cap within which each element of the policy will operate. 
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set 
within the policy, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative 
of any aspiration.
7  While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the 
normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality, 
whether paid for by the Company or another, and business travel for Directors 
and in exceptional circumstances their families may technically come 
within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves 
the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its 
agreed policies.
8  While the appropriate benchmarks vary by role, the Company seeks to 
apply the philosophy behind this policy across the Company as a whole. 
Where the Group’s pay policy for Directors differs from its pay policies 
for groups of staff, this reflects the appropriate market rate position and/or 
typical practice for the relevant roles. The Company takes into account 
pay levels, bonus opportunity and share awards applied across the 
Group as a whole when setting the executive directors’ policy.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 57
Corporate governance Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy
Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of executive directors’ 
remuneration payable in the form of variable, performance-related pay. The charts that follow illustrate the opportunity at different levels 
of performance for the remuneration policy.
100%
£676
£406
£1,022
£1,790
£2,229
£1,256
100%
38%
40%
32%
33%
31%
32%
30%
27%
39%
35%
30%
32%
£0
Below 
target
Below 
target
 Fixed pay
 Bonus
 LTIP
Target Target
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Maximum Maximum
£500
£1,000
£1,500
£2,000
£’000
£2,500 These scenarios adopt the following assumptions:
• 
fixed pay consists of base salary as at 1 January 
2017, benefits and pension allowances. The value 
of benefits and pension is as set out in the single 
figure table for 2016;
• 
on-target performance is based on the value of 
fixed pay plus on-target incentive pay, based on 
83% of the maximum bonus and 62.5% of the 
maximum long term incentive award values;
• 
maximum performance is based on the value of 
fixed pay plus maximum incentive pay (i.e. a 120% 
of base salary annual bonus and a 150%/130% 
of salary LTIP award); and
• 
no assumptions have been made as to the share 
price growth and any dividend accrual has been 
excluded from the above.
Recruitment of executive directors and promotions
When setting the remuneration package for a new executive director, 
the Committee will apply the same principles and implement the 
policy as set out in the table on pages 55 to 57. Base salary will be 
set at a level appropriate to the role and experience of the director 
being appointed. This may include setting a below market salary 
with an agreement on future increases (subject to performance) 
up to market rate, in line with increased experience and/or 
responsibilities. Our policy on maximum annual bonus and LTIP 
awards would apply.
In relation to external appointments, the Committee may structure 
an appointment package that it considers appropriate to recognise 
awards or benefits forfeited on resignation from a prior position, 
taking into account timing and valuation and other specific matters 
it considers relevant. This may take the form of cash and/or share 
awards. The maximum payment under any such arrangements 
(which may be in addition to normal variable remuneration) would 
be no more than the Committee considers is required to provide 
reasonable compensation to the incoming director and would not 
go beyond a like-for-like compensation. If a director is required to 
relocate in order to take up the position, the Company may consider 
reasonable relocation, travel, subsistence and any other incidental 
payments as appropriate. Any such payments will be at the 
discretion of the Committee.
In the case of an employee who is promoted to the position 
of director, it is the Company’s policy to honour pre-existing 
commitments in accordance with their terms.
Service agreements and letters of appointment
Each of the executive directors’ service agreements is for a rolling 
term and may be terminated by the Company or the director by 
giving no more than twelve months’ notice.
The non-executive directors of the Company (including the chairman) 
do not have service agreements. The independent non-executive 
directors are appointed by letters of appointment and have an 
initial two-year term. Caleb Kramer’s services are provided to the 
Company under an agreement between the Company and Oaktree 
Capital Management FIE LLC which runs for an initial period of 
three years. The initial terms of the non-executive directors’ 
positions are subject to their re-election by the Group’s 
shareholders at the AGM.
The dates of appointments of the non-executive directors 
who served during the year are set out below:
Non-executive director
Commencement date
of original term
Unexpired term
as at 27 April
2017 AGM
Peter Long 11 February 2016 14 months
David Watson 2 September 2013 n/a
Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 n/a
Richard Adam 9 June 2014 n/a
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014 n/a
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014 n/a
Caleb Kramer 19 March 2013 n/a
Grenville Turner 1 September 2014 n/a
All individuals (save for Grenville Turner, who stepped down from 
the Board on 27 April 2016) will be subject to re-election at the 
2017 AGM.
The directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and will 
be available at the AGM.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 58
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART A: remuneration policy report continued Policy on payment for loss of office
If an executive director’s employment is terminated, in the absence 
of a breach of service agreement by the director, the Company may 
(although it is not obliged to) terminate the director’s employment 
immediately by payment of an amount equal to the basic salary 
and specified benefits (including pension scheme contribution or 
equivalent salary supplement payment) in lieu of the whole or the 
remaining part of the notice period. Discretionary bonus payments 
will not form part of any payments in lieu of notice. An annual 
bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the financial 
year served, although it would be paid in cash and pro-rated for 
time and paid at the normal payout date. Payments in lieu of notice 
may be paid in monthly instalments over the length of the notice 
period with such instalments to be reduced or to cease upon the 
director receiving payment from a new position.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director 
under the Company’s share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the LTIP is that any outstanding 
awards lapse on cessation of employment. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances (such as ill health, injury or disability, 
retirement, transfer of the employing company outside of the 
Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee), 
‘good leaver’ status may be applied. For good leavers, awards will 
normally vest on the normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction 
of the relevant performance conditions and reduced pro-rata to 
reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served. 
However, the Committee has discretion to determine that awards 
for good leavers vest at cessation and/or to disapply time pro-rating. 
In the event of death, awards will normally vest on the date of death 
subject to performance conditions and time pro-rating, although 
the Committee has discretion to determine that awards vest at 
the normal vesting date and/or to disapply time pro-rating.
The default treatment for deferred bonus awards is that any 
outstanding awards vest on cessation of employment unless 
cessation is as a result of dismissal for gross misconduct or 
a similar ‘bad leaver’ reason.
The Company has the power to enter into settlement agreements 
with Directors and to pay compensation to settle potential legal 
claims. In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the 
event of the termination of an executive director, the Company 
may pay a contribution towards that individual’s legal fees and fees 
for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement. 
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of the detail of termination 
arrangements. For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not 
include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
External appointment of executive directors
The Board allows executive directors to accept appropriate outside 
non-executive director appointments provided the aggregate 
commitment is compatible with their duties as executive directors. 
The executive directors concerned may retain fees paid for these 
services, which will be subject to approval by the Board. Details 
of such appointments and fees retained for 2016 are disclosed 
on page 61.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 59
Corporate governance Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year 
ending 31 December 2017
Details of how the Committee intends to operate the remuneration 
policy for directors for the year ending 31 December 2017 are set 
out below. 
Base salary
Base salaries for the executive directors are reviewed annually 
by the Committee, taking account of the director’s performance, 
experience and responsibilities. When determining base salaries, 
the Committee also has regard to economic factors, remuneration 
trends and the general level of salary increases awarded throughout 
the Group. As can be seen in the table below, the executive 
directors’ base salaries will not be increased in 2017:
1 January
2016
£’000
1 January
2017
£’000
Alison Platt 575 575
Jim Clarke 340 340
Benefits in kind and pension
Executive directors will continue to receive benefits in kind including 
a company car allowance, life assurance, private medical insurance 
and permanent health insurance. Alison Platt and Jim Clarke will 
continue to receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension 
entitlement of up to 15% of base salary. 
Annual bonus 
For 2017, maximum bonus potential will continue to be 120% of 
salary for executive directors, with one-third of any bonus payable 
to be deferred into Company shares for a period of three years. 
The metrics used in 2017 will be as follows:
• 
70% – Financial through:
• 
40% – Group adjusted EBITDA targets
• 
15% – Group revenue growth 
• 
15% – Group cost to income ratio
• 
15% – Customer satisfaction metrics
• 
15% – Personal/strategic metrics
In addition, bonuses will only be payable under the non-EBITDA 
targets if the Committee is satisfied that the Company’s underlying 
performance warrants such payments.
The Committee does not believe it to be in shareholders’ interests 
to disclose the actual performance targets in advance for 2017 as 
these include items which the Committee considers commercially 
sensitive. However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and 
performance against them will be presented in the 2017 annual 
report on remuneration. 
Malus and clawback provisions will continue to operate in respect 
of deferred bonus awards. 
Long term incentives
The annual award of LTIPs to be granted in 2017 will be assessed 
over the three-year performance period from 1 January 2017 to 
31 December 2019 and will be subject to the following targets:
• 
EPS (37.5% of awards) – 25% of this part of an award will vest for 
EPS growth of 5% per annum increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting 
for EPS compound growth of 15% per annum;
• 
relative TSR (37.5% of awards) – the Company’s TSR measured 
against the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding financial 
services companies and investment trusts). 25% of this part of an 
award will vest for performance at median of the comparator group, 
increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting at upper quartile; and
• 
strategic metrics (25% of awards) – the strategic metrics that 
the Committee will use for this portion of the 2017 awards will 
relate to market share (as to 5% of the award), people engagement 
(10% of the award) and customer experience (e.g. NPS, 10% 
of the award). In addition, no element of this portion of the award 
will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Company’s 
underlying performance warrants such vesting. The Committee 
does not believe it to be in shareholders’ interests to disclose the 
actual targets in advance at this time as these include items which 
the Committee considers commercially sensitive. However, robust, 
quantifiable targets have been set, with these targets – together 
with performance against these targets – disclosed in the 2019 
annual report on remuneration. 
Alison Platt will receive an LTIP award over shares worth 150% 
of salary and Jim Clarke will receive an LTIP award over shares 
worth 130% of salary. Malus and clawback provisions will operate. 
In addition, awards made to executive directors from 2016 are 
subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
Shareholding guidelines will continue to operate, albeit on an 
enhanced basis. Executive directors will be required to retain no 
less than 50% of net of tax shares from vesting of share options 
or awards until such time as a shareholding equivalent in value 
to 200% of base salary (previously 100%) has been achieved.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive director fee levels for 2017 are as follows:
Director Committee chairman role
2016
£’000
2017
£’000
Peter Long Chairman, Nomination n/a 180
David Watson Deputy chairman and senior independent director 95 95
Cathy Turner Remuneration 55 55
Richard Adam Audit and Risk 55 55
Rupert Gavin — 45 45
Jane Lighting — 45 45
Caleb Kramer — 40 40
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 60
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART B: annual report on remuneration Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016 (audited)
The remuneration of the directors for the years 2016 and 2015 was as follows:
Salary and fees Taxable benefits
3
Annual bonuses
4
Long term incentives
6
Pension
5
Total
7
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Executive directors
Alison Platt
1
575 575 15 15 — 288 — — 86 86 676 964
Jim Clarke 340 323 15 15 — 170 — — 51 45 406 553
Non-executive directors
Grenville Turner
2
48 150 1 — — — — — — — 49 150
Peter Long
2
159 — — — — — — — — — 159 —
Caleb Kramer 40 40 — — — — — — — — 40 40
David Watson 95 95 — — — — — — — — 95 95
Cathy Turner 55 55 — — — — — — — — 55 55
Richard Adam 55 55 — — — — — — — — 55 55
Rupert Gavin 45 45 — — — — — — — — 45 45
Jane Lighting 45 45 — — — — — — — — 45 45
1,457 1,383 31 30 — 458 — — 137 131 1,625 2,002
1  Alison Platt acted as a non-executive director for Cable & Wireless Communications plc between January and April 2016 and retained a fee of £23,333, 
and also acted as a non-executive director for Tesco plc between April and December and retained a fee of £61,500. 
2  Grenville Turner stepped down from his role as non-executive chairman on 27 April 2016, with Peter Long assuming this role on the same date 
(having been appointed as a non-executive director on 11 February 2016). 
3 Benefits consist of the provision of a car allowance, life assurance and private medical and health insurance.
4 Details of the annual bonus targets and payments for 2016 (which were £Nil) are set out below.
5 Alison Platt and Jim Clarke received a 15% of salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlements.
6  Long term incentives in respect of the anticipated vesting of the IPO options were reported in full in 2014 (based on an 83% vesting level which had 
been determined on 2014 EBITDA performance criteria). The actual values at vesting of the first 50% crystallising on 18 March 2015 were £4,151,000 
and £2,491,000 respectively for Grenville Turner and Jim Clarke based on the share price at vesting, incorporating the associated cash-settled dividend 
equivalents. The actual values at exercise of the final 50% crystallising on 18 March 2016 were £3,178,000 and £1,907,000 respectively for Grenville Turner 
and Jim Clarke based on the share price at vesting, incorporating the associated cash-settled dividend equivalents. As such, the total actual values of the 
crystallised IPO options at the dates of vesting were £7,329,000 and £4,398,000 respectively for Grenville Turner and Jim Clarke against the original 
estimates reported in 2014 of £7,116,000 and £4,269,000 respectively.
7  Matching shares are also issued to the eligible executive directors under the Share Incentive Plan, following the introduction of the employee-wide share 
incentive plan in 2013. The aggregate value of these in each year in respect of each executive director is disclosed within the SIP share awards below.
2016 annual bonus award (audited)
Executive directors had the potential to receive an annual bonus of up to 120% of base salary. 
Group adjusted EBITDA targets (up to 70% of salary bonus)
The primary driver of the award was based on Group adjusted EBITDA performance relative to a sliding scale of challenging targets set 
at the start of the financial year. 
More particularly, the table below sets out details of the adjusted EBITDA targets, performance against these targets and the resultant 
bonus outturn:
Performance required
Measure Weighting Threshold On-target Maximum Actual Payout
Group adjusted EBITDA 70% (i.e. up to 84% 
of salary)
£122.9m £136.6m £163.9m £83.5m 0% of salary
 
Customer satisfaction and personal/strategic targets (up to 30% of bonus)
This part of the bonus was based on the Committee’s assessment of performance against customer satisfaction and personal/strategic 
targets. Details of the targets and the Committee’s assessment of performance against them is as follows: 
Target Weighting
Committee’s assessment 
of whether target was met
Customer satisfaction (i.e. Group net promoter score) 15% (i.e. up to 18% of salary) n/a due to overall financial result
Personal/strategic targets 15% (i.e. up to 18% of salary) n/a due to overall financial result
However, this element of the bonus was only payable to the extent that a threshold level of financial performance was delivered. As this 
threshold level of financial performance was not delivered, no portion of this element of bonus was payable.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 61
Corporate governance 2016 annual bonus award (audited) continued
Total award
Therefore, based on overall performance, and notwithstanding performance against the customer satisfaction and personal/strategic 
targets, the Committee determined that no bonuses are payable to the executive directors for 2016.
Vesting of scheme interests in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 (audited)
Awards granted under the LTIP to Alison Platt and Jim Clarke on 8 September 2014 and 21 March 2014 respectively are due to vest 
on their third anniversaries of grant in 2017 based upon absolute EPS and relative TSR performance as follows:
Threshold target
0% vesting
at or below
Maximum target
100% vesting at
or above
Actual
performance Vesting %
Absolute EPS for the three years ended 31 December 2016 58p 70p 19p 0%
Relative TSR (vs FTSE 250 ex financial services) for the three years 
ended 31 December 2016 Median
Upper
 quartile
Below
 median 0%
Based on the above, none of the outstanding 2014 LTIP awards held by Alison Clarke and Jim Clarke will vest.
Scheme interests awarded during the year (audited)
LTIP awards
The following LTIP awards, structured as nil-cost options, were granted to executive directors during 2016:
Executive Date of grant
Basis of award
granted
Share price
at date of grant
(pence)
Number
of shares
Face value of
award at grant *
£’000
% of face value
that would vest
at threshold
performance
Vesting determined by 
performance over
Normal vesting 
(exercise) date
Alison Platt 22/03/2016 187.5%
of salary
385 279,960 1,078,125 25% Three-year
period ending
31 December 
2018
22 March 
2019
 (22 March 
2026)
Jim Clarke 22/03/2016 162.5%
of salary
385 143,469 552,500 25% Three-year
period ending
31 December 
2018
22 March 
2019
 (22 March 
2026)
* Based on the share price at grant multiplied by the number of shares awarded.
As explained in last year’s report, these award levels – which are higher than the standard policy award levels of 150% and 130% 
of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively but well within the overall plan limit – were considered appropriate to take account of the 
specific circumstances that existed at the time. Performance targets for these awards are as follows:
• 
EPS growth (one-half) – 25% of this part of an award will vest for achieving a minimum of 5% compound growth per annum in EPS 
increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for achieving 15% compound growth per annum in EPS for the three-year period ending 
31 December 2018; and
• 
relative TSR (one-half) – the Company’s TSR measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services companies 
and investment trusts). 25% of this part of an award will vest for performance at median of comparator group, increasing pro-rata 
to 100% vesting at upper quartile.
Following discussions with investors, the originally proposed weighting between EPS and TSR of two-thirds to one-third was changed 
to 50:50 as described above.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 62
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART B: annual report on remuneration continued Outstanding share awards 
Date of grant
Interest at
1 January
2016
Options/awards
 granted during
the year
Options/awards
lapsed during
the year
Options/awards
exercised during
 the year
Interest at
31 December
2016
Exercise price
 pence
Expected
exercise/vested 
to expiry date 
(if appropriate)
Alison Platt
LTIP 08/09/14 246,305 — — — 246,305 — 08/09/17 (08/09/24)
LTIP 16/03/15 163,507 — — — 163,507 — 16/03/18 (16/03/25)
LTIP 22/03/16 — 279,960 — — 279,960 — 22/03/19 (22/03/26)
Deferred bonus 05/05/16 — 27,010 — — 27,010 — 05/05/19
Grenville Turner 
IPO options 18/03/13 758,638 — — (758,638) — 382 n/a
Deferred bonus 22/05/15 14,660 — — — 14,660 — 22/05/18
LTIP 06/09/13 129,545 — (129,545) — — — n/a
Jim Clarke 
IPO options 18/03/13 455,183 — — (455,183) — 359 n/a
LTIP 06/09/13 70,909 — (70,909) — — — n/a
LTIP 21/03/14 58,735 — — — 58,735 — 21/03/17 (21/03/24)
LTIP 16/03/15 73,934 — — — 73,934 — 16/03/18 (16/03/25)
Deferred bonus 22/05/15 13,889 — — — 13,889 — 22/05/18 
LTIP 22/03/16 — 143,469 — — 143,469 — 22/03/19 (22/03/26)
Deferred bonus 05/05/16 — 15,189 — — 15,189 — 05/05/19
The executive directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company under the SIP as at 31 December 2016 are shown in the table below. 
The shares are held under a SIP trust and will vest based on service conditions of continued employment and have a vesting date of a 
minimum holding period of three years from each rolling monthly award date.
Total SIP 
shares at 
1 January 
2016
Partnership
shares
purchased
Matching
shares
awarded
Dividend
shares
purchased
Total SIP
shares at
31 December
2016
Alison Platt — 501 334 10 845
Jim Clarke 1,126 660 413 84 2,283
Alison became eligible to join the SIP in 2016 once she had completed 18 months’ service.
The matching shares were awarded each month in the ratio of one matching share for every two partnership shares purchased at the 
prevailing market price on the date of the award until April 2016 and from May 2016 matching shares were awarded each month in the 
ratio of two matching shares for every three partnership shares purchased at the prevailing market price on the date of the award.
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
The interests of the directors who served during 2016 have been subject to audit and are set out in the table below: 
Legally owned LTIP awards
SIP matching
share awards
restricted
DSBP
options
(unvested)
Total
31 December
2016
Shareholding
guideline
(200% of
salary) 
2
31 December
2016
31 December
2015 Unvested Vested
Alison Platt 42,211 41,700 689,772 — 334 27,010 759,327 13%
Jim Clarke 1,545,285 
1
1,088,596 
1
276,138 — 777 29,078 1,851,278 800%
Peter Long 200,000 — — — — — 200,000 n/a
Grenville Turner 100,373 171,529
 1
— — — 14,660 100,373 n/a
David Watson 16,370 
1
16,370
 1
— — — — 16,370 n/a
Cathy Turner 9,747 9,747 — — — — 9,747 n/a
Richard Adam 10,000 10,000 — — — — 10,000 n/a
Rupert Gavin 9,500 6,500 — — — — 9,500 n/a
Jane Lighting 9,500 9,500 — — — — 9,500 n/a
Caleb Kramer — — — — — — — n/a
1 Includes jointly controlled shares held by close family members.
2  For the purposes of the above table, compliance with the share ownership guidelines has been calculated by using the share price of 176 pence on 
31 December 2016. In addition, as part of the policy review, the Committee has brought the share ownership guidelines into line with market/best 
practice by no longer counting unvested share awards for these purposes.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 63
Corporate governance Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) continued
There have been the following changes in the interests of any director between 1 January 2017 and the date of this report:
• 
purchase of SIP partnership shares by Alison Platt (243 shares); 
• 
issue of SIP matching share awards to Alison Platt (162 shares);
• 
purchase of SIP partnership shares by Jim Clarke (243 shares); 
• 
issue of SIP matching share awards to Jim Clarke (162 shares); and
• 
purchase of shares at placing by Richard Adam (2,843), Jane Lighting (1,129), Peter Long (171,429), Cathy Turner (975)  
and David Watson (5,700).
Payments to past directors and payments for loss of office (audited)
No payments have been made for loss of office. 
Performance graph and table
Total shareholder return
The graph shows the value, by 31 December 2016, of £100 invested in Countrywide plc in March 2013 (IPO) compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). In the opinion of the directors, this index (excluding investment trusts) 
is the most appropriate peer group and also closely aligns with the comparator group used for the LTIPs, which comprises the FTSE 250 
Index excluding investment trusts and financial services companies.
The table below sets out the details for the director undertaking the role of chief executive officer: 
Year
Chief executive
officer single
figure of total
remuneration
£’000
Annual bonus
payout against
maximum
%
Long term
 incentive
vesting rates
against
maximum
opportunity
%
2016 Alison Platt 676 — —
2015 Alison Platt 964 42 n/a
2014 Alison Platt
1
555 n/a n/a
2014 Grenville Turner
2
7,744 67 83
2013 Grenville Turner 1,015 83 n/a
2012 Grenville Turner 914 83 n/a
2011 Grenville Turner 689 46 n/a
2010 Grenville Turner 892 79 n/a
2009 Grenville Turner 972 100 n/a
1 Alison Platt was appointed chief executive officer from 1 September 2014.
2 Grenville Turner stepped down as chief executive officer with effect from 1 September 2014.
90
20 March 2013 31 December 2016 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2013
Source: Datastream
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
Value (£)
FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts)
FTSE 250 
(excluding investment trusts – total return index)
Countrywide plc Countrywide plc 
(net total return index)
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
Value (£)
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 64
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART B: annual report on remuneration continued Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive officer
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the director undertaking the role of chief executive officer and the 
Company’s employees as a whole between the years 2015 and 2016: 
Percentage increase/(decrease) in
remuneration in 2016 compared
with remuneration in 2015
Chief executive
officer
Average pay
 based on all
 Countrywide
employees
Salary and fees 0 4.6
All taxable benefits 0 4.9
Annual bonuses/variable pay (100) (21.4)
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends, tax and retained profits: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Change
%
Employee costs 425,156 418,583 1.6
Dividends 32,780 32,944 (0.5)
Tax charge 1,955 5,942 (67.1)
Retained (losses)/profits (15,376) 8,407 (282.9)
The Remuneration Committee and its composition
The Committee’s composition, responsibilities and operation comply with the principles of good governance (as set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code). The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on request to shareholders and on the 
Company’s website at www.countrywide.co.uk. The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Board and, if necessary, updated. 
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment date, is set out below:
Member
Remuneration Committee
member since
Cathy Turner (chairman) 31 July 2013
Richard Adam 9 June 2014
Rupert Gavin 25 June 2014
Jane Lighting 9 June 2014
David Watson 2 September 2013
There have been no changes to the composition of the Committee during the year. Attendance by members at the meetings is shown 
on page 42. All members of the Committee are considered independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of the Committee reports on the Committee’s activities to the Board at the meeting immediately following 
the Committee meeting. 
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration
Membership of Board Committees that considered remuneration (both the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee 
(when directors are appointed)) are disclosed within the corporate governance section of the annual report. Invitations to attend are also 
extended to executive management where appropriate. 
At the start of the year, the Committee received advice on remuneration from New Bridge Street, part of Aon plc. New Bridge Street was 
not connected to the Group, was a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Conduct, and in 2016 
received fees of £59,872 (2015: £55,455) in connection with its work for the Committee. During the year FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP 
(FIT) was appointed as the Committee’s independent advisor in place of New Bridge Street. FIT is not connected to the Group, is a member 
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct, and in 2016 received fees of £50,136 in connection with 
its work for the Committee, which it provided pursuant to its standard terms of business.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 65
Corporate governance Shareholder voting and engagement
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2016, voting in respect of the resolution relating to the remuneration report 
was as follows:
Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld
Resolution
Number
of shares
% of
shares voted
Number of
shares
% of
shares voted
% of issued
share capital
Number
of shares
Approval of remuneration report 155,912,863 79.26% 40,809,433 20.74% 90.94% 394
When conducting its review of the remuneration policy, the Committee took account of the fact that, while 79% of shareholders who 
voted on the 2016 remuneration report were supportive, a significant number of shareholders voted against this resolution, primarily 
due to the fact that higher LTIP awards were made in 2016 with lower EPS targets (in absolute terms) than had been applied to previous 
awards. As explained above, the new policy does not envisage LTIP awards being made in excess of 150% of salary, with a revised 
approach proposed in relation to the performance conditions that are to apply to these awards.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 9 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Cathy Turner
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 66
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART B: annual report on remuneration continued Group directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2016
The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. The review 
of the business, future developments and outlook, as well as specific disclosures in relation to employee policies, are contained within 
the strategic report and are incorporated into the directors’ report by cross-reference.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries and financial risk management policies are given 
in notes 33 and 34 to the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in the annual report 
and accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this directors’ report, with the exception of the information set out in the 
table below, which can be found at the location specified.
Listing Rule Information Location
LR 9.8.4(4) Details of long term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.3, 
regarding information about the recruitment of a director
Pages 62 to 63 of the directors’ remuneration report
LR 9.8.4(11) Details of contracts for the provision of services to the Company 
by a controlling shareholder
Page 58 of the directors’ remuneration report
LR 9.8.4(14) Details of transactions with controlling shareholders Page 120 (note 35 to the accounts)
General information
Countrywide plc is a public limited company, listed on the 
London Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in the UK. 
The registered address of the Company is included in note 1 
to the financial statements.
Dividends
The directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend. 
An interim dividend of 5.0 pence (net) per share was paid on 
7 October 2016, and the total dividend in respect of the year is 
therefore 5.0 pence (net) per share (2015: 15.0 pence (net) per share).
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital are shown in note 26 to the 
Group financial statements on page 110 of this annual report. 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries 
the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and 
has no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 27 to the 
Group financial statements. Shares held by the Group Employee 
Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
Purchase of the Company’s own shares
Further to the shareholders’ resolutions passed at the Company’s 
AGM held on 29 April 2015, during the first half of 2016 the 
Company purchased 4,534,655 ordinary shares with a nominal 
value of £45,347, and representing 2.1% of the Company’s called 
up ordinary share capital, for a consideration of £16,524,000. 
The reason for the purchase was to improve the return available to 
shareholders and enhance earnings per share. Some of the shares 
purchased by the Company during 2016 were then used to settle 
the IPO options vesting in March 2016 and the balance is held 
in treasury.
At the end of the year, the directors had authority, under a 
shareholder resolution approved at the AGM on 27 April 2016, to 
make one or more market purchases of its ordinary shares, limited 
to: a maximum number of 21,902,833 ordinary shares; a minimum 
price (exclusive of expenses) of the nominal value; and a maximum 
price of 5% above the average market value for the preceding five 
business days or the higher of the price of the last independent 
trade and highest current independent bid on the trading venues 
where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time. This authority 
expires at the conclusion of the AGM on 27 April 2017.
As a routine matter, the Company will be seeking to have this 
authority renewed at the 2017 AGM.
Substantial shareholdings
At 8 March 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to the 
publication of this annual report, the Company had been notified 
of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting 
rights in the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder Number of shares % holding
Oaktree Capital Management 65,196,855 30.14
Brandes Investment Partners, LP 35,356,206 16.34
Franklin Templeton Investment 
Management 17,842,381 8.25
Harris Associates LP 16,580,200 7.66
Jupiter Asset Management 9,646,820 4.46
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders
Any person who exercises or controls on their own, or together with 
any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of 
the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general 
meetings of a company is known as a ‘controlling shareholder’. 
The Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules require companies 
with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally 
binding agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling 
shareholder complies with certain independence provisions. 
The agreement must contain undertakings that:
(a)  transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder 
(and/or any of its associates) will be conducted at arm’s length 
and on normal commercial terms;
(b)  neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates 
will take any action that would have the effect of preventing 
the listed company from complying with its obligations under 
the Listing Rules; and
(c)  neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates 
will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder 
resolution which is intended or appears to be intended 
to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 67
Corporate governance
Directors’ report Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders 
continued
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, 
on 19 March 2013, the Company entered into such an agreement 
(‘the Relationship Agreement’) with, among others, OCM Luxembourg 
Castle Holdings S.Á R.L. and OCM Luxembourg EPF III Castle 
Holdings S.Á R.L. (together, ‘the Oaktree Shareholders’) which 
currently have a combined total holding of approximately 30.14% 
of the Company’s voting rights. Under the terms of the Relationship 
Agreement, the Oaktree Shareholders have agreed to the 
independence obligations contained in the Relationship Agreement.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship 
Agreement on 19 March 2013 until 25 February 2016, being the 
latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report:
(i)  the Company has complied with the independence provisions 
included in the Relationship Agreement; and 
(ii)  so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions 
included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied 
with by Oaktree and its associates.
As there are no controlling shareholders of the Company other 
than the Oaktree Shareholders there is no need for the Relationship 
Agreement to require the Oaktree Shareholders to procure compliance 
by any third parties with the independence provisions of the 
Relationship Agreement.
Appointment and removal of directors
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 
or by the Board. The Company may, by special resolution, remove 
any director before the expiration of their period of office.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company will be managed by the Board which may exercise all 
the powers of the Company.
Amendment of Articles
The Articles may be altered by special resolution, in accordance 
with the Companies Act.
Directors and directors’ interests
The directors of the Company who were in office during the year 
and up to the date of signing the financial statements are disclosed 
on pages 38 to 39 and their interests in the shares of the 
Company are disclosed on page 63.
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 
(as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors 
during the year; these provisions were in force during the financial 
year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditors
All directors at the date of approval of this annual report confirm that:
• 
so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant information 
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• 
the directors have taken steps that they ought to have taken as 
directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors is aware 
of any such information.
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, has expressed its 
willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to 
reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will be proposed 
at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance can be found 
in the corporate governance statement on pages 41 to 42 of this 
annual report. The corporate governance statement forms part of 
this directors’ report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Political donations
No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure 
incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year and 
there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
GHG emissions data for the period 1 January to 
31 December 2016
Tonnes of CO
2
e*
2016 2015
Scope 1
Controlled vehicle fleet 5,194 5,175
Scope 2
Electricity and heat purchased for own use 11,541 12,422
Tonnes of CO
2
e*/£m revenue 22.7 23.9
*   C O
2
e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global 
warming of GHG expressed in terms of the global warming potential 
of one unit of carbon dioxide.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013. 
We have used the operational control consolidation method. 
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements, 
but exclude non-wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emission factors from 
the UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting 2016 to calculate the above disclosures.
Post-balance sheet events
Particulars of important post-balance sheet events of the Company 
are set out in note 36 to the Group financial statements on page 120 
of this annual report and are incorporated into this directors’ report 
by cross-reference.
AGM notice
Accompanying this report is the notice of the AGM which sets out 
the resolutions for the meeting, together with an explanation of them.
The financial statements on pages 76 to 134 were approved by the 
Board of directors on 9 March 2017 and signed on its behalf.
By order of the Board
Gareth Williams
Company secretary
9 March 2017
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 68
Corporate governance
Directors’ report continued The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the 
directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company 
law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
the directors are required to:
• 
select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• 
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• 
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Group and company financial statements respectively; and
• 
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the directors’ remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Group website, www.countrywide.co.uk. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Having taken advice from the Audit and Risk Committee, the 
directors consider that the annual report, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed within 
the corporate governance statement, confirm that, to the best of 
each person’s knowledge and belief:
• 
the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group; and
• 
the strategic report contained in the annual report includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 69
Corporate governance
Directors’ responsibilities report Report on the Group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Countrywide plc’s Group financial statements (the “financial statements”):
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
• 
the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016;
• 
the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• 
the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
• 
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• 
the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach
Overview
• 
Overall Group materiality: £2.7 million (2015: £3.1 million) which represents 5% of a 3-year 
average of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items. 
• 
The Group has four operating segments as set out in the Annual Report (refer to pages 88 to 
89). Each of the operating segments is broken down into a number of legal entities which are 
consolidated into the Group financial statements along with head office legal entities. 
• 
Legal entities from the four operating segments were included in the scope of our work and 
the Group audit team performed an audit of the financial information at each of these locations. 
• 
In some of the legal entities we audited complete financial information and in others we 
focused on the larger business units within those legal entities to obtain appropriate audit 
coverage. We performed audit work over the complete financial information of business 
units which accounted for approximately 88% (2015: 97%) of the Group’s revenues and 88% 
(2015: 93%) of the Group’s absolute profit before tax and exceptional items (i.e. the sum of 
the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant 
business units). The benchmark used to disclose coverage of profit has been changed from 
profit before tax and exceptional items to absolute profit before tax and exceptional items 
due to the existence of loss making components which distort the accuracy of the profit 
before tax and exceptional items benchmark.
• 
Included in the coverage above are central reporting entities and Group functions, together 
with the company, which were subject to a full scope audit.
The areas of focus are :
• 
judgements and estimates in relation to professional indemnity provisions;
• 
impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets;
• 
accounting for acquisitions, particularly the identification of intangible assets relating to the 
businesses acquired;
• 
classification of exceptional items; and
• 
risk of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management 
override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud.
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of focus
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 70
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Countrywide plc Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an 
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Judgements and estimates in relation 
to professional indemnity provisions 
Refer to page 49 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 88 
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements), and pages 105 to 
106 (notes).
Professional indemnity (PI) provisions principally relate to the Surveyors 
and Lambert Smith Hampton businesses within the Business to 
Business operating segment.
In common with other valuers, the Group is subject to significant 
claims in relation to incorrect mortgage valuation reports primarily carried 
out between 2004 and 2007. The Group holds professional indemnity 
insurance for such matters, but management uses judgement to 
estimate the net costs that will be incurred by the Group. All the claims 
received are listed and analysed through the Bordereaux report and 
the provisions held are based on experience of settling past claims, 
discussions with the Group’s insurers and advice from legal counsel.
The provisions are for both claims already received and claims yet to 
be received. The second category requires significant management 
judgement given the need to estimate the incidence and amount of 
future claims.
We focused on this area because the determination of the size 
of the provisions held and the likely settlements arising are 
inherently judgemental.
 
Claims received
• 
We checked that the amounts in the Bordereaux report were appropriately reflected in 
the books and records, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the report and the 
input data. 
• 
With respect to the input data, we agreed a sample of claims received and provisions 
made to the advice from lawyers and correspondence with claimants. We also agreed  
a sample of settlements on closed claims to supporting information and bank payments.
• 
Open large legal claims were discussed with Group Legal, and appropriate documentation 
considered to understand the legal position and the basis of material risk positions. 
For large claims, we also compared a sample of historical provisions to the actual amounts 
settled, determining that management’ s estimation techniques were satisfactory.
• 
Management hold a provision above that suggested in the Bordereaux report to reflect 
the latest observed trends in claims received and settled, the number of claims with 
losses, and the average loss on each claim. We evaluated the model and approach 
used by management by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying 
calculations and satisfied ourselves that the input data used reflected the latest 
observed trend of claims of losses and average loss incurred.
Claims yet to be received
• 
For claims not yet received but incurred, we evaluated the model and approach used 
by management by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations 
and satisfied ourselves that the input data used reflected the latest observed trend of 
claims of losses and average loss incurred. 
From the evidence obtained, we consider the level of provisioning at the balance sheet 
date is reasonable.
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other 
indefinite‑life intangible assets
Refer to page 48 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), 
page 87 (Critical accounting estimates and judgements), 
and pages 95 to 98 (notes).
We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance 
(£490 million) across the Group and the value of the other intangible 
assets, principally brand names (£190.7 million) which are assumed to 
have indefinite useful economic lives. We consider this to have heightened 
risk this year due to reduced trading performance and the impact of 
continued political and economic uncertainty on market confidence.
Management concluded that there is sufficient headroom between 
the recoverable value of the Group’s Cash Generating Units (CGUs) 
and their carrying value except in the London and Retail CGUs where 
an aggregate impairment charge of £18.5 million against goodwill 
has been recorded. Management has also impaired £1.1 million of 
goodwill in the B2B – Professional Services CGU following the closure 
of a discrete operation.
In addition, management have impaired £1.4 million of the carrying 
value of brands to reflect the cessation in the use of certain brand 
names following a restructuring of the business.
The key judgements involved in assessing impairment were forecast 
growth assumptions, cost reduction arising from restructuring activity 
and the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (WACC) calculation  
as set out in note 14.
This is an area of focus for us because the assessment of the recoverable 
value of the CGUs and brand names involves judgements about the 
future results of the business and the appropriate discount rates to 
apply to the future cash flows.
 
Impairment assessment of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets
• 
We assessed management’s impairment methodology, as required under IAS 36 – 
Impairment of Assets. We evaluated management’s cash flow forecasts, and the process 
by which they were drawn up, comparing them to the latest Board approved budget and 
forecasts for consistency. We also tested the underlying spreadsheet model. 
• 
We challenged the directors’ key assumptions and calculation of the discount rates 
and compared them to a comparator group to confirm they are in line with other 
industry competitors.
• 
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts.  
Our tests included applying:
• 
probability based reductions on EBITDA growth forecasts;
• 
sensitivities to forecast cost reductions; and
• 
an increase in the WACC rate.
• 
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually  
or collectively lead to an impairment of the goodwill and other indefinite life intangible 
assets, we concluded that an impairment charge booked against goodwill associated 
with the London and Retail CGUs was reasonable and supported by the available 
evidence. We concluded that no impairment was required in the other CGUs, other than 
in the B2B – Professional Services CGU following the closure of a discrete operation.
• 
We considered the related disclosures in note 14 to the financial statements by 
checking they were compliant with IFRS. We found that they appropriately describe 
the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates, including specific disclosures  
on the key assumptions most sensitive to change.
• 
In addition, with respect to brand names, having reviewed the discounted cash flows 
prepared, we agree with the impairment charge recognised of £1.4 million relating 
to the brand names abandoned as part of the reorganisation of the Group. 
On an overall basis, we agree with management’s view of the impairment charges 
arising and that no further impairment is required.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 71
Financial statements Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for acquisitions, particularly the identification 
of intangible assets relating to the businesses acquired
Refer to page 48 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 87 
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and page 114 (notes).
During the first half of the year the Group made a number of acquisitions for 
a total consideration of £39.7 million, some of which is deferred and contingent 
on the future performance of the acquired entity. As a result of these acquisitions, 
the following intangible assets were recognised:
• 
customer contracts and relationships (£5.7 million);
• 
brands (£8.8 million); 
• 
pipeline in the estate agency business (£0.5 million); 
• 
goodwill (£19.7 million); and
• 
Others (0.8 million)
Accounting for business combinations can be complex, particularly 
in relation to the identification of intangible assets and accounting for 
deferred contingent consideration. 
The accounting treatment of intangible assets, including their ongoing impact 
on the income statement, varies depending on whether they are seen as having 
finite or indefinite useful economic lives, and the estimated life applied to those 
with finite lives.
We focused on the management judgements, particularly in relation to the 
identification of intangible assets and any estimated deferred consideration 
where linked to the continued employment of the vendors and, in certain cases, 
contingent upon future profitability.
 
Net assets (excluding intangibles) and consideration
• 
We obtained all material acquisition agreements and read them to 
ensure that we understood the substance of the transaction, including 
the consideration and the assets and liabilities acquired.
• 
We agreed the net assets acquired, which consisted mainly of working 
capital, by agreeing them to completion statements or other similar 
supporting documentation and confirmed that they had been treated 
in line with the terms of the contract. We also assessed the need for 
any fair value adjustments to the carrying values of those businesses 
on acquisition.
• 
We tested cash consideration to bank statements and checked that 
any deferred consideration had been correctly recognised in line with 
the acquisition agreements, with no issues being identified.
• 
We verified that the contingent employment linked consideration 
is appropriately calculated based on the forecast profit levels and 
charged to the income statement in accordance with IFRS 3 – 
Business Combinations.
Recognition of intangible assets
• 
We challenged management on the fair value recognition of brand names, 
customer relationships and contracts and were able to corroborate these 
to supporting documentation, such as customer lists. With respect to 
brands recognised on acquisition, we validated the Group’s continued 
use of those brand names post acquisition and also performed a look 
back test on historic acquisitions where no brand was recognised, 
to provide evidence that these businesses were subsumed into the 
Group’s existing portfolio.
• 
On a sample basis, we tested the accuracy and completeness 
of models used for calculating the separately identified intangible 
assets by comparing them to models used on previous acquisitions 
within the Group and validated these against our experience of other 
valuation models. We carried out an independent assessment of key 
assumptions such as royalty rates used to value brands and considered 
them to be reasonable.
• 
We also tested the accuracy of the calculation of goodwill arising on the 
business combinations and noted no issues.
We concluded that the assumptions and models used by management 
to value the acquired businesses are appropriate and are satisfied 
with the judgements supporting the treatment of estimated deferred 
contingent consideration.
Classification of exceptional items
Refer to page 48 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee), page 88 
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and pages 92 to 93 (notes).
The Group recognised net exceptional expenses of £12.5 million comprising 
the following:
• 
restructuring costs including the rationalisation of branches (£26.4 million);
• 
impairment of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets (£21.0 million);
• 
acquisition costs of (£0.9 million);
• 
release of professional indemnity provisions of (£2.9 million); and
• 
income from the sale of ZPG shares (£32.8 million).
Separately identifying and disclosing items as exceptional on the face of the income 
statement requires judgement as such presentation could be misleading to investors.
We focused on this judgement, the potential for management bias, as well as the 
consistency and accuracy of the amounts disclosed within exceptional items.
• 
We assessed the rationale behind management’s classification and 
the appropriateness of the transactions recognised as exceptional 
items using our knowledge of the business, inquiries of management, 
examination of documents supporting the reorganisation of the Group 
and rationalisation of branches, and through consideration of expenses 
that are typically connected with restructuring activities.
• 
We also assessed the completeness of exceptional items through 
identifying other large or unusual items in underlying profit, considering 
their potential disclosure where significant.
• 
We agreed a sample of expenses to calculations and invoices, 
and verified payments made to bank statements to conclude on 
the consistency and accuracy of classification.
• 
For onerous property leases and dilapidation provisions arising from 
branch closures, we obtained supporting calculations prepared by 
management. We reviewed the assumptions used in the calculations in 
light of available information including a test of the historical accuracy 
of similar provisions created by management in the past.
We are satisfied that the classification, judgements and disclosures 
made by management are appropriate and in line with the Group 
accounting policy on exceptional items.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 72
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
To the members of Countrywide plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Risk of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern
Refer to page 49 (Report of the Audit and Risk Committee) and page 81 (notes).
The directors have concluded that it is appropriate for them to prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis 
presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that 
the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements are signed. 
In adopting this basis, the directors have assumed that the Group will continue to 
comply with a variety of financial and non-financial covenants over its £400 million 
revolving credit banking facilities. The Group successfully refinanced its debt 
facilities including banking covenants through to 20 March 2020. 
As at 31 December 2016, a total of £290 million was drawn down from these 
facilities. The financial covenants attached to the borrowings are the leverage ratio 
(being the ratio of net debt to EBITDA) and interest cover (being the ratio of EBITDA 
to net interest payable).
The directors monitor their cash flow and profit forecasts against these covenants 
regularly to assess the likelihood of a breach, and establish mitigating actions should 
a potential breach be identified. While the Group’ s forecasts and projections, which have 
been prepared for the period to 31 December 2020 for going concern assessment 
purposes, show that it will be able to operate within the level of its current facilities 
and comply with its banking covenants, the level of headroom against those covenants, 
when reasonable downside sensitivities are applied, remains relatively low.
As such, we identified a heightened risk in this area and focused our work on the 
directors’ cash flow and profit forecasts, in particular on the assumptions around 
projected EBITDA.
We obtained the Directors’ financial budget for the next 12 months and 
forecasts for future periods and:
• 
challenged the assumptions used in building the budget and forecasts by 
considering the latest information available in FY2017 and latest market 
trends. As part of this we discussed at length the budget and forecasts 
with the Group finance team. The results of these discussions were used 
to sensitise the budget and forecasts prepared; 
• 
performed procedures to verify the appropriateness of management’s 
model linking the budget and forecasts to anticipated cash flows 
including analytical procedures and agreeing forecasted cash flows 
back to audited information;
• 
re-calculated the directors’ calculations of forecast compliance with 
banking covenants and cash flow headroom; and
• 
considered scenarios where profitability of the business is reduced 
ensuring that, in the event of under-performance against the forecast, 
the directors have identified sufficient potential mitigating actions to 
manage covenant compliance and liquidity.
Our conclusions relating to this area of focus are set out in the Going 
Concern section below. 
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £2.7 million (2015: £3.1 million).
How we determined it 5% of the 3-year average of the Group’s profit before tax and exceptional items (“Adjusted PBT”).
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
 We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the 
Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark. We have excluded the effect of exceptional items to eliminate 
their disproportionate effect and provide a consistent year-on-year basis for our work. We do not exclude the adjusted 
measures of share-based payment charges, amortisation and employment linked contingent consideration expenses 
on the basis that these items recur annually. Further, a 3-year average Adjusted PBT (2015: Adjusted PBT for the year) 
was used in calculating the overall materiality to eliminate the volatility in trading profitability.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. 
The range of materiality allocated across components was between £0.1 million and £2.6 million. Certain components 
were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.15 million 
(2015: £0.2 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 81, in relation to going concern. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors’ 
statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing 
material to add or to draw attention to.
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 73
Financial statements Report on the Group financial statements continued
Our audit approach continued
Going concern continued
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it 
to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use 
of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a 
guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• 
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and
• 
the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to 
report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. We have nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• 
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 41 to 51 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance 
with applicable legal requirements; and
• 
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 41 to 51 with respect to the Company’s corporate 
governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.2, 7.2.3 
and 7.2.7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required 
to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement. We have 
nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
information in the Annual Report is:
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• 
otherwise misleading.
• 
the statement given by the directors on page 69, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• 
the section of the Annual Report on pages 48 to 49, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• 
the directors’ confirmation on page 19 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, 
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• 
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• 
the directors’ explanation on page 22 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, 
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 
consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 74
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
To the members of Countrywide plc Other required reporting continued
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency 
or liquidity of the Group continued
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope 
than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the 
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared 
by the company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination 
of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether 
those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Countrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Christopher Burns (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
9 March 2017
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 75
Financial statements 2016 2015
 Note
Pre‑ exceptional
items,
amortisation,
contingent
consideration
and share‑ based
payments
£’000
Exceptional
items,
amortisation,
contingent
consideration
and share‑ based 
payments 
£’000
Total
£’000
Pre-exceptional
items,
amortisation,
contingent
consideration
and share-based
payments
£’000
Exceptional
items,
amortisation,
contingent
consideration
and share-based
payments
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 723,970 — 723,970 718,699 — 718,699
Other income 5 12,985 — 12,985 15,037 — 15,037
4 736,955 — 736,955 733,736 — 733,736
Employee benefit costs 6 (415,845) (9,311) (425,156) (405,242) (13,341) (418,583)
Depreciation and amortisation 14, 15 (21,445) (11,427) (32,872) (20,180) (11,178) (31,358)
Other operating costs 7 (237,562) — (237,562) (215,517) — (215,517)
Share of loss from joint venture 16(b) (13) — (13) (914) — (914)
Group operating profit/(loss) before 
exceptional items 62,090 (20,738) 41,352 91,883 (24,519) 67,364
Exceptional income 10 — 35,714 35,714 — 2,534 2,534
Exceptional costs 10 — (48,203) (48,203) — (16,133) (16,133)
Operating profit/(loss) 4 62,090 (33,227) 28,863 91,883 (38,118) 53,765
Finance costs 8 (9,672) — (9,672) (6,376) — (6,376)
Finance income 9 304 — 304 321 — 321
Net finance costs (9,368) — (9,368) (6,055) — (6,055)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 52,722 (33,227) 19,495 85,828 (38,118) 47,710
Taxation (charge)/credit 11 (10,686) 8,731 (1,955) (15,168) 9,226 (5,942)
Profit/(loss) for the year 42,036 (24,496) 17,540 70,660 (28,892) 41,768
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 41,900 (24,496) 17,404 70,243 (28,892) 41,351
Non-controlling interests 136 — 136 417 — 417
Profit/(loss) attributable for the year 42,036 (24,496) 17,540 70,660 (28,892) 41,768
Earnings per share attributable to 
owners of the parent
Basic earnings per share 13 8.03p 18.93p
Diluted earnings per share 13 8.03p 18.82p
The notes on pages 81 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 76
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2016   Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Profit for the year 17,540 41,768
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising in the pension scheme 25 (4,783) 3,248
Deferred tax arising on the pension scheme 25 909 (650)
(3,874) 2,598
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Foreign exchange rate gain/(loss) 136 (255)
Cash flow hedges 21 (2,367) —
Deferred tax arising on cash flow hedge 473 —
Available-for-sale financial assets:
– Gains arising during the year 16(c) 2,132 7,836
– Less reclassification adjustments for gains included in the profit and loss (29,943) (237)
(29,569) 7,344
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (33,443) 9,942
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (15,903) 51,710
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent (16,039) 51,293
Non-controlling interests 136 417
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (15,903) 51,710
The notes on pages 81 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 77
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2016 Attributable to owners of the parent
Note
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling
interests
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2015 2,194 211,841 98,683 218,660 531,378 190 531,568
Profit for the year — — — 41,351 41,351 417 41,768
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Currency translation differences — — (255) — (255) — (255)
Realisation of capital reorganisation reserve on liquidation 
of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd — — (92,820) 92,820 — — —
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 16(c) — — 7,836 — 7,836 — 7,836
Reclassification of gains on disposal of available-for-sale 
financial assets — — (237) — (237) — (237)
Actuarial gain in the pension fund 25 — — — 3,248 3,248 — 3,248
Deferred tax movement relating to pension 25 — — — (650) (650) — (650)
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income — — (85,476) 95,418 9,942 — 9,942
Total comprehensive (expense)/income — — (85,476) 136,769 51,293 417 51,710
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 2 (2) — — — — —
Share-based payment transactions 27 — — — 3,226 3,226 — 3,226
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — (767) (767) — (767)
Liquidation of non-controlling interest in subsidiary — — — 50 50 (50) —
Purchase of treasury shares 28 — — (7,760) — (7,760) — (7,760)
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options 28 — — 20,035 (20,035) — — — 
Dividends paid 12 — — — (32,944) (32,944) (454) (33,398)
Transactions with owners 2 (2) 12,275 (50,470) (38,195) (504) (38,699)
Balance at 1 January 2016 2,196 211,839 25,482 304,959 544,476 103 544,579
Profit for the year — — — 17,404 17,404 136 17,540
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Currency translation differences — — 136 — 136 — 136
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 16(c) — — 2,132 — 2,132 — 2,132
Reclassification of gains on disposal of available-for-sale 
financial assets — — (29,943) — (29,943) — (29,943)
Cash flow hedge: fair value losses 21 — — (2,367) — (2,367) — (2,367)
Cash flow hedge: deferred tax on losses — — 473 — 473 — 473
Actuarial loss on the pension fund 25 — — — (4,783) (4,783) — (4,783)
Deferred tax movement relating to pension 25 — — — 909 909 — 909
Total other comprehensive expense — — (29,569) (3,874) (33,443) — (33,443)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income — — (29,569) 13,530 (16,039) 136 (15,903)
Transactions with owners
Issue of share capital 26 1 (1) — — — — —
Share-based payment transactions 27 — — — 2,261 2,261 — 2,261
Deferred tax on share-based payments — — — (299) (299) — (299)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in subsidiary — — — 29 29 (29) —
Purchase of treasury shares 28 — — (18,100) — (18,100) — (18,100)
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options 28 — — 4,246 (4,246) — — —
Dividends paid 12 — — — (32,780) (32,780) (210) (32,990)
Transactions with owners 1 (1) (13,854) (35,035) (48,889) (239) (49,128)
Balance at 31 December 2016 2,197 211,838 (17,941) 283,454 479,548 — 479,548
The notes on pages 81 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 78
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2016   Note
2016 
£’000
Reclassified
 
*
2015 
£’000
Assets  
Non‑ current assets  
Goodwill 14(a) 471,749 471,626
Other intangible assets 14(b) 250,310 239,457
Property, plant and equipment 15 49,445 49,974
Investments accounted for using the equity method: 
Investments in joint venture 16(b) 2,292 2,305
Available-for-sale financial assets 16(c) 16,058 57,760
Deferred tax assets 24 9,250 10,645
Total non-current assets 799,104 831,767
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 17 120,355 123,432
Cash and cash equivalents 18 45,326 24,336
Total current assets 165,681 147,768
Total assets 964,785 979,535
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 
Share capital 26 2,197 2,196
Share premium 211,838 211,839
Other reserves 28 (17,941) 25,482
Retained earnings 283,454 304,959
 479,548 544,476
Non-controlling interests 16(a) — 103
Total equity 479,548 544,579
Liabilities
Non‑ current liabilities
Borrowings 20 292,505 204,586
Derivative financial instruments 21 2,367 —
Net defined benefit scheme liabilities 25 3,663 415
Provisions 23 12,503 16,899
Deferred income 22 2,563 4,967
Trade and other payables 19 13,659 4,709
Deferred tax liability 24 38,694 40,669
Total non‑ current liabilities 365,954 272,245
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 20 721 4,662
Trade and other payables 19 95,072 128,503
Deferred income 22 3,890 4,111
Provisions 23 19,600 22,336
Current tax liabilities — 3,099
Total current liabilities 119,283 162,711
Total liabilities 485,237 434,956
Total equity and liabilities 964,785 979,535
* See note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
The notes on pages 81 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 76 to 120 were approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
9 March 2017
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 79
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2016   Note
2016 
£’000
2015 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before taxation 19,495 47,710
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 15 13,893 14,244
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 18,979 17,114
Share-based payments 27 2,261 3,226
Impairment of intangible assets 14 20,928 6,126
Impairment of tangible assets 15 120 —
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 10 (32,804) (237)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of fixed assets 2,750 (1,176)
Unrealised gains on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets — (1,202)
Amortisation of deferred income 10 — (2,534)
Loss from joint venture 16(b) 13 914
Finance costs 8 9,672 6,376
Finance income 9 (304) (321)
55,003 90,240
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisitions and disposals of Group undertakings):
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 7,595 (14,297)
Decrease in trade and other payables (25,557) (519)
Decrease in provisions (7,406) (8,349)
Pension paid (1,900) (1,900)
Net cash generated from operating activities 27,735 65,175
Interest paid (8,475) (5,213)
Income tax paid (8,737) (13,687)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 10,523 46,275
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions net of cash acquired 29 (29,402) (62,875)
Deferred and contingent consideration paid in relation to current and prior year acquisitions (5,955) —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (17,939) (16,561)
Purchase of intangible assets 14 (11,071) (5,431)
Purchase of non-controlling interest (2,700) —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 171 3,898
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 48,165 383
Capital expenditure/purchase of investment property — (171)
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 16(c) (1,504) (2,438)
Interest received 304 321
Net cash outflow from investing activities (19,931) (82,874)
Cash flows from financing activities
Term and revolving facility loan drawn 20 90,000 80,000
Financing fees paid (2,587) (1,127)
Capital repayment of finance lease liabilities 20 (5,925) (5,363)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent 12 (32,780) (32,944)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (210) (454)
Purchase of own shares 26 (18,100) (7,760)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 30,398 32,352
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 20,990 (4,247)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 24,336 28,583
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 18 45,326 24,336
The notes on pages 81 to 120 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 80
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2016 1. General information
Countrywide plc (‘the Company’), and its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’), is the leading integrated, full service residential estate agency 
and property services group in the UK, measured by both revenue and transaction volumes in 2016. It offers estate agency and lettings 
services, together with a range of complementary services, and has a significant presence in key areas and property types which are 
promoted through locally respected brands.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the UK 
(registered number: 08340090). The address of its registered office is County House, Ground Floor, 100 New London Road, Chelmsford, 
Essex CM2 0RG.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to the years presented.
(a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of 
available-for-sale financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union and the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The preparation of the consolidated financial information in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates 
and requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, 
are disclosed in note 3.
(b) Going concern
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will be able to meet its liabilities 
when they fall due. The Board of directors has reviewed cash flow forecasts, which have been stress tested with various assumptions regarding 
future housing market volumes, and concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
(c) New standards, amendments and interpretations
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective and adopted by the Group
No new standards, amendments or interpretations effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2016 
have had a material impact on the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2016 reporting 
periods and have not been early adopted by the Group. None of these new standards or interpretations are expected to have a material 
impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, with the exception of the following:
• 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The 
standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The impact of IFRS 9 is being assessed by management. 
The main impact is likely to arise from the relaxation of the requirements for hedge effectiveness testing and amendments to the disclosure 
of financial instruments. 
• 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition. The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2018. The impact of IFRS15 is being assessed by management. Implementation of IFRS 15 requires a thorough review 
of existing contractual arrangements. At present, the directors anticipate there may be some refinement in the recognition of commission 
assets arising from the acquisition of contracts although the amounts involved are immaterial. The transition work in respect of other areas 
is ongoing but has not, as yet, highlighted potentially material adjustments.
• 
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ deals with the definition of a lease and recognition and measurement of leases and establishes principles for disclosures. 
A key change is that most operating leases will be brought on balance sheet for lessees. The standard is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The full impact of IFRS16 has not yet been assessed by management.
(d) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, 
variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for acquisitions and the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets 
given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a 
business combination are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. Acquisition costs are written off to the income statement. 
The accounting policies of subsidiaries acquired are changed, where necessary, to ensure consistency with policies operated by the Group. 
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 81
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements 2. Accounting policies continued
(d) Basis of consolidation continued
Subsidiaries continued
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at 
the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. If the business 
combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is 
remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss. 
Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and fair value of non-controlling interest over the 
fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of net assets of 
the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. 
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant 
share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling 
interests are also recorded in equity.
Joint ventures
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the 
Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses 
in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses except to the extent 
that it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture. Accounting policies of the joint venture are aligned 
where applicable. 
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
Intra-group balances, and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial information. Gains arising from transactions with jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the entity. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 
(e) Foreign currency translation 
The functional currency of the Company is Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the Group operates. The Group’s presentational currency is Pounds Sterling. 
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange 
rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement 
within ‘finance income or costs’. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within ‘other income’ 
or ‘other operating costs’.
Group companies 
The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of which have the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have 
a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• 
assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• 
income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a 
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses 
are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); and 
• 
all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
The following exchange rates were applied for £1 Sterling at 31 December: 
2016 2015
Hong Kong Dollars 9.54 11.49
Euros 1.17 1.36
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Owned assets 
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, those components are accounted 
for as separate items of property, plant and equipment. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 82
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 2. Accounting policies continued
(f) Property, plant and equipment continued
Leased assets 
Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as finance leases. 
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is recorded at fair value or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease 
payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included within borrowings. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as 
to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and 
equipment under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Depreciation 
Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant 
and equipment. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of 
the asset and the lease term. Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. The estimated useful lives 
are as follows: 
• 
Freehold buildings – 50 years 
• 
Leasehold improvements – over the period of the lease 
• 
Furniture and equipment – three to five years 
• 
Motor vehicles – three to five years 
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
(g) Intangible assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquiree at the date of acquisition and the value 
of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs are written off to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. The allocation 
is made to those cash generating units or groups of units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill 
arose. The units or groups of units are identified at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
In respect of joint ventures, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the joint venture. 
Excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost 
arising on an acquisition is recognised in the income statement.
Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group, principally acquired brands, customer contracts and relationships, 
computer software, pipeline and other intangibles, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation, where charged, and impairment 
losses. Brands are considered to have indefinite lives.
Acquired computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. 
Internal costs that are incurred during the development of significant and separately identifiable computer software for use in the business 
are capitalised where the software is integral to the generation of future economic benefits. Internal costs that are capitalised are limited to 
incremental costs specific to the project. Other development expenditures that do not meet the criteria for capitalisation are recognised as 
an expense as incurred. Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Amortisation 
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives 
are indefinite. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
• 
Computer software – one to five years
• 
Brand names – indefinite life
Assets are tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. 
• 
Customer contacts and relationships – five to ten years
• 
Pipeline (agreed but unexchanged house sales at date of acquisition) – three months
• 
Other intangibles – six to 20 years
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 83
Financial statements 2. Accounting policies continued
(h) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-current assets are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events and changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
In respect of goodwill, intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the 
recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use.
Impairment losses represent the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount; they are recognised in profit or 
loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the cash generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
(i) Financial assets 
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the 
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that arise principally through the provision 
of services to customers. They are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the end of the reporting 
period. Loans and receivables comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. 
Available‑ for‑ sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any 
of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it 
within twelve months of the end of the reporting period.
Available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets are non-derivatives valued on the following bases as detailed in note 16.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the AFS revaluation 
reserve with the exception of impairment losses which are recognised directly in profit and loss. Where the investment is disposed of or is 
determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the AFS revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive the dividends is established.
Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date: the date on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been 
transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value. Available-for-sale financial assets are 
subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. 
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are 
included in the income statement as ‘gains and losses from investment securities’. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments 
are recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. 
Impairment of financial assets 
Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence (such as significant financial difficulties on the part of the 
counterparty or default or significant delay in payment) that the Group will be unable to collect all of the amounts due under the terms 
receivable, the amount of such a provision being the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of the future 
expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable. 
For trade receivables, which are reported net of provisions, such provisions are recorded in a separate provision account with the loss 
being recognised within other operating costs in the income statement. On confirmation that the trade receivable will not be collectable, 
the gross carrying value of the asset is written off against the associated provision. 
In the case of assets classified as available-for-sale, impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement and arise 
from objective evidence that these assets have declined in value such as a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security 
below its cost.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 84
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 2. Accounting policies continued
(j) Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less an impairment 
provision. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able 
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if 
they are past due. Trade receivables past due beyond 90 days for individual customers or 180 days for commercial contracts that are not 
assessed to be impaired individually are, in addition, assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows and are presented in current liabilities.
(l) Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
(m) Borrowings 
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Such interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense over the period to repayment is at a 
constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the balance sheet. Interest expense in this context includes initial transaction costs 
and premiums payable on redemption, as well as any interest payable while the liability is outstanding. 
(n) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their 
fair value. The Group has designated certain derivatives as a cash flow hedge and documented at inception of the transaction the relationship 
between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking hedging 
transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives 
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21. The fair value of derivatives has 
been calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date. Movements in the hedging 
reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 28. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current 
liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months from maturity. The effective portion of changes in the fair value 
of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating 
to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit 
or loss in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps 
hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within ‘Finance costs’.
(o) Pensions 
The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
Defined contribution plans
The Group pays fixed contributions to separately administered pension insurance plans. The Group has no further obligations once 
the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. 
Defined benefit plans 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the 
benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity 
in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income.
(p) Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based schemes under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration 
for equity instruments (options) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is 
recognised as an expense. Where the share awards have non-market-related performance criteria the Group has used the Binomial Lattice 
and Black Scholes option valuation models to establish the relevant fair values. Where the share awards have TSR market-related performance 
criteria the Group has used the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to establish the relevant fair values (see note 27). The resulting 
values are amortised through the income statement over the vesting period of the options and other grants.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market conditions and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity. 
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options are considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 85
Financial statements 2. Accounting policies continued
(q) Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting 
the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised in finance costs. 
(r) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in share premium 
as a deduction from the proceeds. Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), 
the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity 
holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
(s) Revenue 
Services rendered 
Revenue comprises mainly commission and fees receivable. Commission earned on sales of residential and commercial property is 
accounted for on the exchange of contracts for such sales. Survey, valuation and conveyancing fees are accounted for on completion of 
the service being provided. Commission earned on sales of insurance policies, mortgages and related products is accounted for when 
the policies go on risk or the mortgage is exchanged. The Group offers the following residential lettings services to customers: Tenant 
Introduction, Tenant Renewal, Standard Lettings (often referred to as Rent Collection), or a Full Property Management service, plus a 
Leasehold Property Management service. Commissions and fees earned for Tenant Introduction (or Tenant Renewal) in respect of securing 
(or extending) the letting are recognised in full at the point of delivery of the service, which is considered to be when the underlying tenancy 
agreement commences. A revenue clawback provision, based on historical experience, is recognised for those contracts containing a 
break clause and which may require a refund if broken early. Fees for standard lettings and property management services, including 
leasehold property management services, are recognised on a straight line basis over the life of the agreement. Revenue generated by 
Surveying Services from panel management contracts is reported net of any fees paid on behalf of panel valuers, reflecting the fact that 
the Group does not act as the principal in these contracts.
Revenue in respect of consultancy services performed is recognised as activity progresses to reflect the Group’s partial performance of 
its contractual obligations. Activity performance in excess of invoices raised is included within ‘amounts due from customers for contract 
work’. Where amounts have been invoiced in excess of work performed, the excess is included within ‘amounts due to customers for 
contract work’. If the right to consideration is conditional or contingent on a specified future event or outcome, the outcome of which 
is outside the control of the Group, revenue is not recognised until that critical event occurs.
Under certain service contracts, the Group manages client expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from suppliers 
and recharge them on to the customer at cost. The amounts charged by suppliers and recharged to clients are excluded from revenue 
and administrative expenses. Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the balance sheet.
Deferred income
Where the Group receives an amount upfront in respect of future income streams, the value of the receipt is amortised over the period 
of the contract as the services are delivered and the unexpired element is disclosed in liabilities as deferred income.
(t) Other income 
Other income is recognised when its receipt is assured and the Group has no further obligations to any other party in respect of 
that income. Rental income from sub-let properties is recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income. Dividend income is recognised when the right 
to receive payment is established.
(u) Operating lease payments 
Payments under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives 
received are recognised in profit or loss as an integral part of the total lease expense.
(v) Net finance costs 
Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings (including finance lease commitments), net interest costs on the pension scheme 
liabilities, the unwinding of the discount rates in respect of financial liabilities and provisions, premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs. Interest costs accrue using the effective interest method. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are 
recognised as transaction costs of the loan and amortised over the period to which the facility relates.
Finance income
Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested. Interest income is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues using 
the effective interest method.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 86
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 2. Accounting policies continued
(w) Adjusting items
As permitted by IAS 1 ‘Presentation and disclosure’ certain items are presented separately in the income statement as exceptional where, in 
the judgement of the directors, they need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear 
and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying business performance. Examples of material and non-recurring items which may 
give rise to disclosure as exceptional items include costs of restructuring existing businesses, integration of newly acquired businesses, 
asset impairments, costs associated with acquiring new businesses and profit on sale of available-for-sale financial assets. 
The columnar presentation of our income statement separates exceptional items as well as adjusting items, specifically amortisation of 
intangibles arising on business acquisitions, contingent consideration and share-based payments, to illustrate consistently the Group’s 
underlying business performance.
(x) Income tax 
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity respectively. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. 
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of other assets or 
liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they 
are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation 
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 
either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except for deferred 
income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend. 
(y) Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Executive Committee which has been 
identified as the chief operating decision maker. 
(z) Dividend distribution 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
3. Critical accounting judgements and estimates 
The preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates and judgements 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates, given the uncertainty surrounding the 
assumptions and conditions upon which the estimates are based. 
The directors consider that the following estimates and judgements are likely to have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets
Determining whether goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which the assets have been allocated. Calculating the cash flows requires the use of judgements and estimates that 
have been included in our strategic plans and long range forecasts. In addition, judgement is required to estimate the appropriate 
interest rate to be used to discount the future cash flows. The data necessary for the execution of the impairment tests is based on 
management estimates of future cash flows, which require estimating revenue growth rates and profit margins. Further details of 
impairment reviews are set out in note 14.
Accounting for acquisitions
The Group accounts for all business combinations under the purchase method. Under the purchase method, the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. Judgements and estimates 
are made in respect of the measurement of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and consideration transferred. Where necessary, 
the Group engages external valuation experts to advise on fair value estimates, or otherwise performs estimates internally. Further 
details of contingent consideration are set out in note 29.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 87
Financial statements 3. Critical accounting judgements and estimates continued
Exceptional items
Certain items are presented separately in the income statement as exceptional where, in the judgement of the directors, they need to 
be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s 
underlying business performance. Further details of material, non-recurring items the directors have disclosed as exceptional items, 
including the costs of restructuring the business, are provided in note 10.
Professional indemnity provisions
When evaluating the impact of potential liabilities arising from claims against the Group, the Group takes legal and professional advice 
to assist it in arriving at its estimation of the liability taking into account the probability of the success of any claims and also the likely 
development of claims based on recent trends. 
The Group has made provision for claims received under its professional indemnity insurance arrangements. The provision can be 
broken down to three categories:
• 
Reserves for known claims: These losses are recommended by our professional claims handlers and approved panel law firms who take 
into account all the information available on the claims and recorded on our insurance bordereaux. Where there is insufficient information 
on which to assess the potential losses, initial reserves may be set at an initial level to cover investigative costs or nil. Further provisions are 
also made for specific large claims which may be subject to litigation and the directors assess the level of these provisions based on legal 
advice and the likelihood of success.
• 
Provision for the losses on known claims to increase: It can take one to two years for claims to develop after they are initially notified to the 
Group. For this reason, the Group creates a provision based on historical loss rates for closed claims and average losses for closed claims.
• 
Provision for incurred but not reported (IBNR): The Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims IBNR for mortgage valuation 
reports and home buyer reports performed by Surveying Services. This provision is estimated on a future projection of historical data for all 
claims received based on the number of surveys undertaken to date. This projection takes into account the historic claim rate, the claim 
liability rate and the average loss per claim. In view of the significant events in the financial markets and the UK property market in recent 
years, the directors have identified a separate sub-population of claims received which is tracked separately from the normal level of claims. 
This sub-population has been defined as claims received since 2009 for surveys carried out between 2004 and 2008. 
The estimate of these provisions by their nature is judgemental. The three key inputs, claim rate, claim liability rate and average loss, 
are very sensitive to any change in trends. 
Claim rate – the number of claims received compared to the number of surveys performed.
Following our experience in 2015, the number of valuation claims continued to decline significantly throughout 2016 to historically low 
levels. In common with 2015, the majority of valuation claims related to surveys completed over six years old. While there is very little 
experience relating to old claims on which to base any future model, given our experience and the low volumes received, we do not 
foresee any reason to increase our rates. There is a possible risk that a significant rise in mortgage interest rates could lead to an 
increase in repossessions and potential losses being incurred by the lenders. While there is uncertainty around the future of the UK 
economy as the Government deals with Brexit, there are no macroeconomic indicators that this is a reasonable likelihood in the short 
term and the directors do not consider it appropriate to provide for additional claims due to macroeconomic changes. It should be noted 
that a 5% increase in the claim rate (which is applied to all surveys performed between 2004 and 2008) could lead to a £3.5 million 
increase in the provision for future claims.
Claim liability rate – the number of claims closed with a loss compared to the number of closed claims.
Our claim handlers and panel lawyers robustly defend all our claims and as a result they have achieved a number of successes in 2016 
where clients have withdrawn their claim. Consequently, we have not experienced any increase to the claim liability rate.
The liability rate is sensitive to changes in experience and therefore we have used the average liability rate for claims closed over two 
years as the most appropriate claim liability rate to estimate the provision for those claims already received. As the number of open 
claims at the end of the year and unreported claims anticipated is much lower than in previous years, a 10% increase in the average 
liability rate would impact the provision for claims already received by £0.6 million.
Average loss – the average of total incurred losses for closed claims.
Overall, the average losses experienced over all claims have decreased 23%. This is primarily driven by the decrease of 12% in average loss 
on exceptional claims, being those with surveys carried out between 2004 and 2008, which account for the majority of losses experienced. 
This is the value used to estimate the further provision required for claims already received. Applying a further 10% increase in the average 
loss would increase the total provision required by £0.1 million, lower than in previous years owing to the reduced number of claims.
4. Segmental reporting
Management has determined the operating segments based on the operating reports reviewed by the Executive Committee that are 
used to assess both performance and strategic decisions. Management has identified that the Executive Committee is the chief operating 
decision maker in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’.
The Executive Committee considers the business to be split into four main types of business generating revenue: Retail, London, 
Financial Services and Business to Business (B2B), and ‘all other segments’ comprising central head office functions. Whilst the executive 
teams for Retail and London have been brought together during 2016, these remain separate operating segments based on operating 
reports reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 88
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 4. Segmental reporting continued
The Retail network combines estate agency and lettings operations. Estate agency generates commission earned on sales of residential 
and commercial property and Lettings earns fees from the letting and management of residential properties and fees for the management 
of leasehold properties. The London division revenue is earned from both estate agency commissions and lettings and management 
fees. The Financial Services division receives commission from the sale of insurance policies, mortgages and related products under 
contracts with financial service providers. Business to Business services comprise all lines of business which are delivered to corporate 
clients, including Surveying Services, Conveyancing Services and revenue from Lambert Smith Hampton. Surveying Services generates 
surveying and valuation fees which are received primarily under contracts with financial institutions with some survey fees being earned 
from home buyers. Conveyancing Services generates revenue from conveyancing work undertaken from customers buying or selling 
houses through our network. Lambert Smith Hampton’s revenue is earned from commercial property consultancy and advisory services, 
property management and valuation services. Other income generated by head office functions relates primarily to sub-let rental income 
or other sundry fees.
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted EBITDA. This measurement 
basis excludes the effects of exceptional items, share-based payment charges and related National Insurance contributions, contingent 
consideration and income from joint ventures. Finance income and costs are not allocated to the segments, as this type of activity is 
driven by the central treasury activities as part of managing the cash position of the Group.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Executive Committee is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement.
Revenue and other income from external customers arising from activities in the UK was £734,561,000 (2015: £732,099,000) and that 
arising from activities overseas was £2,394,000 (2015: £1,637,000).
The assets and liabilities for each operating segment represent those assets and liabilities arising directly from the operating activities 
of each business unit. Pension assets and liabilities, and liabilities arising from the revolving credit facility and related derivative financial 
instrument are not allocated to operating segments, but allocated in full to ‘All other segments’ within the segmental analysis as they are 
managed by central group functions. Non-current assets attributable to the UK of £798,266,000 (2015: £830,828,000) are included in 
the total assets in the tables on the following pages. Non-current assets of £838,000 (2015: £939,000) are attributable to the overseas 
operations. The equity investment in joint venture is disclosed within ‘All other segments’ and is £2,292,000 (2015: £2,305,000).
The available-for-sale financial assets are disclosed within ‘All other segments’ (£16,058,000 (2015: £52,072,000)) and Retail (£Nil 
(2015: £5,688,000)).
2016
 
Retail 
£’000
London 
£’000
Financial
Services
£’000 
B2B
£’000 
All other
segments
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 240,681 153,707 82,667 246,537 378 723,970
Other income 3,535 3,070 1,629 1,506 3,245 12,985
Total income 244,216 156,777 84,296 248,043 3,623 736,955
Inter-segment revenue 18,059 3,631 3,878 (25,568) — —
Total income from external customers 262,275 160,408 88,174 222,475 3,623 736,955
EBITDA before adjusting items 31,004 18,024 22,682 30,791 (18,953) 83,548
Contingent consideration — (397) (867) (4,692) (878) (6,834)
Share-based payments (307) (197) (220) (391) (1,362) (2,477)
Depreciation and amortisation (15,135) (4,972) (6,132) (7,544) 911 (32,872)
Share of loss from joint venture — — — — (13) (13)
Exceptional income 2,530 — — 2,910 30,274 35,714
Exceptional costs (19,918) (20,552) (47) (4,697) (2,989) (48,203)
Segment operating (loss)/profit (1,826) (8,094) 15,416 16,377 6,990 28,863
Finance costs (9,672)
Finance income 304
Profit before tax 19,495
Total assets 354,225 171,240 116,619 247,586 75,115 964,785
Total liabilities 433,247 127,733 211,455 260,165 (547,363) 485,237
Additions in the year
Goodwill 14,607 1,104 2,308 1,668 — 19,687
Intangible assets 11,612 172 9,064 4,027 2,048 26,923
Property, plant and equipment 11,623 1,057 1,405 1,144 5,449 20,678
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 89
Financial statements 4. Segmental reporting continued
2015
 
Retail 
£’000
London 
£’000
Financial
Services
£’000 
B2B
£’000 
All other
segments
£’000 
Total 
£’000 
Revenue 231,989 170,742 75,796 239,805 367 718,699
Other income 6,611 3,814 1,186 2,535 891 15,037
Total income 238,600 174,556 76,982 242,340 1,258 733,736
Inter-segment revenue 15,851 3,426 4,012 (23,289) — —
Total income from external customers 254,451 177,982 80,994 219,051 1,258 733,736
EBITDA before adjusting items 43,343 34,162 20,709 32,302 (17,539) 112,977
Contingent consideration — (1,096) — (7,730) (121) (8,947)
Share-based payments (464) (123) (64) (250) (3,493) (4,394)
Depreciation and amortisation (13,252) (4,284) (6,009) (6,477) (1,336) (31,358)
Share of loss from joint venture — — — — (914) (914)
Exceptional income — — — — 2,534 2,534
Exceptional costs (844) (6,768) (393) (1,079) (7,049) (16,133)
Segment operating profit/(loss) 28,783 21,891 14,243 16,766 (27,918) 53,765
Finance costs (6,376)
Finance income 321
Profit before tax 47,710
Total assets 335,495 198,067 110,621 249,566 85,786 979,535
Total liabilities 407,453 151,581 225,612 273,232 (622,922) 434,956
Additions in the year
Goodwill 30,789 16,676 — 5,665 — 53,130
Intangible assets 7,821 5,619 349 11,170 742 25,701
Property, plant and equipment 9,551 4,741 1,875 1,373 3,877 21,417
Adjusted items
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so in order to provide 
further understanding of the financial performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that, in the judgement of 
the directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation 
of the Group’s underlying business performance. Examples of material and non-recurring items which may give rise to disclosure as 
exceptional items include costs of restructuring existing businesses, integration of newly acquired businesses, asset impairments, costs 
associated with acquiring new businesses and profit on sale of available-for-sale financial assets. The columnar presentation of our income 
statement separates exceptional items, amortisation of intangibles arising on business acquisitions, contingent consideration and 
share-based payments to illustrate consistently the Group’s underlying business performance.
5. Other income 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Rent receivable 799 999
Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 491 325
Other operating income 11,695 13,713
12,985 15,037
Other operating income comprises a number of individually immaterial items aggregated across the Group.
6. Employees and directors 
(a) Employee costs for the Group during the year
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Wages and salaries 366,513 360,374
Contingent consideration deemed remuneration (note 29) 6,834 8,947
Share options granted to directors and employees (note 27) 2,465 3,372
Defined contribution pension costs (note 25) 8,633 6,687
Defined benefit scheme costs (note 25) 377 193
Social security costs 40,334 39,010
425,156 418,583
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 90
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 6. Employees and directors continued
(a) Employee costs for the Group during the year continued
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed: 
By business segment
2016
Number 
2015
Number 
Retail 4,852 4,734
London 2,030 2,014
Financial Services 997 968
B2B 2,759 2,613
Head office 271 219
10,909 10,548
(b) Key management compensation 
The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Executive Committee including the 
executive directors.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Wages and salaries 2,753 3,490
Short term non-monetary benefits 17 46
Share-based payments 1,099 1,605
Post-employment benefits — 114
Termination costs 218 903
4,087 6,158
Details of the highest paid director’s aggregate emoluments, amounts receivable under long term incentive schemes and payments in lieu 
of pension entitlements are disclosed within the directors’ remuneration report on page 61.
7. Other operating costs 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Rent 29,534 27,894
Advertising and marketing expenditure 21,171 19,932
Vehicles, plant and equipment hire 16,574 17,680
Other motoring costs 17,085 14,205
Repairs and maintenance 12,761 7,839
Trade receivables impairment 2,446 607
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets — (237)
Profit on revaluation of investment property — (400)
Other 137,991 127,997
Total operating costs 237,562 215,517
Services provided by the Company’s external auditors and network firms
During the year the Company (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s external auditors 
at costs as detailed below: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s external auditors and its associates for the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements 135 135
Fees payable to the Company’s external auditors and its associates for other services:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 444 471
– audit-related assurance services 50 44
– other non-audit services 16 11
– tax advisory services 40 9
685 670
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 91
Financial statements 8. Finance costs
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Interest costs: 
Interest payable on borrowings — 2
Interest payable on revolving credit facility 7,839 4,573
Interest arising from finance leases 269 665
Other interest paid 318 114
Cash payable interest 8,426 5,354
Amortisation of loan facility fee 1,236 868
Net interest costs arising on the pension scheme (note 25) — 154
Other finance costs 10 —
Non‑ cash payable interest 1,246 1,022
Finance costs 9,672 6,376
9. Finance income 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Interest income 292 321
Net interest income arising on the pension scheme (note 25) 12 —
Finance income 304 321
10. Exceptional items
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before taxation:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Exceptional income
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 32,804 —
Release of professional indemnity provisions 2,910 —
Deferred income amortisation arising from fair valuation of ZPG Plc shares crystallised upon the merger in May 2012 — 2,534
35,714 2,534
Exceptional costs
Restructuring costs:
People-related restructuring costs (8,109) (3,767)
Consultancy costs — (3,288)
Profit on sale of leasehold property — 836
Property closure costs (15,813) (1,211)
Impairment of goodwill (19,564) —
Impairment of brands (1,358) (6,126)
Marketing review and channel optimisation (2,032) —
Other costs (400) (669)
Total restructuring costs (47,276) (14,225)
Regulatory settlement costs (including legal fees) — (826)
Acquisition expenses (927) (1,082)
Total exceptional costs (48,203) (16,133)
Net exceptional costs (12,489) (13,599)
2016
Exceptional income
The £32,804,000 profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets relates entirely to the sale of the Group’s residual interest in ZPG Plc.
During 2016 the Group received reduced numbers of professional indemnity valuation claims, in line with expectations, and achieved 
closure of a number of challenging cases. Estimating the liability for PI claims remains highly judgemental and we have updated our 
financial models to reflect the latest inputs and trends and taken advice from our panel of lawyers in respect of open claims. Despite the 
judgemental nature of the provision, the progress made during the year on individually significant claims, aligned with the low level of 
claims made, has resulted in the assessment of a £2,910,000 release in the provision.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 92
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 10. Exceptional items continued
2016 continued
Exceptional costs
Restructuring costs
During 2016 the Group undertook a significant branch restructuring, accelerating our transformation agenda and resizing the Retail 
estate, resulting in a number of exceptional, non-recurring costs in relation to the project and related restructuring costs. The principal 
elements are:
• 
 £8,109,000 in respect of associated redundancy costs to achieve the appropriate organisational structure;
• 
 £15,813,000 of property provisions, comprising: £4,162,000 dilapidation costs; £7,430,000 onerous contract costs in respect of closed 
premises; £3,084,000 associated asset write downs arising from rationalisation of our branch footprint; and £1,137,000 of other property 
closure costs;
• 
 £19,564,000 of impairment charges from writing down goodwill associated with conveyancing operations (£1,083,000), and £5,016,000 
and £13,465,000 respectively in relation to the Retail and London cash generating units following an assessment of the recoverable value 
against the carrying value of the goodwill (see note 14); 
• 
 £1,358,000 of impairment charges from writing down four brands which have been abandoned as part of our review of the Retail 
marketplace (see note 14); and
• 
 £2,032,000 in respect of costs expensed during the year as part of the organisational redesign of our marketing function and revisions 
to our channels to market aligned with the launch of our digital offering. 
Acquisition expenses
The Group incurred acquisition expenses of £927,000 across a number of transactions undertaken during the year (note 29).
2015
Exceptional income
This income arose from the continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to ZPG Plc warrants which ceased unwind 
at 31 December 2015.
Exceptional costs
Strategic and restructuring costs
During 2015, the Group undertook the ‘Building our Future’ strategic review and incurred a number of exceptional, non-recurring costs 
in relation to the project and related restructuring costs. The principal elements are:
• 
Following an initial period of organisational design work, a number of redundancies were made throughout the year as the leadership 
structure evolved to meet the future needs of the Group. All redundancy costs directly related to this strategic review amounted to 
£3,289,000. This included the costs of redundancies which were communicated to the individuals prior to 31 December 2015, and 
settlements agreed, but whose employment ceased during 2016.
• 
The organisational redesign also resulted in the creation of a number of posts created to meet the revised needs of the Group. As a result, 
recruitment costs of £478,000 were incurred during 2015. 
• 
As part of the strategic review, external agencies were involved where specialists skills were required. Consultancy costs of £3,288,000 
were incurred in relation to a number of projects that included: strategic support and change management; IT transformation; organisational 
redesign; talent development and leadership skills training; and internal communication in support of specific strategic objectives identified.
• 
The Group decided to rationalise its property footprint in London to integrate the London and B2B teams into our existing commercial and 
corporate rented property in Oxford Street. As a result, the Group sold its existing leasehold premises in Grosvenor Square generating a 
profit on sale of £836,000 (net of legal costs). Offsetting this profit were costs in relation to exiting additional space in London that was 
surplus to requirements. As a result, costs of £1,211,000 were incurred in relation to dilapidation costs, onerous lease provisions and the 
rental costs of the additional Oxford Street space during the three-month period of refurbishment and relocation when costs were also 
being incurred in the original sites.
• 
Following the reorganisation of business units, an initial review of London brands was undertaken and as a result of this rationalisation 
of intended future brand use an impairment of £6,126,000 was identified (note 14).
Other costs directly related to the strategic review were collated and, whilst individually immaterial, these aggregated to a total cost 
of £669,000 and principally related to the costs of strategic sessions and leadership training.
Regulatory settlement costs
On 19 March 2015, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) concluded its investigation into an association of estate and lettings 
agents in Hampshire. Hamptons Estates Limited was one of three parties forming part of an association that admitted arrangements 
which had the object of reducing competitive pressure on estate agents and lettings agents’ fees in the local area in and around Fleet 
in Hampshire in a period prior to the Group’s ownership. The exceptional cost above reflects the penalty payable to the CMA and 
associated legal costs.
Acquisition expenses
The Group incurred acquisition expenses of £1,082,000 across a number of transactions.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 93
Financial statements 11. Taxation
Analysis of charge in year
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Current tax on profits for the year 5,200 8,543
Adjustments in respect of prior years (623) (82)
Total current tax 4,577 8,461
Deferred tax on profits for the year
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (154) 1,196
Impact of change in tax rate (2,308) (3,483)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (160) (232)
Total deferred tax (note 24) (2,622) (2,519)
Income tax charge 1,955 5,942
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Tax on items charged to equity
Deferred tax adjustment arising on share-based payments (299) (767)
Tax on items credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income
Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 909 (650)
Deferred tax adjustment arising on cash flow hedge 473 —
The tax charge for the year differs (2015: differs) from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% (2015: 20.25%). The differences 
are explained below: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 19,495 47,710
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% (2015: 20.25%) 3,899 9,661
Effects of:
Profits from joint venture 3 185
Tax relief on contingent consideration 1,367 1,812
Other expenses not deductible 1,351 80
Permanent difference relating to depreciation not deductible 858 907
Tax relief on purchased goodwill 3,741 (152)
Tax relief on share-based payments charged to equity (32) (1,715)
Rate change on deferred tax provision (2,308) (3,510)
Income not subject to tax due to availability of unprovided losses (6,294) (1,128)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (783) (314)
Overseas losses 153 116
Total taxation charge 1,955 5,942
The changes to the UK corporation tax rates were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2015 (on 26 October 2015) and 
Finance Bill 2016 (on 7 September 2016). These include reductions to the main rate to reduce the rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 
to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured using rates applicable to when the balances are expected to unwind. 
12. Dividends
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
–  final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 10.0 pence (net) per share 
(2014: 10.0 pence (net) per share) 21,963 21,963
–  interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 5.0 pence (net) per share 
(2015: 5.0 pence (net) per share) 10,817 10,981
Total 32,780 32,944
The directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 94
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares of Countrywide plc.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 17,404 41,351
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 216,683,218 218,447,386
Basic earnings per share (in pence per share) 8.03p 18.93p
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares arising from share options.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 17,404 41,351
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 216,683,218 218,447,386
Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable share options 12,824 1,264,900
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 216,696,042 219,712,286
Diluted earnings per share (in pence per share) 8.03p 18.82p
Adjusted earnings
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 17,404 41,351
Adjusted for the following items, net of taxation:
Amortisation arising on intangibles recognised through business combinations 6,365 4,542
Contingent consideration 6,834 8,947
Share-based payments charge 2,145 3,628
Exceptional income (35,133) (2,534)
Exceptional costs 44,285 14,309
Adjusted earnings, net of taxation 41,900 70,243
Adjusted basic earnings per share (in pence per share) 19.34p 32.16p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (in pence per share) 19.34p 31.97p
14. Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 888,982 835,852
Arising on acquisitions (note 29) 19,687 53,130
At 31 December 908,669 888,982
Accumulated impairment (note 14(c))
At 1 January 417,356 417,356
Impairment (note 10) 19,564 —
At 31 December 436,920 417,356
Net book amount
At 31 December 471,749 471,626
The restructuring undertaken during the year has resulted in an impairment charge of £1.1 million against goodwill associated with conveyancing 
operations. Impairment charges of £5.0 million and £13.5 million respectively have been made in relation to the Retail and London cash 
generating units following an assessment of the recoverable value against the carrying value. These charges have been booked against 
exceptional items (note 10).
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 95
Financial statements 14. Intangible assets continued
(b) Other intangible assets
2016
 
Computer 
software
 £’000
Brand 
names
£’000 
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Pipeline
£’000
Other
intangibles
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost     
At 1 January 52,661 223,185 125,545 5,693 — 407,084
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 29) 419 8,830 5,687 513 403 15,852
Additions 11,071 — — — — 11,071
Disposals (1,564) — — — — (1,564)
Transfers 4,273 — — — — 4,273*
At 31 December 66,860 232,015 131,232 6,206 403 436,716
Accumulated amortisation and  
impairment losses (note 14(c))
At 1 January 38,730 39,970 83,300 5,627 — 167,627
Charge for the year 7,552 — 10,808 579 40 18,979
Impairment (note 10) 6 1,358 — — — 1,364
On disposals (1,564) — — — — (1,564)
At 31 December 44,724 41,328 94,108 6,206 40 186,406
Net book amount
At 31 December 22,136 190,687 37,124 — 363 250,310
* Transfers from assets in the course of construction (note 15).
Computer software includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance lease 6,381 6,381
Accumulated depreciation (3,084) (1,808)
Net book amount 3,297 4,573
2015
 
Computer 
software
 £’000
Brand 
names
£’000 
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Pipeline
£’000
Other
intangibles
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost     
At 1 January 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 — 396,904
Acquisitions through business combinations (note 29) 3 4,446 15,287 534 — 20,270
Additions 5,431 — — — — 5,431
Disposals (15,521) — — — — (15,521)
At 31 December 52,661 223,185 125,545 5,693 — 407,084
Accumulated amortisation and  
impairment losses (note 14(c))
At 1 January 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 — 159,908
Charge for the year 5,936 — 10,710 468 — 17,114
Impairment (note 10) — 6,126 — — — 6,126
On disposals (15,521) — — — — (15,521)
At 31 December 38,730 39,970 83,300 5,627 — 167,627
Net book amount
At 31 December 13,931 183,215 42,245 66 — 239,457
All amortisation and impairment charges are treated as an expense in the income statement. Brand names are treated as having an 
indefinite-life, as a result of the fact that the Group will continue to operate these brands into perpetuity, and are therefore subject to 
annual, or more frequent, impairment reviews if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 96
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 14. Intangible assets continued
(b) Other intangible assets continued
Management identified four brand names which had ceased usage following the restructuring undertaken during the year. This resulted 
in an impairment charge of £1.4 million included within exceptional items (see note 10). All remaining brands have been reviewed with no 
further impairment identified. The carrying amounts of various brand names owned by the Group are disclosed below: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Brand names
Bairstow Eves 17,173 17,173
John D Wood 14,464 14,464
Mann & Co 5,462 5,462
Slater Hogg & Howison 9,709 9,709
Taylors Estate Agents 10,071 10,071
Hamptons International 58,774 58,774
Blundell Property Services 6,494 6,494
Lambert Smith Hampton 28,377 28,377
150,524 150,524
Other brands 31,333 32,691
Net book value 181,857 183,215
(c) Impairment
Cash generating units (CGUs) represent the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash flows that are largely independent 
of cash flows from other groups of assets. In accordance with internal management structures, the group of CGUs against which goodwill 
is monitored comprise Retail, London and Financial Services, with the B2B business unit being split further into Professional Services, 
Countrywide Residential Development Solutions and Commercial. In many cases the operations of the acquired businesses have been 
fully integrated with existing business and consequently the economic flows are not monitored at a lower level than the CGUs identified 
for goodwill impairment review. Management further considers that each group of branches operating under the same brand name to 
constitute a CGU. These brand name CGUs are therefore the level at which brand names are assessed for impairment. Where necessary, 
assets have been reallocated to the goodwill-level CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill or intangible asset arose as follows:
B2B CGUs
2016
Retail 
£’000 
London 
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Professional
Services
£’000
Countrywide
Residential
Development
Solutions
£’000
Commercial 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000
Goodwill 177,475 59,593 89,885 132,890 2,111 9,795 471,749
Indefinite-life intangible assets 70,172 86,784 4,343 — 1,011 28,377 190,687
247,647 146,377 94,228 132,890 3,122 38,172 662,436
B2B CGUs
2015
Retail 
£’000 
London 
£’000 
Financial
Services
£’000 
Professional
Services
£’000
Countrywide
Residential
Development
Solutions
£’000
Commercial 
£’000 
Total 
 £’000
Goodwill 168,650 71,960 87,888 132,890 775 9,463 471,626
Indefinite-life intangible assets 68,054 86,784 — — — 28,377 183,215
236,704 158,744 87,888 132,890 775 37,840 654,841
Under IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group is required to:
• 
review its intangible assets in the event of a significant change in circumstances that would indicate potential impairment; and
• 
review and test its goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets annually or in the event of a significant change in circumstances.
The restructuring undertaken during the year resulted in an impairment charge of £1.1 million against goodwill associated with conveyancing 
operations being closed. The 2016 impairment review was performed on the remaining goodwill in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment 
of assets’ by comparing the carrying amount of each CGU against its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value in use calculations that have been determined from pre-tax cash flow projections 
derived from formally approved strategic budgets and forecasts covering the period from 2017 to 2020 with nil growth for 2021. Growth 
rates applied within the strategic plan are based on past experience, market data and expectation of future market outlook and development. 
For the purpose of the impairment review, cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value which includes 
a growth rate of 0% into perpetuity. The discount rate used is based on the CGU’s estimated cost of capital.
For each of the CGUs with significant amounts of goodwill, the key assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based are set out 
below. Key assumptions are those to which the recoverable amount of a CGU is most sensitive.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 97
Financial statements 14. Intangible assets continued
(c) Impairment continued
Market and organic growth assumptions
Cash flows assume a 5% reduction in UK housing volumes in 2017 followed by annual growth of 2% in 2018 to 2020. Mortgage approval 
volumes remain flat in 2017 followed by annual growth of 5% in 2018 to 2020. Annual growth of between 3% and 5% is assumed for the 
remortgage market over the period from 2017 to 2020. Organic growth, for example through improved market appraisal conversion and 
increased instructions, is assumed in each CGU reflecting the strategic direction of the business. Zero growth is assumed throughout 
from 2021 for the purpose of this calculation.
Benefits of past restructuring changes
Benefits are taken into account where there is appropriate certainty over cost reductions.
Discount rate
Cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of between 8.7% and 10.5%, reflecting the weighted average cost of 
capital assigned to each CGU.
The initial 2016 goodwill impairment review identified low headroom between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount (value-in-use) 
of the London and Retail CGUs. In light of the continued impact of political and economic uncertainty on market confidence, with particular 
regard to the London sector, management adopted a robust approach to assessing the reasonableness of the future cash flows for the two 
CGUs. Probability risk factors ranging between 0% and 100% were assigned to each category of cash flow movement between 2016 
and 2017 (for example, income growth, cost reductions, and other synergies), reflecting the likelihood each of being achieved. The refined 
cash flows, discounted using a rate of 8.7%, identified recoverable amounts of £312 million for the Retail CGU and £156 million for the 
London CGU. The calculation concluded that impairment charges of £5.0 million and £13.5 million were appropriate against goodwill 
held by the Retail and London CGUs respectively.
The 2016 goodwill impairment review concluded that the recoverable amount for all other CGUs to which goodwill is allocated exceeded 
their respective carrying values, resulting in no further indication of impairment (2015: £Nil).
A similar impairment review of indefinite-life intangible assets identified an impairment of £1.4 million (2015: £6.1 million) against brand 
names as a direct result of the restructuring undertaken within the Retail business unit (see note 10). The strategic review concluded that 
certain Retail brand names will be abandoned, with the existing businesses rebranded to other Retail brand names held by the Group. 
An impairment review was performed on the remaining brand names at 31 December 2016 in accordance with IAS 36 by comparing the 
carrying amount of each brand name with its recoverable amount based on value in use calculations. The calculations used assumptions 
that were consistent with the goodwill impairment review, pre-tax cash flows from the same sources and a discount rate of between 8.7% 
and 10.5%. No further impairment of CGUs containing indefinite-life intangible assets was identified. 
The 2015 impairment review was based on cash flows from the five-year approved strategic plan for the period from 2016 to 2020, with 
a terminal value from the fifth year and a growth rate of 0% into perpetuity. The discount rate used for the 2015 impairment review was 8.7%.
Cumulative impairments, including the goodwill and brand impairments identified during the current year combined with previous 
impairments including those that resulted from the severe financial crisis that originated in 2008, amount to the following:
Goodwill
£’000
Brand 
names
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cash generating unit
Retail 223,101 35,202 5 258,308
London 59,432 6,126 1 65,559
Financial Services 114,387 — — 114,387
B2B – Professional Services 40,000 — 10,500 50,500
B2B – Countrywide Residential Development Solutions — — — —
B2B – Commercial — — — —
436,920 41,328 10,506 488,754
Sensitivity analysis
Management has undertaken sensitivity analyses to determine the effect of changes in assumptions on the outcome of the 2016 impairment 
reviews. Recoverable amounts derived from the value in use calculations for the Retail and London CGUs are most sensitive to changes 
in the discrete growth rates underpinning the cash flow forecasts, including housing market volumes, organic growth and changes in the 
discount rate. The recoverable amounts of the remaining CGUs have low sensitivity to changes in underlying assumptions.
In addition to the above review which concluded that impairment charges of £5.0 million and £13.5 million were appropriate against goodwill held 
by the Retail and London CGUs, further scenarios were modelled. Applying a further 10% reduction to EBITDA from operating cash flows, 
but keeping all other cash flows such as capital investment in line with the strategic plan, would result in goodwill allocated to the Retail 
CGU being impaired by an additional £47 million and goodwill allocated to the London CGU being impaired by an additional £24 million. 
Similarly, increasing the discount factor of 8.7% by 10% would indicate further impairment of £28 million against goodwill allocated to 
the Retail CGU and £14 million against goodwill allocated to the London CGU. Management does not consider the above impairment 
scenarios to be likely; mitigating actions are available should such scenarios arise.
An aggressive scenario sensitivity analysis conducted at the end of 2015, applying nil rate growth rates in 2016 and beyond across all CGUs, 
but keeping all other cash flows such as capital investment in line with the strategic plan, resulted in goodwill allocated to the Retail CGU 
being impaired by £91 million. Management did not consider this impairment scenario to be likely; mitigating actions would be available.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 98
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 15. Property, plant and equipment 
 2016
 
Land and
buildings
 £’000
Leasehold
improvements
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
 £’000
Furniture
and
equipment
 £’000
Assets in the
course of
construction
 £’000
Total
£’000
Cost      
At 1 January 1,926 41,464 799 65,073 6,031 115,293
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) — 228 140 234 — 602
Additions at cost — 2,627 80 8,765 8,604 20,076
Disposals (4) (15,980) (82) (32,776) — (48,842)
Transfers — 5,912 — 2,496 (12,681) (4,273)*
At 31 December 1,922 34,251 937 43,792 1,954 82,856
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 334 22,326 176 42,483 — 65,319
Charge for the year 21 5,634 236 8,002 — 13,893
Impairment — 83 — 37 — 120
Disposals (4) (13,391) (82) (32,444) — (45,921)
At 31 December 351 14,652 330 18,078 — 33,411
Net book amount
At 31 December 1,571 19,599 607 25,714 1,954 49,445
* Transfers to computer software (note 14b).
 2015
 
Land and 
buildings 
 £’000
Leasehold
improvements
£’000 
Motor
vehicles
 £’000
Furniture
and
equipment
 £’000
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
 £’000
Total 
£’000 
Cost      
At 1 January 2,093 32,537 578 67,904 5,529 108,641
Acquisition of subsidiaries (note 29) — 100 4 1,625 — 1,729
Additions at cost — 2,585 219 6,943 9,941 19,688
Disposals (167) (3,197) (2) (11,399) — (14,765)
Transfers — 9,439 — — (9,439) —
At 31 December 1,926 41,464 799 65,073 6,031 115,293
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 340 18,932 57 43,789 — 63,118
Charge for the year 22 4,038 120 10,064 — 14,244
Disposals (28) (644) (1) (11,370) — (12,043)
At 31 December 334 22,326 176 42,483 — 65,319
Net book amount
At 31 December 1,592 19,138 623 22,590 6,031 49,974
Assets in the course of construction with a value of £1,954,000 relate principally to branch refurbishments in progress for which no 
depreciation has been charged. Depreciation commences when the asset enters operational use and the asset is transferred to the 
operational asset category.
Furniture and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of computer hardware where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cost – capitalised finance lease 12,737 9,683
Accumulated depreciation (6,953) (5,404)
Net book amount 5,784 4,279
The Group leases various assets, principally computer hardware and related costs, under finance lease agreements whose terms are 
between three and eight years.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 99
Financial statements 15. Property, plant and equipment continued
Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred, relating to 2016 and the three subsequent 
years, is as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 2,590 4,437
16. Investments
(a) Principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group
The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary 
undertakings, most of which are incorporated in Great Britain, and whose operations are conducted in the United Kingdom. Principal 
subsidiary undertakings of the Group at 31 December 2016 are presented below: 
Subsidiary Nature of business
Country of
incorporation
Proportion of 
ordinary shares 
held by 
parent
%
Proportion of 
ordinary shares 
held by 
the Group
%
Countrywide Group plc Holding company UK — 100
Balanus Limited Holding company UK — 100
Retail
Countrywide Estate Agents Estate Agency and Lettings UK — 100
London 
Hamptons Group Limited Holding company UK — 100
Hamptons Estates Limited Estate Agency and Lettings UK — 100
B2B
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Holding company UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (N Ireland) Property consultancy UK — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (Ireland) Property consultancy Ireland — 100
Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited Property consultancy UK — 100
Countrywide Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK — 100
United Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK — 100
Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited Conveyancing Services UK — 100
TitleAbsolute Limited Conveyancing Services UK — 100
Financial Services
Countrywide Principal Services Limited Financial Services UK — 100
The Buy To Let Business Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Bureau Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Intelligence Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Mortgage Next Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Capital Private Finance Limited Financial Services UK — 100
Life and Easy Limited Financial Services UK — 100
A full list of subsidiary undertakings and their registered addresses at 31 December 2016 is included within the appendix. The appendix 
on pages 129 to 134 forms part of these financial statements. 
Following the exercise of the put option in July 2016, the Group has acquired the remaining 49% of the ordinary share capital of Capital 
Private Finance Limited and accordingly there are no longer any non-controlling interests within the Group.
(b) Interests in joint venture
TM Group (UK) Limited 
At 31 December 2016 the Group had a 33% (2015: 33%) interest in the ordinary share capital of TM Group (UK) Limited (TMG), a UK 
company. TMG has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and is a private company with no quoted market price available for 
its shares. TMG is one of the largest companies in the provision of searches to the property companies sector (measured by completed 
searches). It delivers a range of property searches and data to land and property professionals in the UK, arranges for property searches 
directly with specific suppliers on behalf of its own customers, and supplies IT applications and products to UK mortgage lenders.
There are no outstanding commitments or contingent liabilities relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 100
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 16. Investments continued
(b) Interests in joint venture continued
TM Group (UK) Limited continued
During the year, TMG was a joint venture company.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
At 1 January:
Net assets excluding goodwill 825 1,739
Goodwill 1,480 1,480
2,305 3,219
Share of losses retained (13) (914)
At 31 December:
Net assets excluding goodwill 812 825
Goodwill 1,480 1,480
2,292 2,305
The summarised financial information of TM Group (UK) Limited, which is accounted for using the equity method, is presented below:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 4,620 7,465
Other current assets (excluding cash) 3,227 2,149
Total current assets 7,847 9,614
Non-current assets 816 806
Current liabilities (6,202) (7,946)
Net assets 2,461 2,474
Net assets adjusted for the percentage of ownership 812 825
Income 59,735 61,447
Depreciation (395) (284)
Expenses (excluding depreciation) (59,423) (63,957)
Interest income 44 52
Post-tax results (39) (2,742)
Share of post-tax results (13) (914)
There is no other comprehensive income arising in the joint venture in either year.
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
At 1 January 57,760 33,290
Transferred from investment property — 13,806
ZPG shares purchased for cash — 2,090
Disposal of ZPG shares (45,304) (383)
Acquisition of shares in unlisted equity and debentures 1,504 348
Increase in fair value through income statement on the date of purchase — 802
Movement in fair value 2,132 7,836
Amortisation (34) (29)
At 31 December 16,058 57,760
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 101
Financial statements 16. Investments continued
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets continued
Available-for-sale financial assets, which are all Sterling denominated, include the following:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Listed equity securities: ZPG Plc — 42,856
Unlisted residential property fund units 14,139 14,455
Unlisted equity 1,797 353
Wimbledon debentures (acquired and amortised over the life of the debenture) 122 96
At 31 December 16,058 57,760
In June 2014, Zoopla Property Group plc listed on the London Stock Exchange and as a result crystallised some additional warrants 
into shares which were due under a further commercial agreement signed in 2014 to extend the listing period on the ZPG Plc website. 
The excess in the assessed fair value of these shares on initial recognition, over the nominal cost, has been treated as deferred income 
(£2,835,000) and is being released over the three-year period of the contract from 2016 to 2018 (see note 22).
The fair value hierarchy of the holding within the investment property fund has remained at Level 2, and is based on receipt of a net asset 
valuation statement from the trustees on a quarterly basis (see note 34).
17. Trade and other receivables 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables not past due 44,964 51,361
Trade receivables past due but not impaired 35,090 29,400
Trade receivables past due but impaired 3,421 3,124
Trade receivables 83,475 83,885
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (3,421) (3,124)
Trade receivables – net 80,054 80,761
Amounts due from customers for contract work 3,368 2,241
Other receivables 15,542 19,413
Prepayments and accrued income 21,391 21,017
120,355 123,432
Trade and other receivables are all current and any fair value difference is not material. Trade receivables are considered past due once 
they have passed their contracted due date. Significant trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due. All trade 
receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due beyond 90 days for individual customers or 180 days for commercial 
contracts. Further information in respect of financial assets, including credit risk, is provided in note 33.
As at 31 December 2016, trade receivables of £35,090,000 (2015: £29,400,000) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a 
number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Less than three months 17,229 18,417
Over three months 17,861 10,983
35,090 29,400
Trade and other receivables are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of £673,000 (2015: £728,000) which is receivable 
in Euros (2015: Hong Kong Dollars and Euros).
A summary of the movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
At 1 January 3,124 4,165
Additional provisions (note 7) 2,446 607
Amounts utilised (2,149) (1,648)
At 31 December 3,421 3,124
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group 
does not hold any collateral as security.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 102
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 18. Cash and cash equivalents 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand 5,299 21,246
Short term bank deposits 40,027 3,090
45,326 24,336
Of the short term bank deposits, a number were interest bearing within the following range: 2016: 0.35%–0.55% (2015: 0.5%–0.55%).
The following amounts were held in foreign currencies: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Hong Kong Dollars 152 126
Euros 463 325
615 451
19. Trade and other payables 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Trade payables 16,333 13,261
Other financial liabilities — 2,700
Deferred consideration 6,164 7,987
22,497 23,948
Other tax and social security payable 26,253 31,577
Accruals and other payables 59,981 77,687
108,731 133,212
Trade and other payables due within one year 95,072 128,503
Trade and other payables due after one year 13,659 4,709
108,731 133,212
The principal components of trade and other payables due after one year are: deferred and contingent consideration payments of 
£12,964,000 (2015: £3,099,000); and accrued National Insurance share-based payment charges of £695,000 (2015: £1,610,000).
At 31 December 2015, other financial liabilities included put options of £2,700,000 to acquire the non-controlling interests in Capital 
Private Finance Limited, an entity acquired in 2011 (see note 16(a)). These financial liabilities were held at the present value of the 
expected redemption amount, which was based on management’s expectation of performance, consistent with operating plans 
approved. The Group exercised the put options in July 2016 at £2,700,000.
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Exercisable in 2016 — 2,700
The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities. Financial liabilities are denominated 
in Pounds Sterling with the exception of £26,000 (2015: £419,000) which is receivable in Euros.
20. Borrowings
2016
£’000
Reclassified*
2015
£’000
Non‑ current
Bank borrowings 290,000 200,000
Other loans 2,699 1,000
Capitalised banking fees (3,223) (1,872)
Finance lease liabilities 3,029 5,458
292,505 204,586
Current
Finance lease liabilities 721 4,662
721 4,662
Total borrowings 293,226 209,248
*  The revolving credit facility (RCF) of £200 million was classified as bank borrowings within current debt at 31 December 2015 based on the rolling 
utilisation request, but has been reclassified to bank borrowings within non-current debt on the basis that no repayments are mandated before 
20 March 2020 (2015: 20 March 2018) (see Borrowing and other loans below).
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 103
Financial statements 20. Borrowings continued
Analysis of net debt
 
Reclassified at
1 January 
2016
£’000
Cash flow
£’000
Non-cash
changes
£’000
At
31 December 
2016
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 24,336 20,990 — 45,326
Capitalised banking fees 1,872 2,587 (1,236) 3,223
Other loans (1,000) — (1,699) (2,699)
Revolving credit facility due after one year (200,000) (90,000) — (290,000)
Finance leases due after one year (5,458) — 2,429 (3,029)
Finance leases due within one year (4,662) 5,925 (1,984) (721)
Total (184,912) (60,498) (2,490) (247,900)
Net debt excludes derivative financial instruments. Details of the interest rate swap liability are disclosed in note 21.
Borrowings and other loans
On 18 February 2016 the Company entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to the term and revolving credit 
facility agreement (RCF), originally dated 20 March 2013, which is due to expire in March 2020. The facility is now a £340 million RCF, with 
no term loan elements, and an additional £60 million accordion facility, with any outstanding balance repayable in full on 20 March 2020. 
Interest is currently payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 2.75%. The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and the margin 
rate is reviewed twice a year (and can vary between 1.75% and 3.0%). The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge 
and leverage covenants and £90 million was drawn down during the period.
‘Other loans’ disclosed above comprise: £1 million of unsecured loan notes which are non-interest bearing, repayable in 2029, and arose 
on the purchase of Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited; and loan notes payable to The Buy to Let Group Limited joint shareholder 
(49%) and director of £1,590,000 capital and associated interest charges accruing at a rate of 8% per annum.
Finance lease liabilities 
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
No later than one year 953 5,026
Later than one year and no later than five years 3,163 5,795
Greater than five years 45 —
4,161 10,821
Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities (411) (701)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 3,750 10,120
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
No later than one year 721 4,662
Later than one year and no later than five years 3,029 5,458
3,750 10,120
21. Derivative financial instruments
Liabilities due after one year
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedge 2,367 —
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve 
months from maturity.
On 1 June 2016 the Group entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the interest cash flows on the first proportion of the revolving credit 
facility in alignment with forecast drawdowns. The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contract at 
31 December 2016 was £217,500,000. 
At 31 December 2016, the fixed interest rate was 0.766% and the main floating rate was 0.5%. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded in 
the income statement. The loss of £2,367,000 on the interest rate swap contract has been recognised in the hedging reserve in equity 
(note 28) and will be continuously released to the income statement within ‘Finance cost’ in line with monthly interest settlements.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative liability in the balance sheet.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 104
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 22. Deferred income 
Deferred income will unwind as follows: 
 
2016 2015
Cash 
£’000
Non‑ cash
£’000
Total
£’000
Total
£’000
Within one year 2,945 945 3,890 4,111
After one year:
Between one and two years 975 945 1,920 4,022
Between two and three years 567 — 567 945
Between three and four years 76 — 76 —
1,618 945 2,563 4,967
4,563 1,890 6,453 9,078
The Group recognises deferred income as a result of cash received in advance in relation to certain sales distribution contracts and lease 
incentives relating to the Group’s operating leases. The cash received is amortised over the life of the contracts to which they relate.
The non-cash proportion of deferred income relates to the unamortised income portion created on acquisition of shares in ZPG Plc. 
This deferred income is being amortised over the period of the commercial agreements which gave rise to these assets (2016 to 2018 
– see note 16).
23. Provisions 
2016
 
Onerous
contracts 
£’000 
Property
repairs 
£’000 
Clawback 
£’000 
Claims and
litigation 
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
At 1 January 1,262 3,477 3,735 28,909 1,852 39,235
Acquired in acquisition (note 29) — — 274 — — 274
Utilised in the year (1,762) (784) (3,592) (13,820) — (19,958)
Charged/(credited) to income statement 6,359 3,649 3,164 (688) 62 12,546
Unwind of discount rate 6 — — — — 6
At 31 December 5,865 6,342 3,581 14,401 1,914 32,103
Due within one year or less 1,254 3,991 2,121 10,711 1,523 19,600
Due after more than one year 4,611 2,351 1,460 3,690 391 12,503
5,865 6,342 3,581 14,401 1,914 32,103
2015
 
Onerous
contracts 
£’000 
Property
repairs 
£’000 
Clawback 
£’000 
Claims and
litigation 
 £’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
At 1 January 1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492
Acquired in acquisition (note 29) — — — — 94 94
Utilised in the year (598) (1,248) (6,920) (10,760) (118) (19,644)
Charged/(credited) to income statement 709 855 7,231 2,883 (391) 11,287
Unwind of discount rate 6 — — — — 6
At 31 December 1,262 3,477 3,735 28,909 1,852 39,235
Due within one year or less 83 1,092 2,478 18,146 537 22,336
Due after more than one year 1,179 2,385 1,257 10,763 1,315 16,899
1,262 3,477 3,735 28,909 1,852 39,235
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 105
Financial statements 23. Provisions continued
The provision for onerous contracts relates to property leases and represents the estimated unavoidable costs of leasehold properties which 
have become surplus to the Group’s requirements following the closure or relocation of operations. The provision is based on the present 
value of rentals and other unavoidable costs payable during the remaining lease period after taking into account rents receivable or expected 
to be receivable from sub-lessees, on a case-by-case basis, typically over an average of a two-year period. Provisions are released when 
properties are assigned or sub-let. 
The provision for property repairs represents estimates of the cost to repair existing dilapidations under leasehold covenants, in 
accordance with IAS 37 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’. The average unexpired lease length of properties 
against which a provision has been made is two years.
Clawback represents the provision required to meet the estimated cost of repaying indemnity commission income received on life 
assurance policies that may lapse in the two years following issue. 
Claims and litigation provisions comprise the amounts set aside to meet claims by customers below the level of any professional 
indemnity insurance excess, the estimation of IBNR claims and any amounts that might be payable as a result of any legal disputes. 
The provisions represent the directors’ best estimate of the Group’s liability having taken professional advice. 
In addition to the claims provisions recognised, the Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims (IBNR) for mortgage 
valuation reports and home buyer reports provided by the Surveying Services division. The basis for calculating this provision is outlined 
further in note 3. While there are many factors which determine the settlement date of any claims, the expected cash flows are estimated 
based on the average length of time it takes to settle claims in the past, which is around two years.
Other provisions mainly comprise items relating to operational reorganisation including some business closure costs and some 
IT transition expenses which are expected to be utilised over the next three years. 
24. Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 17%–20% (2015: 18%–20%).
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Net deferred tax liability at 1 January (30,024) (28,643)
Credited to income statement 2,622 2,519
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 29) (3,125) (2,483)
Credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income 1,382 (650)
Charged to equity (299) (767)
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (29,444) (30,024)
Deferred tax asset 9,250 10,645
Deferred tax liability (38,694) (40,669)
Net deferred tax liability at 31 December (29,444) (30,024)
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 1,839 43
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 7,411 10,602
9,250 10,645
Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year (1,975) (1,826)
Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year (36,719) (38,843)
(38,694) (40,669)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets 
to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) 
during the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and 
there is an intention to settle the balances net. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 106
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 24. Deferred tax continued
 2016
 
Asset/
(liability)
 £’000
(Charged)/
credited
to income
£’000
Credited/
(charged) to other
comprehensive
income/equity
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
Capital allowances 5,690 (986) —
Employee pension liabilities 696 (296) 909
Share-based payments 335 (881) (299)
Trading losses — (116) —
Intangible assets (37,806) 5,062 —
Cash flow hedge 473 — 473
Gain deferred by roll-over relief (887) — —
Other temporary and deductible differences 2,055 (161) —
 (29,444) 2,622 1,083
 2015
 
Asset/
(liability)
 £’000
(Charged)/
credited
to income
£’000
Charged to other
comprehensive
income/equity
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
Capital allowances 6,705 (787) —
Employee pension liabilities 83 (311) (650)
Share-based payments 1,516 (3,027) (767)
Trading losses 116 (590) —
Intangible assets (39,782) 6,882 —
Gain deferred by roll-over relief (887) — —
Other temporary and deductible differences 2,225 600 —
 (30,024) 2,767 (1,417)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused capital losses of £9,366,000 (2015: £19,759,000), non-trading 
loan relationships of £217,000 (2015: £106,000), trading losses of £42,000 (2015: £49,000), or the unrealised capital loss of £315,000 
(2015: deferred tax liability on unrealised capital gain of £7,473,000) arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets. 
There is no expiry date attributable to these unrecognised deferred tax assets, but no assets have been recognised as there are currently 
no expectations of offsetting income streams arising.
25. Post‑ employment benefits 
The Group offers membership of the Countrywide plc Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) to eligible employees, the only pension 
arrangements operated by the Group. The Scheme has two sections of membership: defined contribution and defined benefit. 
Defined contribution pension arrangements
The pensions cost for the defined contribution scheme in the year was £8,633,000 (2015: £6,687,000).
Defined benefit pension arrangements
In the past the Group offered a defined benefit pension arrangement; however, this was closed to new entrants in 1988 and subsequently 
closed to further service accrual at the end of 2003. Members of the defined benefit arrangements earned benefits linked to final pensionable 
salary and service at the date of retirement or date of leaving the scheme if earlier. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit 
pension scheme is 15 years.
The defined benefit pension arrangements provide pension benefits to members based on earnings at the date of leaving the scheme. 
Pensions in payment are updated in line with the minimum of 4% or retail price index (RPI) inflation. The Scheme is established and 
administered in the UK and ultimately overseen by the Pensions Ombudsman. The regulatory framework requires the Group to fund the 
scheme every three years and for the Group to agree the valuation with the trustees. As such, the funding arrangements were reviewed 
as part of the recent valuation (as at 5 April 2015). The Group is responsible for ensuring that pension arrangements are adequately 
funded and the directors have agreed a funding programme to bring down the deficit in the defined benefit scheme over the next four 
years. During the year, the Group paid £1.9 million (2015: £1.9 million) to the defined benefit scheme. During the year which commenced 
on 1 January 2017, the employer is expected to pay contributions of £2.0 million (2016: £1.9 million). Further contributions of £2.0 million 
will be made in each of the next four years.
The Group’s obligations under the pension arrangements are subject to inherent estimation uncertainty. While the trustees and actuary 
assess the value of the scheme assets, and the extent of the liabilities, they are obliged to make a number of assumptions, sensitivities 
to which are detailed later on. Furthermore, the scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed to risks in 
the equities and bond markets and similarly the liabilities can fluctuate according to gilt or corporate bond rate.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 107
Financial statements 25. Post‑ employment benefits continued
Defined benefit pension arrangements continued
The Scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term 
pension liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the Scheme’s beneficiaries 
and they take independent advice when deliberating matters relating to the Scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme under defined pension arrangements are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows 
to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method, which is an accrued benefits valuation method. 
The defined benefit liabilities set out in this note have been calculated by an independent actuary based on the results of the most recent 
full actuarial valuation at 5 April 2015, updated to 31 December 2016. The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are 
shown below.
The Group immediately recognises the actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income as shown in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Present value of funded obligations (57,203) (47,850)
Fair value of plan assets 53,540 47,435
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (3,663) (415)
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: 
 
Present value of
obligation
£’000
Fair value of
plan assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2016 (47,850) 47,435 (415)
Expected return on scheme assets — 1,747 1,747
Actuarial gain — 4,782 4,782
Employer contributions — 1,900 1,900
Service cost (377) — (377)
Interest cost (1,735) — (1,735)
Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions (9,565) — (9,565)
Benefits paid 1,947 (1,947) —
Expenses 377 (377) —
At 31 December 2016 (57,203) 53,540 (3,663)
 
Present value of
obligation
£’000
Fair value of
plan assets
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2015 (50,740) 45,524 (5,216)
Expected return on scheme assets — 1,579 1,579
Actuarial gain — 1,121 1,121
Employer contributions — 1,900 1,900
Service cost (193) — (193)
Interest cost (1,733) — (1,733)
Actuarial gain from changes in financial assumptions 1,700 — 1,700
Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,029 — 1,029
Actuarial loss from changes in experience adjustments (602) — (602)
Benefits paid 2,496 (2,496) —
Expenses 193 (193) —
At 31 December 2015 (47,850) 47,435 (415)
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 108
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 25. Post‑ employment benefits continued
Defined benefit pension arrangements continued
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are:
 
2016
%
2015
%
Cash 1 1
UK equities 6 5
Overseas equities 6 6
UK fixed interest gilts 11 11
Corporate bonds 47 46
Other – GARS 10 11
Other – insured pensioners 19 20
100 100
Insured pensioners and cash constitute unquoted investments. All other investments are managed funds either quoted directly or 
comprising quoted investments. The Group does not have any of its own transferable instruments, property occupied or other assets 
used held as plan assets.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 
 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Current service cost 377 193
Net interest (income)/cost on pension scheme liabilities (within net finance costs) (12) 154
Total charge to the income statement 365 347
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are: 
 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Actuarial gain on scheme assets 4,782 1,121
Actuarial (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities:
Actuarial (loss)/gain from changes in financial assumptions (9,565) 1,700
Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions — 1,029
Changes due to experience adjustments — (602)
Other comprehensive income (4,783) 3,248
Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 909 (650)
 (3,874) 2,598
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (after tax) (8,403) (4,529)
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 
 2016 2015
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions:
– on benefits earned prior to 1 December 1999 4.30% 4.20%
– on benefits earned after 1 December 1999 3.40% 3.10%
Discount rate 2.60% 3.70%
RPI inflation 3.00% 2.20%
CPI inflation 2.00% 1.20%
Expected net return on plan assets 2.60% 3.50%
Cash commutation 20% 20%
Life expectancy at age 65 (years):
– male pensioner member 22.6 22.5
– female pensioner member 24.6 24.2
– male pensioner non-member (age 45 now) 24.3 24.5
– female pensioner non-member (age 45 now) 26.5 26.4
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on 
risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which 
the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then 
weighted based on the target assets allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. 
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 109
Financial statements 25. Post‑ employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used. The defined benefit obligation position revealed by IAS 19 calculations 
must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of the assets (with a significant exposure to equities) is being compared 
with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields. However, the Group has taken steps to mitigate these risks of asset 
volatility, including insuring some of the pensioners (as illustrated by the asset portfolio).
The Trustees of the Scheme invest the assets in line with the statement of investment principles, which has been established taking into 
consideration the liabilities of the Scheme and the investment risk that the Trustees are willing to take after consideration of the strength 
of the employer covenant. There is no direct use of derivative strategies, although this may be employed by the GARS Fund. The Scheme 
also has a number of annuity policies with insurance companies written in the name of the Trustees that provide pension payments to some of 
the pensioner membership. The Scheme also invests in gilt and corporate bond funds which provide some protection for the Scheme 
with regards to interest and inflation risk.
The sensitivity analyses (below) are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, 
this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. 
 
Defined
benefit obligation
£’000
Fair value
of assets
£’000
Deficit
£’000
Change from
disclosed deficit
£’000
Defined benefit obligation 57,203 53,540 3,663 —
Discount rate less 0.25% 59,386 53,783 5,603 1,940
RPI and linked assumptions plus 0.25% 57,448 53,545 3,903 240
Members living one year longer than assumed 59,719 54,122 5,597 1,934
Defined benefit obligation trends: 
 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Scheme assets 53,540 47,435 45,524 39,143 37,906
Scheme liabilities (57,203) (47,850) (50,740) (43,581) (44,518)
Scheme deficit (3,663) (415) (5,216) (4,438) (6,612)
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities — (602) — 84 1,156
Gain from changes in the demographic assumptions for value 
of scheme liabilities — 1,029 — 1,015 644
(Loss)/gain from changes in the assumptions for value 
of scheme liabilities (9,565) 1,700 (6,667) 28 (1,150)
Experience gain/(loss) adjustments on assets 4,782 1,121 4,252 (474) (513)
Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits at 31 December 2016:
Less than 
one year
£’000
Between one
and two years
£’000
Between two
and five years
£’000
Over 
five years
£’000
Total
£’000
Undiscounted pension benefits 2,068 2,153 6,734 77,264 88,219
26. Share capital 
Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each
Number £’000
At 1 January 2016 219,641,834 2,196
Share capital issued 51,138 1
At 31 December 2016 219,692,972 2,197
At 31 December 2016, 3,371,972 of the shares disclosed above have been subject to share buy-back and were held in treasury.
The Company acquired 4,534,655 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout February to June 2016. 
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £16,524,000. The shares were held as ‘treasury shares’. The Company then reissued 
1,162,683 of these shares in March 2016 and May 2016 in respect of the IPO option vesting. All shares issued by the Company were fully paid. 
An additional 51,138 shares were issued at nominal value to complete the satisfaction of the IPO options crystallising in March 2016 as 
insufficient treasury shares were held at that point in time.
Where the Employee Benefit Trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until 
the shares are cancelled or reissued. At the year end, 908,886 shares (2015: 449,172 shares), costing £3,723,609 (2015: £2,241,000), 
were held in relation to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 110
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 27. Share‑ based payments
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes for executive directors and other employees. The Group has no 
legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash. The total cost recognised in the income statement 
was £2,465,000 in the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: £3,372,000), comprising £2,261,000 (2015: £3,226,000) of equity-settled 
share-based payments, and £204,000 (2015: £146,000) in respect of cash-settled share-based payments for the dividend accrual associated 
with those options. Employer’s NI is being accrued, where applicable, at the rate of 13.8%, which management expects to be the prevailing 
rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date. The total NI charge for the year was £12,000 
(2015: £1,022,000).
The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding:
Outstanding at 31 December
 2016 2015
Charge
£’000
Number 
of options
(thousands) 
Charge
£’000
Number 
of options
(thousands) 
IPO plan 322 — 3,288 1,221
Long term incentive plan 1,252 3,225 (510) 2,033
Deferred share bonus plan 128 123 78 59
Share incentive plan 763 909 516 449
2,465 4,257 3,372 3,762
A summary of the main features of each scheme is given below. The schemes have been split into two categories: executive schemes 
and other schemes. For further details on executive schemes, see the remuneration report on pages 52 to 66.
Executive schemes
IPO plan
At the time of the flotation in March 2013, the Company granted nil-cost share options to executive directors and designated senior 
management as one-off awards in recognition of the loss of rights under a management incentive package that terminated prior to, 
and as a result of, the flotation.
50% of the IPO options granted to the executive directors became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the 
IPO option; the remaining 50% of the IPO options became exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option. 
IPO options granted to other participants became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option. 
The number of options that vested in March 2015 was subject to the performance criterion based on EBITDA for 2014 as well 
as continued service and the vesting level achieved was 83%. The same criterion applied to the options that vested in March 2016.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
The LTIP is open to executive directors and designated senior management, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee. Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria and generally vest over a three-year period.
Deferred share bonus plan (DSBP)
The Group operates a DSBP for executive directors and other senior employees whose bonus awards are settled partly in cash and partly 
in nil-cost share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The number of options that will vest is subject to market 
performance criteria over a three-year period and continued service.
Other schemes
Share incentive plan (SIP)
An HMRC approved share incentive plan was introduced in October 2013. Under the SIP, eligible employees are invited to make regular 
monthly contributions into a scheme operated by Capita. Ordinary shares in the Company are purchased at the current market price and 
since May 2016 an award of two matching shares is made for every three shares acquired by an employee, subject to a vesting period of 
three years from the date of each monthly grant. Prior to May 2016, the award comprised one matching share for every two shares 
acquired by an employee.
The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group is shown below:
2016 2015
Executive schemes* Other schemes Executive schemes* Other schemes
IPO 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
LTIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
DSBP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
S I P * 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
IPO 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
LTIP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
DSBP 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
S I P * 
Number 
of options 
(thousands)
At 1 January 1,221 2,033 59 449 7,185 1,550 — 225
Granted — 2,455 90 604 — 1,130 59 228
Exercised (1,221) — — — (4,579) — — —
Lapsed — (1,263) (26) (144) (1,385) (647) — (4)
At 31 December — 3,225 123 909 1,221 2,033 59 449
* Executive schemes are granted at £Nil consideration and SIP matching shares are granted at £Nil consideration.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 111
Financial statements 27. Share‑ based payments continued
Other schemes continued
Share incentive plan (SIP) continued
The IPO options that became exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO was the only scheme exercisable 
at the year end. The LTIP award that was granted on 6 September 2013 lapsed during the year, as minimum threshold levels set out 
in the performance conditions were not met.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date (and all have £Nil exercise prices):
Exercise price
pence
Share options (thousands)
Grant – vest Expiry date 2016 2015
IPO plan
18 March 2013–18 March 2015/2016 18 March 2021 — — 1,221
LTIP grants
6 September 2013–6 September 2016 6 September 2023 — — 561
21 March 2014–21 March 2017 21 March 2024 — 288 363
8 September 2014–8 September 2017 8 September 2024 — 246 246
16 March 2015–16 March 2018 16 March 2025 — 598 730
31 March 2015–31 March 2018 31 March 2025 — 24 24
21 September 2015–21 September 2018 21 September 2025 — 100 109
22 March 2016-22 March 2019 22 March 2026 — 1,666 —
26 September 2016-22 March 2019 22 March 2026 — 222 —
26 September 2016-26 September 2019 26 September 2026 — 81 —
DSBP
22 May 2015–22 May 2018 22 May 2025 — 43 59
5 May 2016-5 May 2019 5 May 2026 — 80 —
SIP
Monthly rolling grants and vesting three years later — 909 449
4,257 3,762
The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted during the year under the schemes:
IPO 
plan
LTIP 
(TSR condition)
LTIP 
(EPS condition) DSBP
Share 
incentive plan
Option pricing model Binomial
 Lattice
Monte Carlo/
Stochastic
Black
Scholes
Fair value
at grant date
Fair value
at grant date
Share price at grant date 350p 216p–660p 216p–660p 352p–576p 172–656p
Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p
Weighted average contractual life 2.2 years 2.96 years 2.96 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield 1.5% 1.4–6.94% 1.4–6.94% 2.6–4.26% n/a
Risk-free interest rate 1.8% 0.092–0.9% n/a 0.43–0.8% n/a
Volatility n/a 19.6–38.5% n/a n/a n/a 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 112
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 28. Other reserves
The following table provides a breakdown of ‘other reserves’ shown on the consolidated statement of changes in equity:
Capital
reorganisation
reserve
£’000
Hedging
reserve
£’000
Foreign
exchange 
reserve
£’000
Available-for-sale
financial assets 
reserve
£’000
Treasury 
share
reserve
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2015 92,820 — (173) 20,552 (14,516) 98,683
Currency translation differences — — (255) — — (255)
Realisation of capital reorganisation reserve 
on liquidation of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd (92,820) — — — — (92,820)
Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — (237) — (237)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — 7,836 — 7,836
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options — — — — 20,035 20,035
Purchase of treasury shares — — — — (7,760) (7,760)
Balance at 1 January 2016 — — (428) 28,151 (2,241) 25,482
Currency translation differences — — 136 — — 136
Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — (29,943) — (29,943)
Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets — — — 2,132 — 2,132
Cash flow hedge: fair value losses — (2,367) — — — (2,367)
Cash flow hedge: deferred tax on losses — 473 — — — 473
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options — — — — 4,246 4,246
Purchase of treasury shares — — — — (18,100) (18,100)
Balance at 31 December 2016 — (1,894) (292) 340 (16,095) (17,941)
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders’ equity: 
Share premium 
The amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value less any costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares.
Capital reorganisation reserve
The capital reorganisation reserve represents the difference between the share capital of the Company and the share capital, share 
premium and capital redemption reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at the point of the exchange of equity interests on 19 March 2013.
Treasury share reserve
The treasury share reserve represents the consideration paid when the Company acquires its own shares and holds them as treasury 
shares, as well as when the Employee Benefit Trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital, until the shares are reissued. See note 26 
for full details of treasury shares held.
Foreign exchange reserve
The foreign exchange reserve represents the difference arising from the changes to foreign exchange rates upon assets and liabilities 
of overseas subsidiaries.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve
The available-for-sale financial assets reserve represents the unrealised gain arising on the revaluation of these assets. Following the sale 
of the Group’s residual interest in ZPG Plc, £29.9 million of the gain was recycled into the income statement.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve represents the fair value movements on the interest swap to hedge the interest cash flows on the first proportion 
of the revolving credit facility in alignment with forecast drawdowns. 
Retained earnings
Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Group income statement and pension scheme gains and losses, movement in fair value 
of available-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 113
Financial statements 29. Acquisitions during the year
During the year the Retail business unit acquired four businesses as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand in certain under-represented 
geographical areas. The total consideration in respect of these acquisitions was £23.9 million, the most significant of which was on 1 March 2016, 
when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Finders Keepers for the consideration noted in the table below. The London 
business unit acquired two businesses as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand in certain under-represented geographical 
areas, for a consideration of £1.5 million. The Financial Services business unit acquired two businesses, The Buy to Let Business and 
Mortgage Bureau, as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand the Group’s financial services offering, particularly in niche areas 
such as buy to let mortgaging and remortgaging, for a total consideration of £9.8 million. The B2B business unit acquired two businesses 
as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand the Group’s commercial offering, for a consideration of £4.6 million.
 
Finders Keepers
£’000
The Buy to Let
Business
£’000
Mortgage
Bureau
£’000
Other
£’000
Total
£’000
Intangible assets 5,994 5,056 2,470 2,332 15,852
Property, plant and equipment 333 34 33 202 602
Trade and other receivables 2,515 47 623 1,821 5,006
Cash at bank 3,118 898 1,037 1,357 6,410
Trade and other payables (1,882) (312) (348) (1,029) (3,571)
Corporation tax (105) (82) (253) (392) (832)
Deferred tax (1,210) (949) (497) (469) (3,125)
Provisions — — (274) — (274)
Net assets 8,763 4,692 2,791 3,822 20,068
Goodwill 12,136 854 1,454 5,243 19,687
Consideration 20,899 5,546 4,245 9,065 39,755
Settled by:
Initial consideration 19,649 3,358 4,245 8,560 35,812
Deferred consideration 1,250 2,188 — 505 3,943
20,899 5,546 4,245 9,065 39,755
Cash paid 19,649 3,358 4,245 8,560 35,812
Cash at bank (3,118) (898) (1,037) (1,357) (6,410)
Net cash flow arising from acquisitions 16,531 2,460 3,208 7,203 29,402
Revenue post-acquisition 9,841 3,509 2,770 4,683 20,803
Profit post-acquisition 2,215 689 352 1,026 4,282
Proforma revenue to 31 December 2016 11,414 4,050 3,633 5,652 24,749
Proforma profit to 31 December 2016 2,755 802 344 1,233 5,134
The acquired receivables for all acquired businesses are all current and their fair value is not materially different. There are no contractual 
cash flows that are not expected to be collected. The goodwill recognised by the Group upon acquisition has no impact on tax deductions. 
No other contingent liabilities, not included in the net assets above, have been identified on these acquisitions. 
The goodwill of £19.7 million arises from a number of factors including expected synergies, cost reductions from purchasing and 
processing efficiencies, and unrecognised assets such as the assembled workforces.
The deferred consideration noted above is payable over a period of up to three years as fixed payments at specified times in line with the 
purchase agreements. In addition, contingent consideration arrangements arising on four of the acquisitions made during the year require 
the Group to pay in cash a potential undiscounted maximum aggregate amount of £19.2 million.
Each of these contingent consideration arrangements require the vendors to remain in employment and as such have been treated as 
a post-combination employment expense, excluded from the consideration noted above, and are being accrued over the relevant periods 
of one to five years specific to each of the agreements. £19.2 million of this contingent consideration is also subject to performance 
conditions being satisfied. These are target EBITDA levels which must be achieved in order to realise the full payment, with a reduced 
payment made if targets are not fully met. Accruals for contingent consideration will be reviewed at each period end as future earn-out 
assumptions are revisited and any credits to the income statement in respect of downward revisions to estimates will be treated in the 
same way. £17.9 million of this potential contingent consideration is payable, on two material acquisitions, between one to three and at 
five years after the acquisition dates depending on the profitability of those subsidiaries in the relevant years and the former owners 
being continuously employed over the earn-out period. The fair value of the related contingent consideration liability, estimated by 
applying the income approach, was revisited at the year end and accrued at £1.7 million, are based on assumed profitability. If the future 
profitability of the entities was to decline, with a reduction in EBITDA by 10%, the size of the contingent consideration would decrease by 
approximately £0.9 million.
The costs of these acquisitions amounted to £0.9 million (2015: £1.1 million) and have been written off to profit and loss.
30. Acquisitions during the prior year 
During the prior year the Group acquired 36 businesses. The total consideration paid was £76.3 million and goodwill recognised was 
£53.1 million. Changes to the provisional fair values have been booked in the current year. The proforma revenue and EBITDA generated 
by these businesses in 2015 was £67.4 million and £12.8 million respectively.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 114
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 31. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments 
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 
2016 2015
 
Property 
£’000 
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment 
£’000 
Property 
£’000 
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment 
£’000 
Within one year 23,417 14,763 24,432 14,218
Later than one year and less than five years 48,658 20,753 51,723 22,717
After five years 18,371 — 47,292 2
90,446 35,516 123,447 36,937
At 31 December 2016, the Group had sub-leased a number of surplus premises and was entitled to receive rents under non-cancellable 
leases as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Sub‑ leases
Within one year 385 528
Later than one year and less than five years 755 769
After five years 150 205
 1,290 1,502
32. Financial instruments
Financial instruments by category
31 December 2016
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Available 
for sale
£’000
Total
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets — 16,058 16,058
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 99,209 — 99,209
Cash and cash equivalents 45,326 — 45,326
 144,535 16,058 160,593
31 December 2016
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Derivatives
used for
hedging
£’000
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) — 289,476 289,476
Finance lease liabilities — 3,750 3,750
Derivative financial instruments 2,367 — 2,367
Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities — 80,953 80,953
 2,367 374,179 376,546
31 December 2015
Assets as per balance sheet
Loans and
receivables
£’000
Available 
for sale
£’000
Total
£’000
Available-for-sale financial assets — 57,760 57,760
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 102,415 — 102,415
Cash and cash equivalents 24,336 — 24,336
 126,751 57,760 184,511
31 December 2015
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Liabilities at
fair value through
profit and loss
£’000
Other financial
liabilities at
amortised cost
£’000
Total
£’000
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) — 199,128 199,128
Finance lease liabilities — 10,120 10,120
Put options 2,700 — 2,700
Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities — 96,627 96,627
 2,700 305,875 308,575
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 115
Financial statements 33. Financial risk management 
Financial risk factors
The Group is exposed through its operations to one or more of the following financial risks: 
• 
cash flow and fair value interest rate risk;
• 
liquidity risk;
• 
counterparty credit risk; and
• 
price risk.
The policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the chief financial officer. Certain risks are 
managed centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre. The policy for each of the 
above risks is described in more detail below. 
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate 
risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk on the first proportion of the revolving credit facility by using floating-to-fixed interest 
rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates. Under the interest 
rate swaps the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, monthly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate 
interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The interest profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Floating rate assets 5,313 21,246
Fixed rate assets 40,408 3,090
Interest-free assets 114,872 160,175
Total financial assets 160,593 184,511
Floating rate liabilities 71,644 198,128
Fixed rate liabilities 222,949 10,120
Interest-free liabilities 81,953 100,327
Total financial liabilities 376,546 308,575
The average rate at which the fixed rate liabilities were fixed in 2016 was 3.58% (2015: 5.53%) and the average period for which the 
liabilities were fixed was 365 days (2015: 365 days). 
There is no material difference between the book and the fair values of the financial assets and liabilities. 
The interest payable on the revolving credit facility is at variable rates.
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s liabilities secured on a floating basis 
which are managed centrally. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the 
portion of liabilities exposed to the floating rates. 
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Increase in basis points 100 100
Effect on profit before tax (£’000) (749) (2,000)
Decrease in basis points (50) (50)
Effect on profit before tax (£’000) 374 1,000
Liquidity risk 
The liquidity risk of each Group entity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function which monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s 
liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn 
committed borrowing facilities. 
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations and acquisition strategy. Acquisitions are carefully 
selected with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods as applied as part of the investment appraisal 
process. The Group is also cash generative as demonstrated by the cash from operations. The requirement to pay creditors is managed 
through future cash generation and, if required, the revolving credit facility. 
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds by daily cash reporting. This reporting considers maturity of both its financial investments 
and financial assets (e.g. trade receivables and other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s objective is 
to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility for potential acquisitions. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 116
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 33. Financial risk management continued
Liquidity risk continued
All surplus cash held by the operating entities is transferred to Group treasury and managed centrally to maximise the returns on deposits 
through economies of scale. The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Group’s forecast cash requirements. 
The Group maintains an overdraft facility with a major banking corporation to manage any unexpected short term cash shortfalls. 
The Group has a £340 million revolving credit facility which incurs interest payments on defined one, three or six-month periods. 
The Group’s discounted financial liabilities (excluding available-for-sale financial assets) at the year end were as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Trade payables 16,333 13,261
Other financial liabilities — 2,700
Deferred consideration 6,164 7,987
Borrowings 289,476 199,128
Finance lease liabilities 3,750 10,120
Derivative financial instruments 2,367 —
Accruals and other payables 58,456 75,379
376,546 308,575
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance 
sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2016
£’000
Recl a s s i fi ed *
2015
£’000
In less than one year 65,718 99,018
In more than one year but not more than two years 11,968 2,599
In more than two years but less than three years 4,163 204,991
In more than three years but not more than four years 293,076 967
In more than four years but less than five years 988 —
Over five years 1,045 1,000
 376,958 308,575
* Refer to note 20 of the consolidated financial statements.
Counterparty credit risk 
The Group’s financial assets (excluding available-for-sale financial assets) at the year end were as follows:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 45,326 24,336
Trade receivables 80,054 80,761
Amounts due from customers for contract work 3,368 2,241
Other receivables 15,787 19,413
144,535 126,751
As stated in note 17, trade and other receivables are current assets and are expected to convert to cash over the next twelve months.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The Group is exposed to credit risk from sales. It is Group policy, 
implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of major new customers before entering contracts. The majority of customers use the Group’s 
services as part of a housing transaction and consequently the sales are paid from the proceeds of the house sale. The majority of the commercial 
customers and the major lenders, customers of the Surveying and Asset Management businesses, are large financial institutions and as such the 
credit risk is not significant. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance 
sheet date. The following table presents a breakdown of the gross trade receivables between the three main types of customer:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Individual customers 31,797 28,525
Major lenders 10,346 13,381
Other commercial customers 41,332 41,979
83,475 83,885
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 117
Financial statements 33. Financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit risk continued
The Group treasury function manages the Group’s cash balances and seeks to achieve reasonable rates of interest, but preservation of 
the capital is the overriding priority. A list of accepted deposit institutions is maintained and their credit ratings are kept under review. 
The following table presents a breakdown of cash at bank and short term deposits (the rest of ‘cash and cash equivalents’ is cash in hand):
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Aa2 10,445 —
A1 32,780 3,390
A2 — 5,986
A3 1,975 14,960
Other 126 —
45,326 24,336
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as 
available-for-sale amounting to £16,058,000 (2015: £57,760,000). If the price used in the 2016 year-end valuation had decreased 
by 5% the carrying value of the investment and the unrealised gain recorded within the statement of comprehensive income would 
have reduced by £0.7 million.
34. Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of debt (subject to certain restrictions under the term 
loan facility), adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
The Group defines capital as the total of equity shareholders’ funds and long term borrowings net of available cash balances:
2016
£’000
2015
£’000
Borrowings (note 20) 293,226 209,248
Cash and cash equivalents (note 18) (45,326) (24,336)
Net debt 247,900 184,912
Shareholders’ equity 479,548 544,476
Total capital 727,448 729,388
Gearing ratio 34% 25%
During the year, the Group has complied with any capital restrictions and covenant requirements in respect of leverage and interest 
cover ratios associated with the term loan facility.
Net debt excludes derivative financial instruments. Details of the interest rate swap liability are disclosed in note 21.
Fair value estimation 
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined, 
in accordance with IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’, as follows:
• 
quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
• 
inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly 
(that is, derived from prices) (Level 2); and
• 
inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2016:
Level 1 
 £’000
Level 2
 £’000
Level 3
 £’000
Total
 £’000
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets — 14,139 1,919 16,058
Liabilities
Derivative financial instrument – interest rate swap — 2,367 — 2,367
Contingent consideration — — 13,163 —
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 118
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued 34. Capital management continued
Fair value estimation continued
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2015: 
Level 1 
 £’000
Level 2
 £’000
Level 3
 £’000
Total
 £’000
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets 42,856 14,455 449 57,760
Liabilities
Put options — — 2,700 2,700
Contingent consideration — — 8,072 —
There was no change in valuation technique from that applied at 31 December 2015 to the investment property fund (within available-for-sale 
financial assets), which is based on the receipt of a net asset valuation statement from the trustees on a quarterly basis, and the fair value 
hierarchy of the investment within the fund has remained at Level 2. 
The fair value of the investment property fund at 31 December 2016 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that 
date by CBRE Limited, independent valuers not connected with the Group. The valuation conforms to International Valuation Standards. 
The fair value was determined based on comparable market transactions on arm’s length terms and has been based on the Market Rent 
valuation technique.
The fair value of Level 2 derivatives are estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows using appropriate yield curves based 
on quoted market rates at the current period end.
In 2015, Level 1 financial assets comprised quoted equity instruments in ZPG Plc (ZPG shares) which have been disposed of during 2016.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) and valuation processes
The following changes were made in Level 3 instruments for the years under review:
2016 2015
Available‑ for‑ sale
financial assets
 £’000
Contingent
consideration
in a business
combination
Put options
 £’000
Available-for-sale
financial assets
 £’000
Contingent
consideration
in a business
combination
Put options 
 £’000
Opening balance at 1 January 449 8,072 2,700 125 — 2,560
Acquisitions 1,504 — (2,700) 324 — —
Disposals (34) — — — — —
Contingent consideration paid — (1,744) — — (875) —
Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss — 6,835 — — 8,947 140
Closing balance at 31 December 1,919 13,163 — 449 8,072 2,700
As noted in note 19, the fair value of put options at 31 December 2015 of £2,700,000, to acquire the non-controlling interest in Capital Private 
Finance Limited, was restated to the present value of the expected redemption amount, which was based on management’s expectation 
of performance, consistent with operating plans approved. The Group exercised the put options in July 2016 at £2,700,000.
The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the future on nine acquisitions (four arising in the current year and five in the 
prior year). The amounts payable are based on the amounts agreed in the contracts and based on the future profitability of each entity 
acquired. In valuing each provision, estimates have been made as to the future profitability of each entity at this date. See note 29 for 
disclosures of the measurement of contingent consideration.
The Group’s finance department performs the valuations of financial instruments measured at fair value required for financial reporting 
purposes, including Level 3 fair values. This team reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities approximates to their carrying value, including available-for-sale financial assets 
acquired during the year where purchase cost is recent and has been assumed as equivalent to fair value at the year end.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 119
Financial statements 35. Related party transactions 
Key management compensation is given in note 6(b). Other related party transactions are as follows: 
Trading transactions 
Transaction amount Balance (owing)/owed
Related party relationship Transaction type
2016
 £’000
2015
 £’000
2016
 £’000
2015
 £’000
Joint venture Purchases by Group (2,415) (2,567) (169) (192)
Joint venture Rebate received/receivable 2,165 2,792 1,134 1,441
The Buy To Let Group – Subsidiary Loan payable 109 — 1,699 —
Oaktree Capital Management Director’s fee paid 40 40 10 10
These transactions are trading relationships which are made at market value. There is a loan payable within The Buy To Let Group Limited 
of £1,590,000 (and associated interest) that is payable to the joint shareholder and director in February 2019 with interest payable at 8% 
per annum. The Company has not made any provision for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party debtors nor has any guarantee 
been given during 2016 regarding related party transactions.
36. Events after the balance sheet date
Despite the uncertain market environment, we remain committed to reducing our leverage and at the same time facilitate the 
acceleration of our ability to future proof the business and exploit growth opportunities. To that end, and following consultations 
with our major shareholders, the Board has decided to make a small placing of up to 9.99% of our share capital available via 
a cash box structure today. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 120
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements continued Report on the company financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Countrywide plc’s company financial statements (the “financial statements”):
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2016;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise:
• 
the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016;
• 
the company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
• 
the accounting policies; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, 
comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• 
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and
• 
the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are 
required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. We have nothing to 
report in this respect.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
• 
otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
• 
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report ‑ Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 121
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Countrywide plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. With respect to the Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the 
Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Countrywide plc for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Christopher Burns (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
9 March 2017
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 122
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Countrywide plc Note
2016 
£’000
Recl a s s i fi ed *
2015 
£’000
Fixed assets 
Investments in subsidiaries 5 386,372 386,372
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 6 254,476 260,810
Cash at bank and in hand 40,063 3,369
294,539 264,179
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (338) (2,052)
Net current assets 294,201 262,127
Total assets less current liabilities 680,573 648,499
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (289,380) (198,128)
Net assets 391,193 450,371
Capital and reserves
Share capital 10 2,197 2,196
Share premium 211,838 211,839
Hedging reserve (1,894) —
Treasury share reserve (16,095) (2,241)
Profit and loss account 195,147 238,577
Total shareholders’ funds 391,193 450,371
* See notes 7 and 8.
The notes on pages 125 to 128 form an integral part of the company (registration number: 08340090) financial statements.
These financial statements on pages 123 to 128 were approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
Jim Clarke
Chief financial officer
9 March 2017
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 123
Financial statements
Company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2016 Note
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Hedging
reserve
£’000
Treasury
share
reserve
£’000
Profit
and loss
account
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2015 2,194 211,841 — (14,516) 96,490 296,009
Profit for the year — — — — 191,840 191,840
Total comprehensive income — — — — 191,840 191,840
Issue of shares for IPO options 2 (2) — — — —
Share-based payment transactions — — — — 3,226 3,226
Purchase of treasury shares — — — (7,760) — (7,760)
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options — — — 20,035 (20,035) —
Dividends paid 4 — — — — (32,944) (32,944)
Balance at 31 December 2015 2,196 211,839 — (2,241) 238,577 450,371
Loss for the year — — — — (8,646) (8,646)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Cash flow hedge: fair value losses — — (2,367) — — (2,367)
Cash flow hedge: deferred tax on losses 9 — — 473 — — 473
Total other comprehensive expense — — (1,894) — — (1,894)
Total comprehensive expense — — (1,894) — (8,646) (10,540)
Issue of shares for IPO options 10 1 (1) — — — —
Share-based payment transactions — — — — 2,242 2,242
Purchase of treasury shares — — — (18,100) — (18,100)
Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options — — — 4,246 (4,246) —
Dividends paid 4 — — — — (32,780) (32,780)
Balance at 31 December 2016 2,197 211,838 (1,894) (16,095) 195,147 391,193
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 124
Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016 1. General information and accounting policies 
(a) Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of Countrywide plc (‘the Company’) have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting 
Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, 
and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the Act).
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are 
disclosed in note 2. The principal accounting policies are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year.
As permitted under section 408 of the Act, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement for the year. The loss 
for the financial year was £8,646,000 (2015: profit of £191,840,000).
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, 
in accordance with FRS 101:
• 
Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ (details of the number and weighted average exercise prices of share 
options, and how the fair value of goods and services received was determined);
• 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’;
• 
Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ (disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement 
of assets and liabilities);
• 
The following paragraphs of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’:
• 
10(d) (statement of cash flows);
• 
16 (statement of compliance with all IFRS);
• 
38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements);
• 
38B-D (additional comparative information);
• 
111 (cash flow statement information); and
• 
134-136 (capital management disclosures);
• 
IAS 7 ‘Statement of cash flows’
• 
Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’ (requirement for the disclosure 
of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective);
• 
Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’ (key management compensation); and
• 
The requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
(b) Going concern 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the financial statements.
(c) Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are held at historical cost less provision for impairment. The carrying values of investments are reviewed 
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
(d) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year presented comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
(e) Share-based payments
The cost of granting share options and other share-based remuneration to employees and directors is recognised through the income statement. 
These are equity settled and therefore the fair value is measured at the grant date. Where the share awards have non-market-related performance 
criteria the Company has used the Binomial Lattice and Black Scholes option valuation models to establish the relevant fair values. Where the 
share awards have TSR market-related performance criteria the Company has used the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to establish the 
relevant fair values. The resulting values are amortised through the income statement over the vesting period of the options and other grants. 
For awards with non-market-related criteria, the charge is reversed if it appears probable that the performance criteria will not be met.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 125
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements 1. General information and accounting policies continued
(f) Dividend income
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised at the point the dividend has been declared.
(g) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Such interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense over the period to 
repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the balance sheet. 
(h) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their 
fair value. The Company has designated certain derivatives as a cash flow hedge and documented at inception of the transaction the 
relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking 
hedging transactions. The Company also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the 
derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The fair value of derivatives has been calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date. 
Movements in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income are shown within the statement of changes in equity. The full fair value 
of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months from maturity. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss. The gain or loss relating 
to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within ‘Finance costs’.
(i) Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
(j) Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in share premium 
as a deduction from the proceeds. Where the Employee Benefit Trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), 
the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s 
equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
2. Critical accounting judgements and estimates
The preparation of the financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on 
historical experience and other factors including expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual 
results may differ from these estimates, given the uncertainty surrounding the assumptions and conditions upon which the estimates are based.
The directors consider that the following estimates and judgements are likely to have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the Company’s financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries
The directors periodically review investments in subsidiaries for possible impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, 
in management’s judgement, that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Such indicating events would include a 
significant change in market conditions or future operating cash flows. The Company did not record any impairment charges during the 
year ended 31 December 2016.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments
The fair values of the Company’s derivative financial instruments are determined by discounting future cash flows by the market yield 
curve at the balance sheet date. Valuations at the balance sheet date are received from each of the counterparties to the Company’s 
interest rate swap and are determined using the individual valuation models of each counterparty.
3. Employee costs
The only employees of Countrywide plc are the executive and non-executive directors. Details of the employee costs associated with the 
directors are included in the directors’ remuneration report on page 61 and are summarised below.
2016
£’000
2015 
£’000
Wages and salaries 1,489 1,863
Share-based payments 763 2,086
Social security costs 219 270
Post-employment benefits – salary supplement 137 140
2,608 4,359
The information disclosed in the Group’s consolidated financial statements under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ is within note 27, 
providing further information regarding the Company’s equity-settled share-based payment arrangements.
Details of the highest paid director’s aggregate emoluments, amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes and payments 
in lieu of pension entitlements are disclosed within the directors’ remuneration report.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 126
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 4. Dividends
2016
£’000
2015 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
– final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 10.0 pence (net) per share (2014: 10.0 pence (net) per share) 21,963 21,963
– interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 5.0 pence (net) per share (2015: 5.0 pence (net) per share) 10,817 10,981
Total 32,780 32,944
The directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
5. Investments in subsidiaries
2016
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 386,372
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2016 and at 31 December 2016 —
Net book amount 386,372
At 31 December 2016, the Company owned directly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary 
undertaking, Countrywide Group plc, a company registered in the UK whose principal activity was that of investment holding company.
Interests in Group undertakings, held indirectly by the Company, are detailed within the appendix of the consolidated financial 
statements, which form part of these financial statements.
6. Trade and other receivables
2016
£’000
2015 
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 250,308 257,202
Group relief receivable 3,372 2,432
Deferred tax asset (note 9) 698 1,138
Prepayments and accrued income 84 36
Other debtors 14 2
254,476 260,810
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are unsecured and payable on demand. Interest is received at base rate per annum.
7. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2016
£’000
Reclassified*
2015 
£’000
Trade creditors 55 14
Other creditors 283 2,038
338 2,052
*  The revolving credit facility (RCF) of £200 million and capitalised banking fees were classified as current creditors at 31 December 2015 based on the 
rolling utilisation request, but have been reclassified to non-current creditors on the basis that no repayments are mandated before 20 March 2020 
(2015: 20 March 2018).
8. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2016
£’000
Reclassified
2015 
£’000
Bank borrowings 290,000 200,000
Derivative financial instruments 2,367 —
Capitalised banking fees (3,223) (1,872)
Other creditors 236 —
289,380 198,128
On 18 February 2016, the Company entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to the term and revolving credit facility 
agreement, originally dated 20 March 2013, which is due to expire in March 2020. The facility is now a £340 million revolving credit facility (RCF), 
with no term loan elements, and an additional £60 million accordion facility, with any outstanding balance repayable in full on 20 March 2020. 
Interest is currently payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 2.75%. The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and the margin 
rate is reviewed twice a year (and can vary between 1.75% and 3.0%). The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge 
and leverage covenants and £90 million was drawn down during the period (see note 20 of the consolidated financial statements).
On 1 June 2016 the Group entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the interest cash flows on the first proportion of the RCF in alignment 
with forecast drawdowns. Details of the derivative financial instrument are disclosed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 127
Financial statements 9. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 17%-20% (2015: 18%-20%). The 
movement on the deferred tax account is shown below:
2016
£’000
2015 
£’000
Deferred tax asset at 1 January 1,138 1,350
Charged to income statement (913) (212)
Credited to other comprehensive income 473 —
Deferred tax asset at 31 December 698 1,138
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 84 933
Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 614 205
698 1,138
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets 
to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) 
during the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and 
there is an intention to settle the balances net.
2016
Asset
 £’000
Charged
to income
£’000
Credited to other
comprehensive
income/equity
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
Share-based payments 225 (913) —
Cash flow hedge 473 — 473
 698 (913) 473
2015
Asset
 £’000
Charged
to income
£’000
Credited to other
comprehensive
income/equity
£’000 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
Share-based payments 1,138 (212) —
 1,138 (212) —
There are no unused tax losses.
10. Called up share capital
Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each
Number £’000
At 1 January 2016 219,641,834 2,196
Share capital issued 51,138 1
At 31 December 2016 219,692,972 2,197
At 31 December 2016, 3,371,972 of the shares disclosed above have been subject to share buy-back and were held in treasury.
The Company acquired 4,534,655 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout February to June 2016. 
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £16,524,000. The shares were held as treasury shares. The Company then reissued 
1,162,683 of these shares in March 2016 and May 2016 in respect of the IPO option vesting. All shares issued by the Company were fully 
paid. An additional 51,138 shares were issued at nominal value to complete the satisfaction of the IPO options crystallising in March 2016 
as insufficient treasury shares were held at that point in time.
Where the Employee Benefit Trust purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any 
directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until 
the shares are cancelled or reissued. At the year end, 908,886 shares (2015: 449,172 shares), costing £3,723,609 (2015: £2,241,000), 
were held in relation to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
11. Auditors’ remuneration
The auditor’s remuneration for the audit of the Company is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Fees paid 
to the auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed in the Company’s financial statements because 
consolidated financial statements are prepared which disclose such fees.
12. Events after the balance sheet date
Despite the uncertain market environment, we remain committed to reducing our leverage and at the same time facilitate the acceleration of our 
ability to future proof the business and exploit growth opportunities. To that end, and following consultations with our major shareholders, the 
Board has decided to make a small placing of up to 9.99% of our share capital available via a cash box structure today. 
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 128
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued Related undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2016
Company name
Registered
address
(refer to note)
Country 
of incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Countrywide Group plc 1 UK 100% Direct 
A3 Countrywide Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Abbotts Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Accord Properties Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Acornsrl Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Advanced Lettings (Ashford) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Aeromind Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
AgencyPro Limited 4 UK 100% Indirect
Alan de Maid Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Alan Harvey Property Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Anderson Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
APW Holdings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Cobham) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Esher) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Sunninghill) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
APW Management (Weybridge) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
APW Management Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Ashton Burkinshaw (Franchising) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Ashton Burkinshaw Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Associated Employers Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Austin & Wyatt Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Avon Property (Wilts) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Bairstow Eves Countrywide Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Bairstow Eves Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Baker Harris Saunders Group Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Balanus Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Barrys (Surrey) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Beresford Adams Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Berkeley Private Capital Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Berry Bros & Legge Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Blundells Property Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Bridgfords Countrywide Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Bridgfords Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Buckell & Ballard Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Bullock and Lees (Christchurch) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Bureau Properties Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Buy to Let Club Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
CAG Overseas Investments Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Capital Fine Homes Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Capital Private Finance Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Cardinal Mortgage Service Limited (The) 2 UK 100% Indirect
Carol Whyte Property Management Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Carson & Company Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Castle Moat at Taunton Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Cathedral Lettings and Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
CEA Holdings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Chamberlains Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Chamberlains SGS Holdings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Chappell & Matthews Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Chattings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
CHK (Cobham) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 129
Financial statements
Appendix Company name
Registered
address
(refer to note)
Country 
of incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
CHK (Esher) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Cliftons International Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Connell Wilson Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Copleys of York Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Cosec Management Services Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Conveyancing Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Corporate Property Services Limited 8 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents 5 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents (South) Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents FS Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Estate Agents Nominees Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Financial Services (South) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Home Movers Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Mortgage Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide North Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Part Exchange Solutions Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Principal Services Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Property Auctions Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Property Care Solutions Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited 9 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Relocation Solutions Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Repossession Solutions Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Residential Investments Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Residential Lettings Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide Surveyors Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide UK Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
CRL Company Directors Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
CRL Company Secretaries Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
Curtis and Bains Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Dickinson Harrison Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Duck & Hedges Group Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Duck & Hedges Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Edinburgh Property Letting Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Elite Property (Berks) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Entwistle Green Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Executive Property Services Residential Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Faron Sutaria & Company Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Finders Keepers Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Fitz-Gibbon Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Ford Property Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Frank Innes Countrywide Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Freeman Forman Letting Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Freeman Forman Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Fulfords Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Gascoigne-Pees Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Gatlink Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Geering & Colyer (Kent) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Gertingpet Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Gilpro Management Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
GR2 Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Greene & Co Maintenance Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Griffiths & Charles Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 130
Financial statements
Appendix continued Company name
Registered
address
(refer to note)
Country 
of incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Grosvenor Private Clients Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Estates Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Franchising Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Group Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons International (Hong Kong) Limited 10 Hong Kong 100% Indirect
Hamptons International (India) Private Limited 11 India 100% Indirect
Hamptons International Mortgages Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Hamptons Professional Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Harecastle Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Harrisons Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Harvey Donaldson & Gibson Limited 12 UK 100% Indirect
HCW Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
HCW Group Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
HCW Insurance Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Herring Baker Harris East Anglia Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Herring Baker Harris Europe Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Herring Baker Harris Nominees Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Hetheringtons 2 UK 100% Indirect
Hetheringtons Countrywide 2 UK 100% Indirect
Hetheringtons Estate Agents Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Holland Mitchell Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Holmes Pearman Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Home From Home Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Housemans Management Company Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
Housemans Management Secretarial Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
Howunalis Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Howuncea 2 UK 100% Indirect
Howunsay 2 UK 100% Indirect
Hurst Independent Financial Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Ian Peat Property Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Ikon Consultancy Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Interlet Property Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
IPCS Group Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Isite.UK.Com Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
J M Property Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
JP & Brimelow (Lettings and Property Management) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
JAM Advisors Limited 13 UK 100% Indirect
JK Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
John Curtis Lettings & Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
John Curtis Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
John D Wood & Co. (Residential & Agricultural) Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
John D Wood & Co. Plc 2 UK 100% Indirect
John Frances Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
John Francis (Wales) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Joustroute Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Kean Kennedy Limited 12 UK 100% Indirect
Kilroy Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
King & Chasemore Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Knights of Bath Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Knightsbridge Estate Agents and Valuers Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Labyrinth Management Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton (City) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 131
Financial statements Company name
Registered
address
(refer to note)
Country 
of incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Lambert Smith Hampton (N Ireland) Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Group (Overseas) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Lambert Smith Hampton Limited (Ireland) 19 Ireland 100% Indirect
Lampons Residential Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Land and New Homes Countrywide Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Lanes Land Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Lanes Property Agents (Cheshunt) Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Leasehold Legal Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Leasemanco Limited 7 UK 100% Indirect
Let Lucas Rental Specialists Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Let Verde Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Letmore Group Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Letmore Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Letmore Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Lets – Cover Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Letters of Distinction Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Life and Easy Limited 14 UK 100% Indirect
Lifestyle Management (York) Co. Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Lighthouse Property Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
London & Country Property Auctions Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Loyalstone Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
LS1 Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Maitland Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Mann & Co. (Kent) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Mann & Co. Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Mann Countrywide Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Executive Properties Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings (Ayrshire) Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings (Edinburgh) Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings (Paisley) Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Lettings Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Merchant Maintenance Limited 6 UK 100% Indirect
Michael Rhodes Property Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Mid Cornwall Letting Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Miller Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Milton Ashbury (Property Agents) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Modernmode Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Morris Dibben Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited 14 UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Intelligence Limited 14 UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Next Limited 14 UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Next Network Limited 14 UK 100% Indirect
Mortgage Next Packaging Limited 14 UK 100% Indirect
Mountford Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Nest Lettings & Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
New Homes Mortgage Solutions Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
New Space (Derby) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
New Space Margate Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Ohmes Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Palmer Snell Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 132
Financial statements
Appendix continued Company name
Registered
address
(refer to note)
Country 
of incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
Patterson Bowe Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Pebble Property Management and Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Personal Homefinders Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Phillips Brown Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
PKL Group Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
PKL Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
PKL Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Plaza Letting Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Poolman Harlow Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Portfolio Letting Agents & Consultants Limited. 6 UK 100% Indirect
Potteries Property Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Preston Bennett Holdings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Preston Bennett Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Project Second JG Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Property Management (North East) Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Propertywide Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
PSP Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
R.A. Bennett & Partners Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Realty Property Solutions Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Regal Lettings and Property Management Kent Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Relocation Solutions Countrywide Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Rentons Estate Agents Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Resi Capital Investments Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Resi Capital Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Resi Capital Member Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Richard Dolton Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Richard Trowbridge Estate & Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
RPT Management Services Plc 2 UK 100% Indirect
Russells Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Saville Home Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Securemove Property Services 2005 Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Securemove Property Services Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
ServPro Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Slater Hogg & Howison Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Snape Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Spencers Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Spencers Surveyors Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Sprint Property Acquisitions Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Statehold Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
Stoberry Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Stratton Creber Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Sundale Properties Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
SurveyingPro.co.uk Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Sutton Kersh Auctions & Sales Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Sutton Kersh Holdings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Tablesign Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Taylors Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
The Butler Club Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
The Buy To Let Business Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
The Buy To Let Group Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
The Flat Managers Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 133
Financial statements Company name
Registered
address
(refer to note)
Country 
of incorporation % owned
Direct/
indirect 
(Group
 interest)
The Good Mortgage Company Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
The Greene Corporation Limited 3 UK 100% Indirect
The Letting Store Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
The London Residential Agency Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
The Property Sales & Rentals Company Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Thomas James Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Thomson & Moulton Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Tingleys Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
TitleAbsolute Limited 15 UK 100% Indirect
TLS Wilts. Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
TM Group (UK) Limited 16 UK 33% Indirect
Town & County Residential Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Tucker Gardner Residential Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Umberman Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
United Surveyors Limited 5 UK 100% Indirect
Vanet Property Asset Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Investment 1 (GP) LLP 17 UK 50% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Investment 1 Limited Partnership 17 UK 50% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Real Estate (GP) LLP 18 UK 50% Indirect
Vista UK Residential Real Estate Limited Partnership 18 UK 50% Indirect
Waferprime Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Wallhead Gray & Coates 2 UK 100% Indirect
Watson Bull & Porter Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Watts Regeneration Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Westcountry Property Auctions Limited 1 UK 100% Indirect
Wildabout Properties Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Wilson Peacock Estate Agents Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Woods Block Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
WSB Property Management Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Wyse Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Young & Butt Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Young Lettings Limited 2 UK 100% Indirect
Registered offices:
1.  County House, Ground Floor, 100 New London Road, 
Chelmsford, Essex, CM2 0RG, United Kingdom
2.  3rd Floor, 1 Ashley Road, Altrincham, Cheshire, WA14 2DT, 
United Kingdom
3.  7th Floor, United Kingdom House, 180 Oxford Street, London, 
W1D 1NN, United Kingdom
4. 17 Duke Street, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 1HP, United Kingdom
5.  88-103 Caldecotte Lake Drive, Caldecotte, Milton Keynes, 
Buckinghamshire, MK7 8JT, United Kingdom
6.  c/o Countrywide Lettings Ltd, 71 Candleriggs, Glasgow, 
Lanarkshire, G1 1NP, United Kingdom
7.  North Point, Stafford Drive, Battlefield Enterprise Park, 
Shrewsbury, SY1 3BF, United Kingdom
8.  Tamar House, Brants Bridge, Bracknell, RG12 9BQ, United Kingdom
9.  Lee House, 90 Great Bridgewater Street, Manchester, M1 5RR, 
United Kingdom
10.  Unit 1001B, 10th Floor, Kinwick Center, 32 Hollywood Road, 
Central, Hong Kong
11.  F-509, 5th Floor, Ashish Corporate Tower, Plot No. 18, 
Karkardooma Community Centre, New Delhi, India
12.  Suite 3.7, 3rd Floor, Standard Buildings, 94 Hope Street, 
Glasgow, G2 6PH, United Kingdom
13.  Suite 2A, St Davids Court, Union Street, Wolverhampton, 
WV1 3JE, United Kingdom
14.  Roddis House, 4th Floor, 4-12 Old Christchurch Road, 
Bournemouth, Dorset, BH1 1LG, United Kingdom
15.  Churchgate House, 2nd Floor, 56 Oxford Street, Manchester, 
M1 6EU, United Kingdom
16. 1200 Delta Business Park, Swindon, Wiltshire, SN5 7XZ
17.  Lloyds Chambers, 1 Portsoken Street, London, E1 8HZ, 
United Kingdom
18. 15 Atholl Crescent, Edinburgh, EH3 8HA, United Kingdom
19. Grafton Buildings, 34 Grafton Street, Dublin, 2, Ireland
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 134
Financial statements
Appendix continued Contacts
Chief executive officer
Alison Platt
Chief financial officer
Jim Clarke
Company secretary
Gareth Williams
Website
www.countrywide.co.uk
Registered office
County House 
Ground Floor 
100 New London Road 
Chelmsford 
Essex CM2 0RG
Registered in England
08340090
Corporate headquarters
Countrywide House
88–103 Caldecotte Lake Drive 
Caldecotte 
Milton Keynes MK7 8JT
Registrar
Capita Asset Services*
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
Corporate advisors
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Lloyds Bank plc 
HSBC Bank plc 
Abbey National Treasury Services plc 
Barclays Bank Plc 
AIB Group (UK) plc
Brokers
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Barclays Bank plc, acting through 
its investment bank
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
Financial calendar
AGM    27 April 2017
Interim results   27 July 2017
*Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrar is Capita Asset Services. They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding 
or dividends. Please notify them of your change of address or other personal information. Their address details are above.
Capita Asset Services is a trading name of Capita Asset Services Limited.
Capita shareholder helpline: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras) (Overseas: +44 02 8639 3399)
Email:  ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Share portal: www.capitashareportal.com
Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and facilities include electronic communications, account enquiries, 
amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions.
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 135
Financial statements
Company information This report includes forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements can be 
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘anticipates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘may’, ‘will’ 
or ‘should’ or, in each case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include all 
matters that are not historical facts. They appear in a number of places throughout this report and include statements regarding our 
intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, 
prospects, growth, strategies, the industry in which we operate and potential acquisitions. We derive many of our forward-looking 
statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our 
assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for 
us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to us 
on the date of this report. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances 
that may or may not occur in the future. We caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and 
that our actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, the development of the industry in which we operate and the effect 
of acquisitions on us may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. In 
addition, even if our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which we operate are 
consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or 
developments in subsequent periods. Important factors that could cause those differences include, but are not limited to: 
• 
a decline in the number of transactions, prices or commission levels in the UK residential property market, whether due to the impact of 
macroeconomic factors or otherwise; 
• 
increased or reduced competition in the industry in which we operate; 
• 
changes in, or our failure or inability to comply with, Government laws or regulations; 
• 
the loss of any of our important commercial relationships; and
• 
any increase in our professional liabilities or any adverse development in the litigation or other disputes to which we are a party.
We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you. We urge 
you to read the operating and financial review for a more complete discussion of the factors that could affect our future performance and 
the industry in which we operate. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events described in this 
report may not occur. 
We undertake no obligation, and do not expect, to publicly update or publicly revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result 
of new information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to 
persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above and contained 
elsewhere in this report.
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016 136
Financial statements
Forward‑ looking statements Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% 
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 
100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, 
FSC
®
 certified forests. The pulp used in this product is 
bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
 
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities. Countrywide plc
Countrywide House 
88–103 Caldecotte Lake Drive 
Caldecotte 
Milton Keynes MK7 8JT
+44 (0)1908 961000 
investor@countrywide.co.uk 
www.countrywide.co.uk
Countrywide plc Annual Report 2016
