 ANNUAL REPORT AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 Acertec is one of the UK’s leading
manufacturers of engineered steel products 
for use in the automotive and construction
markets. It is the UK’s leading supplier of 
body-in-white stampings and sub-assemblies 
to automotive OEM’s, and the UK’s largest
supplier of rebar and mesh for concrete
reinforcement used in construction.
CONTENTS
1 Highlights
2 Our Operations at a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Review 
10 Financial Review
16 Board of Directors
17 Directors’ Report
19 Directors’ Remuneration
21 Corporate Governance
24 Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Group Financial Statements
25 Consolidated Income Statement
26 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
27 Consolidated Balance Sheet
28 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
29 Notes to the Group Financial Statements
84 Independent Auditors’ Report on the
Parent Company Financial Statements
85 Parent Company Balance Sheet
86 Parent Company Cash Flow Statement
87 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
91 Notice of the 2008 Annual General Meeting
95 Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions 1
HIGHLIGHTS
• Underlying trading results were broadly in line with expectations.
• Revenue from continuing operations increased by 5% to £322.9 million
(2006: £307.0 million).
• Strong growth in revenue at BRC, which increased by 18% to £196.7 million (2006:
£166.2 million), driven by strong construction markets and good sales performance.
• Operating profit from continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional 
items decreased by 4% from £14.9 million to £14.3 million.
• BRC and Stadco are well placed to benefit from the opportunities and to face the
challenges that their respective markets bring.
• BRC’s operating profit increased by 8% from £7.4 million to £8.0m.
• Stadco’s operating profit decreased by 15% from £11.0 million to £9.3m.
• Central costs decreased by 14% from £3.5 million to £3.0m.
• Net cash flow generated from operations was £11.1m (2006: £16.8 million).
Commenting on the results, James Kerr-Muir, Chairman, said:
“As leaders in their fields, BRC and Stadco are well placed to benefit from the opportunities and to face the
challenges that their respective markets bring. Although 2007 has been a difficult year, we are moving into 2008
with an improving control environment and with new senior management in certain key positions. 
Current trading in BRC is dominated by the exceptional increase in the price of steel in world markets. Its effect on
the supply chain and on demand is a concern. However, BRC should make progress in 2008, based on its strong
order book and on good underlying demand in key infrastructure sectors. 
Sales at Stadco have started the year well, although margins continue to be under pressure. Whilst we do not
expect 2008 to see progress at Stadco compared with last year, the ground will be laid for improvement in 2009. 
Overall, we expect that Acertec’s underlying performance in 2008 will be similar to that in 2007.”
ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
2
BRC
£196.7m Revenue
£8.0m Operating Profit
BRC is the UK’s leading manufacturer of
steel reinforcement for concrete
construction with a long and successful
history of serving the construction,
mining and associated industries. 
This experience, coupled with a focus on
customer service that is at the heart of
everything we do, has earned us an
enviable reputation for technical
expertise, product development and
problem-solving.
STRONG ORDER BOOK UNDERPINS
GROWTH PROSPECTS
Weldgrip Geotechnical
Produces and supplies high quality ground stabilisation products and
services for use in the civil engineering, tunnelling and mining industries
throughout the world.
BRC Manufacturing
Produces standard & bespoke reinforcing mesh, wire supports and a
wide range of welded mesh for industrial customers.
BRC Asia – 70.5%
The leading steel reinforcing solution provider in Singapore, with
operations in both Singapore and China. 
BRC McMahon – 50%
Ireland’s biggest manufacturer of reinforcing mesh with two factories
supplying the whole island.
BRC Special Products
Supplies specialist products to the construction and building industry. Its
products fall into four main construction areas – Groundworks, Structural
Solutions, Walling, Architectural Metalwork and Fabrications.
BRC Reinforcement
UK’s largest supplier of steel reinforcement and associated products for
concrete. With a nationwide network of manufacturing and sales locations, 
BRC Reinforcement has a total commitment to customer service for all end
users. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
3
Stadco is the UK’s leading tier 1 supplier
of automotive Body-in-White products and
services. It also has a substantial
business in Germany.
Core capabilities are aluminium and steel
pressings, assemblies and product and
facility design. Solutions from niche to
high volume are provided.
STADCO
TWO NEW MODELS IN 2008 WILL
SUPPORT FUTURE SALES
£126.2m Revenue
£9.3m Operating Profit
POWYS,
WALES
SHREWSBURY,
ENGLAND
CASTLE
BROMWICH,
ENGLAND
COVENTRY,
ENGLAND
SAARLOUIS,
GERMANY 
ST PETERSBURG,
RUSSIA ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
4
Underlying trading results for the year were broadly in line
with expectations. Revenue at BRC, the UK’s leading
supplier of steel reinforcement for concrete construction,
increased 18% in response to strong construction
markets, particularly in the first half of the year . 
As expected, given the low level of new model
programmes at its major customers, revenue at Stadco,
the UK’s largest supplier of body-in-white pressings and
sub-assemblies to automotive OEM’s, was 10% lower
against the previous year; its overall results were however
slightly better than we anticipated at the half year, due to
the resolution of a potential one-off bad debt problem.
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 5% to
£322.9 million (2006: £307.0 million). Operating profit from
continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional
items, decreased by 4% to £14.3 million (2006: £14.9
million). Operating profit from continuing operations
increased by 59% to £14.0 million (2006: £8.8 million). 
Net cash flow generated from operations was £11.1
million (2006: £16.8 million). Group net borrowings
increased by £16.0 million in the year to £64.1 million at
31 December 2007, mainly reflecting further investment in
BRC’s capacity and efficiency, financing costs and a 
catch-up in German tax payments. Borrowings in 2008 are
expected to increase owing to changes in the financing
arrangements for steel purchases in BRC. 
Dividends
Having considered the cash absorbed by the Group 
in 2007, together with the need to reduce debt and
strengthen the balance sheet, the Board is not
recommending the payment of a final dividend.  
Accounting misstatement
Although trading results were broadly in line with
expectations, the outcome for the year was overshadowed by
the accounting misstatement in one of our BRC operations,
which we brought to shareholders’ attention in early
September . The Board and our senior management have
taken firm action to deal with the issues arising from this
misstatement. All of the figures in this statement fully reflect
the adjustments required to correct this misstatement.
People
Rod Holdsworth was appointed Interim Group Finance
Director on 1 December 2007. Rod has had wide experience
at board level in the engineering and construction sectors,
most recently as Finance Director of Morrison plc where he
assisted in its successful turnaround. Rod, who is not a
statutory director of Acertec, replaced David Roache who
left the Board on 31 December 2007. 
Outlook
As leaders in their fields, BRC and Stadco are well placed
to benefit from the opportunities and to face the challenges
in their markets. This year should see BRC make continued
progress, despite concerns relating to the effect of dramatic
increases in the price of steel at the start of the year .
Meanwhile, Stadco is responding to high levels of new project
opportunities which should lead to an improvement in 2009.
Overall, we expect that Acertec’s underlying performance
in 2008 will be similar to that in 2007.
James Kerr-Muir
Chairman
31 March 2008
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
5
As leaders in their fields
BRC and Stadco are well
placed to benefit from the
opportunities and to face
the challenges that their
markets bring. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
6
Acertec’s revenue from continuing operations increased by
5% to £322.9 million (2006: £307.0 million). Operating
profit from continuing operations, before amortisation and
exceptional items decreased by 4% to £14.3 million (2006:
£14.9 million). Operating profit from continuing operations
increased by 59% to £14.0 million (2006: £8.8 million).
BRC Division
BRC is engaged in the design, distribution, marketing and
manufacture of a wide range of steel reinforcement and
related products for the construction industry. The division
operates in three sectors: Reinforcement and Specialty
Products in the UK and Ireland; and Reinforcement in
Singapore. 
Revenue increased by 18% to £196.7 million (2006: £166.2
million) and operating profit, excluding amortisation and
exceptionals, increased by 8% to £8.0 million (2006: £7.4
million). Operating profit increased by 93% to £8.7 million
(2006: £4.5 million). The revenue growth reflected both
strong construction markets and a good sales performance
in most of BRC’s operations. Approximately 8% of sales
growth was a consequence of higher steel prices. Margins
were constrained by competitive pressures, particularly in
the latter part of the year.
BRC’s principal business risks are in matching the supply
and price of steel with the demands of its customer base in
the construction industry. Reinforcing steel is a global
commodity and market conditions are set internationally,
not in the UK. Although construction demand in the UK has
enjoyed several years of steady growth, it is historically a
cyclical business, and is particularly exposed to changes in
the credit environment and to levels of government
expenditure, especially in infrastructure development.
As we indicated in January, towards the end of 2007 we
did see some softening in the housing and commercial
(office/retail/warehousing) sectors in the UK. Underlying
demand however remained firm in the infrastructure
sectors, particularly in transport (rail and road), power
generation (oil, gas and windpower), sports facilities
(Olympics, football stadia), and in the public sector
(hospitals, schools). 
An important part of BRC’s strategy is to convert
commodity reinforcement products into engineered,
added-value reinforcement solutions for its customers.
Good progress was made in this area in 2007, with a
doubling in financial contribution compared with 2006.
The early part of 2008 has seen exceptional increases in
the price of steel worldwide, driven by high demand in
Asia (especially China) and in the developing world. 
The price of reinforcing steel has risen by over 50% since
November 2007; BRC is working to manage the impact of
these increases on the supply chain and on demand.
After a strong first half of 2007, BRC’s Specialty Products
operations saw a mixed second half of the year. Whilst the
Company’s geotechnical products enjoyed strong demand,
some of our other product sectors, particularly those,
such as masonry reinforcement, which are more closely
related to housing, saw a reduction in demand and more
competitive market conditions which have persisted in the
early part of 2008. A new managing director has been
appointed to this business in early 2008, who will drive the
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
7
next phase of development in our Specialty Products
activities.
BRC’s joint venture in Ireland, BRC McMahon, enjoyed
good sales growth following the acquisition of Buchanan
Wire Products in 2006. However, the construction market
in the Republic of Ireland, after several years of strong
growth, weakened in 2007, especially in the second half of
the year and particularly in the housing sector. This gave
rise to an increasingly competitive market environment
and the company’s margins were reduced compared with
2006. This well managed business is expected to continue
to perform well in today’s difficult market.
BRC Asia made further progress in widening its product
range to provide a full range of reinforcement solutions to
the construction industry in Singapore. For the first time,
its sales of rebar based products, including heavy
prefabricated structures, exceeded the sales of its
traditional mesh products. After a weak start to the year,
when the market was affected by shortages of sand and
aggregates, the second half of the year was strong,
underpinned by the increasingly buoyant construction
industry in Singapore. BRC’s joint venture operation in
China showed good sales growth, but margins were thin.
We continue to evaluate the strategic options for our
investment in BRC Asia.
Although the impact of steel price increases and the
turmoil in financial markets are a concern, BRC expects to
make progress in 2008, based on its strong order book
and on good underlying demand in key infrastructure
sectors. The capital expenditure programme, which
extended through 2006 and 2007, has now largely been
completed, leaving BRC well placed to meet its objectives
over the next three years and to continue to develop a
better mix of higher margin, engineered products.
Stadco Division
Stadco is the UK’s largest supplier of body-in-white
pressings and sub-assemblies to automotive OEMs, and is
also a significant supplier of sub-assemblies in Germany.
Pressings and sub-assemblies are the components which,
when they are finally welded together by the OEM, make
up a complete unpainted car body.
Revenue in 2007 decreased by 10% to £126.2 million
(2006: £140.8 million), and operating profit, excluding
amortisation and exceptional items, decreased by 15% to
£9.3 million (2006: £11.0 million). Operating profit
decreased by 16% to £9.2 million (2006: £10.9 million).
Sales levels reflected an expected and substantial reduction
in revenues from engineering and tooling projects,
associated with a low level of new model programmes at
Stadco’s key customers; lower unit volumes on some
vehicle models that were entering a more mature phase
of their life cycle; and a reduced per-vehicle content on
the new BMW Mini. Margins on new work reflected and
will this year continue to reflect the tough competitive
environment in the UK as the body-in-white sector adjusts
to the market conditions following the demise of MG Rover .
In the face of these factors we achieved substantial further
cost reductions following the restructuring of Stadco’s 
UK operations, which included the closure of two factories
in 2006.
An important part of BRC’s strategy is to
convert commodity reinforcement products
into engineered, added-value reinforcement
solutions for its customers. Good progress
was made in this area in 2007, with a doubling
in financial contribution compared with 2006. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Stadco’s operation in Germany showed improved results in
2007, on the back of increased efficiency and other
improvements.
Stadco’s principal business risks are in the level of
demand for its products and in the level of sales revenue.
It is a fixed asset intensive business and consequently
operational gearing is high. Demand is dependent upon
the success of its key OEM customers and of the vehicle
platforms in which it is involved. In the medium and longer
term, Stadco is dependent upon the BIW outsourcing
policies of the major vehicle OEMs and upon its ability to
win new business from both existing and new customers.
Whilst the recently announced sale by Ford of its Jaguar
Land Rover business has caused uncertainty in the market,
Stadco believes that this sale will have a positive impact on
future business prospects in both the short and longer term.
Stadco’s major development in St. Petersburg, Russia,
which is now being undertaken as a 50/50 joint venture
with Gestamp Automocion SL (“Gestamp”), is making good
progress. The construction phase is underway, with
machinery installation on course for the summer months.
The factory is expected to be completed and tested by the
end of the year, ready for production to start at the
beginning of 2009. Initial funding of the investment is
being provided by Gestamp.
In 2008, Stadco expects to see some growth in revenue,
helped by two new model launches – in particular, the
Ford Kuga in Germany which has been well received by
the market, and also the Jaguar XF in the UK, where
Stadco has won modest per-vehicle content. Margins,
however, will continue to be under pressure.
I am pleased to report that requests for quotations for
programmes to supply parts on new vehicles and for
projects which require high levels of programme
management and engineering support are running at their
highest level for three years. These enquiries include
projects with customers not previously supplied by 
Stadco. Increased demand for aluminium panels, 
driven by weight reduction programmes, is expected to
benefit Stadco which has particular expertise in this
sector and is by far the largest independent supplier in
the UK.
Stadco will continue to concentrate on providing a full
range of body-in-white services to its automotive
customers. These services include the manufacture of
pressings and sub-assemblies, the design and
procurement of tooling, and whole body design. Stadco
will continue to seek opportunities to provide these
services in territories outside its traditional UK base.
Outlook
Although 2007 has been a difficult year, we are moving
into 2008 with an improving control environment and with
new senior management in certain key positions. 
Current trading in BRC is dominated by the exceptional
increase in the price of steel in world markets. Its effect
on the supply chain and on demand is a concern. However
BRC should make progress in 2008, based on its strong
order book and on good underlying demand in key
infrastructure sectors. Sales at Stadco have started the
year well, although margins continue to be under pressure.
Overall, we expect that Acertec’s underlying performance
in 2008 will be similar to that in 2007, with growth at BRC
being offset at Stadco, although there will be one-off costs
relating to the refinancing of the Group’s credit facilities.
In the medium term, Stadco expects to generate new
business from the current flow of prospects and for 
Russia to contribute operating profits from 2009. BRC will
benefit from some significant new contract wins for 2008
and should continue to benefit from the pipeline of major
projects in its core markets. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
9
Stadco is the UK’s leading
supplier of body-in-white
(BIW) pressings and sub-
assemblies to automotive
OEMs, and is also a significant
supplier of sub-assemblies in
Germany. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
10
FINANCIAL REVIEW
• Revenue increased by 5% to £322.9 million (2006:
£307.0 million)
• Operating profit from continuing operations, before
amortisation and exceptional items, decreased by 4%
to £14.3 million (2006: £14.9 million). Operating profit,
including share of joint ventures, increased by 59% to
£14.0 million (2006: £8.8 million)
• Net cash flow generated from operations was £11.1
million (2006: £16.8 million). However, Group net
borrowings increased by £16.0 million in the year to
£64.1 million at 31 December 2007, mainly reflecting
further investment in BRC’s capacity and efficiency,
financing costs and a catch-up in German tax payments
• Profit before tax increased 42% to £8.8 million 
(2006: £6.2 million)
Taxation
The Group's tax charge was £4.2 million (2006: £4.0 million).
The Group has accumulated UK tax losses and the tax
charge relates solely to overseas earnings. The directors
expect the effective tax rate to be at a similar level in 2008.
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations for the year to 31 December 2007 were 8.0p,
this compares with earnings per share reported for the year
to 31 December 2006 of 6.2p based on a weighted average
share capital of 51,349,707 ordinary shares of 10p each. 
Exceptional items
Operating exceptional charges of £0.2 million (2006: £4.9
million) comprise costs relating to the investigation into
the accounting misstatement (£0.6 million) and the
retirement of the Group finance director (£0.3 million),
offset by profits on disposal of fixed assets (£0.7 million).
The exceptional items for 2006 related to goodwill
impairment (£1.9 million) and IPO costs (£3.1 million),
offset by profit on disposal of fixed assets (£0.1 million).
Interest
Finance costs for the year were £5.4 million (2006: £5.5
million) which included £0.4 million of unmatched
translation losses on foreign currency loans.
Dividends
The Directors are not recommending a final dividend. 
An interim dividend of 2.7p was paid on 26 October 2007
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The Company adopted IFRS accounting standards during
the year and reported on the impact analysis, showing the
effect of the material changes on the December 2006
financial statements, on 24 August 2007. There have been
some changes to the impact analysis since this
announcement and the updated impact analysis is
included in note 38 to the Group Financial Statements.
Accounting misstatement
On 5 September 2007, we announced that we had discovered
a discrepancy in the accounting for stock at one of the
operations within BRC in the UK. An independent
investigation was carried out by specialist lawyers, Peters
and Peters, and by KPMG who reported that there had
been a breakdown in control within the BRC operation and
that the accounts had been manipulated and misstated
over a period of more than two years. Key aspects of this are:
• The misstatement amounted to £5.0 million with £1.3
million affecting the results for the first half of 2007 and
£3.7 million affecting the results for 2006 and earlier years
• All the key accounting staff at the operation, except
one, have now changed
• Changes to the financial controls are being made and
this, combined with a new internal audit function will
progressively strengthen the Group’s control
environment 
The discrepancy has now been thoroughly addressed by
the Board and by management. The key findings of our
investigation remained broadly unchanged from our
preliminary findings and the steps we have taken and
continue to take are improving the Group’s control
environment. 
All of the figures in this statement fully reflect the adjustments
required to correct the accounting misstatement in BRC.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The Company’s operations monitor KPIs on a monthly basis:
non-financial measures include appropriate product
quality measures, customer service levels, and operational
productivity and efficiency. Financial KPIs include revenue,
cash, margins, operating costs, capital employed and
economic value added. The financial metrics are
discussed within the Chief Executive’s Review and the
Financial Review. The other metrics are measured at an
operational level and therefore it is not practicable to
measure, or disclose, these metrics at a group level.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
11
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial
risks that include the effects of changes in debt market
prices, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk. The
Group has in place a risk management programme that
seeks to limit any adverse effects on the financial
performance of the Company. In view of the KPMG report
into the accounting misstatement at BRC, external
consultants from KPMG have been appointed to document
processes and to review systems and controls in the BRC
operation concerned. This will lead to a clear action plan
for implementation during 2008.
Treasury risk
The most significant treasury exposures faced by the Group
are raising finance and managing interest rate and currency
positions. Clear parameters have been established,
including levels of authority, on the type and use of financial
instruments to manage these exposures. Transactions are
only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures.
Interest rate cash flow risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short term
floating rate instruments. The Group is exposed
predominately to Sterling, Singapore Dollar and Euro LIBOR
interest rates on floating rate debt.
Currency risk 
The Group faces currency exposure on trading
transactions undertaken by its subsidiaries in foreign
currencies. The Group coordinates the hedging of a
proportion of its transactional exposures by taking out
forward foreign exchange contracts, of usually less than
six months duration, against its anticipated known sales
and purchases. The decision to hedge is influenced by the
size of exposure, the certainty of it arising, the trading and
market position of the subsidiary in which the exposure
arises and the current exchange rate. 
The Group’s balance sheet translation exposure is
managed by substantially matching currency assets with
currency borrowings. The Group has significant
borrowings denominated in Singapore dollars and Euros
which are matched against similarly denominated assets.
The policies of managing interest rate risk and currency
exposure were consistently applied during 2007.
Financial Instruments
The Group holds and utilises financial instruments in the
management of its operations. These comprise largely
foreign exchange forward contracts. It is the policy of the
Group that no trading in financial instruments shall be
undertaken. The main risks from the Group’s financial
instruments relate to foreign exchange risk. The board
reviews and agrees policies for managing these risks 
and the details are set out in note 1 to the financial
statements.
Financing and cash flow
The Group operates in a multi currency environment and
has set a policy for managing and reporting the risks
inherent in such an environment. 
The Group’s policy is to cover certain forward currency
risks by way of simple forward contracts. The major
transaction currency exposures are to the Singapore
dollar and the Euro. The Company’s balance sheet
exposure to its investments outside the UK is largely offset
by borrowings in the currencies of the underlying
investments (Singapore dollar and Euro).
All businesses within the Group focus a great deal of
attention on cash flow and on the management of working
capital. The Group operates a central treasury function. 
All principal operating companies (with the exception of
BRC Asia, where funding is obtained locally) participate in
a Group credit facility where balances are offset daily for
interest calculation purposes. 
The Group monitors cash on a daily basis and operates a
weekly cash forecasting process involving senior financial
and commercial managers. Actual and forecast 
performance against bank covenants is measured on a
monthly basis.
The Group’s primary credit facility is provided by a
syndicate of three banks led by Barclays Bank plc. This
facility was due to expire on 18 November 2008 and has
recently been extended to 30 April 2009. Having secured
the short term financing of the business, discussions are
taking place to arrange new medium term facilities as well
as to find ways of reducing the overall level of Group debt. 
Net cash flow generated from operations was £11.1
million (2006: £16.8 million). Group net borrowings
increased by £16.0 million in the year to £64.1 million at
31 December 2007, mainly reflecting further investment in
BRC’s capacity and efficiency, financing costs and a catch-
up in German tax payments. In the first half of 2008
borrowings are expected to increase due to changes in the
financing arrangements for steel purchases in BRC.
£4.0 million (2006: £5.2 million) of bank and other interest
was paid together with tax payments of £7.5 million (2006:
£0.3 million).
New capital expenditure in the year of £9.8 million (2006:
£11.8 million) included £5.6 million of expenditure for
additional capacity and efficiency improvements at BRC in
the UK.
The depreciation charge in the year was £7.4 million
(2006: £7.6 million).
Pensions
Cash contributions of £2.6 million (2006: £4.1 million) were
paid into the Group’s two closed defined benefit pension
schemes. The net deficit on these schemes reduced to
£12.6 million as at 31 December 2007 (31 December 2006:
£16.9 million). 
The Company is funding the deficit with the intention of
eliminating it within 10 years.
Health and Safety
The Group operates formal assessment and reporting
systems in respect of its health, safety and environmental
performance. There were no notifiable environmental
impacts or events at any Group site during the year.
Acertec continually aspires to improve its occupational
health and safety performance and to meet the changing
needs of the business and regulatory requirements. 
This is achieved by:
• Setting objectives for health and safety performance
and reviewing them on a regular basis
• Providing and implementing risk control strategies for
identified hazards in the workplace
• Consulting with employees at all levels within the
organisation
• Implementing robust hazard reporting, accident
recording and investigation procedures
• Providing and maintaining equipment that is safe to use
• Providing systems to ensure that materials and
substances can be used, handled, transported and
stored safely
• Providing information, instruction, training and
supervision as appropriate in order to enable
employees to carry out their activities safely
• Appointing competent people to manage health and safety
The Board receives regular Health and Safety reports and
the effectiveness of the systems and procedures are
reviewed annually. 
All Acertec employees are responsible for working in a
suitable manner in order to ensure their own safety as
well as that of their colleagues and others who may be
affected by their activities. 
John Sword
Chief Executive Officer
31 March 2008 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
12
Each of the specialist companies that form BRC Limited –
BRC Reinforcement, BRC Manufacturing, BRC Special
Products & Weldgrip Geotechnical – offers unparalleled
experience in its particular area and has the technical
problem solving skills and customer focus to drive BRC
forward into the future.
BRC Asia Limited is the market leader for mesh and 
pre-fabricated reinforcement in Singapore, offering “total
reinforcement solutions” to the buoyant construction
industry in Singapore and China.
Portishead Quays Marina
Pecafil – the revolutionary
permanent formwork system,
supplied by BRC Special
Products, was used extensively
on the exclusive Portishead
Quays Marina development at
Portishead, near Bristol.
A mixture of developers
combined to create a £500m
development on the site of the
old power station and the
adjoining marina. The finished
project will see 3,000 new
homes and a variety of shops
and other facilities built.
Pecafil was originally specified
only by Brandwells. Once the
other groundworks companies
saw the ease and speed of
installation, they soon realised
the cost and programme
benefits that could be achieved,
switched from their intended
formwork solution, and placed
their orders as well.
The development went from an
original 15% using Pecafil to
just over 80%. A real case of
the product selling itself.
ASDA superstore, Somerset
Midas Construction’s Somerset &
North Devon Office last year
completed a thirty-two week shell
build programme for CDF
(Highbridge) Ltd. to build a new
Asda store. With a 5th November
2007 store opening date, the timing
was always going to be tight but –
with assistance from BRC
Reinforcement - converting an
element of a 145 tonnes order for
loose bar into special mesh, Midas
Construction saved a considerable
amount of time.
BRC LIMITED
The BRC name has been synonymous with technical innovation, manufacturing flexibility
and engineering expertise since the company was founded in 1908 and these qualities
remain central to our operations today as the business celebrates its centenary year.
Dawlish cliff stabilisation
The Dawlish project was
undertaken to stabilise the sea
cliffs. The 90m high cliffs have a
history of landslips and rockfalls
resulting in extensive works to
protect the main coastal railway
line below. CAN Geotechnical
were contracted to install over
2600 Soil Nails using Weldgrip
Geotechnical’s 25mm Gripforce
® GRP Soil Nails. They
succeeded in completing the
contract on budget and eight
weeks early. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
13
Beetham Hilton Tower
Beetham Hilton Tower,
Manchester was the winner in
the Building Category of the
prestigious Concrete Society
Awards - Excellence in
Concrete 2007. The Beetham
landmark is the tallest
concrete frame ever
constructed in the UK, a
project with which BRC
Reinforcement is proud to have
been involved as the main
steel reinforcement supplier .
The tower is a mixed-use
development consisting of a
279-bed Hilton hotel, public
bar and 219 apartments, all
housed within its 47 storeys.
The building itself is over 170m
in height above ground level.
Wembley Stadium
BRC Reinforcement supplied 17,000 tonnes
of steel for the construction of the new
Wembley Stadium.
BRC Special Products were approached for
help in designing and supplying the
structural reinforcement for the walls. 
After providing initial design expertise, the
technical sales team worked closely with the
client’s structural engineer and specialist
brickwork contractor, Pyramid Brickwork, to
ensure that the walls were able to withstand
the structural and lateral loads, whilst
creating a masonry structure that could also
survive the intense, regular pressures
exerted upon it by the large crowds attending
the venue.
Westfield
Westfield Shopping Town, which will
be London’s biggest shopping mall,
will open later this year . Situated in
Shepherd’s Bush, the £1.6 billion
centre will be similar in size to the
Bluewater Development in Kent.
With an estimated steel reinforcement
requirement of 28,000 tonnes, the
project, which comprises development
of both shopping centre and
underground railway sidings for the
LUL is scheduled for completion in
March 2008. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
14
Stadco is a key Supplier
to the Jaguar XF, the
award-winning new
executive saloon, tipped
by many to herald a new
chapter for Jaguar .
Stadco is proud to be
Jaguar and Land Rover’s
no.1 BIW supplier .
STADCO LIMITED
Stadco is an international tier 1 automotive body-in-white company, specialising in steel
and aluminium stampings and sub assemblies. Stadco’s key customers include BMW, Ford,
Jaguar & Land Rover and Aston Martin. The trend to out-source much of the body of the
vehicle continues in many car manufacturers, supporting their quest to reduce headcount
and maximise facility efficiency. Stadco is the largest BIW supplier to the UK industry and
can uniquely support their customers throughout the complete lifecycle of the vehicle, from
concept design of the body shell, to the supply of aftermarket body panels.
From the smallest bracket to the largest body part, Stadco
has the ability to stamp every panel on the vehicle, in many
steel grades including high strength alloys. Stadco also
specialises in stamping aluminium parts for our
customers, producing major panels, including many
vehicle ‘skin’ components, for a wide range of premium
vehicles. Stadco’s ability to supply in aluminium, coupled
with considerable experience in designing body systems in
aluminium and other lightweight materials, sees it placed
strongly to benefit from the shift towards lighter vehicles
for reduced emissions. Stadco also adds value by
producing sub-assemblies for some of the world's largest
vehicle producers, who appreciate the added flexibility it
brings to their own vehicle assembly plants. Many of these
assemblies are supplied ‘just-in-time’, to offer further
benefits to the car manufacturers. In addition to the core
processes of stamping and assembly, Stadco offers
complementary value-added services, such as painting,
product engineering/analysis and the design of highly
flexible BIW assembly systems. 
In 2007, Stadco invested
in a new 5-axis laser
cutter . Whilst Stadco
supplies many high-
volume products, to the
Mini and Focus for
example, many of our
customers produce
premium niche products
where the low volume,
high value vehicles
benefit from the
precision and flexibility
of laser cutting, whilst
avoiding the expense of
some traditional
stamping tools. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
15
Stadco has been awarded a major supply agreement
with Ford that will see it establish the first dedicated
BIW stampings and assembly facility in Russia to
supply major international OEMs. The supply of
production stampings and assemblies to Ford, for
their highly successful Focus model, is expected to
start in early 2009. The state-of-the-art plant will be
established as a joint venture with Gestamp and is
located on a 15 hectare site in Vsevolozhsk, near 
St Petersburg. The facility will feature the latest
automated processes and it is anticipated that it will
be attractive to other OEMs in the St Petersburg
region. With the Russian market growing strongly, 
a number of other OEMs are establishing
manufacturing facilities in the North-West region,
including Toyota, GM, Renault/Nissan, Hyundai and
Suzuki and we anticipate that additional business will
be won in 2009. 
Stadco’s association with
the Focus will grow even
stronger when the new
Russian plant starts to
supply major body
components to Ford.
Already, through its
Saarlouis just-in-time
plant in Germany, Stadco
supplies c. one third of
the bodyshell to Ford for
this hugely successful
vehicle.
BMW’s Mini simply goes
from strength to
strength, with the new
derivatives building on
an already strong brand.
Stadco supply numerous
BIW components for all
derivatives and are
BMW’s main BIW
supplier in the UK. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
16
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
James Kerr-Muir John Sword Rod Holdsworth
Adrian Burn David Hussey
James Kerr-Muir
Chairman
James Kerr-Muir, aged 67, joined the Board in April 2006.
He is also Chairman of Davenham Group plc and Non-
executive Director of Gartmore Fledgling Trust plc. He
chairs the Nominations Committee.
John Sword
Chief Executive
John Sword, aged 65, joined Acertec plc (then Hall
Engineering Holdings Limited) in 1994 as Chief Executive.
Previously John was Chief Executive and then Chairman of
Massey Ferguson Group Limited.
Rod Holdsworth
Interim Group Finance Director
Rod Holdsworth, aged 42, joined Acertec plc in December
as Interim Group Finance Director. He was previously
Finance Director of Morrison plc and has held senior
positions with Alfred McAlpine plc and with Smiths Group
plc. Rod has not taken up the statutory position of board
director of Acertec plc.
Adrian Burn
Senior Independent Director
Adrian Burn, aged 62, joined the Board in May 2006. He is
the Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the
Audit Committee. He is a non-executive Director of
Pinewood Shepperton Plc, GE Capital Bank Limited and GE
Money Home Lending Holdings Limited. Prior to his
retirement, he was a partner in Arthur Andersen and a
member of its UK Management Board.
David Hussey 
Non-executive Director
David Hussey, aged 59, joined the Board in January 2007
and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. He is an
Executive Director of Foseco plc having previously held
senior positions with Burmah Castrol plc in the UK and
Germany.
David Roache 
David Roache, Group Finance Director since September
1999, resigned from the Board on 31 December 2007. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
17
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report and the audited financial
results for the year to 31 December 2007.
Principal Activities
Acertec is a UK public limited company listed on AIM with its
principal activity being that of a holding company. Through
the BRC business, it carries out the manufacture and supply
of concrete reinforcement and related products to the
construction industry. The other principal activity of the Group,
through the Stadco business, is the manufacture of steel and
aluminium pressings and sub-assemblies for the automotive
manufacturing industry.
Review of business and future prospects
The business review and the financial risk management that
is required to be disclosed pursuant to the Companies Act
1985 are contained in this report. The Chief Executive’s Review
and Financial Review on pages 6 to 11 should be read in
conjunction with this report.
Results and dividends
The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was £4.6
million (2006: loss £2.8 million).This profit was after a taxation
charge of £4.2 million (2006: £4.0 million). An interim dividend
of 2.7p was paid on 26th October 2007 for the year ended 
31 December 2007. The Directors do not propose that a final
dividend for the year should be paid. 
Post Balance sheet events
The Directors have agreed with the current banking syndicate,
led by Barclays Bank plc, to extend the current facilities from
expiry in November 2008 to expiry on 30th April 2009. The
Group is also seeking new medium term borrowing facilities
as well as ways of reducing the overall level of Group debt.
Issue of shares
During the year the Company issued 375 ordinary shares
under the terms of the Company’s Save as You Earn share
option scheme.
Employee Policy 
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of
its employees and keeps them informed on matters affecting
them as employees and on relevant matters affecting the
performance of the Group.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Group’s
performance through the Save As You Earn share option
schemes.
The Group’s employment policies include a commitment to
equal opportunities regardless of sex, age, race or ethnic origin.
The Group’s policy is to give full and fair consideration to
applications for employment made by disabled persons,
bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the
applicants concerned. In the event of staff becoming disabled
every effort is made to ensure their continued employment
with the Group and to provide specialised training where
appropriate.
Safety, Health and Environment
The Group is conscious of its responsibilities to the environment
and is committed to minimising the impact of its business and
its processes on the environment and the community at large.
All Stadco sites and some BRC sites in the UK are compliant
with OHSAS18001 and ISO14001. There is a programme for the
remaining BRC sites also to become compliant.
Creditor Payment Policy
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms with its suppliers which
are appropriate for the markets in which they operate and 
to abide by such terms where suppliers have also met 
their obligations. At 31 December 2007 the Group’s trade
creditors represented 68 days (2006: 67 days) outstanding. 
At 31 December 2007, the Company had no trade creditors
(2006: none).
Going concern
As detailed in the Financial Review on page 10 the Directors
have agreed an extension of the current bank facilities to 
30th April 2009. Taking account of this extension, together
with a review of the Group’s budgeted cash flows, and having
made appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Political and Charitable Donations
The Group made no political donations during the year (2006:
nil). The Group made no charitable donations during the year
(2006: £12,000).
Research and development
The Group is not involved in significant levels of research and
development and no expenditure was incurred during the year
(2006: £0.2 million).
Directors 
The Directors who served during the year and the interests of
Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on
page 20.
There has been no change to the Directors’ interests in the
share capital of the Company between the balance sheet date
and the date of this report.
John Sword and David Hussey offer themselves for re-election
at the forthcoming AGM. 
None of the Director had a material interest in any contract of
significance to which the Company, or its subsidiaries, was
party during the year . There were no contractual relationships
between the Non-executive Directors or companies with
which they are connected and the Company.
Disclosure of information to Auditors 
Each Director who held office at the date of approval of this
Directors’ report confirms that, so far as each is aware, there
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
18
auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the
steps that each ought to have taken as a Director in order to
make them aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
Substantial shareholders
Other than the interests of Directors disclosed below, the
Company had been notified at 28 March 2008 of the following
substantial interests above 3% in the Company’s issued
ordinary share capital:
Number of 
ordinary shares %
Candover Investments p.l.c. 10,980,144 21.38
Gartmore Investment 
Management p.l.c. 9,098,466 17.72
Stemcor Holdings Ltd 4,713,760    9.18
Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 4,210,459 8.19
Henderson Global Investors 3,689,531 7.19
Lowland Investment 
Trust Company plc 2,442,000 4.76
Hansa Trust PLC 2,250,000 4.38
RCM (UK) Ltd. 1,648,334 3.21
Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the Group and the parent Company financial statements
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year . Under that law the Directors
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice). The Group and parent Company financial
statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
• state that the Group financial statements comply with
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard
to the parent Company financial statements, that applicable
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable
them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International
Accounting Standards Regulation and that the parent company
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Share Capital
On 28th March 2008 the Company’s issued share capital was
51,349,974 ordinary shares of 10p each, none of which were
held in treasury. 
An ordinary resolution will be put to the shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting (AGM) to renew the Directors’ authority
to issue and allot ordinary shares. The nominal value of ordinary
shares to which this authority is limited is £1,694,549 being
approximately one third of the current issued ordinary share
capital. A special resolution will also be put to shareholders at
the AGM which renews the authority of the Directors to allot
shares without first offering them to existing shareholders in
proportion to their existing holdings. This authority is limited to
approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
In both cases the above resolutions will expire at the
conclusion of the next AGM in 2009.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness
to continue in office and a resolution proposing their
reappointment will be made at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting 
The 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company will take
place at the offices of Weber Shandwick Square Mile, Fox
Court, 14 Gray’s Inn Road, London WC1X 8WS, on 20 May 2008
at 10.00 am. Full details of the resolutions to be put to the
meeting are given in the notice of the AGM to be found on page
91 of this Annual Report.
By order of the board
John Davies
Company Secretary
31 March 2008
Registered Office:
15, Shottery Brook
Timothy’s Bridge Road
Stratford Upon Avon
Warwickshire
CV37 9NR
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
19
The Directors provide the following information to enable
shareholders to understand the Company’s contractual
arrangements with Directors, the level of Directors’
emoluments, bonuses, benefits-in-kind and incentives, and
how these are determined.
The remuneration of the Company chairman, and of the
executive Directors, is determined by the Remuneration
Committee. The remuneration of non-executive Directors is
considered by the board.
The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a
year, comprises the three non-executive Directors and is
chaired by Mr Hussey. 
The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are
available at the Company’s registered office.
The Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration
policy with the following objectives:
• Executive Directors should receive a fair level of
remuneration that will attract, motivate and retain
individual managers of the appropriate quality;
• a significant proportion of executive Directors’ remuneration
should be variable, and based on financial performance in
both the short and longer term;
• such performance related remuneration should seek to
align the interests of executive Directors with those of
shareholders;
• a factor in the determination of total executive remuneration
should be externally conducted comparisons with levels of
salary and benefits in similar sized companies in similar
industry sectors
John Sword is employed under a service contract, which is
terminable by the Company giving twelve months’ notice or by
the Director giving six months’ notice. 
Executive Directors have a fixed base salary and a car
allowance, and participate in discretionary bonus arrangements
under which they could receive between 0% and 75% of their
base salaries as performance related pay but that one third of
any award be converted into shares and deferred for two years.
Additionally, subject to certain criteria being met, additional
shares would be awarded at the end of the two year period up
to a 100% matching of the shares previously earned. 
James Kerr-Muir and Adrian Burn entered into letters of
engagement in April 2006 for a term of three years, D Hussey
entered into a letter of engagement in January 2007 for a term
of three years. These engagements can be terminated by
either party giving six months’ notice. Fees payable under the
terms of their appointment represent their only remuneration
by the Company. 
Details of the Directors’ emoluments are set out below. In the
case of Directors retiring, resigning or being appointed during
the year, the amounts are disclosed only in respect of their
period of service as a Director
Salary/Fees Bonus Benefits Total
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
J Kerr-Muir 72,000 51,600 – – – 374 72,374 51,600
A Burn 36,000 24,969 – – – – 36,000 24,969
D Hussey 34,246 – – – – – 34,246 –
J D Sword 351,072 337,800 – 1,974,394 1,456 2,507 352,528 2,314,701 
D J Roache 254,714* 244,933 – 1,322,097 2,961 2,008 257,675 1,569,038
* This total does not include David Roache’s compensation for loss of office as described in note 3 below.
Notes:
1. Benefits represent the cost of private medical cover and business mileage payments in excess of the HM Revenue & Customs limits.
2. John Sword participates in the Company’s SAYE scheme saving over a 5 year contract which will result in options over 14,375 shares being
granted to him.
3. £18,000 of David Roache’s 2007 salary was paid via salary sacrifice to The Acertec Engineering Ltd. (2004) Retirement Benefit Scheme. 
On termination of his appointment on 31 December 2007 he was paid £260,142.96 together with a further £6,768 being paid via salary sacrifice
into the Retirement Benefit Scheme. Options over 821,594 of the Company’s ordinary shares were granted to David Roache on 9th May 2006
at the flotation price of £1.48 per share under the Acertec plc Unapproved Share Option Plan 2006. In accordance with the scheme rules these
options do not lapse as a result of his departure from the Company. These options became exercisable on his departure from the Company
on 31 December 2007. The exercise of these options is not subject to performance criteria. David Roache also participated in the Company’s
SAYE scheme saving over a 5 year contract. In accordance with scheme rules, the options over 14,375 shares granted to him lapse on 30th
June 2008. 
4. Rod Holdsworth receives a salary and car allowance of £22,470 per month and is eligible for a bonus if certain targets are achieved.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
20
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company
were as follows:
At 31 At 31 
December December 
2007 2006
J Kerr-Muir 14,864 27,027
A Burn 10,135 10,135
J D Sword 1,172,409 1,022,409
D J Roache 535,591 535,591
Notes:
1. On 19 July 2007 John Sword purchased 150,000 shares, to be held
in his Self Invested Pension Plan, at 167.83p per share bringing his
holding to 1,172,409 shares representing 2.28% of the share capital
of the Company.
2. James Kerr-Muir’s holding was reduced on 13 September 2007
due to his no longer having a continuing interest in the 12,163
ordinary shares which are held in trust for his children.
All Directors’ interests are beneficially held. There has been
no change between the balance sheet date and the date of
this report.
Options over 1,232,390 shares of the Company’s ordinary
shares were granted to John Sword on 9 May 2006 at the
flotation price of 148p per share under the Acertec plc
Unapproved Share Option Plan 2006. The earliest date upon
which the options may be exercised is 16 May 2009. The
exercise of these options is not subject to performance criteria.
The mid market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 
31 December 2007 was 42p.
The Directors who held office during the year were:
James Kerr-Muir: Non-executive Chairman 
Adrian Burn: Senior Independent Director 
John Sword: Chief Executive
David Roache (resigned 31 December 2007)
David Hussey: Non-executive Director 
(appointed 19 January 2007)
On 1st December 2007 Rod Holdsworth was appointed Interim
Group Finance Director. He has not taken up the statutory
position of board director and has no interest in the shares of
the Company.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION continued ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
21
Introduction
The Company is listed on AIM. Although the AIM Rules for
Companies do not require compliance with the Financial
Reporting Council’s Combined Code on Corporate Governance
(the “Code”), the board fully supports and has applied the
principles recommended by the 2006 version of the Code and
is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate
governance are maintained by the Group. As described in the
Chief Executive’s Review, on 5 September we announced that
we had discovered a discrepancy in the accounting for stock
within an operation of BRC in the UK. Resulting from the
independent investigation carried out by specialist lawyers,
Peters and Peters, and by KPMG, changes to the financial
controls are being made and this, combined with a new
internal audit function, will progressively strengthen the
Group’s control environment.
The board considers that during the financial year it has made
progress in establishing good corporate governance practice
principles.
The Company is not yet fully compliant with provisions of
Section 1 of the Code but is seeking compliance wherever
practical, given both the size of the Company and the
resources available.
Board structure
At the beginning of the financial year, the board comprised
two non-executive Directors, one of whom was the Chairman,
and two executive Directors. On 19 January 2007 the board
appointed a further non-executive director, David Hussey. On
21 November 2007 the resignation of David Roache, the Group
Finance Director, was announced by the board to take effect
from 31 December 2007. With effect from 1 December 2007
Rod Holdsworth has acted as the Interim Group Finance
Director, although he is not appointed as a statutory board
director . Biographies of the Directors are provided on page 16.
In accordance with the Code, the roles of the Chairman, James
Kerr-Muir, and the Chief Executive Officer, John Sword, are
separate and clearly defined, and have been approved by the
board. In addition to chairing the board, the Chairman is
responsible for matters considered by the Nomination
Committee, which he chairs, such as succession planning and
the process for board appointments, and is further responsible
for evaluating the individual performance of each director . The
Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the members
of the board receive accurate, timely and clear information 
to enable the Directors to make sound decisions and fulfil 
their statutory duties. The Chairman ensures effective
communication with shareholders, and makes their views
known to the board to ensure that they are considered
effectively. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the
overall management of the Group’s business, the development
of the Group’s strategic direction, implementation and delivery
of the annual business plan and the effective leadership, co-
ordination and performance of the executive team. The Chief
Executive also ensures that the Group’s strategies, plans and
major developments are effectively communicated to
shareholders and he maintains strong relationships with key
external stakeholders in order to understand any concerns
they may have regarding the Company and communicates
these back to the board.
Adrian Burn is the Senior Independent Director (SID)
nominated by the Board, and is available to shareholders if
they have any concerns which are not resolved through the
usual channels of communication. 
The non-executive Directors possess a wide range of skills
and experience and the board considers that each of the non-
executive Directors who served throughout the financial year
was independent within the meaning of the Code and that the
Chairman was independent at the time of his appointment in
April 2006. The board appointed John Davies as Company
Secretary in June 2007 in order to take responsibility for the
Group’s Secretariat and to ensure that the Group implemented
procedures to enable it to meet its regulatory, compliance and
governance requirements. The Chairman and Company
Secretary meet on a regular basis to discuss corporate
governance and other issues including, inter alia, information
flows and the induction and training programmes for Directors
and senior management. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary and also to
independent professional advice where required. The director
appointed during the year received an induction programme
which included detailed background information about the
Group and its activities and details of the board procedures
and governance policies, including procedures for dealing in
the Company’s shares. As part of the director’s induction,
meetings were arranged with all board members and with
senior management across both divisions, together with some
of the Company’s advisors. Visits were also arranged to all
significant corporate locations both in the UK and Germany.
Each of the non-executive Directors have, during the course of
the financial year, been provided with briefings and information
relevant to their role.
During the financial year the Chairman, James Kerr-Muir,
continued his appointment as chairman of Davenham Group
Plc; his commitments to this are not considered to be such
that he would not be able to devote sufficient time to his
Chairmanship of the Company. 
The board has established a formal policy of delegated
authorities setting out matters which require its express
approval and the authorities delegated to the executive
Directors. The board receives a board pack in advance of each
meeting containing a report from the executive Directors,
management accounts and any other material deemed
necessary for the board to discharge its duties. The board has
responsibility for formulating, reviewing and approving the
Group’s strategy, budgets, major items of capital expenditure,
corporate transactions, risk management policies, treasury
policies, succession planning, appointments to the board and
material investments and disposals. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
22
The board recognises that an essential part of its responsibilities
is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition
of liabilities and the accurate reporting of results. The Group
has a comprehensive system for regular reporting to the board.
This includes an annual budgeting system, with budgets
approved by the board. The financial reporting system compares
actual results against budget and prior year and reconsiders
its financial forecast for the balance of year, on a monthly basis.
The board met 17 times during the year; the attendance of the
Directors at board and committee meetings is provided below:
Board and committee attendance
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
N         A  N         A  N         A  N        A 
John Sword 17   17  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a
James Kerr-Muir 17   17  3      3  5      4  1     1
Adrian Burn 17   17  3      3  5      5  1     1
David Hussey* 17   16  3      3  5      5  1     1
David Roache** 17   15  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a n/a  n/a
N = Number of meetings     A = Attendance 
* David Hussey was appointed to the board with effect from 
19 January 2007
** David Roache resigned from the board with effect from 
31 December 2007
Rod Holdsworth (who is not a statutory director) attended one
Board meeting in 2007
In the instances where a director was not able to attend the
board meeting, any comments which they had arising out of
the relevant board pack they received were provided in
advance of the meeting to the Chairman.
The Company maintains adequate insurance cover in respect
of legal actions against Directors and officers as well as
against material loss or claims against the Group. 
Under the Code (and the Company’s articles of association) all
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
AGM following appointment and thereafter to re-election at
least every three years John Sword and David Hussey offer
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The board conducted an assessment of the balance, skills
and experience of the board and its individual members during
the financial year and also assessed the performance of the
three committees. A questionnaire was circulated to the
Directors with regard to the performance of the board and
the committees. Following this assessment the responses
were collated and summarised. The key points arising from
the evaluation included:
• a recommendation for the board to undertake a more
formal review of succession planning and human resource
management which will be taken forward during 2008;
• the need for additional time to allow Directors to review
board and committee papers in advance of meetings. The
Company will address this in 2008 with the introduction of
a new financial reporting framework;
• a recommendation that the individual performance of each
Director is evaluated in a more clearly defined manner.
This will be addressed in 2008 by the Chairman conducting
one-to-one meetings with the Directors so that formal
objectives can be set against which each individual
Director’s performance will then be measured.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors also met during
the financial year without the Executive Directors, to discuss
a wide range of issues, including the performance of the
Executive Directors.
Board Committees
The board has three committees, Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination, each having written terms of delegated
responsibilities. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Adrian Burn (Chairman),
James Kerr-Muir and David Hussey (with effect from 19
January 2007). The board considers that Adrian Burn has
recent and relevant experience in accordance with the
requirements of the Code. The committee is responsible for
ensuring that the appropriate financial procedures and
controls are properly maintained and reported on and for
monitoring the external auditors and reviewing their reports
relating to the Group’s accounts and internal control systems.
It also assesses annually the cost effectiveness, objectivity 
and independence of the external auditors. It is the practice of
the committee to include the executive Directors. The
committee also has responsibility for the Group’s Whistle
Blowing policy and annually reviews its arrangements under
this policy.
Relationships with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), the
Company’s external auditor, are dealt with largely through the
Interim Group Finance Director. In addition, PwC meet with
the Audit Committee at least annually without the presence
of executive management. They also have direct access to the
Audit Committee and to senior employees.
The Group uses the external auditors for non-audit services
such as taxation advice. When appointing advisors for 
non-audit work the Group considers the experience and
objectivity required. The committee is satisfied that the external
auditors carefully consider each piece of non-audit work
offered, in order to ensure that acceptance would not impair
independence and they report annually on this issue to the
committee. The report for the year under review, which was
accepted by the committee, concluded that the external auditors
were independent and that their objectivity was not impaired.
The committee met three times in order to review the results
of the full audit, to approve the interim results, to review the
performance of the external auditors and to steer the Company
though the independent investigation of the accounting
misstatement in BRC. Following this investigation the Group
has appointed KPMG to provide an internal audit function that
reports to the audit committee on a regular basis. All
committee members attended all meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
23
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises David Hussey
(Chairman), James Kerr-Muir and Adrian Burn. Under the
Code the Company Chairman, James Kerr-Muir, may now
serve on the committee, where he was considered independent
on his appointment as Chairman. James Kerr-Muir will not
be involved in any meeting in which his remuneration is
discussed by the committee. The committee is responsible for
reviewing the performance of the executive Directors and other
senior executives and for determining appropriate levels of
remuneration and benefits, including bonuses. The Board is
responsible for setting the remuneration of the non-executive
Directors. The committee met five times during the financial
year to review the pay and the performance of Directors and
senior management in relation to bonuses and to consider the
granting of share based incentives. All committee members
attended all meetings.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises James Kerr-Muir
(Chairman), Adrian Burn and David Hussey (with effect from 19
January 2007). It will make recommendations on all new board
appointments. The committee met once during 2007, with all
committee members present, to consider the composition of
the board and the appointment of Rod Holdsworth as interim
Group Finance Director. The appointment of Rod Holdsworth
was made with the assistance of external recruitment
consultants. A short-list was drawn up from those candidates
put forward and then formal meetings took place between the
candidates and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Having regard to the relevant experience and background of
the candidates, the committee recommended the interim
appointment of Rod Holdsworth.
The terms of reference for all board committees are available
for viewing at the Company’s registered office. 
Shareholder Relations
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining
strong relationships with its shareholders and the Chief
Executive Officer and Interim Group Finance Director make
presentations to, and meet regularly with, institutional
shareholders and analysts as appropriate. The Company uses
its web site to encourage communication with private, existing
and prospective shareholders and welcomes feedback from
investors on its published reports and web site. Please
address your feedback to John Davies, Company Secretary
by e-mail to info@acertec.com or in writing to Acertec plc, 15,
Shottery Brook, Timothy’s Bridge Road, Stratford upon Avon,
Warwickshire, CV37 9NR.
In compliance with AIM rules the Company has established a
policy and share dealing code related to dealing in the
Company’s shares by Directors, employees and connected
persons.
The Company also recognises that the AGM provides an
important forum for communicating with investors and
provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the
board. The Company’s second AGM as an AIM listed Company
will take place on 20 May 2008 and all of the Company’s
current board of Directors will be in attendance.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal
controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
Following the discovery of the discrepancy in the accounting for
stock within BRC, changes to the financial controls are being
made and this, combined with a new internal audit function
will progressively strengthen the Group’s control environment.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. The
board is responsible for the system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. It can provide reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review, at
least annually, of the Group’s system of internal controls. Such
a review examines material controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management
systems. 
Further development of internal controls and risk
management
During 2007 the Group engaged the services of risk advisers,
Marsh, to undertake risk interviews and independently
facilitate a number of workshops with Executive Directors and
senior operational management. These workshops focused
on the identification, monitoring and management of risk. Each
risk identified by the Group was mapped according to its
likelihood of arising and its potential impact on the Group.
Formal risk registers are now being established in each of the
BRC and Stadco divisions. With assistance from the new
internal audit function, these registers will form the basis for
regular monitoring and review of Group risk. 
Internal Audit 
The Group did not have an internal audit function during 2007 but
has since appointed KPMG to provide an internal audit function
that reports to the audit committee on a regular basis. The
internal audit programme will involve a series of core financial
and systems reviews at key trading locations and will focus on
key risk areas identified by the recent risk assessment work.
Whistle Blowing Policy
The Company has established, operates and has published
within the Group a Whistle Blowing Policy. This provides the
necessary access for, and the protection of, employees wishing
to bring matters that they suspect of being malpractice or
impropriety to the attention of the relevant person. Any
incidents reported are fully investigated and the results are
reported to the Audit Committee.
Operational Review
The Company follows a programme of operational reviews
designed to visit all major businesses on a frequent basis.
These reviews are conducted by the Group CEO and Interim
Group Finance Director and their findings are reported to the
board monthly. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
24
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have audited the group financial statements of Acertec
plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
These group financial statements have been prepared under
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
statements of Acertec plc for the year ended 31 December
2007.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and the group financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set
out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group
financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the group financial statements. The
information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific
information presented in the Chief Executive’s Review and the
Financial Review that is cross referred from the Review of
Business section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
director’s remuneration and other transactions is not
disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group
financial statements. The other information comprises only
the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the
Financial Review, the list of Directors, the Directors’ Report,
the Corporate Governance statement and the Directors’
Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in
the group financial statements. It also includes an assessment
of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the group financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud
or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the group financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
31 March 2008 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
25
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
Revenue 2 322.9 307.0
Operating costs 3 (310.8) (300.0)
Operating profit 12.1 7.0
Share of profit of joint ventures 1.9 1.8
Operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures 2 14.0 8.8
Analysed as:
Operating profit before amortisation of intangibles and exceptional items 14.3 14.9
Goodwill impairment 4 – (1.9)
Cost of stock investigation 4 (0.6) –
Compensation for loss of office 4 (0.3) –
Amortisation of intangibles 10 (0.1) (1.2)
Profit on sale of investments 4 0.4 –
IPO costs 4 – (3.1)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets in joint venture 4 0.3 0.1
Finance costs (5.4) (5.5)
Finance income before exceptional items 0.2 0.7
Finance income – exceptional – 2.2
Net finance costs 7 (5.2) (2.6)
Profit before tax 8.8 6.2
Taxation 8 (4.2) (4.0)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 4.6 2.2
Loss from discontinued operations – (5.0)
Profit/(loss) for the year 4.6 (2.8)
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Profit/(loss) attributable to:
Minority interest 0.5 0.2
Equity shareholders of the company 4.1 (3.0)
4.6 (2.8)
Earnings per share for profit attributable to the equity holders of the company during the year (expressed in pence per share)
2007 2006
Note pence pence
Basic and diluted 24 8.0 (9.3)
Earnings per share for profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the company during the year
(expressed in pence per share)
2007 2006
Note pence pence
Basic and diluted 24 8.0 6.2
The notes on pages 29 to 83 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
26
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
Profit/(loss) for the year: 4.1 (3.0)
Actuarial gain recognised on retirement benefit obligations 35 1.5 –
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gain on retirement benefit obligations 27 (0.4) –
Cost of share options in issue 26, 28 0.4 0.4
Subsidiary share options exercised by minority interest 26, 28 (0.1) –
Foreign exchange translation differences taken to reserves 28 (0.3) (0.5)
Dividends paid 9 (4.0) –
New equity issued – 53.3
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ equity (2.9) 53.2
Opening shareholders’ equity 17.4 (32.8)
Closing shareholders’ equity 18.6 17.4
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
27
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 15.3 15.3
Intangible assets 10 0.2 0.2
Property, plant & equipment 11 74.4 70.6
Investments in joint ventures 13 4.5 4.0
Available for sale financial assets 15 0.1 0.2
Deferred income tax assets 23 6.4 7.6
Trade and other receivables 18 0.3 0.3
101.2 98.2
Current assets
Inventories 17 32.2 25.5
Trade and other receivables 18 50.0 45.9
Cash and cash equivalents 19 27.7 20.0
109.9 91.4
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (90.2) (9.6)
Trade and other payables 21 (74.6) (69.7)
Derivative financial instruments 14 (0.1) –
Current income tax liabilities (1.7) (6.3)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 22 (1.7) (2.1)
(168.3) (87.7)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (58.4) 3.7
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 20 (1.6) (58.5)
Deferred income tax liabilities 23 (5.3) (5.2)
Trade and other payables 21 (0.1) (0.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 35 (12.6) (16.9)
(19.6) (80.7)
Net assets 23.2 21.2
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the company
Called up share capital 25 5.1 5.1
Share premium account 28 48.7 48.7
Other reserve 28 1.0 1.0
Share option reserve 28 1.1 0.8
Foreign exchange reserve 28 (0.8) (0.5)
Retained earnings 27 (36.5) (37.7)
Total shareholders’ equity 18.6 17.4
Equity minority interests 29 4.6 3.8
Total equity 23.2 21.2
Approved by the Board on 31 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by
John Sword
Director
The notes on pages 29 to 83 form part of these financial statements. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
28
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 32 11.1 16.8
Interest paid (4.0) (5.2)
Interest received – 0.1
Income tax paid (7.5) (0.3)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities (0.4) 11.4
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (9.8) (11.8)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment – 0.3
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed – 13.2
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired – (1.3)
Proceeds from sale of investments 0.5 –
Dividends received from joint venture 1.4 1.3
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (7.9) 1.7
Net proceeds of IPO – 53.3
Proceeds from borrowings 15.1 22.9
Issue costs paid – (0.4)
Repayment of borrowings (12.1) (91.3)
Dividends paid to company’s shareholders 9 (4.0) –
Dividends paid to minority interests 29 (0.3) (0.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (1.3) (15.6)
Net decrease in cash in the year (9.6) (2.5)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 15.8 18.3
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 19 6.2 15.8 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
29
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 December 2007
1. Accounting policies
The principal activities of the Group are, through the BRC business, the manufacture and supply of concrete reinforcement and
related products to the construction industry and, through the Stadco business, the manufacture of steel and aluminium pressings
and sub-assemblies for the automotive manufacturing industry.
Basis of preparation
The 2007 consolidated financial statements are the first financial statements prepared by Acertec plc in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC interpretations
and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to Companies reporting under IFRS. Reconciliations and descriptions of the effect of the
transition from UK GAAP to IFRS on the Group’s equity and its net income are given in note 38.
On 5 September 2007, it was announced that a discrepancy had been discovered in the accounting for stock at one of the
operations of BRC Limited. Since then, an investigation into the discrepancy has been carried out. The results of the investigation
show a discrepancy of £5.0m arising from the overstatement of stock accounts and an underestimate of accruals. Of the
discrepancy, it is estimated that £1.3m relates to the current year ended 31 December 2007 (tax impact £0.4m), £1.8m relates
to the year ended 31 December 2006 (tax impact £0.5m) and £1.9m to the year ended 31 December 2005 (tax impact £0.6m). 
An adjustment has been made for the prior period error in the UK GAAP to IFRS reconciliations in note 38.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. 
a) Standards, amendment and interpretations effective in 2007
IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements
– Capital disclosures’, introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments and does not have any impact on the
classification and valuation of the Group financial instruments, or the disclosures relating to taxation and trade and other
payables.
IFRIC 8, ‘Scope of IFRS 2’, requires consideration of transactions involving the issuance of equity instruments, where the
identifiable consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued in order to establish whether
or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2. This standard does not have any impact on the Group financial statements. 
IFRIC 10, ‘Interim financial reporting and impairment’, prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on
goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance
sheet date. This standard does not have any impact on the Group’s financial statements.
b) Interpretation early adopted by the Group 
IFRIC 11, ‘IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions’, was early adopted in 2007. IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether
share-based transactions involving treasury shares or involving group entities (for example, options over a parent’s shares)
should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts
of the parent and group companies. This interpretation does not have an impact on the Group’s financial statements.
c) Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but not relevant 
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2007 but they are not relevant to the Group’s operations: 
• IFRS 4, ‘Insurance contracts’;
• IFRIC 7, ‘Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting in hyper-inflationary economies’; and 
• IFRIC 9, ‘Re-assessment of embedded derivatives’.
d) Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted 
by the Group
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for
the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods, but the Group have not early adopted them:
• IAS 23 (Amendment), ‘Borrowing costs’ (effective from 1 January 2009). The amendment to the standard is still subject
to endorsement by the European Union. It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset (one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for
use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.
The Group will apply IAS 23 (Amended) from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU but is currently not
applicable to the Group or Company as there are no qualifying assets.
• IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments ‘ (effective from 1 January 2009). IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with
the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, ‘Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information’.
The new standard requires a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is presented on the same basis
as that used for internal reporting purposes. The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009.  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
30
1. Accounting policies continued
Basis of preparationcontinued
• IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’ (effective from
1 January 2008). IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be
recognised as an asset. It also explains how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual
minimum funding requirement. The Group will apply IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2008, but it is not expected to have any
impact on the Group or Company’s accounts.
e) Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant for the Group’s operations
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group and Company’s
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods but are not relevant for the Group’s operations: 
• IFRIC 12, ‘Service concession arrangements’ (effective from 1 January 2008). IFRIC 12 applies to contractual arrangements
whereby a private sector operator participates in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure
for public sector services. IFRIC 12 is not relevant to the Group’s operations because none of the Group’s companies
provide for public sector services.
• IFRIC 13, ‘Customer loyalty programmes’ (effective from 1 July 2008). IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are
sold together with a customer loyalty incentive (for example, loyalty points or free products), the arrangement is a
multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components
of the arrangement using fair values. IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Group’s operations because none of the Group’s
companies operate any loyalty programmes.
In preparing this financial information, the Directors have applied accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU under the
first-time adoption provisions set out in IFRS 1.
However, certain of the requirements and options in IFRS 1 relating to comparative financial information presented on first time
adoption may result in a different application of accounting policies in the 2006 restated financial information to that which would
apply if the 2006 financial statements were the first financial statements of the Group prepared in accordance with accounting
standards as adopted for use in the EU.
The preparation of financial information in conformity with the basis of preparation described above requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s
accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates
are significant to the consolidated financial information are disclosed in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements section.
IFRS 1 exemptions
IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, has been applied in preparing this financial
information. IFRS 1 sets out the procedures that the Group must follow when it adopts IFRS for the first time. The Group is
required, as discussed above, to establish its IFRS accounting policies for the year to 31 December 2007 and, in general, apply
these policies retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of transition, 1 January 2006.
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exemptions to the general principle of retrospective application, Exemptions adopted by
the Group are set out below:
• IFRS 3 deals with accounting for businesses acquired and requires intangible assets to be fair valued at the date of
acquisition and amortised over an appropriate time period. Any residual goodwill is not amortised but is subject to an
annual impairment review. The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3,”Business combinations” to business combinations
that occurred before the date of transition.
• Under IAS 21, the exchange differences arising on the re-translation of foreign operations are taken directly to a separate
component of equity. The Group has elected, under the provisions of IFRS1, to set the historical translation differences
on foreign subsidiaries to zero on transition.
• The Group has elected not to apply IFRS2, “Share based payments” to liabilities arising from share-based payment
transactions that were granted after 7 November 2002 and which had vested before the date of transition.
• The Group has taken the exemption from IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement” to designate
financial instruments as a financial asset or liability at ‘fair value through profit or loss’ or as ‘available for sale’ at the
date of transition to IFRS. IAS 39 requires the designation to be made on initial recognition.
• Arrangements must be examined to determine whether they contain a lease. The Group has adopted the exemption in
IFRS 1 permitting this to be done based on facts and circumstances at the date of transition rather than at the inception
of the arrangement.
• The Group has taken the exemption from IAS 39. “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” such that its
‘day one’ profits on initial recognition of financial instruments will be applied prospectively from the date of transition.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
31
1. Accounting policies continued
Consolidation
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls
another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of
exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent
of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired.
the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting
policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b) Associates and joint ventures
Associates are all entities over which the Group has the power to exert significant influence but not the power to control,
generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are those entities
where joint control exists and strategic operating, investing and financing decisions require the consent of a majority of the
owners. Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are
initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition,
net of any accumulated impairment loss.
The Group’s share of its associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement,
and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements
are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of loss in an associate or joint venture
equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Where
the Group considers that the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture is higher than its recoverable amount, the Group
will reduce the carrying amount to the recoverable amount and recognise an impairment loss through the income statement.
Dilution gains and losses arising in associates or joint ventures are recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition
BRC is engaged in the design, distribution, marketing and manufacture of a wide range of steel reinforcement and related
products for the construction industry.
Stadco supplys body in white (BIW) pressings and sub-assemblies to automotive OEMs.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary
course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating
sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic
benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below.
The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been
resolved. The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of
transaction and the specifics of each arrangement.
Sales of goods are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer and the customer has
accepted the goods in accordance with the sales contract. In the majority of cases this is when the goods have been delivered to
the customer, however it may also be when a customer has paid in advance for a quantity of raw materials. In these cases, the
risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer when the payment is made in accordance with the sales contract. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
32
1. Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition continued
All tooling employed by the company is owned by the customers. Stadco tooling revenue is included within revenue and the
associated costs within operating costs. Provided that the outcome of tooling projects can be assessed with reasonable certainty,
revenue and profit is recognised on the basis of the following milestones: completion of the project; once the customer has
bought off the tooling; start of production; and at the start of volume production. Any losses are recognised immediately in the
income statement. Typically all tools are complete and paid for in full prior to volume production but remain under the ownership
of the OEMs for the duration of their life.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Exceptional items
Where the Directors consider that particular items of income and expenditure are significant in terms of their size or nature,
these items are separately identified on the income statement. Such items are typically those items which are not related to
the Group’s normal trading activities, for example, goodwill impairment, IPO costs, profit on sale of fixed assets and investments
and compensation for loss of office of Directors.
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and
returns that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or
services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments
operating in other economic environments.
Foreign currency translation
a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are
presented in £Sterling, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.
b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of
the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation
at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income
statement, except where deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that
have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
and
ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income
and expense are translated at the dates of the transactions);
iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings
designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange
differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. With the adoption of IFRS 1: First Time
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group utilised the optional exemption allowed under this standard
and set all foreign exchange differences included in equity, under previous consolidations, to zero on 1 January 2006.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
33
1. Accounting policies continued
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and
available for sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines
the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this
category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for
trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an
active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet
date. These are classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables are classified as ‘trade and other receivables’ in the
balance sheet.
c) Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of
the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within
12 months of the balance sheet date.
At initial recognition, financial assets other than those at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value plus
directly attributable transaction costs. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been
transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
After initial recognition, financial assets are measured as described below:
• Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method;
• Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot
be reliably measured are measured at cost; and
• All other financial assets are measured at fair value.
Financial liabilities
The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and “other”. 
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired. Management determines the
classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
a) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial liabilities held for trading. A financial liability is classified
in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held
for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities.
b) Other financial liabilities
This category of financial liabilities includes all other financial liabilities that are not categorised at fair value through profit
or loss.
At initial recognition, financial liabilities other than those at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value plus
directly attributable transaction costs. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value.
After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured as described below:
• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value; and
• All other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost used the effective interest method.
The treatment of borrowings specifically is considered in the following accounting policy.
None of the Group’s financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any of these financial
instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement within operating costs.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial instruments classified as fair value through profit or loss
are presented in the income statement within operating costs in the period in which they arise. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
34
1. Accounting policies continued
Financial liabilitiescontinued
Fair values
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet
date.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values
due to the short-term nature of trade receivables. The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated
by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar
financial instruments.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the
income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for
at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership is passed to the lessee are classified as finance
leases. Assets acquired under finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment. Depreciation is provided at rates
designed to write-off the cost in equal annual amounts over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets (which are the
same as those for assets purchased outright) and the period of the leases. The capital element of future rentals is treated as a
liability and interest element is charged to the income statement over the period of the leases using the effective interest method.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Provisions
Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation
as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has
been reliably estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by
considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any
one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation except
where the effect of discounting is not material in which case provisions are not discounted. The increase in the provision due to
passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold properties are stated at historical cost and are depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful life. Leased
properties, classified as finance leases, are depreciated over the lesser of their useful life or the term of the lease. No depreciation
is provided on land. All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it 
is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of any replaced part is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. Depreciation on assets, other than land and assets in the course
of construction, is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated
useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings – 33 to 50 years
Leasehold land and buildings – shorter of lease term or 50 years
Plant and equipment – 3 to 15 years
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
35
1. Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipmentcontinued
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than
its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount. These are included in the
income statement.
Expenses incurred on assets incurred in the course of construction are capitalised. Once these assets are ready for their intended
use, they are transferred to the relevant category of Property. Plant and Equipment and depreciated to their residual values over
their estimated useful lives.
Borrowing costs, mainly interest costs, necessarily incurred during the construction of assets are expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of
the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary/associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries
is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in ‘investments in associates’ and is tested
for impairment as part of the overall balance. Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal
of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-
generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the
goodwill arose. The Group allocates goodwill to each business segment in each country in which it operates.
b) Computer software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific
software. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives (3 to 5 years).
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group,
and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives (not exceeding
5 years) on a straight line basis.
c) Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs incurred on development projects relating to the developing
of new products and processes and significant enhancement of the existing products and processes are recognised as intangible
assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs
can be measured reliably. Only direct costs are capitalised which include the development employee costs and an appropriate
portion of relevant overheads. Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a
subsequent period. Development costs that have a finite useful life that have been capitalised are amortised from the
commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
d) Customer order book
Where an order book is acquired as part of the Group’s acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, an intangible asset relating
to the acquired order book may be recognised, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition relating to the order book
over the fair value of order book acquired. The intangible asset is amortised on a systematic basis that reflects the expected
pattern of economic benefits relating to the fulfilment of the customer orders.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to depreciation/amortisation and are tested annually for impairment
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Assets that are subject to depreciation/amortisation are reviewed
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating
units) on a straight line basis. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
36
1. Accounting policies continued
Employee benefit costs
a) Pension obligations
Pension benefits are provided for Group employees under defined benefit schemes established by trusts which are funded
by contributions from Group companies and employees and which are financially separate from the assets of the Group. 
The contributions levels are determined by independent qualified actuaries.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit
obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial
gains or losses and past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using
the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated
future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the
benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. The Group
has not taken the exemption under IAS 19 which allows actuarial gains and losses to be recognised in the income statement
over a period of time (the ‘corridor approach’), consequently actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the
statement of recognised income and expense.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the
employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
From 30 March 2004, the Group’s two defined benefit schemes (the Acertec Pension Scheme and the SG Industries Staff
Pension Scheme) were closed to new members and to the accrual of benefits for future service of active members. The assets
of the Acertec and SG Industries Staff Pension Schemes were transferred to two newly formed closed defined benefit pension
schemes set up within the trading subsidiaries, BRC Limited and Stadco Limited. Active members of these two defined benefit
schemes were transferred to defined contribution schemes set up within each trading subsidiary.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the income statement as payable in respect of the accounting
period.
b) Share-based compensation
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The Group determines the fair value of the share options
granted using the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo option-pricing models. The Group recognises the cost of share options as
an employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in other reserve equity over the expected life of the options
granted.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted,
excluding the impact of any non ¬market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions
about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its
estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original
estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and
share premium when the options are exercised.
c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is
demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan
without possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary
redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to present value if the effect
of discounting is material.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Net investment hedges
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; the gain or loss
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
37
1. Accounting policies continued
Share capital, share premium and dividend distributions
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Discontinued operations
The Group regularly reviews its operations in order to identify any disposal groups whose carrying value is to be recovered
primarily from a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. To demonstrate that the carrying amount will be recovered
primarily through a sale transaction, the disposal group must be immediately available for sale in its present condition and its
sale must be highly probable. Disposal groups that meet the conditions to be classified as held for sale are measured at the lower
of their carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell with depreciation on such assets ceasing at the point of reclassification.
Discontinued operations are presented as a single line in the income statement representing the post-tax profit or loss for the
period and the profit or loss on sale of the operation.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (including an appropriate proportion of overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
determined using the first-in first-out basis.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account. and the amount of
the loss is recognised in the income statement within ‘operating costs’. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off
against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against
‘operating expenses’ in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments
with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current
liabilities on the balance sheet if there is no legal right of offset with the cash balances and the Group does not intend to settle
cash and overdraft balances simultaneously.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Taxes recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected
tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and
any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, if the deferred income tax arises
from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates
(and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where
the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
38
1. Accounting policies continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition,
seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a) Impairment of goodwill
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with its accounting policy. 
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These
calculations require the use of estimates.
If the estimated profit margin (operating profit divided by revenue) at 31 December 2008 had been 18% (2006: 28%) lower than
management’s estimates at 31 December 2007 (for example, 3.1% instead of 4.3%) the Group would have recognised an
impairment of goodwill.
If the pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows had been 59% (2006: 37%) higher than management’s
estimates (for example, 15.9% instead of 10%), the Group would have recognised an impairment against goodwill.
b) Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions, principally UK, Germany and Singapore. Significant judgment
is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course
of business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes
will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such
differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
c) Retirement benefit obligations
The Group recognises its obligations to employee retirement benefits. The quantification of these obligations is subject to
significant estimates and assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount and inflation rates and the rate of increase in
pension payments. In making these assumptions the Group takes advice from a qualified actuary about which assumptions
reflect the nature of the Group’s obligations to employee retirement benefits. These assumptions are regularly reviewed to
ensure their appropriateness.
If the assumed discount rate had been 0.5% lower at 31 December 2007, the defined benefit obligation in the BRC scheme
would have been £3.5m higher (2006: £3.6m higher) and £5.2m higher (2006: £5.3m higher).
If the assumed rate of inflation had been 0.5% higher at 31 December 2007, the defined benefit obligation in the BRC scheme
would have been £3.6m higher (2006: £3.7m higher) and £5.3m higher (2006: £5.5m higher) in the Stadco scheme.
If the assumed life expectancy had been increased by 1 year at 31 December 2007, the defined benefit obligation in the BRC
scheme would have been £1.3m higher (2006: £1.4m higher) and £1.7m higher (2006: £1.7m higher) in the Stadco scheme.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and cash flow risk), credit risk
and liquidity risk. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial
performance of the Company by monitoring levels of debt finance and the related finance costs.
The most significant treasury exposures faced by the Group are raising finance and managing interest rate and currency positions.
Risk management is carried out as a group operation. The Group identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close 
co-operation with the Group’s operating units. Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures. 
Financial instruments are utilised to support and raise finances for the Group’s trading operations. Interest is charged or taken
to the income statement as incurred or earned, except that finance cost, including issue costs, of debt instruments are charged
to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate of the carrying amount of debt.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
39
1. Accounting policies continued
Financial risk factorscontinued
a) Market risk
i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group faces currency exposure on trading transactions undertaken by its subsidiaries in foreign currencies. The Group
coordinates the hedging of specific exposures by taking out forward foreign exchange contracts, of usually less than six
months forward, against its anticipated known sales and purchases. The decision to hedge is influenced by the size of
exposure, the certainty of it arising, the trading and market position of the subsidiary in which the exposure arises and the
current exchange rate. 
The Group’s balance sheet translation exposure is managed by substantially matching currency assets with currency
borrowings. The Group has significant borrowings denominated in Singapore dollars and Euros which are matched against
similarly denominated assets.
For segment reporting purposes, each subsidiary designates external foreign exchange contracts as hedges of foreign
exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis. 
At 31 December 2007, if the pound had weakened by 2% against the Euro with all other variables held constant, post-tax
profit for the year would have been £0.2m (2006: £0.2m) lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses on translation
of Euro-denominated trade receivables, and foreign exchange losses on translation of Euro-denominated borrowings.
At 31 December 2007, if the UK pound had weakened by 2% against the Singapore $ with all other variables held constant,
post-tax profit for the year would have been £0.2m (2006: £0.1m) lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses on
translation of Singapore $-denominated trade receivables, and foreign exchange losses on translation of Singapore 
$-denominated borrowings.
ii) Cash flow risk
As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially
independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short term floating rate instruments. The Group is exposed predominantly to
sterling, Singapore dollar and Euro LIBOR interest rates on the floating rate debt. The Group monitors the potential impact
of interest rate changes and seeks to minimise the impact on profit on loss through the use of alternative short term debt
instruments where possible. 
The policies of managing interest rate risk and currency exposure were consistently applied during 2007.
b) Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions, which are managed on
a group basis, as well as credit exposures to customers, which are managed on a divisional basis, including outstanding
receivables and committed transactions. For banks and financial institutions, only parties with a sufficient rating are accepted.
If customers are independently rated, these ratings are used. Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, the credit quality
of the customer is assessed taking into account its financial position, past experience and the availability of credit insurance.
Individual risk limits are set based on internal or external ratings in accordance with limits set by the division concerned. 
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
40
1. Accounting policies continued
Financial risk factorscontinued
The table below shows the most significant balances outstanding with banks and individual customers at the balance sheet
date. The credit limit shown is the maximum amount of credit that will be extended to the customer by the Group. 
31 December 2007 31 December 2006
Rating
(Standard and Poors) Credit limit Balance Credit limit Balance
Counterparty £’m £’m £’m £’m
Bank A AA n/a 27.0 n/a 18.7
Bank B None n/a 0.5 n/a 0.7
Bank C None n/a 0.1 n/a 0.1
n/a n/a 27.6 n/a 19.5
Customer A B 5.0 3.9 5.0 4.1
Customer B B 6.5 3.1 6.5 5.0
Customer C B 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.2
B 13.3 8.8 13.3 10.3
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period, and management does not expect any losses from non-performance
by these counterparties.
c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate
amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, group treasury maintains
flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. 
Management monitors forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising undrawn borrowing facility (note 20) and cash
and cash equivalents (note 19)) on the basis of expected cash flow. This is generally carried out at on a Group basis. 
The Group’s financial liabilities (borrowings, trade and other payables), and net-settled derivative financial liabilities are
disclosed in notes 20 and 21 to these financial statements.
The Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis are disclosed in note 16 to these financial
statements. 
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, to provide returns
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain a capital structure which allows debt to be financed through
the Group’s normal trading activities.
The Group will only take on new borrowings where those borrowings will be financed by the cash generated from the related
investment opportunity and where those additional borrowings will not increase the Group’s exposure to risk to unacceptable levels.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet
date.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values due
to the short-term nature of trade receivables. 
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest
rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. The excess of the discounted future contractual cash flows
over the book value is recognised immediately in the income statement in operating costs. The discount unwinds in the income
statement through finance costs. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
41
2. Segmental analysis
a) Primary reporting format – business segments
At 31 December 2007, the Group is organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments.
BRC division – the manufacture and supply of concrete reinforcement and related products to the construction industry
Stadco division – the manufacture of steel and aluminium pressings and sub-assemblies for the automotive manufacturing
industry.
In addition to these two main business segments, the Group incurs central costs associated with the management and governance
of Acertec plc. These costs include items such as head office staff costs, pension costs and legal and professional fees which are
to the benefit of the Group as a whole.
Included within the BRC division are the joint venture businesses, BRC McMahon Reinforcements Limited (Ireland) and Anhui
BRC & Masteel Weldmesh Co Limited (China).
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2007 are as follows:
Continuing operations
BRC Stadco
division division Central Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue 196.7 126.2 – 322.9
Operating costs before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items (190.3) (116.9) (3.0) (310.2)
Operating profit/(loss) before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items 6.4 9.3 (3.0) 12.7
Share of profit of joint ventures before exceptional items 1.6 – – 1.6
Operating profit/(loss) before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items: Group and share of joint ventures 8.0 9.3 (3.0) 14.3
Goodwill impairment ––––
Cost of stock investigation – – (0.6) (0.6)
Compensation for loss of office – – (0.3) (0.3)
Amortisation of intangibles – (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit on sale of investments 0.4 – – 0.4
Profit on disposal of fixed assets in joint venture 0.3 – – 0.3
Operating profit/(loss): Group and share of joint ventures 8.7 9.2 (3.9) 14.0
Finance costs (5.4)
Finance income before exceptional items 0.2
Net finance costs (5.2)
Profit before tax 8.8
Taxation (4.2)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 4.6
There are no discontinued operations during the year ended 31 December 2007. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
42
2. Segmental analysiscontinued
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2006 are as follows:
Continuing operations
BRC Stadco
division division Central Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue 166.2 140.8 – 307.0
Operating costs before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (160.6) (129.8) (3.5) (293.9)
Operating profit/(loss) before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items 5.6 11.0 (3.5) 13.1
Share of profit of joint ventures before exceptional items 1.8 – – 1.8
Operating profit/(loss) before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items: Group and share of joint ventures 7.4 11.0 (3.5) 14.9
Goodwill impairment (1.9) – – (1.9)
Amortisation of intangibles (1.1) (0.1) – (1.2)
IPO costs – – (3.1) (3.1)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets 0.1 – – 0.1
Operating profit/(loss): Group and share of joint ventures 4.5 10.9 (6.6) 8.8
Finance costs (5.5)
Finance income before exceptional items 0.7
Finance income – exceptional 2.2
Net finance costs (2.6)
Profit before tax 6.2
Taxation (4.0)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 2.2
Discontinued operations
Stadco Wire
division Division Total
£’m £’m £’m
Revenue 4.1 20.6 24.7
Operating costs (4.8) (24.9) (29.7)
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (0.7) (4.3) (5.0)
The loss for the year from discontinued operations includes normal operating losses of £0.7m in relation to the Stadco division
disposed and £0.4m in relation to the Wire division disposed. The loss for the year from discontinued operations includes a loss
of £nil in relation to the Stadco division disposed and £3.9m in relation to the Wire division disposed. There was no tax charge/credit
on the loss for the year from discontinued operations. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
43
2. Segmental analysiscontinued
Other segmental items included in the income statement are as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006
BRC Stadco BRC Stadco
division division Central Group division division Central Group
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Depreciation (note 11) 1.8 5.6 – 7.4 1.5 6.1 – 7.6
Amortisation (note 10) – 0.1 – 0.1 1.1 0.1 – 1.2
Reversal of inventory 
impairment (note 17) – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Exceptional costs (note 4) – – 0.3 0.3 1.8 – 3.1 4.9
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be
available to unrelated third parties.
Segmental assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, investments in associates and joint ventures,
inventories, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Unallocated assets comprise deferred taxation, available
for sale financial assets, other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and derivatives held for trading or designated
as hedges or borrowings.
Segmental liabilities comprise operating liabilities (including derivatives designated as hedges or future commercial transactions).
Unallocated liabilities comprise items such as taxation and borrowings including related hedging derivatives.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment (note 11) and intangible assets (note 10). ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
44
2. Segmental analysiscontinued
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2007 and capital expenditure for the year then ended are as follows:
Business segment
BRC Stadco Unallocated Group
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Assets 87.9 83.7 35.0 206.6
Investments accounted for using equity method 4.5 – – 4.5
Total assets 92.4 83.7 35.0 211.1
Liabilities (53.4) (32.8) (101.7) (187.9)
Capital expenditure (notes 10 and 11) 6.2 3.6 0.1 9.9
Segmental assets and liabilities are reconciled to entity assets and liabilities as follows:
Assets Liabilities
£’m £’m
Segmental assets/(liabilities) 176.1 (86.2)
Unallocated:
Deferred tax 6.4 (5.3)
Current tax – (1.7)
Cash and cash equivalents 27.7 –
Current borrowings – (90.2)
Non-current borrowings – (1.6)
Central assets / (liabilities) 0.9 (2.9)
Total 211.1 (187.9)
Central assets and liabilities include central tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities in respect of central operating costs.
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2006 and capital expenditure for the year ended are as follows:
Business segment
BRC Stadco Unallocated Group
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Assets 74.183.328.2185.6
Investments accounted for using equity method 4.0 – – 4.0
Total assets 78.1 83.3 28.2 189.6
Liabilities (43.2)(42.2)(83.0)(168.4)
Capital expenditure (notes 10 and 11) 11.1 4.1 – 15.2
Central assets and liabilities include central tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities in respect of central operating costs
Capital expenditure relating to BRC includes £3.1m of additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
Segmental assets and liabilities are reconciled to entity assets and liabilities as follows:
Assets Liabilities
£’m £’m
Segmental assets/(liabilities) 161.4 (85.4)
Unallocated:
Deferred tax 7.6 (5.2)
Current tax – (6.4)
Cash and cash equivalents 20.0 –
Current borrowings – (9.6)
Non-current borrowings – (58.5)
Central assets / (liabilities) 0.6 (3.3)
Total 189.6 (168.4)
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
45
2. Segmental analysiscontinued
b) Secondary reporting format – geographical segments 
The Group’s two business segments operate in three main areas, even though they are managed on a world wide basis.
The home country of the company, which is also the main operating company is the UK. The areas of operation are principally
the manufacture and supply of concrete reinforcement and related products to the construction industry in the UK, Ireland and
Singapore and the manufacture of steel and aluminium pressings and sub-assembles for the automotive manufacturing industry
in the UK and Germany.
The Group’s revenue is generated mainly within the UK, Europe and Singapore.
2007 2006
£’m £’m
UK 242.6 237.7
Europe 35.4 34.1
Singapore 43.1 34.4
Other countries 1.8 0.8
322.9 307.0
Revenue is allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
Total assets
2007 2006
£’m £’m
UK 145.8 135.8
Europe 22.4 22.1
Singapore 37.3 27.7
Other countries 1.1 –
Joint ventures (see note 13) 4.5 4.0
211.1 189.6
Total assets are allocated based on where the assets are located.
Capital expenditure
2007 2006
£’m £’m
UK 7.1 12.1
Europe 1.3 0.3
Singapore 0.7 2.5
Other countries 0.8 0.3
Total 9.9 15.2
Capital expenditure is allocated based on where the assets are located.  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
46
3. Group operating profit
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Group operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting)
Impairment of goodwill (note 10) – 1.9
Cost of stock investigation 0.6 –
Compensation for loss of office 0.3 –
Profit on sale of investments (0.4) –
IPO costs – 3.1
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 10) 0.1 1.2
Depreciation of property plant and equipment (note 11):
– owned assets 6.9 7.1
– leased assets 0.5 0.5
Operating lease rentals:
– plant and machinery 1.2 1.3
– other 3.6 3.3
Research and development expenditure – 0.2
Changes in inventory of work in progress and finished goods (1.3) 3.7
Raw materials and consumables used 148.8 144.4
Employee benefit expense (note 6) 63.7 68.0
Production costs 57.3 36.7
Distribution costs 5.3 4.0
Administration costs 24.2 24.6
Operating costs 310.8 300.0
Services provided by the company’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the company’s auditor and
its associates:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Fees payable to company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and 
consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.2
Fee payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.2
– Other services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1
– Tax services 0.2 0.3
0.8 0.8
It is the Group’s practice to employ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where
their expertise and experience with the Group are important, principally tax advice and certain assurance related work. 
There were no fees paid to the Company’s auditor by any of the Group’s pensions schemes. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
47
4. Exceptional items
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Goodwill impairment (note 10) – (1.9)
Cost of stock investigation (0.6) –
Compensation for loss of office (0.3) –
Profit on sale of investments 0.4 –
IPO costs – (3.1)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets in joint venture 0.3 0.1
(0.2) (4.9)
Exceptional interest receivable (note 7) – 2.2
Goodwill impairment
The Group recognised £1.9m goodwill arising out of the acquisition of Capital Structures plc in January 2006. The Group conducted
a full impairment review of the goodwill relating to Capital Structures plc at 31 December 2006 as required by IAS 36. As a result,
the Group considered it appropriate to fully impair the £1.9m goodwill relating to Capital Structures plc in the period to 
31 December 2006 (related tax credit £nil).
Cost of stock investigation
Following the discovery of a significant stock discrepancy at one of the operations of BRC in the UK, an investigation into the
discrepancy was conducted by accountants (KPMG LLP) and independent lawyers (Peters and Peters). The cost of the investigation
was £0.6m (related tax credit £0.2m).
Compensation for loss of office
David Roache retired as Finance Director of Acertec plc on 31 December 2007. The Group incurred a cost of £0.3m (related tax
credit £0.1m) in meeting its obligations under the terms of the employment contract.
Profit on sale of investments
During the year, a profit of £0.4m (related tax charge£ nil), (2006: £nil) was realised on the sale of investments in the subsidiary
company, BRC Asia Limited.
Costs in relation to IPO 
On 16 May 2006, bonuses of £3.1m (tax impact: £nil) were paid to management as a result of the IPO (see also note 7). 
Profit on disposal of fixed assets
During the year, a profit of £0.3m (related tax charge £nil), (2006: £0.1m, related tax credit £nil) was realised on the disposal of
fixed assets in the joint venture company, BRC McMahon Reinforcements Limited.
5. Net foreign exchange gains/(losses)
The exchange differences (charged)/credited to the income statement are included as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Net finance (losses)/gains (note 7) (0.4) 0.6 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
48
6. Staff costs
Employee information
2007 2006
Average number of persons (including executive directors) employed during the year
Production 1,803 1,845
Sales and distribution 291 251
Administration 235 259
Total average headcount 2,329 2,355
2007 2006
Cost of the above employees
Wages and salaries 54.4 57.9
Social security costs 6.6 7.2
Other pension costs 2.3 2.5
Cost of share options granted to directors and employees (See note 26) 0.4 0.4
63.7 68.0
Aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company in the year amounted to £1.1m (2006: £4.2m), of which £0.5m
(2006: £2.3m) related to the highest paid director. The aggregate emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid director
include £0.3m for compensation for loss of office. None of the Directors of the Company participate in any of the Company’s pension
schemes. Further details in respect of Directors’ emoluments are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report section of the
Annual Report. 
7. Financial income and costs
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Finance expense
Bank loans and overdrafts 4.2 3.1
Other loans – 1.8
Finance leases 0.2 0.2
Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges (note 5) 0.4 –
Other finance costs 0.6 0.4
5.4 5.5
Finance income
Ineffectiveness on net investment hedges (note 5) – (0.6)
Other finance income (0.2) (0.1)
(0.2) (0.7)
Net finance costs – before exceptional items 5.2 4.8
Finance income – exceptional – (2.2)
Net finance costs 5.2 2.6
The exceptional items relate to the redemption premium on management loan notes that were issued to certain members of
management. The provision for the premium was based on the value of the underlying businesses and was payable in the event
of a sale of, or on the employee leaving, the business. Prior to the IPO, during 2006, the remaining management loan notes were
repaid at par (£0.3m) and cancelled with the agreement of the loan note holders, resulting in a decrease in the redemption
premium of £2.2m in the year .
Other finance costs includes amortisation of bank arrangement fees of £0.4m (2006: £0.4m) in relation to the Group’s re-financing
in November 2005, £0.2m finance costs in relation to unwinding of discounts on financial instruments (2006: £nil), and other finance
income of £0.2m (2006: £0.1m) which relate to the Group pension schemes (see note 35).
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
49
8. Income tax expense
(a) Analysis of income tax expense in the year
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Current tax 3.2 1.9
Deferred tax (note 23) 0.9 1.2
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – 0.9
Impact of change in UK tax rate 0.1 –
4.2 4.0
The tax assessed for the year is higher (2006:higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%).
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate
applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Profit before tax 8.8 6.2
Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 2.6 1.7
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 2.0
Deferred tax origination and reversal of timing differences – 0.9
Deferred tax not provided 2.4 –
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior years (0.5) –
Adjustments to current tax in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.6)
Remeasurement of deferred tax due to change in UK tax rate 0.1 –
Tax charge 4.2 4.0
During the year, as a result of the change in UK Corporation Tax rates which will be effective from 1 April 2008, deferred tax
balances have been remeasured. Deferred tax relating to temporary differences which are expected to reverse prior to 1 April
2008 is measured at 30% and deferred tax relating to temporary differences expected to reverse after 1 April 2008 is measured
at the tax rate of 28% as these are the tax rates that will apply on reversal.
The weighted average applicable tax rate was 48% (2006: 25%). 
9. Dividends
During 2007, a final dividend of £2.6m (5 pence per ordinary share) was paid in respect of 2006, and an interim dividend for 2007
of £1.4m (2.7 pence per ordinary share) was paid. No interim dividend for 2006 or final dividend for 2005 was paid during 2006.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
50
10. Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill Other Total
£’m £’m £’m
Cost
At 1 January 2007 27.3 2.2 29.5
Additions – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2007 27.3 2.3 29.6
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2007 12.0 2.0 14.0
Amortisation charge (note 3) – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2007 12.0 2.1 14.1
Net book value
At 31 December 2007 15.3 0.2 15.5
Goodwill Other Total
£’m £’m £’m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 25.4 1.0 26.4
Additions – 0.3 0.3
Acquisition of business (note 30) 1.9 0.9 2.8
At 31 December 2006 27.3 2.2 29.5
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2006 10.1 0.8 10.9
Amortisation charge (note 3) – 1.2 1.2
Impairment (note 3) 1.9 – 1.9
At 31 December 2006 12.0 2.0 14.0
Net book value
At 31 December 2006 15.3 0.2 15.5
Amortisation of £0.1m (2006: £1.2m) is included in operating costs in the income statement.
Other intangible assets includes £0.2m (2006: £0.2m) of computer software that is not an integral part of the related computer
hardware.
Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made
to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination
in which the goodwill arose. The Group allocates goodwill to each business segment in each country in which it operates. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
51
10. Intangible fixed assetscontinued
A segment-level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below.
2007 2006
BRC Stadco Total BRC Stadco Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
UK 2.0 3.5 5.5 2.0 3.5 5.5
Europe – 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 0.8
Singapore 9.0 – 9.0 9.0 – 9.0
11.0 4.3 15.3 11.0 4.3 15.3
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with its accounting policy. The recoverable
amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use post-tax
cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five year period. Cash flows beyond the
five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below. The growth rate does not exceed the long-term
average growth rate for the 6% business in which the CGU operates.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are as follows:
BRC Stadco
Growth rate 6% 3%
Discount rate 10% 10%
Tax rate applied to net cash flows 28% 28%
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU within the business segment.
The growth rate has been derived on the basis of historical performance and financial budgets which reflect, on a prudent basis,
the market conditions and the expectations for future performance of each CGU.
Management conclude that the goodwill allocated to each CGU is not impaired at 31 December 2007. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
52
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
Assets in
Long Short Plant and the course of
Freehold leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total
Group £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost
At 1 January 2007 19.2 5.1 0.8 59.9 7.4 92.4
Additions 0.7 – – 2.6 6.5 9.8
Disposals – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Reclassification 2.1 – – 2.5 (4.6) –
Foreign exchange differences – 0.2 – 2.8 – 3.0
At 31 December 2007 22.0 5.3 0.8 67.5 9.3 104.9
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2007 0.5 1.9 0.3 19.1 – 21.8
Charge for the year 0.1 0.3 0.2 6.8 – 7.4
Disposals – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Foreign exchange differences – – – 1.6 – 1.6
At 31 December 2007 0.6 2.2 0.5 27.2 – 30.5
Net book amount
At 31 December 2007 21.4 3.1 0.3 40.3 9.3 74.4
Land and buildings
Assets in
Long Short Plant and the course of
Freehold leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total
Group £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost
At 1 January 2006 18.9 4.0 0.9 61.7 0.9 86.4
Additions 0.2 1.3 0.1 2.4 7.5 11.5
Acquisition of business – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Disposals – – (0.2) (4.0) (0.1) (4.3)
Disposal of businesses ––––––
Reclassification 0.1 – – 0.8 (0.9) –
Foreign exchange differences – (0.2) – (1.3) – (1.5)
At 31 December 2006 19.2 5.1 0.8 59.9 7.4 92.4
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2006 0.3 1.8 0.4 16.7 – 19.2
Charge for the year 0.2 0.2 0.1 7.1 – 7.6
Disposals – – (0.2) (3.9) – (4.1)
Disposal of businesses ––––––
Foreign exchange differences – (0.1) – (0.8) – (0.9)
At 31 December 2006 0.5 1.9 0.3 19.1 – 21.8
Net book amount
At 31 December 2006 18.7 3.2 0.5 40.8 7.4 70.6
Freehold land which was not depreciated at 31 December 2007 amounted to £7.1m (2006: £4.9m). The net book amount of Group
assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2007 was £2.4m (2006: £2.8m).
No borrowing costs were capitalised during the year .
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
53
12. Commitments
(a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not yet incurred is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Property, plant and equipment 12.7 0.3
Intangible assets – –
12.7 0.3
(b) Operating lease commitments
The Group leases offices and manufacturing facilities under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The lease terms are
between 0 and 14 years (2006: 0 and 17 years), and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period
at market rate.
The Group also leases various plant and machinery under cancellable operating lease agreements. The Group is required to give
1 months notice (2006: 1month) for the termination of these agreements. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement
during the year is disclosed in note 3.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
No later than 1 year 0.3 0.5
Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 10.4 12.7
Later than 5 years 4.4 6.7
15.1 19.9 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
54
13. Investments in joint ventures
The Group’s share of the results of its principal joint ventures and its assets and liabilities are as follows
Country of Profit
incorporation Assets Liabilities Net Assets Revenues before tax
Name £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
2006
Anhul BRC + Masteel Weldmesh Co. Ltd China 3.7 (1.5) 2.2 6.0 0.1
BRC McMahon Reinforcements Limited Eire 9.3 (7.5) 1.8 14.5 1.7
13.0 (9.0) 4.0 20.5 1.8
2007
Anhul BRC + Masteel Weldmesh Co. Ltd China 4.8 (2.4) 2.4 8.7 0.1
BRC McMahon Reinforcements Limited Eire 12.4 (10.3) 2.1 22.5 1.8
17.2 (12.7) 4.5 31.2 1.9
The movement during the year in the Group’s share of net assets of its principal joint ventures is shown below:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Beginning of year 4.0 4.0
Share of profit before tax for the year 1.9 1.8
Share of tax for the year (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid (1.4) (1.3)
Foreign exchange translation differences 0.2 (0.3)
End of year 4.5 4.0
There is no goodwill associated with the Group’s investment in joint ventures.
Details of group companies are set out in Note 36. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
55
14. Financial instruments by category
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006, the accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items
below:
Derivatives
Loans and held for Available-
receivables trading for-sale Total
31 December 2007 £’m £’m £’m £’m
Assets as per balance sheet
Available-for-sale financial assets – – 0.1 0.1
Trade and other receivables 46.2 – – 46.2
Derivative financial instruments ––––
Cash and cash equivalents – – 27.7 27.7
Total 46.2 – 27.8 74.0
Liabilities
at fair value Derivatives Other
through the held for financial
profit and loss trading liabilities Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Borrowings – – 91.8 91.8
Derivative financial instruments – 0.1 – 0.1
Total – 0.1 91.8 91.9
Derivatives
Loans and used for Available-
receivables hedging for-sale Total
31 December 2006 £’m £’m £’m £’m
Assets as per balance sheet
Available-for-sale financial assets – – 0.2 0.2
Derivative financial instruments – – – -
Trade and other receivables 45.0 – – 45.0
Cash and cash equivalents – – 20.0 20.0
Total 45.0 – 20.2 65.2
Liabilities
at fair value Derivatives Other
through the used for financial
profit and loss hedging liabilities Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Borrowings – – 68.1 68.1
Derivative financial instruments ––––
Total – – 68.1 68.1 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
56
15. Available-for-sale-financial assets
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Beginning of year 0.2 0.2
Disposals (0.1) –
End of year 0.1 0.2
There were no impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in 2007 or 2006.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Unlisted securities 0.1 0.2
Available-for-sale financial assets are unlisted securities which include a £0.1m (2006: £0.1m) investment in BRC Weldmesh, which
is located in Bahrain and unlisted securities held by the subsidiary company, BRC Asia Limited of £0.1m in 2006.
The fair values of unlisted securities are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market interest rate and the
risk premium specific to the unlisted securities 2007 (10%), 2006 (10%).
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the debt securities classified as available-for-sale.
None of the financial assets is either past due or impaired.
16. Derivative financial instruments
2007 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges –– ––
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges –– ––
Forward foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – 0.1 ––
Total – all current – 0.1 ––
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-
current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability,
if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
(a) Forward foreign exchange contracts
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2007 were £1.8m (2006: £nil).
The forward foreign exchange contracts entered into by the Group do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting and therefore
all gains or losses are recognised through the income statement.
(b) Hedge of net investment in foreign entity
A proportion of the Group’s Euro and Singapore dollar denominated borrowing amounting to £34.3m (2006: £32.0m) is designated
as a hedge of the net investment in the Group’s German and Singapore subsidiaries. The fair value of the borrowings at 
31 December 2007 was £34.3m (2006: £32.0m). The effective element of the foreign exchange loss of £2.3m (2006: £0.3m gain)
on translation of the borrowing to currency at the balance sheet date is recognised in the translation reserve, in shareholders’
equity. The ineffective element of the hedge of £0.4m loss (2006: £0.6m gain) on translation of the borrowing of currency at the
balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement as finance costs/income (note 7). 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
57
17. Inventories
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Raw materials 24.3 18.9
Work in progress 2.2 1.7
Finished goods 5.7 4.9
32.2 25.5
In the opinion of the Directors, the replacement cost of stocks is not materially different from their carrying value. 
The Group reversed £0.1m of previous inventory write-down following a review of inventories and associated write-down provisions.
The cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in ‘cost of sales’ amounted to £148.8m (2006: £144.4m). 
18. Trade and other receivables
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Trade receivables 45.9 44.7
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (1.7) (2.8)
Trade receivables – net 44.2 41.9
Receivables from related parties (note 34) 0.1 0.2
Other taxation recoverable 0.8 0.8
Other receivables 0.9 0.6
Prepayments and accrued income 4.0 2.4
50.0 45.9
Non current receivables
Trade receivables 0.3 0.3
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables – –
Trade receivables - net 0.3 0.3
All current receivables are due within 1 year from the balance sheet date.
The fair values of trade and other receivables are as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Trade receivables 44.5 42.2
Receivables from related parties 0.1 0.2
Other taxation recoverable 0.8 0.8
Other debtors 0.9 0.6
Prepayments and accrued income 4.0 2.4
50.3 46.2
There were no loans to related parties at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
58
18. Trade and other receivablescontinued
Credit quality of financial assets
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit
ratings (if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Counterparties with external credit rating (Standard and Poors)
A – –
B 8.8 10.3
BB – –
8.8 10.3
Counterparties without external credit rating
Group 1 0.6 0.3
Group 2 7.3 4.1
Group 3 8.0 15.8
15.9 20.2
Total trade receivables 24.7 30.5
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits
AAA – –
AA 27.7 20.0
A – –
27.7 20.0
Group 1 – new customers (less than 6 months)
Group 2 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with no defaults in the past
Group 3 – existing customers (more than 6 months) with some defaults in the past. 
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not considered impaired. As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables
of £19.8m (2006: £11.7m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there
is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Up to 3 months past due 18.0 10.1
3 to 6 months past due 1.1 0.5
Over 6 months past due 0.7 1.1
19.8 11.7
As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of £1.7m (2006: £2.8m) were impaired and provided for. The individually impaired
receivables are spread evenly across the Stadco and BRC divisions , which are due to the general trading conditions in those
divisions. The ageing of these receivables is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Up to 3 months 0.2 0.8
3 to 6 months 0.2 0.3
Over 6 months 1.3 1.7
1.7 2.8
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
59
18. Trade and other receivablescontinued
None of the financial assets that are fully performing have been renegotiated in the last year . The carrying amounts of the Group’s
trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Pounds 27.9 30.5
Euros 4.4 4.5
Singapore dollar 12.2 7.2
44.5 42.2
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
At 1 January 2.8 2.0
Provision for receivables impairment 0.6 1.6
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (0.5) (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed (1.2) (0.6)
At 31 December 1.7 2.8
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.  
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Cash at bank and on hand 27.7 14.1
Short-term bank deposits – 5.9
27.7 20.0
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Cash and cash equivalents 27.7 20.0
Bank overdrafts (note 20) (21.5) (4.2)
6.2 15.8 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
60
20. Borrowings
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Non-current
Bank borrowings 0.5 56.8
Obligations under finance leases 1.1 1.7
1.6 58.5
Current
Bank overdraft 21.5 4.2
Bank borrowings 67.6 4.2
Other loans 0.2 0.2
Obligations under finance leases 0.9 1.0
90.2 9.6
Total borrowings 91.8 68.1
The Group has agreed an extension to its existing UK revolving credit facility until 30 April 2009.
Bank borrowings
The majority of bank borrowings mature in November 2008 and bear average coupons of 0.8% above LIBOR annually (2006:
0.8% above LIBOR annually).
Total borrowings include secured liabilities (bank borrowings) of £86.6m (2006: £63.9m). Bank borrowings are secured by charges
against the total assets of the Group, with the exception of the finance lease liabilities, which are secured against the specific
tangible fixed assets to which they relate, and certain unsecured liabilities.
At 31 December 2007, the unsecured liabilities include certain borrowings by the subsidiary, BRC Asia Limited, amounting to £5.0m
(2006: £4.0m) and amounts owed in respect of fixed cumulative dividends on CCPPO shares, amounting to £0.2m (2006: £0.2m). 
The exposure to the Group’s borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the balance sheet dates
are as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
6 months or less 89.7 9.1
6-12 months 0.5 0.5
1-5 years 1.6 58.5
Over 5 years – –
91.8 68.1
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying amount Fair value
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Bank borrowings 0.5 56.8 0.5 56.8
Obligations under finance leases 1.1 1.7 1.1 1.7
1.6 58.5 1.6 58.5
The fair value of non-current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant. The fair
values are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate of (6%) (2006: 6%).
The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
61
20. Borrowingscontinued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Pounds 41.1 31.4
Euros 21.2 19.4
Singapore dollar 29.5 17.3
91.8 68.1
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Floating rate:
– Expiring within one year – –
– Expiring beyond one year 25.7 37.4
Fixed rate:
– Expiring within one year – –
25.7 37.4
Bank loans include UK loans and overdraft denominated in £ sterling and Singapore $, and overseas loans and overdraft
denominated in Euros and in Singapore $. The UK loans attract interest at 0.8% (2006: 0.8%) above the relevant base rate and
there are no scheduled repayments during the loan period. Overseas Singapore $ borrowings have a mix of interest rates of
between 2.93% and 4.50% (2006: 4.73% and 4.88%), the majority of which will be fully repaid during 2008. 
Cumulative Convertible Participating Preferred Ordinary shares
At 1 January 2006, 10,255 Cumulative Convertible Participating Preferred Ordinary (CCPPO) shares of 1p each were in issue. 
On IPO, the CCPPO shares were converted into 11,565,936 ordinary shares of 10p each. 
In 2006 and 2007, included within other loans due within one year are the fixed cumulative dividends on the 10,255 CCPPO shares
of £0.2m (£0.1m for each of 2004 and 2005). Under the previous Articles of Association of the Company, CCPPO dividends of £0.1m
per year were payable from 1 January 2004. The CCPPO shares were converted to ordinary shares on IPO.
21. Trade and other payables
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Current
Trade payables 58.0 49.5
Amounts due to related parties (note 34) 0.1 0.1
Social security and other taxes 3.1 3.0
Other creditors 3.0 4.0
Accruals and deferred income 10.4 13.1
74.6 69.7
Non current
Other creditors 0.1 0.1 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
62
22. Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Uninsured
claims Restructuring Total
£’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2007 0.8 1.3 2.1
Charged/(credited) to the income statement
– Additional provisions 1.3 – 1.3
Utilised (1.0) (0.7) (1.7)
At 31 December 2007 1.1 0.6 1.7
Analysis of total provisions:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Non-current – –
Current 1.7 2.1
1.7 2.1
(a) Uninsured claims
The provision for uninsured claims represents the cost that is likely to be borne by the Group in relation to employee and third
party insurance claims that are yet to be settled. The provision is calculated by reference to information provided by the Group’s
insurers. It is expected that £1.1m will be used in 2008. 
(b) Restructuring costs
The restructuring provision relates to redundancy costs and other costs of closure. It is expected that the provision will be fully
utilised in 2008.
23. Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows: 
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Deferred income tax assets:
– Deferred income tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 6.4 7.6
– Deferred income tax asset to be recovered within 12 months – –
6.4 7.6
Deferred income tax liabilities:
– Deferred income tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 5.3 5.2
– Deferred income tax liability to be recovered within 12 months – –
5.3 5.2
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Beginning of year 2.4 3.6
Exchange differences – –
Income statement charge (note 8) (0.9) (1.2)
Tax charged directly to equity (note 27) (0.4) –
End of year 1.1 2.4
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
63
23. Deferred income taxcontinued
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of
balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Deferred income tax assets:
Accelerated
tax depreciation Other Total
£’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2006 – 10.6 10.6
Charged/(credited) to the income statement – (3.0) (3.0)
Charged directly to equity – – –
Exchange differences – – –
At 31 December 2006 – 7.6 7.6
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 1.1 (1.9) (0.8)
Charged directly to equity (note 27) – (0.4) (0.4)
Exchange differences – – –
At 31 December 2007 1.1 5.3 6.4
Deferred income tax liabilities: Accelerated
tax depreciation Other Total
£’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2006 1.7 5.3 7.0
Charged/(credited) to the income statement (0.9) (0.9) (1.8)
Charged directly to equity – – –
Exchange differences – – –
At 31 December 2006 0.8 4.4 5.2
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 0.2 (0.1) 0.1
Charged directly to equity – – –
Exchange differences – – –
At 31 December 2007 1.0 4.3 5.3
The deferred income tax charged to equity during the year is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Share option scheme – –
Tax on actuarial gain/(loss) on retirement benefits scheme (0.4) –
Impact of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax – –
(0.4) –
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit
through the future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of £6.5m (2006: £4.6m)
in respect of losses amounting to £23.2m (2006: £15.3m) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
64
24. Earnings per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per share for profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the company
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the company by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the company (£’m) 4.1 (3.0)
Weighted average number of shares in issue 51,349,707 32,225,256
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence per share) 8.0 (9.3)
Basic earnings per share for profit for the period from continuing operations
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period from continuing operations by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Profit for the period from continuing operations (£’m) 4.1 2.0
Weighted average number of shares in issue 51,349,707 32,225,256
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence per share) 8.0 6.2
Basic loss per share for loss for the period from discontinued operations
Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the loss for the period from discontinued operations by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (£’m) – (5.0)
Weighted average number of shares in issue 51,349,707 32,225,256
Basic loss per share from discontinued operations (pence per share) – (15.5)
Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The company has one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: share
options. A calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined
as the average annual market share price of the company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights
attached to outstanding share options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that
would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
Options are dilutive at the profit from continuing operations level and so in accordance with IAS33, have been treated as dilutive
for the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share.
The diluted earnings per share have been calculated on the following earnings and weighted average number of shares in issue:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the company (£’m) 4.1 (3.0)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 51,349,707 32,225,256
Adjustment for share options
– share options 4,852 45,377
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 51,354,559 32,270,633
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence per share) 8.0 (9.3)
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
65
24. Earnings per sharecontinued
Diluted earnings per share – continuing operations
The diluted earnings per share have been calculated on the following earnings and weighted average number of shares in issue:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Profit for the period from continuing operations (£’m) 4.1 2.0
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 51,349,707 32,225,256
Adjustment for share options
– share options 4,852 45,377
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 51,354,559 32,270,633
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 8.0 6.2
Diluted earnings per share – discontinued operations
The diluted earnings per share have been calculated on the following earnings and weighted average number of shares in issue:
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (£’m) – (5.0)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 51,349,707 32,225,256
Adjustment for share options
– share options – 45,377
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 51,349,707 32,270,633
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) – (15.5)
25. Share capital
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Authorised
90,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each (2006: 90,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each) 9.0 9.0
Allotted and fully paid 
51,349,974 Ordinary Shares of 10p each (2006: 51,349,599 Ordinary Shares of 10p each) 5.1 5.1
The ordinary shareholders each have one vote per share.
On 17 September 2007, 375 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued under the SAYE scheme.
In May 2006, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased to £9,000,000 by the creation of additional Ordinary Shares.
On 9 May 2006 the existing issued share capital was converted into 11,565,936 Ordinary fully paid shares following an appropriation
from the share premium account. On 16 May 2006 on IPO, 39,783,663 new Ordinary Shares were issued at 148 pence per share,
including a premium of 138 pence per new share issued. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
66
26. Share based payments
All of the Group’s share option schemes are equity-settled. The following share option plans exist:
Executive Share Option Plan
The Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) was introduced in May 2006. Under the ESOP, share options were granted to two
executive directors of the Group. Options were granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under
option at the grant date. The contractual life of the options is 10 years. Options granted under the ESOP will become exercisable
on the third anniversary of the date of grant or unless employment ceases due to death, injury, disability, redundancy. 
No performance conditions attach to the exercise of these options. 
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment unless employment ceases due to death, injury, disability, redundancy
or dismissal other than summary dismissal for cause. Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
Grant date 9 May 2006
Share price at grant date 148p
Exercise price 148p
Shares under option at grant date 2,053,984
Vesting period (years) 3
Expected volatility 36%
Option life (years) 10
Expected life (years) 4
Risk free rate 4.73%
Dividend yield 5%
Fair value per option 37p
The expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility of comparator companies over the last four years. 
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds
of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements in ESOP options during the year to 31 December 2007 is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 2,053,984
Granted –
Forfeited –
Outstanding at 31 December 2,053,984
Exercisable at 31 December 821,594
The ESOP options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average exercise price of 148 pence (2006: 148 pence) and
a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.35 years (2006: 9.35 years).
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was introduced in June 2006. Under the LTIP, share options were granted to senior
management of the Group. Options were granted with a fixed exercise price of 10p. The contractual life of the options is 3.5
years. Options granted under the LTIP will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to achievement
of the performance conditions attaching to the exercise of these options. 
There are two performance conditions, each apply separately to 50% of the LTIP share options. Performance Condition 1 relates
to earnings per share (EPS) and shall be achieved to the extent that the actual EPS during the financial year ending 31 December
2008 shall be in the range 22.5p to 23.7p. Performance Condition 2 relates to the Group’s total shareholder return (TSR), measured
against that achieved by the comparator group companies comprising the FTSE All Share Industrial Engineering price index over
the TSR measurement period, being the period of 3 years from the grant date. Performance Condition 2 begins to be satisfied
in part if the Group’s TSR over the TSR measurement period is greater than the median TSR of comparator group companies over
the same period. More specifically, 40% of the TSR award vests at median with 100% vesting at upper quartile (with straight line
vesting between median and upper quartile).
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
67
26. Share based payments continued
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment unless employment ceases due to death, injury, disability, redundancy.
Options subject to Performance Condition 1 were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and options subject to
Performance Condition 2 were valued using the Monte Carlo option-pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the
assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 
Options Options
under under
Performance Performance
Condition 1 Condition 2
Grant date 26 June 2006 26 June 2006
Share price at grant date 141p 143.5p
Exercise price 10p 10p
Shares under option at grant date 156,027 156,027
Vesting period (years) 33
Expected volatility 32% 32%
Option life (years) 3.5 3.5
Expected life (years) 3.25 3.25
Risk free rate 4.81% 4.81%
Dividend yield 5% 5%
Fair value per option 115p 73p
The expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility of comparator companies over the last 3.25 years. 
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds
of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements in LTIP share options during the year to 31 December 2007 is shown below:
Options Options
under under
Performance Performance
Condition 1 Condition 2
Number Number
Outstanding at 1 January 156,027 156,027
Granted ––
Forfeited ––
Outstanding at 31 December 156,027 156,027
Exercisable at 31 December ––
The LTIP options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average exercise price of 10 pence (2006: 10 pence) and a
weighted average remaining contractual life of 2 years (2006: 3 years).
Sharesave schemes
The Group introduced two Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in July 2006 and two Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in May 2007.
Membership of the SAYE schemes was offered to all employees of the Group. To participate in a scheme, employees entered into
a contract to make regular monthly payments into the SAYE scheme. Options attaching to the 2006 SAYE schemes have a fixed
exercise price of 112p and options attaching to the 2007 SAYE schemes have a fixed exercise price of 134p. The 2006 and 2007 SAYE
schemes have contractual lives of 3.5 and 5.5 years. Options granted under the SAYE schemes will become exercisable on the third
and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant and no performance conditions attach to the exercise of these options.  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
68
26. Share based payments continued
Sharesave schemes continued
Exercise of an option is subject to continued employment unless employment ceases due to death, injury, disability, redundancy
or dismissal other than summary dismissal for cause. Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2007 2007 2006 2006
3 year 5 year 3 year 5 year
scheme scheme scheme scheme
Grant date 10 May 2007 10 May 2007 7 July 2006 7 July 2006
Share price at grant date 170.5p 170.5p 141.5p 141.5p
Exercise price 134p 134p 112p 112p
Shares under option at grant date 175,530 107,820 514,390 717,136
Vesting period (years) 35 35
Expected volatility 30% 36% 32% 38%
Option life (years) 3.5 5.5 3.5 5.5
Expected life (years) 3.25 5.25 3.25 5.25
Risk free rate 5.40% 5.26% 4.70% 4.72%
Dividend yield 5% 5% 5% 5%
Fair value per option 51p 59p 41p 49p
The expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility of comparator companies over the last 3.25 and 5.25 years.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term
consistent with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements in Sharesave options during the year to 31 December 2007 is shown below:
2007 2007 2006 2006
3 year 5 year 3 year 5 year
scheme scheme scheme scheme
Number Number Number Number
Outstanding at 1 January –– 514,390 717,136
Granted 175,530 107,820 ––
Exercised –– (375) –
Forfeited (23,914) (6,305) (100,120) (97,232)
Outstanding at 31 December 151,616 101,515 413,895 619,904
Exercisable at 31 December –– ––
375 options were exercised in 2007 at 112 pence per share. The share price at the time of exercise was 134 pence per share.
The Sharesave option outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average exercise price of 117 pence (2006: 112 pence)
and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.31 years (2006: 4.16 years).
The weighted average fair value of Acertec plc options granted in the year was £0.1m (2006: £1.6m).
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
69
26. Share based payments continued
The Employee Benefit Trust (the “Employee Trust”)
Constitution
The Employee Trust is a discretionary trust that is constituted by a trust deed made between the Company and Bailhache Labesse
Trustees Limited, who are independent off-shore professional trustees (the “Trustees”). The Employee Trust is constituted as
an employees’ share scheme within the meaning of section 743 of the Companies Act, with the purpose of encouraging and
facilitating the holding of shares by bona fide employees of the Company (which, for these purposes, includes executive directors)
and its subsidiaries, former employees and certain of their relatives or for their benefit.
Power and funding
The Trustees have full discretion with regard to the application of the trust fund. Whilst under the terms of the trust deed they
are required to consult with the Company in certain circumstances, the views expressed by the Company are in no respect
binding upon them.
The Trustees have the power to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company and any Ordinary Shares so acquired may be used for
the purposes of any employees’ share scheme operated by the Company, including the grant of awards or options under the LTIP
and/or the Sharesave Scheme. The Trustees may also agree, in their absolute discretion, to satisfy the employer National
Insurance contributions liabilities arising on the call or exercise of awards or options, by acquiring Ordinary Shares at the same
price per share as the relevant awards or options, so as to enable the Trustees to realise a gain equal to the aggregate National
Insurance contributions liability
The Employee Trust may be funded by way of loan or gift to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company either by market purchase
or by subscription.
Limits to holdings and dividend waiver
Any options to acquire Ordinary Shares granted and satisfied by the Employee Trust with Ordinary Shares acquired in the market
will not be treated as counting towards the dilution limits that apply to the LTIP and the Sharesave Scheme respectively. In
addition, without prior shareholder approval, the Employee Trust will not, at any one time, hold more than five per cent. of the
ordinary share capital of the Company (other than for the purposes of satisfying awards/options that it has granted). Unless
directed otherwise the Trustees will waive any dividends paid on the Ordinary Shares settled in the Employee Trust.
Transactions in the year
The Employee Benefit Trust did not acquire any shares during the year .
BRC Asia Limited
One of the Group’s subsidiaries, BRC Asia Limited which operates in Singapore, introduced a share option scheme in 2004. 
The BRC Share Option Scheme 2004 (the “Scheme”) for employees was approved by members of BRC Asia Limited at an
Extraordinary General Meeting on 30 April 2004. 
Under the Scheme, share options are granted to all eligible employees except for controlling shareholders of BRC Asia Limited
or associates of such controlling shareholders (as defined in the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”)
Listing Manual). The exercise price of the granted options is at a discount of 10% of the average of the last dealt prices of the
BRC Asia Limited ordinary shares on the Singapore Exchange for the five trading days immediately preceding the date of grant
or S$0.025, whichever is higher . The vesting of granted options are conditional on the employees completing another 2 years of
service. Once the options are vested, they are exercisable for an option term of 3 years. The options may be exercised in full or
in part in respect of 1,000 shares or a multiple thereof, on the payment of the exercise price. The persons to whom the options
have been issued have no right to participate by virtue of the options in any share issue of any other company. BRC Asia Limited
has no obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
The Scheme became operative with options on 39,974,000 shares being granted pursuant to the Scheme on 23 August 2004
(“2004 Options”). On 1 October 2005, options on 16,578,000 shares with an exercise price of S$0.0612 per ordinary share were
granted pursuant to the Scheme (“2005 Options”). 
On 21 August 2006, options on 20,056,000 shares with an exercise price of S$0.072 per ordinary share were granted pursuant to
the Scheme (“2006 Options”). The 2006 options are exercisable from 22 August 2008 and will expire on 31 August 2011. 
On 7 September 2007, options on 12,940,000 shares with an exercise price of S$0.171 per ordinary share were granted pursuant
to the Scheme (“2007 Options”). The 2007 Options are exercisable from 8 September 2009 and will expire on 7 September 2012.
Options were valued using the Binomial option-pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions are as follows:  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
70
26. Share based payments continued
2007 2006 2005 2004
Options Options Options Options
Grant date 7 Sept 2007 23 Aug 2006 30 Sept 2005 23 Aug 2004
Share price at grant date S$0.20 S$0.08 S$0.075 S$0.075
Exercise price S$0.171 S$0.072 S$0.0612 S$0.0657
Shares options granted 12,940,000 20,056,000 16,578,000 39,974,000
Vesting period (years) 2222
Expected volatility 46.6% 40% 40% 39.7%
Option life (years) 5555
Expected life (years) 5555
Risk free rate 2.67% 3.19% 2.60% 2.50%
Dividend yield 3.75% 5.00% 2.86% 2.86%
Fair value per option S$0.056 S$0.025 S$0.026 S$0.025
The Singapore $ to £ Sterling exchange rate at 31 December 2007 is 2.865 S$/£ (2006: 3.003) and the average exchange rate during
2007 was 3.009 S$/£ (2006: 2.922).
The expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility of comparator companies over the last 5 years. The expected
life is the expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon Singapore government bonds of a term
consistent with the assumed option life. 
BRC Asia Limited
A reconciliation of movements in the BRC Asia Limited share options during the year to 31 December 2007 is shown below:
2007 2006 2005 2004
Options Options Options Options
Outstanding at 1 January 2007 – 20,056,000 16,578,000 37,375,000
Granted 12,940,000–––
Exercised – – – (20,760,000)
Outstanding at 31 December 2007 12,940,000 20,056,000 16,578,000 16,615,000
Exercisable at 31 December 2007 – – 16,578,000 16,615,000
The 20,760,000 share options exercised during 2007 were exercised at a share price of S$0.0657 per share.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in the year was S$0.1825 (2006: S$0.1275)
and the share options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.19 years (2006:
3.45 years).
The weighted average exercise price of outstanding share options at 31 December 2007 is S$0.0871 (2006: S$0.0664).
The weighted average fair value of BRC Asia Limited options granted in the year was S$0.7m (2006: S$0.5m) (£0.2m).
At 31 December 2007, 27,825,000 (2006: 30,644,000) share options are held by 2 executive directors of BRC Asia Limited. 
No option has been granted to controlling shareholders of BRC Asia Limited or their associates. 
No other key management or employees of BRC Asia Limited has received 5% or more of the total number of options available
under the Scheme which is only granted to employees of BRC Asia Limited and its subsidiaries during the financial year . 
All Schemes
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £0.4m (2006: £0.4m), all of which related to
equity-settled share based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge was £0.2m (2006: £0.2m).
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
71
27. Retained earnings
£’m
At 1 January 2006 (34.7)
Loss for the year (3.0)
At 31 December 2006 (37.7)
At 1 January 2007 (37.7)
Profit for the year 4.1
Dividends paid relating to 2006 (4.0)
Actuarial gain recognised on retirement benefit obligations 1.5
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gain (0.4)
At 31 December 2007 (36.5)
28. Other reserves
Share Other Share option Translation
premium reserves reserve reserve Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Balance at 1 January 2006 0.5 1.0 0.4 – 1.9
Appropriation to ordinary share capital pre IPO (1.1) – – – (1.1)
New equity issued on IPO 54.9––– 54.9
IPO expenses (5.6) – – – (5.6)
Cost of share options – – 0.4 – 0.4
Currency translation differences
– Group – – – (0.2) (0.2)
– Joint ventures – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Balance at 31 December 2006 48.7 1.0 0.8 (0.5) 50.0
Cost of share options – – 0.4 – 0.4
Subsidiary share options exercised by minority interest – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Currency translation differences
– Group – – - (0.5) (0.5)
– Joint venture – – - 0.2 0.2
Balance at 31 December 2007 48.7 1.0 1.1 (0.8) 50.0
Other reserves comprise a merger reserve of £1.0m arising as a result of the merger of Acertec plc and Acertec Investments
Limited on 12 May 2004. 
29. Equity minority interests
2007 2006
£’m £’m
At 1 January 3.8 3.7
Share of net profit after tax for the year 0.5 0.2
Equity issued on exercise of share options 0.4 (0.1)
Dividend paid to minority shareholders (0.3) (0.1)
Foreign exchange translation differences 0.2 0.1
At 31 December 4.6 3.8
At 31 December 2007, there were 66 million share options (2006: 74 million) in issue relating to the subsidiary company, BRC
Asia Limited. If all the options in issue at 31 December 2007 were exercised, the Group’s interest in this company would be
diluted to 63.88 per cent (2006 65.11 per cent) from 70.71 per cent (2006: 73.17 per cent). ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
72
30. Business combinations
On 4 January 2006, the subsidiary company, BRC Limited, acquired the entire share capital of Capital Structures plc, its principal
activity being the fabrication and erection of steel constructions. The results of Capital Structures plc are consolidated using the
acquisition basis of accounting. 
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows:
Book values Final
prior to fair value to
acquisition Revaluations the Group
£’m £’m £’m
Capital Structures plc
Assets acquired:
Fixed assets 0.3 – 0.3
Stocks 0.3 – 0.3
Debtors 1.6 (0.5) 1.1
Cash 0.3 – 0.3
Creditors (2.0) (1.2) (3.2)
0.5 (1.7) (1.2)
Initial consideration of £1.5m was subject to an adjustment for the value of working capital delivered on completion. 
This adjustment remains in discussion between the parties. In addition to the initial consideration the vendors were issued with
promissory notes, the values of which were determined according to the EBITDA earned by Capital Structures in the years ending
30 April 2006 and 30 April 2007. The aggregate value of the notes was limited to £4.5m. No value has been paid on these notes
and no payment is expected in the future. 
Cost of acquisition £’m
Cash consideration 1.5
Acquisition expenses 0.1
1.6
Intangible assets arising on acquisition 2.8
The Directors consider that the book value of debtors prior to acquisition is greater than the recoverable amount. The revaluation
to creditors relates to the recognition of certain tax balances and the timing of profit recognition on long term contracts. Capital
Structures plc, now renamed Capital Structures Limited, is included within the BRC division and United Kingdom segments (see
note 2). 
The intangible assets arising out of the acquisition of Capital Structures were £1.9m of goodwill attributable to the work force of
the acquired business and the significant synergies expected to arise after the Group’s acquisition and £0.9m of intangible assets
which relate largely to the value of the order book.
The Group has conducted a full impairment review of the goodwill relating to Capital Structures at 31 December 2006 as required
by IAS 36. As a result, the Group considers it appropriate to fully impair the goodwill relating to Capital Structures in the year to
31 December 2006.
Since acquisition, and during the year ended 31 December 2006, Capital Structures generated turnover of £3.8m and recognised
an operating loss of £(0.2)m.
Net outflow of cash £’m
Consideration paid in the year 1.5
Acquisition expenses paid in the year 0.1
Cash outflow to acquire business 1.6
Cash acquired (0.3)
1.3
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
73
31. Disposal of business held for sale
At 1 January 2006, the Group identified Stadco Birmingham Pressings Limited and Carrington Wire Limited as disposal groups
whose carrying amount is to be recovered primarily from a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. As a result, at
1 January 2006 the assets and associated liabilities of those companies have been reclassified as held for sale and remeasured
to fair value at that date less costs to sell. No depreciation has been charged on those assets in 2006.
In April 2006, the Group sold its entire shareholding in Stadco Birmingham Pressings Limited and Carrington Wire Limited.
In 2006, the loss on disposal of businesses held for sale is as follows:
Stadco
Birmingham
Pressings Carrington
Limited Wire Limited Total
Proceeds of disposal £’m £’m £’m
Net cash proceeds 0.4 17.2 17.6
Disposal expenses – (0.8) (0.8)
Net assets of businesses held for disposal (1.1) (20.7) (21.8)
Loss arising on disposal (0.7) (4.3) (5.0)
Net inflow of cash £’m £’m £’m
Consideration received in the year 0.4 20.1 20.5
Disposal expenses paid in the year – (0.8) (0.8)
Working capital adjustment to consideration – (2.9) (2.9)
Cash inflow from disposal of businesses 0.4 16.4 16.8
Cash disposed (0.4) (3.2) (3.6)
Net cash inflow from disposal of businesses – 13.2 13.2
32. Cash generated from operations
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
Operating profit excluding share of joint ventures 12.1 7.0
Depreciation charge 11 7.4 7.6
Impairment of goodwill 10 – 1.9
Amortisation of intangibles 10 0.1 1.2
Profit on sale of investments 4 (0.4) –
Difference between pension service cost and cash contributions (2.6) (4.1)
Other non-cash changes 0.4 0.4
Changes in working capital 
(excluding the effects of exchange differences on consolidation)
– Inventories (6.7) (5.9)
– Trade and other receivables (4.1) (4.8)
– Trade and other payables 4.9 13.5
Cash generated from operations 11.1 16.8
Included within the above cash flows are the following cash flows relating to discontinued operations: net cash flow generated
from operating activities £nil (2006: £3.1m), net cash used in investing activities £nil (2006: £0.6m outflow).
Other non-cash changes are the movements in the share option reserve in the year . ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
74
33. Contingencies
There were collective guarantees in the form of fixed and floating charges over the Group’s assets given by the Company and its
UK subsidiary companies in respect of the net indebtedness of all or any such companies to Barclays Bank amounting to £57.3m
at 31 December 2007 (2006: £42.6m). 
At 31 December 2007, BRC Asia, a subsidiary company in the Group, has a contingent liability of £1.7 million (S$5.0 million)
(2006: £0.8 million (S$2.6 million)) in respect of an unsecured guarantee given on behalf of Anhui BRC & Masteel Weldmesh Co.
Ltd, an associated company of the Group, for establishment of banking facilities. 
34. Related party transactions
The Group entered into the following transactions with its non-wholly owned subsidiaries and its Joint Ventures during the year:
Purchases Purchases Sale Sales
of goods of services of goods of services
2007 £’m £’m £’m £’m
Subsidiary / Joint Venture entity
BRC Asia Limited ––––
BRC McMahon Reinforcements Ltd – – 0.6 –
Purchases Purchases Sale Sales
of goods of services of goods of services
2006 £’m £’m £’m £’m
Subsidiary / Joint Venture entity
BRC Asia Limited 0.9–––
Carrington Wire Limited 0.3–––
BRC McMahon Reinforcements Ltd – – 0.8 –
Key management includes Executive directors and non-Executive directors and senior management in each of the Group’s
principal operations:
2007 2006
Key management compensation £’m £’m
Salaries and other short term employee benefits 2.1 2.0
Share-based payments – 4.7
2.1 6.7
2007 2006
Directors £’m £’m
Aggregate emoluments 1.1 1.0
Aggregate amounts receivable under long term incentive schemes – 3.2
Company contributions to money purchase pension scheme – –
1.1 4.2
Refer to the director’s remuneration report for further details of remuneration of directors employed by the company. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
75
34. Related party transactionscontinued
The purchase of goods from BRC Asia Limited relates to the acquisition of plant and machinery by the subsidiary company, BRC
Limited. Transactions with Carrington Wire Limited and BRC McMahon Reinforcements are normal trading carried out under
normal commercial terms.
Balances due to / from these entities were as follows:
Amounts due to Amounts due from 
related party at related party at 
31 December 31 December
2007 2006 2007 2006
Subsidiary/Joint Venture entity £’m £’m £’m £’m
Carrington Wire Limited – trading balances – 0.1 – –
Carrington Wire Limited – loan balances – – – 0.1
Anhui BRC & Masteel Weldmesh Co. Ltd – loan balances 0.1 – 0.1 –
BRC McMahon Reinforcements Ltd – trading balances – – – 0.1
The amounts outstanding bear no interest.
The movement in loans to related parties is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
At 1 January 0.1 2.6
Loans made 0.1 –
Loans repaid (0.1) (2.5)
At 31 December 0.1 0.1
35. Retirement benefit obligations
Defined contribution schemes
The Group’s contributions to the defined contributions schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which they
relate. Active members are also able to make contributions to the defined contributions schemes. Contributions in the year
amounted to £2.3m (2006: £2.5m).
Defined benefit schemes
The Group’s two defined benefit pension schemes were closed to new members on 30th March 2004 and to the accrual of benefits
for future service of active members. Active members of these two defined benefit schemes were transferred to money purchase
schemes set up within each operating subsidiary.
Formal actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, based on the projected unit method, are carried out
triennially with periodic actuarial reviews. The latest actuarial valuation of the Group’s pension schemes was done in April 2006.
The agreed company contribution rate based on the 2006 actuarial valuation is £2.4m per annum. The statutory rate of increase
for pensions in deferment is between 4.50% and 5.00%.
The major assumptions used by the qualified actuary in the calculation of the IAS 19 disclosures were:
2007 £’m
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.40% 3.00%
Discount rate 5.80% 5.10%
Inflation rate 3.40% 3.00%
Expected return on plan assets 7.10% 6.30%
The life expectancy assumptions are 19.1 years (2006: 19.1 years) for male pensioners and non-pensioners and 22.0 years for female
pensioners and non-pensioners (2006: 22.0 years). These assumptions have been taken from the PA92 C2010 mortality tables.   ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
76
35. Retirement benefit obligationscontinued
Amounts recorded in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Fair value of plan assets 81.1 80.8
Present value of obligations (93.7) (97.7)
Liabilities in the balance sheet (12.6) (16.9)
The analysis of assets and actuarial liabilities for each pension scheme is as follows:
Stadco BRC Total
Scheme Scheme 2007
£’m £’m £’m
Fair value of plan assets 45.7 35.4 81.1
Present value of obligations (53.2) (40.5) (93.7)
Deficit in the scheme (7.5) (5.1) (12.6)
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Beginning of year (97.7) (119.2)
Carrington Wire Limited – obligation disposed – 22.5
Service cost – –
Past service cost – –
Interest cost (4.9) (4.6)
Actuarial gain/(losses) 4.7 (0.2)
Benefits paid 4.2 3.8
End of year (93.7) (97.7)
The movement in the fair value of the plan assets over the year is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Beginning of year 80.8 92.6
Carrington Wire Limited – assets disposed – (17.0)
Expected return on plan assets 5.1 4.7
Actuarial (losses)/gains (3.2) 0.2
Employer contributions 2.6 4.1
Employee contributions – –
Settlements – –
Benefits paid (4.2) (3.8)
End of year 81.1 80.8
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Current service cost – –
Interest cost (4.9) (4.6)
Expected return on plan assets 5.1 4.7
Past service cost – –
Total, included in finance income (note 7) 0.2 0.1
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
77
35. Retirement benefit obligationscontinued
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Actuarial gain reported in the statement of changes in equity 1.5 –
Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in the statement of changes in equity 1.5 –
The actual return on plan assets was £1.9m (2006: £4.9m).
Plan assets comprise the following:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Equity instruments 57.4 41.8
Debt instruments 23.6 38.8
Cash 0.1 0.2
81.1 80.8
Expected contributions to post employment benefit plans for the year ended 31 December 2008 are £2.4m.
The expected return on plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the
current investment policy. Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at balance sheet
date. Expected returns on equity investments reflect long-term real rates of return experienced on the respective markets.
2007 2006
At 31 December £’m £’m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (93.7) (97.7)
Fair value of plan assets 81.1 80.8
Deficit (12.6) (16.9)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 4.7 (0.2)
Experience adjustments on plan assets (3.2) 0.2
Information prior to 1 January 2006 is not available on an IFRS basis and therefore, in accordance with IAS19, this summary table
of assets, liabilities and experience adjustments will be built up prospectively from 1 January 2006.  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
78
36. Group companies
The principal subsidiary and joint venture undertakings at 31 December 2007 were:
Subsidiary companies Nature of business Group shareholding
BRC Limited Manufacture of steel reinforcement bar and mesh 100%
Stadco Limited Manufacture of pressings and assemblies 100%
Capital Structures Ltd Fabrication and erection of steel constructions 100%
Acertec Engineering Limited Administration 100%
Acertec UK Limited Financing 100%
Stadco Saarlouis Ltd & Co. KG (Germany) Manufacture of pressings and assemblies 100%
Stadco LLC (Russia) Manufacture of pressings and assemblies 100%
BRC Asia Limited (Singapore) Manufacture of steel reinforcement mesh 70.71%
Joint venture companies
Anhui BRC & Masteel Weldmesh Co. Ltd 
(China) Manufacture of steel reinforcing mesh 50% owned through BRC 
Asia Limited – effective group 
shareholding of 35.36%
BRC McMahon Reinforcements Ltd 
(Tipperary, Eire) Manufacture of steel reinforcing mesh 50%
A full list of Group subsidiaries is available in the Company’s Annual Return.
All the above companies, unless shown otherwise, were incorporated in England and registered in England and Wales.
The voting rights in respect of each subsidiary are in the same proportion as the shares held.
All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation.
All subsidiaries have a year end of 31 December . 
Of the subsidiaries and joint ventures listed above, only Acertec UK Limited is owned directly by Acertec plc.
All subsidiary undertakings disclosed above are included within the Group consolidated financial statements. 
37. Events after the balance sheet date
Further to the reduction in the corporation tax rate announced in the recent Budget, deferred tax reversing after 1 April 2008 will
be recognised at a rate of 28% as opposed to the existing rate of 30%. This will result in a reduction in the deferred tax liability
and a corresponding credit to the profit and loss account. The impact is not expected to be material.
On 31 March 2008, Acertec plc entered into an agreement with Barclays Bank plc to extend to its existing UK revolving credit facility
until 30 April 2009.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
79
38. Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS
The Group reported under UK GAAP in its previously published financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006. 
The analysis below shows a reconciliation of net assets and profit as reported under UK GAAP as at 31 December 2006 to the
revised net assets and profit under IFRS as reported in this financial information.
Reconciliation of net assets at 1 January 2006
Note £’m
Net assets as reported under UK GAAP (21.8)
Negative goodwill elimination d 3.0 
Provision for loss on disposal groups a (3.1)
Holiday pay accrual h (0.1)
IFRS tax g (5.2)
Prior year error - stock error in BRC i (1.9)
Net assets as reported under IFRS (29.1)
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2006
Note £’m
Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation reported under UK GAAP 4.5 
Disposal groups a 7.6 
Goodwill amortisation d (2.0)
Reduced depreciation f 0.5 
Prior year error - stock error in BRC i (1.8)
Operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures under IFRS 8.8 
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2006
Note £’m
Loss on ordinary activities after taxation for the period reported under UK GAAP (2.7)
Disposal groups a 7.6 
Goodwill amortisation d (1.8)
Reduced depreciation f 0.5 
IFRS tax g 0.7 
Prior year error - stock error in BRC i (1.8)
Change in accounting policy in 2007 - Net investment hedge j (0.3)
Profit for the year from continuing operations reported under IFRS 2.2  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
80
38. Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRScontinued
Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet and equity at 31 December 2006
Effect of
transition
UK GAAP to IFRS Total
Note £’m £’m £’m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill d 16.6 (1.3) 15.3 
Negative goodwill d (2.0) 2.0 –
Intangible assets e – 0.2 0.2 
Property, plant & equipment f 70.3 0.3 70.6
Investments in joint ventures 4.0 – 4.0 
Available for sale financial assets 0.2 – 0.2 
Deferred income tax assets g 1.8 5.8 7.6 
Trade and other receivables 0.3 – 0.3 
91.2 7.0 98.2 
Current assets
Inventories i 28.5 (3.0) 25.5 
Trade and other receivables 45.9 – 45.9 
Cash and cash equivalents 20.0 – 20.0 
94.4 (3.0) 91.4 
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings (9.6) – (9.6)
Trade and other payables h,i (68.9) (0.8) (69.7)
Current income tax liabilities (6.3) – (6.3)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (2.1) – (2.1)
(86.9) (0.8) (87.7)
Net current assets 7.5 (3.8) 3.7
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (58.5) – (58.5)
Deferred income tax liabilities g – (5.2) (5.2)
Trade and other payables (0.1) – (0.1)
Retirement benefit obligations g (11.8) (5.1) (16.9)
(70.4) (10.3) (80.7)
Net assets 28.3 (7.1) 21.2 
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the company
Called up share capital 5.1 – 5.1 
Share premium account 48.7 – 48.7 
Other reserve 1.0 – 1.0 
Share option reserve 0.8 – 0.8 
Foreign exchange reserve j (0.8) 0.3 (0.5)
Retained earnings (30.3) (7.4) (37.7)
Total shareholders’ equity 24.5 (7.1) 17.4 
Equity minority interests 3.8 – 3.8 
Total equity 28.3 (7.1) 21.2 
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
81
38. Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRScontinued
Reconciliation of consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006
Effect of
transition
UK GAAP to IFRS Total
Note £’m £’m £’m
Revenue a 331.7 (24.7) 307.0 
Operating costs (323.3) 23.3 (300.0)
Operating profit a,b,c,f,i 8.4 (1.4) 7.0 
Share of profit of joint ventures 1.8 – 1.8 
Operating profit: Group and share of joint ventures 10.2 (1.4) 8.8 
Analysed as:
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 
– continuing operations f,i 16.2 (1.3) 14.9 
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 
– discontinued operations a (1.8) 1.8 –
Goodwill amortisation/impairment c,d,e (1.1) (0.8) (1.9)
Amortisation of intangibles c – (1.2) (1.2)
IPO costs (3.1) – (3.1)
Profit on disposal of fixed assets b – 0.1 0.1 
Loss on disposal of operations - discontinued operations a (5.8) 5.8 –
Profit on disposal of fixed assets b 0.1 (0.1) –
Profit before interest 4.5 4.3 8.8 
Finance costs (5.5) – (5.5)
Finance income before exceptional items j 1.0 (0.3) 0.7 
Finance income - exceptional 2.2 – 2.2 
Net finance costs (2.3) (0.3) (2.6)
Profit before tax 2.2 4.0 6.2 
Taxation c,g (4.9) 0.9 (4.0)
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (2.7) 4.9 2.2 
Loss from discontinued operations a – (5.0) (5.0)
Loss after tax (2.7) (0.1) (2.8)
Minority interests (0.2) – (0.2)
Loss for the year (2.9) (0.1) (3.0) ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
82
38. Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRScontinued
Explanation of reconciling differences between UK GAAP and IFRS
a IFRS 5 requires the identification of disposal groups whose carrying amount is to be recovered primarily from a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. To demonstrate that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through a sale
transaction, the disposal group must be immediately available for sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly
probable. Disposal groups that meet the conditions to be classified as held for sale should be measured at the lower of their
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell with depreciation on such assets ceasing at the point of reclassification.
Discontinued operations are presented as a single line in the income statement representing the the post-tax profit or loss
for the period. Turnover and costs in the consolidated income statement will therefore only relate to continuing operations.
The Group has made the assessment that the subsidiary companies, Carrington Wire Limited and Stadco Birmingham
Pressings Limited, which were both sold in April 2006, met the criteria for reclassification as disposal groups at 1 January
2006.
As a result, at 1 January 2006 the assets and associated liabilities of those companies have been reclassified as held for sale
and remeasured to fair value at that date less costs to sell. No depreciation has been charged on those assets in 2006.
b IFRS requires all operating expenditure to be recognised within operating profit, therefore the Group has reclassified £0.1m
in respect of profit on disposal of fixed assets from exceptional costs to operating costs.
c Under IFRS, the Group has recognised £1.9m of goodwill and £0.9m of intangible assets arising out of the acquisition of
Capital Structures plc in January 2006. The intangible assets, which relate largely to the value of the order book, will be
amortised on a systematic basis that reflects the expected pattern of economic benefits over a period which is expected to
be 1 year . An associated deferred tax liability of £0.2m has also been recognised in relation to the intangible assets. 
The Group has conducted a full impairment review of the goodwill relating to Capital Structures plc at 31 December 2006 as
required by IAS 36. As a result, the Group considers it appropriate to fully impair the goodwill relating to Capital Structures
plc in the period to 31 December 2006.
d The adoption of IFRS 3 and IAS 36 has resulted in the Group ceasing annual goodwill amortisation from 1 January 2006. As a
result, the UK GAAP amortisation charge of £1.1m have been reversed in arriving at the Group’s 2006 IFRS profit for the year .
Negative goodwill of £(0.3)m is credited to retained earnings at 1 January 2006 as IFRS does not allow the capitalisation of 
negative goodwill.
e Computer software that is not an integral part of the related hardware is classified as an intangible asset under IFRS, whereas
such assets were classified as tangible under UK GAAP . Reclassifications of £0.2m have been made at 1 January 2006 and at
31 December 2006.
f Under IAS 16, the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment should be reviewed at least each year end
and revised where expectations are significantly different from previous estimates. The depreciation charge should then be
adjusted for current and future periods. The residual value of an item of property, plant and equipment is based on the
estimated amount that an entity would currently obtain from the asset’s disposal, less estimated selling costs, if the asset were
already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life. Thus, residual values take account of changes in
prices up to the balance sheet date, whereas UK GAAP requires consideration of prices prevailing at the date of acquisition. 
The Group has reviewed the useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment under IFRS 5 with the result
that the depreciation charge in 2006 is £0.5m lower under IFRS compared to UK GAAP.
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
83
38. Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRScontinued
Explanation of reconciling differences between UK GAAP and IFRS continued
g Deferred tax under UK GAAP was provided on all timing differences that had originated but not reversed at the balance sheet
date. Timing differences arise when gains and losses are included in tax computations in a later or earlier period from that
in which they appear in the Group’s financial statements.
IAS 12 has a balance sheet focused approach. The standard requires that full provision be made for all taxable temporary
differences except those arising on goodwill. A temporary difference is the difference between carrying amount of an asset
or liability in the balance sheet and its associated tax base. A temporary difference is a taxable difference if it will give rise to
taxable amounts in the future when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are classified as non-current irrespective of the expected timing of the reversal of the
underlying taxable temporary difference. Current tax assets and liabilities are shown separately on the face of the balance
sheet.
Under IAS 12, additional deferred tax liabilities of £4.5m have been recognised at 31 December 2006.The principal impact has
been to recognise deferred tax on all property not qualifying for capital allowances (£1.0m) and on rolled over capital gains
liabilities (£2.7m).
Under IAS 12, deferred tax assets relating to the pension deficit are no longer netted off against the pension deficit, but are
instead shown within deferred tax balances. Deferred tax relating to the pension deficit was £5.1m at 31 December 2006 and
£8.0m at 1 January 2006.
h IAS 19 requires the Group to recognise in full liabilities in relation to employee benefits. As at 1 January and 31 December 2006,
the Group has recognised an additional £0.1m of liabilities for holiday pay. 
i On 5 September 2007, the Group announced that it had discovered a discrepancy in the accounting for stock at one of the
divisions of BRC in the UK, An investigation into the discrepancy has been conducted, its results show a total discrepancy of
£3.7m arising from an overstatement of inventories by £3.0m and an understatement of accruals by £0.7m. Of the total
discrepancy, £1.8m relates to the year ended 31 December 2006, (tax impact £0.5m), and £1.9m to the year ended 31 December
2005 (tax impact £0.6m).
j On 1 January 2006, the Group adopted hedge accounting under IFRS and designated a proportion of the Group’s Euro and
Singapore denominated borrowings as a hedge of the net investment in the Group’s German and Singapore subsidiaries. 
In the year ended 31 December 2006, the effective hedge of £0.3m on translation of the borrowing to currency at the balance
sheet date is recognised in translation reserves in shareholders’ equity. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
84
We have audited the parent company financial statements of
Acertec plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which
comprise the Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement and the
related notes. These parent company financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. 
We have reported separately on the group financial statements
of Acertec plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and the parent company financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial
statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985
and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent
company financial statements give a true and fair view and
whether the parent company financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information
given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent
company financial statements. The information given in the
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented
in the Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Review that
is cross referred from the Review of Business section of the
Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not
disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent
company financial statements. The other information
comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief
Executive’s Review, the Financial Review, the list of Directors,
the Directors’ Report, the Corporate Governance statement
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in
the parent company financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made
by the directors in the preparation of the parent company
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the parent company financial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the parent company financial
statements.
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and
fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s
affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its cash flows for the
year then ended;
• the parent company financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent
with the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
31 March 2008
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
85
PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
Fixed assets
Investments 5
Group companies 0.5 0.5
0.5 0.5
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 6 64.3 64.3
Cash at bank and in hand 15 2.0 6.0
66.3 70.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 7 (0.2) (0.2)
Creditors 8 (7.6) (7.6)
Net current assets 58.5 62.5
Net assets 59.0 63.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 5.1 5.1
Share premium account 11 48.7 48.7
Share option reserve 11 0.6 0.3
Profit and loss account 11 4.6 8.9
Shareholders’ funds 12 59.0 63.0
The company has elected to take the exemption under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 to not present the parent company
profit and loss account. 
The loss for the parent company for the year was £(0.3)m (2006: profit £12.6m). 
Approved by the Board on 31 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by
John Sword
Director
The notes on pages 87 to 90 form part of these financial statements.  ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
86
PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Note £’m £’m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 13 – 6.0
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Dividends paid (4.0) –
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year 15 (4.0) 6.0 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
87
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation
The Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Investments
Shares in Group companies are stated as cost less provisions for impairment. The Group’s interest in the net assets of joint
ventures is shown within investments in the consolidated balance sheet. Other investments in unlisted companies, also shown
under investments, are stated at cost less provisions for diminution in value.
Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or
a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from
those in which they are included in the financial statements. Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the
revaluation of assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. As the earnings
are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Share based payments
The Group determines the fair value of the share options granted using the Black-Scholes and Monte-Carlo option-pricing
models. The Group recognises of the cost of share options as an employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in
other reserve equity over the expected life of the options granted. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction
costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when the options are exercised. 
2. Operating profit/(loss)
It is the Group’s practice to employ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where
their expertise and experience with the Group are important, principally tax advice and assurance related work. Fees payable to
company auditors’ for the audit of parent company financial statements were £nil (2006: £nil).
The Company had no employees during the year (2006: none). The emoluments of the Group’s key directors are disclosed in the
remuneration report of the Group’s financial statements.
3. Taxation on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
At 31 December 2007 there are deferred tax amounts not provided in respect of tax losses of £0.1m (2006: £nil). 
4. Dividends
During 2007, a final dividend of £2.6m (5 pence per ordinary share) was paid in respect of 2006, and an interim dividend for 2007
of £1.4m (2.7 pence per ordinary share) was paid. No interim dividend for 2006 or final dividend for 2005 was paid during 2006.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007.
5. Investments
Shares in
Group companies
£’m
Gross and net book amount
At 1 January and 31 December 2007 0.5
The investment relates to the company’s ownership of 100% of the ordinary share capital of Acertec UK Limited. Further details
of subsidiaries of the company are included in note 36 to the Group financial statements. 
NOTES TO THE 
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
88
6. Debtors
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Amounts due in less than one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 64.3 64.3
7. Borrowings
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Borrowings falling due within one year
CCPPO nominal value and accrued dividends 0.2 0.2
At 1 January 2006, 10,255 Cumulative Convertible Participating Preferred Ordinary (CCPPO) shares of 1p each were in issue. 
On IPO, the CCPPO shares were converted into 11,565,936 ordinary shares of 10p each. 
In 2006 and 2007, included within other loans due within one year are the fixed cumulative dividends on the 10,255 CCPPO shares
of £0.2m (£0.1m for each of 2004 and 2005). Under the previous Articles of Association of the Company, CCPPO dividends of £0.1m
per year were payable from 1 January 2004. The CCPPO shares were converted to ordinary shares on IPO.
8. Creditors
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies 0.6 0.6
Other creditors 7.0 7.0
7.6 7.6
Other creditors due within one year, for the Company, relate to the amount likely to be called on under a guarantee to pay the
debts of a subsidiary company, Acertec Management Limited, as they fall due.
9. Share capital
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Authorised
90,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each / 90,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each 9.0 9.0
Allotted and fully paid 
51,349,974 Ordinary Shares of 10p each / 51,349,599 Ordinary Shares of 10p each 5.1 5.1
The Ordinary shareholders each have one vote per share.
On 17 September 2007, 375 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued under the SAYE scheme.
In May 2006, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased to £9,000,000 by the creation of additional Ordinary Shares.
On 9 May 2006 the existing issued share capital was converted into 11,565,936 Ordinary fully paid shares following an appropriation
from the share premium account. On 16 May 2006 on IPO, 39,783,663 new Ordinary Shares were issued at 148 pence per share,
including a premium of 138 pence per new share issued.
NOTES TO THE 
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
89
10. Share based payments
The Group operates a number of share based payment schemes for its employees. Details of these schemes are included in note
26 of the Group accounts. Share based payments are accounted for under International Financial Reporting Standard 2 in the Group
financial statements, which is identical to FRS20 in UK GAAP which is used in the Company financial statements. As such, the
disclosures are identical, except that the disclosures in the Group Financial Statements in respect of BRC Asia are not applicable
to the Company.  
11. Reserves
Share Share Profit
premium option and loss
account reserves account
£’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2007 48.7 0.3 8.9
Cost of share option – 0.3 –
Loss for the financial year – – (4.3)
At 31 December 2007 48.7 0.6 4.6
12. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2007 2006
£’m £’m
(Loss)/profit for the year (0.3) 12.6
Dividends paid (4.0) –
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (4.3) 12.6
Costs of share options in issue 0.3 0.3
New equity issued – 53.3
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 63.0 (3.2)
Closing shareholders’ funds 59.0 63.0
On 16 May 2006, 39,783,663 new shares were sold at 148p, raising £58.9m before expenses. IPO expenses of £5.6m were incurred
and treated as a deduction from the share premium account.
13. Net cash inflow from operating activities
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Operating (loss)/profit (0.3) 12.6
Non-cash movement 0.3 0.3
Decrease in creditors and provisions – (6.9)
– 6.0
The non-cash movement relates to the cost of share options in issue. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
90
14. Events after the balance sheet date
Further to the reduction in the corporation tax rate announced in the recent Budget, deferred tax reversing after 1 April 2008 will
be recognised at a rate of 28% as opposed to the existing rate of 30%. This will result in a reduction in the deferred tax liability
and a corresponding credit to the profit and loss account. The impact is not expected to be material.
On 31 March 2008, Acertec plc entered into an agreement with Barclays Bank plc to extend to its existing UK revolving credit facility
until 30 April 2009.
15. Change in net debt
At At
1 January Other 31 December
2007 Cash flow Acquisitions changes 2007
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cash at bank and in hand 6.0 (4.0) – – 2.0
16. Contingent liabilities
There were collective guarantees in the form of fixed and floating charges over the Group’s assets given by the company and its
UK subsidiary companies in respect of the net indebtedness of all or any such companies to Barclays Bank amounting to £57.3m
at 31 December 2007 (2006: £42.7m). 
NOTES TO THE 
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
91
NOTICE OF THE 2008 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Registered in England and Wales with no. 3721271)
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Acertec plc (the “Company”) will be held at Fox Court, 14 Grays Inn
Road, London, WC1X 8WS on 20 May 2008 at 10.00 a.m. for the transaction of the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
As ordinary business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, each of which will be proposed as an
ordinary resolution:
1. THAT the Company’s annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the Directors’ report and the
auditors’ report on those accounts be received.
2. THAT PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed as auditors to the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting of the Company.
3. THAT the Directors be authorised to fix the auditors’ remuneration.
4. THAT for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”) (and so that expressions used in this resolution
shall bear the same meanings as in the said section 80):
4.1 the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant
securities up to a maximum nominal amount of £1,694,549 to such persons and at such times and on such terms as they
think proper during the period commencing on the passing of this resolution and expiring at the end of the Annual General
Meeting of the Company in 2009 (unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting); and
4.2 the Company be and is hereby authorised to make prior to the expiry of such period any offer or agreement which would or
might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of the said period and the Directors may allot relevant
securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding the expiry of the authority given by this resolution;
so that all previous authorities of the Directors pursuant to the said section 80 be and are hereby revoked.
5. THAT John Sword be re-elected as a Director .
6. THAT David Hussey be re-elected as a Director .
SPECIAL BUSINESS
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, which will be proposed as special resolutions:
7. THAT the Directors be and are empowered in accordance with section 95 of the Act to sell treasury shares (as defined in
section 162 of the Act) and, subject to the passing of resolution 4 set out in the Notice convening this Meeting, make other
allotments of equity securities (and the expression “allotment of equity securities” and like expressions used in this
resolution shall have the meaning given to them by virtue of section 94 of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authority
conferred on them to allot relevant securities (as defined in section 80 of the Act) by that resolution, in each case as if section
89(1) and sub-sections (1) - (6) of section 90 of the Act did not apply to any such sale or allotment, provided that the power
conferred by this resolution shall be limited to:
7.1 the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue or offering in favour of holders of equity securities and any other
persons entitled to participate in such issue or offering (other than the Company itself in respect of any shares held by it as
treasury shares) where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders and persons are
proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective number of equity securities held by or deemed to be held by them on
the record date of such allotment, subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider
necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws or requirements
of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory; and
7.2 the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 7.1 above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not
exceeding £256,750;
and this power, unless renewed, shall expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009
but shall extend to the making, before such expiry, of an offer or agreement which would or might require an allotment of
equity securities to be made after such expiry and the Directors may make an allotment of equity securities in pursuance
of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
92
8. THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 166 of the Act to
make market purchases (as defined in section 163 of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company
(“ordinary shares”) provided that:
8.1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,134,997;
8.2 the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for such ordinary shares is 10p per share, being the nominal
amount thereof; 
8.3 the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for such ordinary shares shall be, for so long as the ordinary
shares of the Company are dealt in on AIM, 5 per cent. above the average price at which deals are done in the ordinary shares
taken from the AIM appendix to The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase
is made and, if at any time the ordinary shares become listed on the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and traded
on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities, an amount equal to 5 per cent. above the average of the middle
market quotations for such shares taken from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days
immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is made;
8.4 the authority hereby conferred shall (unless previously renewed or revoked) expire on the earlier of the end of the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date which is 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed;
and
8.5 the Company may make a contract to purchase its own ordinary shares under the authority conferred by this resolution prior
to the expiry of such authority, and such contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority,
and the Company may make a purchase of its own ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
9. THAT, pursuant to section 9 of the Act, the Articles of Association of the Company be altered by:
9.1 deleting the present Article 145.1 and substituting the following new Article 145.1 therefore:
“145.1 may be a party to or otherwise directly or indirectly interested in:
145.1.1 any transaction or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested; or
145.1.2 a proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company;”;
9.2 deleting the present Article 145.4 and substituting the following new Article 145.4 therefore:
“145.4 may act by himself or his firm in a professional capacity for the Company (otherwise than as auditor) and he or his
firm shall be entitled to remuneration for professional services as if he were not a Director, 
save that with effect from the date on which Sections 177 and 182 of the 2006 Act shall come into effect, a Director shall,
subject to sub-section 177(6) of the 2006 Act, be required to disclose all interests whether or not material in any transaction
or arrangement referred to in Article 145.1 and the declaration of interest must (in the case of a transaction or arrangement
referred to in Article 145.1.1) and may, but need not, (in the case of a transaction or arrangement referred to in Article
145.1.2) be made:
145.4.1 at a meeting of the Directors; or
145.4.2 by notice to the Directors in accordance with:
(a) Section 184 of the 2006 Act (notice in writing); or
(b) Section 185 of the 2006 Act (general notice).”;
NOTICE OF THE 2008 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
continued ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
93
9.3 inserting the following new Article 145A:
“Directors’ interests other than in relation to transactions or arrangements with the Company
145A.1 For the purposes of Section 175 of the 2006 Act, the Directors shall have the power to authorise any matter which
would or might otherwise constitute or give rise to a breach of the duty of a Director under that Section to avoid a
situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the
interests of the Company. For these purposes references to a conflict of interest includes a conflict of interest and
duty and a conflict of duties. This Article does not apply to a conflict of interest arising in relation to a transaction or
arrangement with the Company.
145A.2 Authorisation of a matter under this Article shall be effective only if: 
145A.2.1 the matter in question shall have been proposed in writing (giving full particulars of the relevant
situation) for consideration at a meeting of the Directors, in accordance with the Board’s normal
procedures or in such other manner as the Directors may approve;
145A.2.2 any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting of the Directors at which the matter is considered is met
without counting the Director in question and any other interested Director (together the “Interested
Directors”); and
145A.2.3 the matter was agreed to without the Interested Directors voting or would have been agreed to if the votes
of the Interested Directors had not been counted.
145A.3 Any authorisation of a matter pursuant to this Article shall extend to any actual or potential conflict of interest which
may reasonably be expected to arise out of the matter so authorised.
145A.4 Any authorisation of a matter under this Article shall be subject to such terms as the Directors may determine,
whether at the time such authorisation is given or subsequently, and may be terminated by the Directors at any time.
Such terms may include, without limitation, terms that the relevant Directors: 
145A.4.1 will not be obliged to disclose to the Company or use for the benefit of the Company any confidential
information received by him otherwise than by virtue of his position as a Director, if to do so would breach
any duty of confidentiality to a third party; 
145A.4.2 may be required by the Company to maintain in the strictest confidence any confidential information relating
to the Company which also relates to the situation as a result of which the conflict arises (“the conflict
situation”); 
145A.4.3 may be required by the Company not to attend any part of a meeting of the Directors at which any matter
which may be relevant to the conflict situation is to be discussed, and not to view any board papers relating
to such matters; and 
145A.4.4 shall not be obliged to account to the Company for any remuneration or other benefits received by him in
consequence of the conflict situation.
A Director shall comply with any obligation imposed on him by the Directors pursuant to any such authorisation.
145A.5 A Director shall not, save as otherwise agreed by him, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which he (or a
person connected with him) derives from any matter authorised by the Directors under this Article and any contract,
transaction or arrangement relating thereto shall not be liable to be avoided on the grounds of any such benefit.
145A.6 The provisions of this Article shall take effect on 1 October 2008 or any later date on which Section 175 of the 2006
Act comes into effect.”;
9.4 deleting the words “Part VI of the Act” in Article 146.4 and substituting the words “Part 22 of the 2006 Act”; 
9.5 inserting, in the first line of Article 147 between the words “145” and “and 146”, the words, “145A”; and
9.6 deleting the words “and an extraordinary general meeting where such extraordinary general meeting is called for the
passing of a special resolution” from the first sentence of Article 62 and deleting the word “extraordinary” from the second
sentence of that Article.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
John Davies
Company Secretary
18 April 2008
Registered Office: 15, Shottery Brook, Timothy’s Bridge Road, Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, CV37 9NR ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
94
Notes:
(i) A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting convened by the above Notice is entitled to appoint one or more proxies
to exercise all or any of the rights of the member to attend and speak and vote in his place. A proxy need not be a member
of the Company.
(ii) To appoint a proxy you may:
(a) use the Form of Proxy enclosed with this Notice of Annual General Meeting. To be valid, the Form of Proxy, together with
the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of the same,
must be deposited by 10.00 a.m. on 18 May 2008 at the offices of Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West
Sussex, BN99 6ZX; or
(b) if you hold your shares in uncertificated form, use the CREST electronic proxy appointment service as described in
Note (v) below.
Completion of the Form of Proxy or appointment of a proxy through CREST will not prevent you from attending and voting
in person.
(iii) Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders registered in the register of
members of the Company as at 6.00 p.m. on 18 May 2008 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting
in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at such time. If the Meeting is adjourned, the time by which a
person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and vote at the
adjourned Meeting is 6.00 p.m. on the day two days preceding the date fixed for the adjourned Meeting. Changes to the
register of members after the relevant times shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote
at the Meeting.
(iv) In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted
to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in
which the names stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the relevant joint holding.
(v) CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may
do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment(s) thereof by utilising the procedures described in the CREST
Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed
(a) voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the
appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland’s specifications and must contain
the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be transmitted so as
to be received by the issuer’s agent, Equiniti (ID 7RA01), by 10.00 am on 18 May 2008. For this purpose, the time of receipt
will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from
which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK &
Ireland does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and
limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST
member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed
(a) voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the
Uncertificated Securities Regulation 2001.
(vi) The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, 15, Shottery Brook, Timothy’s
Bridge Road, Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, CV37 9NR, during usual business hours on any weekday (Saturdays, Sundays
and public holidays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will be
available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Meeting:
(a) copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Directors; 
(b) copies of the service contracts between the executive Director and the Company; and
(c) the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company referred to in resolution 9 above, together with a copy of such
proposed new Articles of Association marked to show the changes to the existing Articles of Association.
NOTICE OF THE 2008 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
continued ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
95
Resolution 1 – Company’s Annual Report and Accounts 2007 (Ordinary resolution)
Company law requires the Directors to present, to the Annual General Meeting, the Annual Accounts, the Directors’ Report and
the auditors’ report on those accounts.
Resolution 2 and 3 – Appointment of auditors (Ordinary resolution)
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented, to hold office until
the conclusion of the next such meeting. The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of
the external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, on behalf of the Board, who now propose their reappointment as auditors
of the Company. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has advised of its willingness to stand for reappointment as the auditor of the
Company. Resolution 3 authorises the Directors, in accordance with standard practice, to negotiate and agree the remuneration
of the auditors. In practice, the Audit Committee will consider the audit fees for recommendation to the Board. 
Resolution 4 – Authority to allot shares (Ordinary resolution)
This resolution asks shareholders to grant the Directors authority under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”) to allot
shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal value of £1,694,549, being approximately 33 per cent. of the nominal value of the
issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 16 April 2008. This is the maximum permitted amount under best practice
corporate governance guidelines. The authority will expire at the end of next year’s Annual General Meeting, unless revoked or
varied before then in general meeting. The resolution replaces a similar resolution passed at last year’s Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 5 and 6 – Re-election of Directors (Ordinary resolutions)
At the Annual General Meeting, John Sword and David Hussey will retire and are offering themselves for re-election. Resolutions
5 and 6 propose their respective re-elections.
Resolution 7 – Disapplication of pre-emption rights (Special resolution)
If the Directors wish to allot unissued shares or other equity securities for cash or sell any shares which the Company holds in
treasury following a purchase of its own shares pursuant to the authority in resolution 8 below, the Act requires that such shares
or other equity securities are offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holding. Resolution 7 asks
shareholders to grant the Directors authority to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal
value of £256,750 (being approximately 5 per cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 16 April 2008) without
first offering the securities to existing shareholders. The resolution also disapplies the statutory pre-emption provisions in
connection with a rights issue and allows the Directors, in the case of a rights issue, to make appropriate arrangements in
relation to fractional entitlements or other legal or practical problems which might arise. The authority will expire at the end of
next year’s Annual General Meeting, unless revoked or varied before then in general meeting. The resolution replaces a similar
resolution passed at last year’s Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 8 – Purchases of own shares by the Company (Special resolution)
Resolution 8 to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting seeks authority from holders of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in
the capital of the Company (“ordinary shares”) for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, such
authority being limited to the purchase of approximately ten per cent. of the ordinary shares in issue as at 16 April 2008. The
maximum price payable for the purchase by the Company of its own ordinary shares will be limited to 5 per cent. above the
average of the middle market quotations of the Company’s ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London
Stock Exchange, for the five business days prior to the purchase. The minimum price payable by the Company for the purchase
of its own ordinary shares will be 10 pence per share (being the amount equal to the nominal value of an ordinary share). The
authority to purchase the Company’s own ordinary shares will only be exercised if the Directors consider that there is likely to
be a beneficial impact on earnings per ordinary share and that it is in the best interests of the Company at the time. The Company
is able to hold in treasury any shares purchased by it using its distributable profits. Such shares will remain in issue and capable
of being re-sold by the Company. The Company may take advantage of this ability to the extent that it exercises the authority to
buy back its shares, so as to hold the purchased shares in treasury.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
96
Resolution 9 – Amendments to the Articles of Association (Special Resolution)
Directors’ authorisation of conflicts of interest
The Companies Act 2006 (the “2006 Act”) sets out directors’ general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some
changes. Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the company’s interests. The requirement is very broad and could apply, for
example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation. The 2006 Act allows directors
of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain
a provision to this effect. The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors’
conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty. The insertion of Article 145A into the Articles of Association of the Company (the
“Articles”) gives the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest
to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position. 
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict. First, only
directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking
the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the company’s success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate. 
It is also proposed that the Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings
and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest
arises. These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by
the Directors.
The proposed changes to the Articles described above will only be effective when the relevant provisions of the 2006 Act come
into force, which is expected to take place on 1 October 2008.
Notice period for general meetings
The Articles currently reflect the provisions of the Act relating to the notice period for a general meeting at which a special
resolution is to be proposed (i.e. 21 clear days’ notice). Section 307 of the 2006 Act permits companies to shorten this notice period
to 14 clear days’ notice. The amendments to the Articles enable the Company to take advantage of such shorter period, should
the directors so decide, in respect of any particular such general meeting.
Action to be taken
You are asked to either:
1. complete the attached Form of Proxy and return it, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is
signed or a notarially certified or office copy thereof, to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex,
BN99 6ZX, so as to arrive no later than 10.00 a.m. on 18 May 2008; or
2. if you hold your shares in uncertificated form, use the CREST electronic proxy appointment service as described at Note (v)
in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Completion of the Form of Proxy or appointment of a proxy through CREST does not prevent you from attending and voting in
person.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS continued Designed and produced by Weber Shandwick Financial Design Acertec plc
15, Shottery Brook, Timothy's Bridge Road, Stratford upon Avon, Warwickshire CV37 9NR
