 Dairy Crest Group plc  Annual Report 2016
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2016
Goin G for This report is printed on Chorus Lux Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Easton.
Board photography by Ed Hill. 
Dairy Crest is a leading British dairy company. 
We have a well-established strategy, a clear 
vision, robust values and great people.
Dairy Crest makes market-leading brands including Cathedral City 
cheese, Clover dairy spread, Country Life butter and Frylight one 
calorie cooking spray. This year we have also invested to enter the 
high-growth global infant formula market.
We constantly innovate, bringing new products to market and 
introducing new ways of working across the business.
We are a responsible business and always aim to do the right 
thing for our employees, our farmers, our customers and our 
consumers. We continue to ensure we are setting the standard 
for responsible business practice.
The year ended 31 March 2016 has been transformational for 
Dairy Crest with the completion of the sale of our loss-making 
Dairies business in December 2015. Dairy Crest is now well-
positioned for profitable and sustainable growth in our added 
value and branded markets.
ABout us
t he uK’s No1 branded cheese
t he uK’s No1 oil brand
t he uK’s No1 dairy spread
t he uK’s fastest growing butter brand  Strategic report
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 1
12 13 14 15 16
336.4
59.7
142.2
198.7
229.0
Net debt 
(£m)
£229.0m 
Total dividends 
per share (pence)
22.1p
12 13 14 15 16
20.4
20.7
21.3
21.7
22.1
Revenue 
1
 
(£m)
£422.3m 
12 13 14 15 16
445.7
430.0
446.2
448.2
422.3
Adjusted proﬁt 
before tax 
1,2
 (£m)
£57.7m
12 13 14 15 16
37.3
39.9
46.5
58.8
57.7
1 All years have been restated to remove discontinued operations 
2 Continuing operations before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest
The numbers Governance
  Strategic report
 2 At a glance
 4 Our business model 
 6 Our strategy and  
  Key Performance Indicators
 8 Chairman’s statement
 9 Chief Executive’s review
 12 Financial review
 16 Principal risks and uncertainties
 18 Performance – continuing operations
 18 – Cheese & whey 
 20 – Butters, spreads & oils
 22 Corporate Responsibility
  Governance
 28 Board of Directors and Advisers
 30 Management Board
 31 Corporate governance
 41 Directors’ remuneration report
 61 Directors’ report
 64 Statement of Directors’ 
  responsibilities
  The numbers
 65 Independent auditor’s report
 69 Consolidated income statement
 70 Consolidated statement
  of comprehensive income
 71 Consolidated and Parent
  Company balance sheets
 72 Consolidated statement 
  of changes in equity
 73 Parent Company statement 
  of changes in equity
 74 Consolidated and Parent
  Company statement of cash flows
 75 Accounting policies
 81 Notes to the financial statements
 119 Group financial history
 120 Shar eholders’ information
Con Ten TS 2016 HiGHli GHTS
notice: l imitations on Director liability – The purpose of the Annual 
Report and Accounts is to provide information to members of the Company 
and it has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company as 
a body. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not 
accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document 
is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility is 
expressly disclaimed. Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits 
the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the 
Report of the Directors contained on pages 4 to 29, 31 to 40 and 61 to 63 
and from the Directors’ Remuneration Report at pages 41 to 60. Under English 
law the Directors would be liable to the Company (but not to any third party) 
if the Report of the Directors contained errors as a result of recklessness 
or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but 
would not otherwise be liable. The Report of the Directors and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report have been drawn up and presented in accordance 
with and in reliance upon English company law. Liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with those reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions 
provided by such law.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements – The 
Group’s reports including this Annual Report and Accounts and written 
information released or oral statements made to the public in future, by or 
on behalf of the Company and the Group, may contain forward-looking 
statements. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results to differ materially from those 
anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the time of their preparation and, except to the extent required by 
applicable regulations or by law, the Company and the Group undertake no 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual 
Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Non-GAAP measures of financial performance 
used throughout this Annual Report and 
Accounts are defined in the Financial review 
on pages 12 to 15 and in Note 1 to the 
financial statements.
Statutory results
2016
£m
Restated
2015
£m
Profit before tax from continuing operations 45.4 36.8
Profit from continuing operations 38.5 29.4
Loss from discontinued operations (151.5) (8.9)
(Loss)/profit for the year (113.0) 20.5 2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Dedicated West Country milk pool
Distribution
Nuneaton
Cheese produced at Davidstow is matured and packed 
into the Cathedral City and Davidstow brands
Products from Kirkby and Frome, alongside Cathedral City 
and Davidstow, are efﬁciently distributed to customers 
across the country
Cheese & whey
Harper Adams
A unique collaboration between Dairy Crest and 
Harper Adams University. The base for our 
research and development and technical teams
Innovation Centre
Claygate
Head Ofﬁce
Erith
Kirkby
Home to our spray oil business 
MH Foods. Manufactures Frylight 
one calorie cooking spray
Manufactures Clover,  
Country Life, Utterly Butterly 
Vitalite and Willow brands
Versatile cheese packing
The UK’s largest cheese 
creamery producing 
award-winning cheddar, 
demineralised whey and 
galacto-oligosaccharide
Davidstow 
Frome
o ur locations
AT A Gl AnCe
o n 26 December 2015 Dairy Crest 
completed the sale of its Dairies 
business to Muller UK and ireland 
Group ll P. 
 Details of the sale and the 
performance of the Dairies 
business to the date of sale are 
included in the Financial review on 
pages 13 to 14.
Sale and performance of Dairies
Cheese* £2.5 billion
Butter and spreads* £1.2 billion
Oils** £330 million
  *IRI market data, 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016
** Kantar market data 52 weeks ended 27 March 2016
Who we are
Dairy Crest is a leading British dairy company
Vision
•	
To generate growth by building strong positions in 
branded and added value markets
•	
To simplify, make more resilient and reduce costs
•	
To generate cash and reduce risk
•	
To make acquisitions where they will generate value
Strategy
•	
We are proud of our links to the countryside, our dairy 
heritage and the part they play in everyday life
•	
We want to earn the right to consumers’ loyalty by 
providing healthy, enjoyable, convenient products
•	
We aim to meet consumers’ needs and go where this 
takes us
•	
As we grow, we will look after our people and the 
communities where we work
o ur retail markets Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 3
Strategic report
Cheese & whey
55% 63%
Revenue
Contribution to Group: % of total Group. Revenue excludes other revenue. Proﬁt is product group proﬁt excluding share of associates.
Proﬁt Revenue
37% 45%
Proﬁt
Dairy Crest produces and markets Cathedral City, the UK’s 
leading cheese brand, and the premium Davidstow cheddar 
brand. o ur world-class supply chain starts with milk 
supplied by nearly 400 farmers in the dairying heartlands 
of Cornwall and Devon. This top quality milk is made 
into cheddar cheese at our highly-automated creamery 
in Davidstow, Cornwall. The cheese then matures for an 
average of nearly a year at our purpose-built n uneaton 
facility before being cut, packed and distributed. We have a 
second packing site in Frome, Somerset, for more complex 
and innovative packaging.
 Whey is a by-product of the cheese making process. 
Historically, we produced sweet whey, to sell to a variety 
of food manufacturers. We now have a new facility at 
Davidstow producing demineralised whey and galacto-
oligosaccharide (‘Go S’), a lactose based prebiotic, both 
ingredients for infant formula, a high-growth, high-margin 
global market.
 Highlights
•	
Cathedral City continues to grow market share* and remains 
Britain’s 16th largest grocery brand
•	
Cathedral City is now bought by nearly 60% of UK households 
each year
•	
Cathedral City has been re-launched with new and improved 
packaging design across the range
•	
100% of our milk comes from dedicated farmers in the South 
West of England
•	
Production and sales of demineralised whey and GOS 
are underway
* From IRI data which excludes discounters
Dairy Crest manufactures a number of leading Butters, 
spreads & oils brands in the UK. Key brands include Country 
l ife (butter) and Clover (spread) which are produced at a 
single facility in Kirkby, Merseyside, alongside a portfolio of 
smaller brands in the spreads category.
 We also produce Frylight, one calorie cooking spray at 
our facility in erith, Kent.
 Highlights
•	
Country Life achieved 4% sales volume growth, significantly 
outperforming the market
•	
Successful launch of new ‘No Artificial Ingredients’ Clover grew 
value and volume market share in the second half
•	
Frylight continues to grow sales strongly and is now the UK’s 
number 1 oil brand
•	
Re-launch of Vitalite, our iconic dairy-free brand
Butters, spreads & oils
Product groups
The UK’s n o1 
oil brand
The UK’s n o1 
branded cheese
The UK’s n o1  
dairy spread
Dairy free spread
The UK’s fastest 
growing butter brand  4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Cheese & whey
Cheese
Cheese & whey
Demineralised whey
GOS
Butters, spreads & oils
Butters, spreads & oils
Frylight
Dairy spreads
Packet butter and spreadable
Raw milk and lactose
Bulk butter and oils
oU r BUSine SS Mo Del
Dairy Crest processes and markets 
branded dairy products. Our business 
depends on milk and we make sure 
we use every drop we buy. This 
diagram shows how milk flows through 
our business and the products we 
make from it. 
We have two product groups: Cheese 
& whey and Butters, spreads & oils.
Making the most from milk
Dairy Crest produces and markets Cathedral 
City, the UK’s leading cheese brand, and the 
premium Davidstow cheddar brand. Our world-
class supply chain starts with milk supplied by 
nearly 400 farmers in the dairying heartlands of 
Cornwall and Devon. This top quality milk is 
made into cheddar cheese at our highly-
automated creamery in Davidstow, Cornwall. 
The cheese then matures for an average of nearly 
a year at our purpose-built Nuneaton facility 
before being cut, packed and distributed. We 
have a second packing site in Frome, Somerset, 
for more complex and innovative packaging.
Whey is a by-product of the cheese making 
process. Historically, we produced sweet whey, 
to sell to a variety of food manufacturers. 
We now have a new facility at Davidstow 
producing demineralised whey and GOS, a 
lactose based prebiotic, both ingredients for 
infant formula, a high-growth, high-margin 
global market.
Cheese & whey Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 5
Strategic report
Cheese & whey
Cheese
Cheese & whey
Demineralised whey
GOS
Butters, spreads & oils
Butters, spreads & oils
Frylight
Dairy spreads
Packet butter and spreadable
Raw milk and lactose
Bulk butter and oils
A sustainable supply of high quality milk is 
important to Dairy Crest. We buy around 500 
million litres annually from nearly 400 farmers in 
the South West of England.
We are committed to working in partnership with 
our farmers to ensure that together, we are best 
placed to take advantage of market growth 
opportunities.
Dedicated milk supply
Dairy Crest manufactures a number of leading 
Butters, spreads and oils brands in the UK. Key 
brands include Country Life (butter) and Clover 
(spread) which are produced at a single facility in 
Kirkby, Merseyside, alongside a portfolio of 
smaller brands in the spreads category.
We also produce Frylight, one calorie cooking 
spray at our facility in Erith, Kent.
Butters, spreads & oils 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
oU r S Tr ATeGy
Dairy Crest has a clear 
strategy against which 
we continue to make 
progress.
Our key performance indicators 
are summarised opposite. 
These KPIs are also used as 
measures for our Long Term 
Alignment Plan (‘LTAP’) for 
Directors and senior 
employees. (See pages 56 to 
57 for more detail).
o perational performance – page 18
Financial performance – page 12
Corporate responsibility performance 
– page 22
See how we make ‘The most from 
milk’ through our integrated business 
model – page 4
Further details of our l TAP – pages 43 
and 49 to 52
o ur strategy Progress 2015/16 Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance  
in the year ended 31 March 2016
1
  To generate 
growth by 
building strong 
positions in 
branded and 
added value 
markets
•	
Combined volumes of four key brands up 2%. 
o verall sales of four key brands down only 2% in 
period of continuing price deflation:
 -
Cathedral City continues to grow market 
share and is now bought by nearly 60% of UK 
households.
 -
Successful launch of Clover ‘n o Artificial 
ingredients’ bringing 500,000 new households 
into the brand in the second half
 -
Country l ife grew volumes by 4%
 -
Frylight showed strong growth to become the 
UK’s number 1 oil brand
•	
n ew innovation Centre opened on Harper Adams 
University campus in December 2015
•	
Production of demineralised whey and Go S 
has commenced
•	
Following the sale of our Dairies business and 
the investment at Davidstow almost 100% of 
Dairy Crest’s revenue is branded or added value
•	
o ur focus will remain on our key brands, 
Cathedral City, Clover, Country l ife and Frylight.
 -
Continued investment in advertising and 
promotion
 -
Supporting the successful rebranding of 
Cathedral City
 -
Continue to grow our categories in partnership 
with our customers through the ‘Dairy for l ife’ 
initiative developed in 2014/15
•	
Developing a strong pipeline of innovation 
•	
Working with Fonterra, our sales agent, to 
accelerate returns from our investment in 
demineralised whey and Go S at Davidstow
•	
investing £2 million in further developing our 
Go S business
2
  To simplify,  
make more 
resilient and 
reduce costs
•	
The sale of our Dairies business has resulted in 
a simpler business;
 -
Fewer staff (from c. 4,500 to less than 1,200)
 -
Fewer operating sites (from 9 down to 5)
 -
increased management focus on the profitable 
parts of the business
 -
r educed complexity
•	
To implement a 3 year programme to replace 
core iT systems to deliver a less costly and 
simpler iT infrastructure more appropriate for 
the retained business
•	
Continue to seek cost reductions and drive 
operational efficiency improvements across 
the business. We expect to reduce costs by 
£5 million in 2017/18
3
  To generate  
cash and  
reduce risk
•	
Dairy Crest’s retained business has increased 
cash flow from operations by 46%.
 -
Drains on cash flow associated with the 
Dairies business have been removed, 
namely Dairies losses, large restructuring 
requirements and transaction costs 
•	
We now have 5 well-invested manufacturing 
sites reducing need for large capital expenditure 
in the near term
•	
We have developed an innovative new milk 
purchasing contract which has been taken up by 
98% of our supplying farmers
•	
r efinancing of both bank facility and loan notes 
completed with reduced interest rates in future
•	
Free cash flow expected to increase in 2016/17 
as capital expenditure falls and no Dairies losses 
are incurred
•	
Distribution and warehousing partnership with 
Fowler Welch Coolchain l td in order to maximise 
fully the potential throughput at n uneaton
•	
Continued sales of properties will provide cash 
to the business
4
  To make 
acquisitions 
where they will 
generate value
•	
Acquisition of outstanding 50% of Promovita 
ingredients l imited, gives us sole control over 
the direction and pace of Go S development
•	
Successful sale of the Dairies business was 
completed in December 2015.
•	
We will continue to look for value-enhancing 
acquisitions which meet our stringent 
requirements Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 7
Strategic report
our strategy Progress 2015/16 Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance  
in the year ended 31 March 2016
1
  To generate 
growth by 
building strong 
positions in 
branded and 
added value 
markets
•	
Combined volumes of four key brands up 2%. 
o verall sales of four key brands down only 2% in 
period of continuing price deflation:
 -
Cathedral City continues to grow market 
share and is now bought by nearly 60% of UK 
households.
 -
Successful launch of Clover ‘n o Artificial 
ingredients’ bringing 500,000 new households 
into the brand in the second half
 -
Country l ife grew volumes by 4%
 -
Frylight showed strong growth to become the 
UK’s number 1 oil brand
•	
n ew innovation Centre opened on Harper Adams 
University campus in December 2015
•	
Production of demineralised whey and Go S 
has commenced
•	
Following the sale of our Dairies business and 
the investment at Davidstow almost 100% of 
Dairy Crest’s revenue is branded or added value
•	
o ur focus will remain on our key brands, 
Cathedral City, Clover, Country l ife and Frylight.
 -
Continued investment in advertising and 
promotion
 -
Supporting the successful rebranding of 
Cathedral City
 -
Continue to grow our categories in partnership 
with our customers through the ‘Dairy for l ife’ 
initiative developed in 2014/15
•	
Developing a strong pipeline of innovation 
•	
Working with Fonterra, our sales agent, to 
accelerate returns from our investment in 
demineralised whey and Go S at Davidstow
•	
investing £2 million in further developing our 
Go S business
2
  To simplify,  
make more 
resilient and 
reduce costs
•	
The sale of our Dairies business has resulted in 
a simpler business;
 -
Fewer staff (from c. 4,500 to less than 1,200)
 -
Fewer operating sites (from 9 down to 5)
 -
increased management focus on the profitable 
parts of the business
 -
r educed complexity
•	
To implement a 3 year programme to replace 
core iT systems to deliver a less costly and 
simpler iT infrastructure more appropriate for 
the retained business
•	
Continue to seek cost reductions and drive 
operational efficiency improvements across 
the business. We expect to reduce costs by 
£5 million in 2017/18
3
  To generate  
cash and  
reduce risk
•	
Dairy Crest’s retained business has increased 
cash flow from operations by 46%.
 -
Drains on cash flow associated with the 
Dairies business have been removed, 
namely Dairies losses, large restructuring 
requirements and transaction costs 
•	
We now have 5 well-invested manufacturing 
sites reducing need for large capital expenditure 
in the near term
•	
We have developed an innovative new milk 
purchasing contract which has been taken up by 
98% of our supplying farmers
•	
r efinancing of both bank facility and loan notes 
completed with reduced interest rates in future
•	
Free cash flow expected to increase in 2016/17 
as capital expenditure falls and no Dairies losses 
are incurred
•	
Distribution and warehousing partnership with 
Fowler Welch Coolchain l td in order to maximise 
fully the potential throughput at n uneaton
•	
Continued sales of properties will provide cash 
to the business
4
  To make 
acquisitions 
where they will 
generate value
•	
Acquisition of outstanding 50% of Promovita 
ingredients l imited, gives us sole control over 
the direction and pace of Go S development
•	
Successful sale of the Dairies business was 
completed in December 2015.
•	
We will continue to look for value-enhancing 
acquisitions which meet our stringent 
requirements
Deliver progressive dividends 
with cover between 1.5 and 2.5 
times.
In the year ended 31 March 2016 
the Board is recommending a total 
dividend up 1.8%. This is covered 
1.6 times.
Grow earnings before interest, 
tax and depreciation (adjusted 
eBiTDA) and adjusted profit 
before tax (adjusted PBT). 
In the year ended 31 March 2016 
EBITDA increased 2% and PBT fell 
by 2%. However in a deflationary 
environment this represents an 
improved margin percentage year-
on-year.
Deliver an acceptable return 
on capital employed (ro Ce)*.
ROCE for the year ended 31 March 
2016 was 15% (based on proforma 
operating assets excluding Dairies). 
The disposal of the Dairies business 
has improved return on assets.
Maintain net debt/eBiTDA 
within the range 1 – 2 times.
At 31 March 2016 net debt/EBITDA 
was 2.69 times (31 March 2015: 
1.97 times)
Grow our four key brands 
ahead of the market.
In the year ended 31 March 2016 
three of our four key brands grew 
ahead of the market (31 March 
2015: two key brands grew ahead 
of the market).
Deliver cost savings initiatives.
Cost reduction projects initiated 
in the year ended 31 March 2016 
have delivered annual benefits 
ahead of our annual target.
Achieve revenue targets for 
products developed in the last 
3 years.
In the year ended 31 March 2016 
around 8% of our total revenue 
and 11% of our key brand revenue 
came from such sales against a 
target of 10% (31 March 2015: 6% 
of total revenue; 7% of key brand 
revenue).
improve corporate 
responsibility measures. 
In the year ended 31 March 2016 
we have improved health and safety. 
Following the sale of Dairies, we are 
resetting our targets for the future to 
ensure we continue to lead the field 
in this area. 
  There is a more detailed review of our performance against KPIs on pages 56 and 57.
*  ROCE is calculated as product group profit from continuing operations for the year divided 
by the average operating assets of the continuing operations over the year. Operating assets 
are defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, trade 
and other receivables, trade and other payables, and provisions. 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
CHAir MAn’S STATeMen T
r eview of the year
The coming year will see Dairy Crest celebrate the 20th 
anniversary of its listing on the London Stock Exchange. Since 
its flotation in 1996, Dairy Crest has reshaped itself from a 
supply-driven commoditised business to a lean, branded and 
added value business. The transformational sale of our Dairies 
business in December 2015, and the completion of our functional 
ingredients investment in Davidstow this year, mark a step change 
in our evolution and, with innovation at our core, position us well 
for future growth.
This financial year, we are pleased to announce a set of 
results which show the underlying robustness of our business. 
With annual sales of £422.3 million and margins of over 15%, the 
branded business has performed well in what is a challenging, 
deflationary market. Our functional ingredients business is an area 
of increased focus and investment with strong growth prospects, 
broadening the company’s product base and geographic markets. 
This is complementary to our strong UK branded grocery 
business led by the country’s largest cheese brand, Cathedral 
City, which is in nearly 60% of UK households and is the 16th 
largest grocery brand in the UK ranked by retail sales.
Transformational Sale of Dairies
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mark Allen and Tom 
Atherton for their focus, drive and determination in leading the sale 
of the Dairies business. The transaction was extremely prolonged 
and challenging but completion was fundamental to delivering on 
our future strategy. It is a testament to the senior management 
team that the transaction was ultimately completed and that the 
day to day running of the business was not impacted during 
this time. A number of former Dairy Crest employees transferred 
to Muller UK & Ireland Group LLP (‘Müller’) as part of the deal. 
I would like to thank all of them for their commitment to Dairy 
Crest. In particular, I would like to thank Mike Sheldon, Managing 
Director of the Dairies business, for his outstanding contribution 
to Dairy Crest over many years. He left the company with our best 
wishes for the future.
investing for the future
We have now completed our investment at our cheese factory 
at Davidstow, Cornwall. We are producing demineralised whey, 
an added value by-product of the cheese-making process. 
Demineralised whey is the base ingredient for infant formula. 
We have also started manufacturing GOS at the plant. GOS is a 
prebiotic which is added into premium infant formula to help aid 
digestion and growth in babies. Both of these products are to be 
marketed and sold by our partner, Fonterra. 
We also continue to research other potential applications for 
GOS, in both human nutrition and animal feed.
Putting innovation at the core
HRH The Princess Royal officially opened the new Dairy Crest 
Innovation Centre at Harper Adams University in April 2016. 
This exciting facility will ensure that innovation is at the very core 
of Dairy Crest’s business. We have a successful track record 
of delivering consumer-focused innovation in packaging and 
New Product Development (‘NPD’). Last year, over 11 per cent 
of revenue from our key brands was from products less than 
three years old. The Innovation Centre is on the Harper Adams 
University campus, giving us access to leading food and agri-
tech research. This relationship has started extremely well with a 
number of students already working within our business. 
o ur culture and values
Dairy Crest remains committed to doing the right thing in the way 
we conduct ourselves and do business. We have been recognised 
for our work in this area by finishing top of the Business in the 
Community (‘BITC’) Index in 2014 and 2015. Following the sale of the 
Dairies business, we are now updating our corporate responsibility 
strategy to ensure we continue to lead the field in this area.
increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.0 pence per 
share, making a full year dividend of 22.1 pence per share. In line 
with our progressive dividend policy, this is a 1.8% increase on last 
year. The dividend is covered 1.6 times by adjusted basic earnings 
per share. A key part of our strategy going forward, will be to 
continue to increase dividends year on year, aiming for a target 
cover range of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Summary
The Board remains confident in the future prospects for Dairy 
Crest. The business has a strong management team which is 
delivering against a clear business strategy of building brands, 
adding value, driving simplicity and managing risk. 
Stephen Alexander Chairman
18 May 2016
•	
Combined volumes of four 
key brands up 2%
•	
Cathedral City grows 
revenue and volumes in 
a period of continuing, 
significant price deflation
•	
Improved Clover and 
Country Life performance in 
the second half of the year; 
Frylight continues to grow 
strongly
•	
Profit margins from 
continuing operations 
maintained after a strong 
second half of the year
•	
Production and sales of 
demineralised whey and 
GOS have commenced
•	
Transformational sale of 
Dairies business completed 
on 26 December 2015
•	
Strong underlying cash 
generation from the 
continuing business
•	
Proposed final dividend up 
1.9% to 16.0 pence 
Highlights Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 9
Strategic report
Market background: another year of deflation
In the past year we have once again seen significant price 
deflation in the cheese, whey and butter categories. Another 
year of strong UK and global milk production has resulted in 
downward price pressure across all dairy products. This showed 
no signs of slowing in the second half of the year. Regrettably, 
in this environment, we have had to reduce the price paid to our 
farmers for their milk; a reduction of about 17% over the course of 
the year. We continue to pay farmers a fair, competitive price for 
milk and have recently introduced a new, innovative milk contract 
for our farmers. This will promote more stable and transparent 
pricing for core milk volumes that support our cheese business’ 
requirements. 
Inevitably, the market environment has put downward pressure 
on selling prices. Our cheese margins have been pressured 
because the benefit of lower input costs take up to 12 months 
to be reflected in the income statement. This is the average 
maturation time for our cheese. This effect is compounded by 
lower realisations from whey sales. We therefore are particularly 
pleased to have delivered margins slightly ahead of last year given 
this background. 
The major food retailers, our principal customers, have 
had to deal with both food deflation and continued intense 
competition. We expect these tough conditions to continue. In 
this environment it is crucial that we continue to work with our 
customers innovatively to help grow the categories in which we 
operate in ways that are mutually beneficial. Our ‘Dairy for Life’ 
initiative continues to play an important role in helping to grow 
dairy categories in partnership with our retailer customers. It is a 
framework to grow the categories in which we operate and guides 
plans for future innovation, marketing and category merchandising.
Key brands perform robustly in deflationary environment
In line with our expectations, overall revenue from our four key 
brands was down by 2.3% over the financial year. This was a 
good performance in a deflationary marketplace. Key brand sales 
volumes increased by 1.7% with all four brands growing volumes 
year-on-year in the second half despite very challenging conditions 
in the butters and spreads market.  
CHieF exe CUTiVe’S re VieW
Summary: well-positioned for growth
2015/16 has been a significant year for Dairy Crest. We 
successfully sold our Dairies business and completed a 
programme of significant investment in functional ingredients 
manufacture at our Davidstow facility in Cornwall. These initiatives 
have transformed the Group. Dairy Crest is now a simpler 
business, focussed on growth and innovation in branded and 
value-added products. It is well-positioned to generate cash and 
deliver attractive margins that should improve in the future.
Dairy Crest’s continuing business posted a solid financial 
performance in 2015/16 despite continued deflation in dairy 
markets. Against this background, I am particularly pleased 
by the improved profitability in the second half of the year. Our 
key brands have performed well and have good prospects. We 
will continue to focus on growing brands and establishing our 
functional ingredients business. This gives us access to new, 
higher-growth markets and a range of new customers. This 
will ensure that the company is well-positioned for the future 
despite current market conditions which are expected to remain 
challenging in the short-term.  
Brand Market Dairy Crest 
volume growth*
Dairy Crest 
sales growth*
 
Cheese
6.4% 0.8%
 
Butters, spreads, margarine
(6.4)% (14.9)%
  Butters, spreads, margarine
3.9% (6.2)%
 
Oils
29.1% 27.9%
Total   1.7% (2.3)%
* Dairy Crest volume and value sales 12 months to 31 March 2016 vs 12 months to 31 March 2015 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Cathedral City outperforms again
IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 compared to 
the same period last year show that the total cheese market 
(excluding discounters) grew by 6.1% in volume but fell by 0.4% 
in value. Within this, the everyday cheese market fell by 3.6% 
in value. Cathedral City outperformed the market with volumes 
increasing by 6.4% and revenue increasing by 0.8%. It now 
accounts for 55% of branded everyday cheese sales in the UK.
Cathedral City market penetration over a 12 month period is 
now 58%. Almost three fifths of households bought Cathedral 
City in the last year and this is a measure of how the brand has 
grown over recent years. We are determined to continue building 
on this success. In April 2016 we began to roll out updated and 
refreshed branded packaging across the Cathedral City portfolio. 
This brand evolution simplifies and standardises the master brand; 
it will also improve Cathedral City’s prominence on the shelf. The 
brand refresh will be supported by a new advertising campaign 
and promotional activity.
Butters and spreads performance improves over the year
IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 show that butters 
volumes grew by 6.4% but spreads volumes declined by 8.6%, 
leaving combined volumes down 2.2%. Selling prices fell in both 
markets resulting in retail sales down 2.1% for butters, 13.1% for 
spreads and 6.5% combined. 
Retail sales of Clover moved broadly in line with the market 
over the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016. The performance 
improved in the second half following the re-launch of Clover in 
September 2015. This launch was the culmination of a two-year 
project that removed all artificial ingredients from Clover and was 
supported by marketing and promotional activity in the autumn. 
Since the re-launch, over 500,000 more customers have 
bought Clover. In the second half of the year Clover volumes 
increased by 1.2% compared to the same period last year despite 
market volume declines overall. IRI data for the last quarter of 
the year shows Clover has gained 1.7% share volume versus the 
previous year.
Country Life delivered volume growth of 3.9% in the year with 
a step change in performance in the second half. This was helped 
by new British themed packaging which, we know from consumer 
research, plays to the brand’s strengths. Volumes and revenue 
grew by 20% and 3% respectively in the last six months of the 
year compared to the second half of 2014/15. This gives us strong 
momentum as we move into the new financial year. 
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Goin G for Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 11
Strategic report
Frylight delivers strong growth
Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, has once again delivered 
strong growth; volumes were up 29.1% year on year and revenue 
was up 27.9%. Based on Kantar data for the 52 weeks to 27 
March 2016, the retail oils market is worth £330 million at retail 
and has grown in both volume and value by 4% over the last 12 
months. Frylight is now the number one brand in this market with 
household penetration of over 20%.
The brand has benefitted both from increased listings and 
product innovation. 2015/16 saw the introduction of both coconut 
oil and rapeseed oil variants. This continued pace of innovation will 
be crucial to growing the brand in the future. 
infant formula ingredients on track
We have successfully completed our investment programme 
at Davidstow to manufacture ingredients for the infant 
formula market. This unique UK facility is now producing both 
demineralised whey and GOS. Following successful food and 
infant formula quality audits, these products are being sold to our 
partner, Fonterra. Final commissioning took somewhat longer than 
expected although we started production in March 2016. We will 
get a full year benefit from the investment in the financial year to 
31 March 2017.
This is an important step for our business as it delivers a 
premium on all of our whey by-product. It also allows us to 
grow a profitable GOS infant formula business while researching 
further GOS applications and uses. It gives Dairy Crest access 
to important business-to-business ingredients customers and 
an ability to develop in emerging markets. In December 2015 we 
acquired the outstanding 50% of Promovita Ingredients Limited 
(‘Promovita’) our GOS joint venture. This has allowed us to control 
the direction and pace of our GOS development.
Whey, along with other dairy products, has experienced steep 
falls in price during the last 12 months. However, demineralised 
whey continues to deliver a price premium compared to the sweet 
whey that we produced previously. This uplift will deliver a project 
payback in line with our expectations despite short-term weakness 
in the market. 
innovation at the heart of what we do
The continuing business is much more focussed following the sale 
of the Dairies business and pace of innovation is, and needs to 
be, an important point of difference. Future growth is underpinned 
by innovation. 
In December 2015, our research and development and 
technical teams moved into our new Dairy Crest Innovation Centre 
on the Harper Adams University campus. This state-of-the-art 
facility will help drive our ambitious target of 10% of sales each 
year coming from innovation in the previous three years. This year, 
helped by the re-launch of Clover we achieved 11% of sales from 
recent innovation across our four key brands. 
The Innovation Centre consolidates all of our technical and 
research expertise and equipment in one place and allows us 
to benefit from cross-fertilisation of people and ideas with the 
university which is a leading centre of food and agricultural 
research.
Innovation continues to drive our business forward in other 
ways. In the year ended 31 March 2016, we:
•	 successfully re-launched Clover with no artificial ingredients;
•	 brought two new Frylight products to market – coconut and 
rapeseed spray oils;
•	 introduced a new milk purchasing contract for our Davidstow 
supplying farmers that aligns our growth ambitions with theirs; and
•	 agreed in principle a partnership with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd, 
a logistics specialist, to maximise the throughput at our Nuneaton 
distribution and warehousing site. 
We continue to carry out research with universities and 
commercial trials with partners into the effect of GOS on animal 
development. The laboratory data seen to date is encouraging 
and work will continue in this area during 2016. To this end we 
have allocated an increase of over £2 million in the GOS research 
budget for 2016/17. We intend to validate laboratory findings with 
field trials and find additional commercial applications for GOS.
A simpler business
Dairy Crest is a simpler, leaner and more responsive business 
following the Dairies sale. We now have five well-invested 
manufacturing sites and fewer than 1,200 employees. There 
are opportunities to further simplify procedures and support 
structures within the business. Over time this will allow us to 
reduce overheads and increase efficiency. We are currently 
embarking on a change to our core IT systems which will roll out 
over the next three years. This will deliver a more appropriate 
and cost effective IT infrastructure for a business of our scale. It 
will also be the catalyst for us to simplify the processes that sit 
alongside these IT systems. 
We continue to drive operational efficiency improvements and 
following the successful consolidation of butters and spreads 
production into one site at Kirkby in early 2015, we will continue to 
focus on improving line performance efficiency. We have already 
seen improvements in efficiency measures over the year to 31 
March 2016. 
Future prospects
This is an exciting time to be leading Dairy Crest. Although we 
expect food price deflation to persist in the short-term, the business 
is well-positioned to deliver profitable and sustainable growth. 
We are making progress with all of our four key brands and the 
continued investment we are putting behind them this year gives 
me confidence that we can continue to grow their market share.
The other focus for 2016/17 will be on accelerating sales from 
demineralised whey and GOS, the new infant formula ingredients 
and continuing to explore further applications for GOS.
Future free cash generation will improve as the sale of our 
Dairies business and completion of the investment at Davidstow 
removes a significant drain on cash.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
18 May 2016
We are now focussed on growth 
and innovation in branded and value-
added products. The business has 
been simplified and is well-positioned 
to generate cash. It will also deliver 
improved margins in the future. 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Fin AnCiAl re VieW
Spreads
Cheese
Product group proﬁt* –
Continuing operations 
(£m)
£66.0m 
12 13 14 15 16
Cash generated from/
(used in) operations (£m)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
-60
35.5 23.2 58.7
33.1 25.5 58.6
39.3 16.8 56.1
36.4 29.6 66.0
33.1 33.8 66.9
*Proﬁt on continuing operations 
 before exceptional items and 
 amortisation of acquired 
 intangibles
Continuing
Discontinued operation
15
16
56.8
82.9
35.3
31.3
(21.5)
(51.6)
Total 
Group
Overall, the financial performance of the continuing Group during 
the year has been robust despite price deflation which has 
reduced revenues by 5.8% to £422.3 million. Product group profit 
margins have increased to 15.6% despite the delayed margin 
benefit of milk input cost deflation due to the average one year’s 
cheese maturation time. However, the very difficult conditions 
in the liquid milk market persisted throughout 2015 and our 
discontinued Dairies business made pre-exceptional operating 
losses of £33.3 million in the nine months before its sale. 
Underlying cash generation from the retained business was 
strong and this will continue in the future. However, overall net debt 
increased by £30 million in the year due to significant losses in 
the Dairies business, pre-completion separation and transactional 
costs as well as the demineralised whey and GOS investment at 
Davidstow. However, these costs will not be incurred in future. 
Continuing operations
r evenue
We continue to provide product group analysis consistent with 
prior years to assist the users of the Financial Statements although 
the Group operated as one segment throughout 2015/16.
2016
£m
2015
£m
Change
£m
Change
%
Cheese and whey 263.7 274.4 (10.7) (3.9)
Butters, spreads and oils 152.6 170.0 (17.4) (10.2)
o ther 6.0 3.8 2.2 57.9
Continuing operations 422.3 448.2 (25.9) (5.8)
Revenue decreased by 5.8% to £422.3 million. Despite sales 
volumes across our four key brands increasing by 1.7% the Group 
faced price deflation throughout the year across cheese, whey 
and butter. Cheese and whey revenues fell by £10.7 million (3.9%) 
despite increased sales volumes. Revenue in Butters, spreads and 
oils fell by £17.4 million (10.2%) as volume declines in spreads and 
butter price deflation more than offset volume growth in Country 
Life and strong volume and value growth in Frylight. Other revenue 
comprised warehousing and distribution services provided to third 
parties.
Profit on continuing operations
2016
£m
2015
£m
Change
£m
Change
%
Cheese and whey 36.4 33.1 3.3 10.0
Butters, spreads and oils 29.6 33.8 (4.2) (12.4)
Total product group profit 66.0 66.9 (0.9) (1.3)
Acquired intangible 
amortisation (0.4) (0.4) – –
Group profit on 
continuing operations 
(pre-exceptional items) 65.6 66.5 (0.9) (1.4)
Overall Group product group profit (before interest, acquired 
intangible amortisation and exceptional items) fell by £0.9 million to 
£66.0 million although this represents an improved margin of 15.6% 
(2015: 14.9%). This margin is after charging all central corporate 
costs and includes the £3.6 million profit on the sale of closed 
depots that were not disposed of as part of the sale of the Dairies 
business to Müller. These depot sales will continue beyond 2015/16 
but are finite. Their treatment as operating income is consistent 
with the treatment in previous years of the related closure costs. 
Future sales of ex-manufacturing sites such as Fenstanton, 
Cambridgeshire will be classified as exceptional consistent with 
the historical treatment of the related closure costs. 
o verview
Dairy Crest has continued to make progress in difficult trading 
conditions and in 2015/16 the Group took two important steps in 
delivering against its long-term strategy. 
Firstly, on 26 December 2015 we completed the sale of our 
Dairies business to Müller. This transformational sale allows us 
to focus on a significantly simplified branded and value-added 
business with growth potential through both branded sales and 
new functional ingredients business streams.
Secondly, following investment at our Davidstow facility, 
we are now producing demineralised whey and GOS for sale 
into international infant formula markets with strong growth 
characteristics. Furthermore, we continue to research uses of 
GOS beyond infant formula in order to provide further growth 
opportunities in the future.
These initiatives leave us well placed for the future despite 
price deflation in dairy markets that persisted throughout 2015 and 
have continued into 2016.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 13
Strategic report
Cheese and whey product group profits increased by 10.0% with 
a margin recovery to 13.8% (2015: 12.1%). This is despite lower 
revenue which continued to reflect falling milk input costs during 
the year. These falling costs were not fully reflected in cost of 
sales in 2015/16 due to the 12 month average cheese maturation 
cycle which means the cost benefit of a price cut in milk is not 
recognised in the income statement until a year later. 
Managing deflation will continue to be a feature of the Cheese 
and whey business throughout 2016 as it has been for the last 
two years. During deflationary periods, the lag effect described 
above results in lower reported profit margins but it results in 
working capital reductions and improved cash margins ahead of 
profit margins. 
Butters, spreads and oils product group profits were lower 
following a strong 2014/15 albeit profit margins were broadly 
maintained at 19.4% (2015: 19.9%). Cream input costs remained 
low during the year and this has helped to fund the re-launch 
of Clover as well as increased second half advertising and 
promotional activity across the brand portfolio while maintaining 
margins.
exceptional items
Pre–tax exceptional charges from continuing operations reduced 
to £11.3 million (2015: £19.8 million) and are likely to result in a net 
credit in 2016/17 as we sell previously closed manufacturing sites.
The Group realised a gain of £6.0 million on its investment in 
Promovita at the point that it acquired 100% control in December 
2015. The carrying value of the GOS business is now represented 
by £12.1 million of goodwill and over £20 million of tangible fixed 
assets.
The Group incurred £16.2 million of exceptional costs in 
relation to the building and commissioning of the demineralised 
whey and GOS facilities at the Davidstow creamery in Cornwall 
(2015: £3.4 million). The principal elements of spend were 
duplicate running costs, commissioning expenses and project 
management.
An exceptional provision of £1.8 million has been provided for 
dilapidation costs for leased properties in the retained business 
crystallised by the sale of the Dairies business (2015: nil) and 
provisions relating to the closure of the Crudgington site totalling 
£0.7 million were released.
Finance costs
Finance costs of £8.3 million increased by £0.2 million in the year 
as levels of borrowings increased. The average cost of borrowing 
will fall in 2016/17 following the issuance of £76 million Sterling 
equivalent of new loan notes in March 2016 at a fixed effective 
coupon of 3.3%. These notes replace £80 million (swapped 
Sterling equivalent) of 10-year loan notes issued in April 2006 at 
an effective fixed rate of 5.3% which matured in April 2016.  
Although the cost of borrowing will fall in 2016/17, reported 
interest costs will increase due to a reduction in the amount 
of capitalised interest following the completion of the Group’s 
investment in Davidstow. Capitalised interest costs in 2015/16 
amounted to £3.8 million (2015: £2.4 million). Interest cover 
excluding pension interest, calculated on total product group profit 
was 8.1 times (2015: 8.3 times).
Other finance expenses, which comprise the net expected 
return on pension scheme assets after deducting the interest 
cost on the defined benefit obligation, decreased to £0.6 million 
(2015: £1.8 million). These costs are dependent upon the pension 
scheme position at 31 March each year and are volatile, being 
subject to market fluctuations. We therefore exclude this item from 
headline adjusted profit before tax. 
Profit before tax – continuing operations
2016
£m
2015
£m
Change
£m
Change
%
Total product group profit 66.0 66.9 (0.9) (1.3)
Finance costs (8.3) (8.1) (0.2) (2.5)
Adjusted profit before tax 57.7 58.8 (1.1) (1.9)
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (0.4) (0.4) –
exceptional items (11.3) (19.8) 8.5
o ther finance expenses – 
pensions (0.6) (1.8) 1.2
r eported profit before tax 
– continuing operations 45.4 36.8 8.6 23.4
Adjusted profit before tax (before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) decreased by 1.9% to £57.7 
million. This is management’s key Group profit measure. Reported 
profit before tax of £45.4 million represents a £8.6 million (23.4%) 
increase from 2015 predominantly due to the lower level of 
exceptional items incurred.
Taxation
The Group’s effective pre-exceptional tax rate on continuing 
operations reduced to 17.5% (2015: 20.1%). The effective tax 
rate is slightly below the headline rate of UK corporate tax as we 
continue to sell a small number of properties the profits on which 
are offset by brought forward capital losses or roll over relief.
earnings per share
The Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased by 0.6% to 34.5 pence (2015: 34.3 pence) 
as a lower effective rate of tax offset a marginal decrease in profit 
before tax. Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, 
which includes the impact of exceptional items, pension interest 
expense and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, amounted 
to 27.9 pence (2015: 21.5 pence).
Discontinued operations
The Group completed the sale of its Dairies business on 26 
December 2015 having had the transaction cleared by the 
Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) on 19 October 2015.
Conditions in the UK dairy sector remained extremely 
challenging throughout 2015 and worsened significantly from 
March 2015. The Group’s Dairies business was further impacted 
by the uncertainty surrounding the CMA review which affected 
commercial relationships and our employees during the period of 
review. Operating losses in the nine months to December 2015 
amounted to £33.3 million (12 months to 31 March 2015: £1.8 
million profit).
These losses also impacted the proceeds received for the 
business which were subject to a number of adjusting items 
compared to the headline consideration of £80 million. Final 
consideration is estimated at £28.6 million although this amount 
remains subject to agreement on the final levels of working capital 
and pre-sale EBITDA, both of which are in the process of being 
determined by an independent expert.
Certain of the reductions in headline consideration are due 
to the fact that the Group had already received the cash in the 
period between the announcement of the sale (November 2014) 
and completion of the transaction (December 2015). This is true 
for property sale adjustments and to some extent working capital 
being below target. 
Consideration was further reduced by the requirement for an 
undertaking in lieu to be agreed with the CMA in order to facilitate  14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
a phase 1 review clearance. The Group paid £15 million to Müller 
to contribute to the cost of delivering this undertaking. 
The post-tax loss on disposal, taking into account the best 
current estimate of the final consideration and including costs of 
the transaction, is £110.7 million. Following the sale, the Group has  
a deferred tax asset of £19.5 million having judged that brought 
forward trading losses and balancing charges will be utilised in 
future years. The final amount of consideration remains subject to 
determination by an independent expert and any adjustment will 
be recorded in the year ending 31 March 2017.
In addition to the loss on disposal, the Group incurred post-
tax exceptional items totalling £14.4 million as the operations 
to be sold were carved out of the Dairy Crest Group and site 
restructuring continued in the Dairies business. Full details of 
discontinued operations are set out in the notes to the financial 
statements.
Group result for the year
The reported Group profit for the year from continuing operations 
was £38.5 million (2015: £29.4 million). The loss for the year 
attributable to equity shareholders was £113.0 million (2015: £20.5 
million profit).
Dividends
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy and have 
continued to deliver against that policy by increasing our proposed 
dividend by 1.9%. The proposed final dividend of 16.0 pence per 
share represents an increase of 0.3 pence per share. Together 
with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence per share (2015: 6.0 pence 
per share) the total proposed dividend is 22.1 pence per share 
(2015: 21.7 pence per share). The final dividend will be paid on 11 
August 2016 to shareholders on the register on 8 July 2016.
Dividend cover of 1.6 times is within the Board’s target range 
of 1.5 to 2.5 times (2015: 1.7 times).
Pensions
During the year ended 31 March 2016 the Group paid £20.8 
million cash contributions into the closed defined benefit pension 
scheme, including an £8.3 million prepayment of future agreed 
cash contributions in relation to lease payments on three 
properties owned by the pension scheme. These properties were 
repurchased from the scheme in November 2015 in order to 
facilitate the completion of the sale of the Dairies business. This 
upfront buyback of leases will reduce the current agreed level of 
cash contributions as agreed at the March 2013 valuation by £2.8 
million per annum.
The current schedule of contributions agreed as part of the 
March 2013 valuation has a revised level of cash contribution 
for 2016/17 of £13.2 million now that property leases have been 
prepaid. 
The reported deficit under IAS 19 at 31 March 2016 was 
£42.5 million; an increase of £1.1 million from March 2015. 
However, this methodology values liabilities by reference to high 
quality corporate bond yields. The full actuarial valuation, which 
will be based on March 2016 conditions and from which a new 
schedule of contributions will be agreed, is valued by reference 
to UK gilt yields which remain very low by historical standards. 
We would therefore expect the actuarial deficit at March 2016 to 
be significantly greater than the IAS 19 deficit at the same date, 
although the final valuation will not be determined until later in 2016.
Cash flow
Our aim is for the business to generate strong free cash flows 
in future years and 2015/16 saw good progress as drags on 
cash generation in the form of losses associated with the Dairies 
business, restructuring costs and high levels of capital expenditure 
all either fell away or moved towards completion.  
In the year ended 31 March 2016 cash generated from 
operations was £31.3 million (2015: £35.3 million). Excluding 
discontinued operations, cash generated from continuing 
operations amounted to £82.9 million (2015: £56.8 million). This 
demonstrates a substantially stronger cash generation for the 
Group following the sale of the Dairies business.
Operating cash flow benefitted from a £14.0 million reduction 
in working capital. The reduced cost of milk for our cheese 
business has reduced the value of maturing cheese stocks by £20 
million during the year as older, more expensively made cheese is 
sold and released to the income statement. This working capital 
reduction offsets the cheese margin squeeze described earlier. 
Overall the continuing business benefitted from a £31.7 million 
reduction in working capital partly offset by an increase in Dairies 
working capital which was influenced by its deteriorating business 
performance and the timing of the disposal versus the usual 
March year end.
Exceptional cash costs of £17.6 million (2015: £19.8 million) 
are due to significant costs associated with the separation of 
the Dairies business before sale and the commissioning of the 
demineralised whey and GOS plants at Davidstow. 
Cash interest payments amounted to £12.8 million (2015: 
£10.5 million) due to the payment of fees in relation to the 
refinancing of the Group’s revolving credit facility. There were no 
net tax payments due to the high level of dairies losses, pension 
contributions and significant levels of capital expenditure incurred 
during the year (2015: nil).
Capital expenditure of £66.8 million represents a £13.3 million 
or 17% fall from last year’s £80.1 million. Capital expenditure in 
the continuing business amounted to £56.4 million (2015: £63.9 
million) with the majority having been incurred at our Davidstow 
site as we built the demineralised whey and GOS facilities. 
Commissioning started in the final quarter and finished in the first 
quarter of 2016/17. The Group now has well invested facilities and, 
following the new project expenditure at Davidstow, future levels of 
capital expenditure will fall further.
Proceeds from property disposals were £5.4 million (2015: 
£22.5 million) and the sale of our Dairies business resulted in 
initial cash proceeds of £54.5 million – comprising headline 
proceeds of £80.0 million less £15.0 million for the cost of the 
undertaking in lieu, £7.5 million of property sales from which the 
Group had already received the cash proceeds and £3.0 million in 
relation to pre-sale capital expenditure in Dairies falling below an 
agreed target. Against this, the Group paid £5.5 million in related 
fees reflecting the extended review undertaken by the CMA. A 
balancing payment of £25.9 million was made to Müller in April 
2016. The Group paid £6 million for the outstanding 50% of the 
share capital of Promovita. 
Overall, the high level of losses associated with the Dairies 
business, restructuring and separation costs and investment at 
Davidstow resulted in a £30.3 million increase in net debt during 
the year (2015: £56.5 million increase). In the two financial years 
ended 31 March 2016, discontinued operations generated £100 
million of operating cash outflows (being cash used in operations 
less capital expenditure). However, the continuing business is 
strongly cash generative and the level of restructuring and capital 
expenditure will reduce significantly in 2016/17.
Borrowing facilities
In October 2015, the Group agreed a new five year multi-currency 
revolving credit facility for £240 million which reduces by £80 
million in October 2018. This reducing facility had the benefit 
of reduced fees compared to a flat £240 million facility but also 
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 15
Strategic report
reduces the level of unused facility headroom for the Group which 
expects to reduce levels of net debt in future years. 
At 31 March 2016 the Group had a swapped Sterling 
equivalent of £220 million of loan notes outstanding having issued 
£76 million of notes in March 2016. However £80 million of these 
notes matured on 4 April 2016 leaving £140 million of notes 
outstanding maturing between 2017 and 2026.
Total facilities now comprise £380 million Sterling equivalent.
Post balance sheet events
In the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group recorded an 
exceptional bad debt provision of £4.3 million as a result of Quadra 
Foods Limited (‘Quadra’) and Farmright Limited (‘Farmright’) going 
into administration. The bad debt provision related to Quadra and 
disputed amounts owed to Farmright continued to be held as a 
liability. At 31 March 2016, amounts owed to the Group by Quadra 
had been fully provided for and the Group carried a creditor 
balance of £3.1 million for potential future liabilities in relation 
to Farmright. On 9 May 2016, the Group paid £1.0 million in full 
and final settlement of claims arising out of the amount originally 
owed to Farmright. Claims between the Group, Farmright and 
Quadra are now resolved. Following settlement, £2.1 million will be 
released as an exceptional item in the year ending 31 March 2017.
On 4 April 2016, the Group repaid $123 million (£70 million 
Sterling equivalent) and £10 million of 2006 fixed coupon loan 
notes on their maturity.
Treasury Policies
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls 
cash management and borrowings and the Group’s financial risks. 
The main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest 
rates and foreign currency. The Group only uses derivatives to 
manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from 
underlying business and financing activities. Transactions of a 
speculative nature are prohibited. The Group’s treasury activities 
are governed by policies approved and monitored by the Board.
Tom Atherton Group Finance Director
18 May 2016
Goin G for 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
We manage risk to help us achieve 
our strategic objectives and protect 
our reputation. 
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the effective 
management of risk across the Group. It is supported by the 
Audit Committee which reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management processes and internal controls. Responsibility 
for the day to day management of risk is delegated to the 
Management Board, which generally meets weekly. At each 
meeting the Management Board conducts an update review 
of the business’ performance and the risks and threats being 
managed. Minutes of the Management Board’s meetings are 
routinely reviewed by the Group Board at its meetings. The 
Group operates as one centralised UK-based business with all 
functions represented at Management Board meetings enabling 
the Management Board to manage the Group’s risks on an 
on-going basis. The Board believes that the assumption of 
informed risks enables the delivery of long-term success. The 
Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks 
which the Company should take in order to achieve its strategic 
objectives. The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks which the Company faces including those that 
would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity. Details of those principal risks and uncertainties are 
set out on this page and on page 17 together with the mitigating 
controls used to help manage them and the trends associated 
with them. Although the Group has an on-going process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and the Company, additional risks 
which are not presently known to management could also have an 
adverse effect on the Group and the Company.
Each key function in the Group is required to prepare a risk 
register for its area of accountability. Functional risk registers are 
reviewed by the Management Board and from them the Group risk 
register is compiled. The Group risk register is formally reviewed 
by the Board each April when the Group sets its budget. The 
Group risk register is reviewed at the start of each year by the 
Group Internal Audit function which uses the Group risk register 
as one of the key components of the compilation of its annual 
audit plan. All audit reports completed by the Group Internal 
Audit function are provided to the Management Board and Audit 
Committee and the Committee reviews Internal Audit’s reports 
and progress against its work plan. The Committee reports to the 
Board after each of its meetings and through this process further 
assurance over management of the principal risks is derived 
as Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance to 
management and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of 
mechanisms put in place to mitigate risks. This process explicitly 
recognises the relationship between Group Internal Audit and risk 
management. The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes 
are adequate and appropriate. Further details are set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report. We have decided to increase the 
frequency with which the Group risk register is formally reviewed 
in future with the Management Board undertaking further formal 
reviews each quarter and the Board undertaking a further formal 
review at the half-year. Further details of the Group’s approach to 
risk management and internal control are set out in the Corporate 
Governance report at pages 34 to 35.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set 
out in the facing table. This is not intended to be an exhaustive 
analysis of all risks facing the Group.
Commercial risks
r educed profitability
r isk area and potential impact
We operate in competitive markets. If we fail to compete effectively or are subject to 
higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising selling prices without losing 
volumes we could lose sales and profits.
Mitigating controls
We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able to invest 
in our supply chain to help achieve this.
Despite challenging trading conditions we continue to invest in marketing our 
key brands. Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that 
reinforce our appeal to customers. We recognise the importance of strong customer 
relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and developing 
these. They are also involved in major customer negotiations. We conduct customer 
surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously monitor the service and 
quality levels provided to our customers and consumers, and have procedures in 
place to react quickly to any issues. Our commitment to corporate responsibility is an 
important part of our overall proposition to some customers
r educed demand from consumers 
r isk area and potential impact
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, ethical, or 
other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
Mitigating controls
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor consumer 
trends. We continue to promote the health benefits provided by dairy products and 
develop healthier products. We also continue to maintain our focus on developing 
a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer 
trends, for example with more environmentally-friendly packaging, and healthier 
variants of our key brands. We have a direct involvement with government to 
understand and influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
input cost volatility
r isk area and potential impact
Volatile milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and packaging) 
could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other cost efficiencies 
elsewhere or increase selling prices.
Milk prices could remain volatile driven by global and European commodity market 
pressures as well as local market and environmental factors.
Mitigating controls
Key input cost trends are continually monitored by our experienced procurement 
team and are regularly reviewed by the Management Board. Milk and vegetable 
oil are critical inputs for the Group. Milk price negotiations are conducted following 
careful review with the Management Board which provides the procurement team 
with a specific mandate. The use of a balancing contract with direct milk suppliers 
(introduced in the final quarter of the financial year) enables better balancing of milk 
supply and demand thereby reducing the risk of milk oversupply resulting in lower 
recoveries. The balancing contract helps to reduce our exposure to lower value 
commodity markets thereby supporting the Group’s strategy of focusing on branded 
and added value markets. Vegetable oil is reviewed monthly by a risk committee 
which monitors and hedges forward vegetable oil purchases as appropriate. We 
seek to absorb short-term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies. Our 
purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between them to 
ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and requests for price 
increases can be fully justified.
entry into new product areas or territories
r isk area and potential impact
The dynamics of new categories may not be in line with our expectations resulting 
in lower than anticipated margins, lower than anticipated volumes, longer than 
anticipated payback on investment and higher than expected costs to access markets.
Mitigating controls
We work with established commercial partners who are already established in 
new categories and markets where the Group is not already operating or present. 
Contractual relationships with established commercial partners for the sale and 
distribution of products in new categories and markets enable the Group to have 
certainty over minimum levels of returns and known costs of accessing new markets.
Prin CiPAl ri SKS AnD UnCer TAin TieS Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 17
Strategic report
o perational risks
inability to source milk
r isk area and potential impact
Without milk we would not have a business. Restricted milk supply could be caused 
by economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects dairy cows. 
This could lead to lower sales and profits. Consumer confidence in dairy products 
could also be adversely affected.
Mitigating controls
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk 
suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures that affect 
both the farms and our business. Our milk comes directly from farms on contracts that 
include a notice period of between three months and one year. Our experienced milk 
procurement team understand milk production and are alert to changes in supply. We 
aim to pay a fair, market related milk price and closely monitor the milk price we pay 
to suppliers. Significant effort is expended by our team of dedicated Farm Business 
Managers to make the Group an attractive purchaser of milk for our suppliers, including 
working closely with our direct supplying farmers providing valuable support to them 
with their businesses. We have contingency plans established for major incidents and 
work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate. These 
plans are regularly tested and reviewed by the Management Board. 
Failure of a key supplier
r isk area and potential impact
We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial penalties 
from customers if suppliers’ failure leaves us unable to supply. Failure of key 
information technology suppliers could adversely affect our financial systems.
Mitigating controls
Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers’ ability to supply and puts in place 
alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate. We have taken 
specific actions to reduce our dependency on information technology suppliers.
Disruption to production
r isk area and potential impact
An accident, a fire, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems or 
deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and/or cause 
reputational damage with adverse consequences. We are also reliant on information 
technology and are exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
Mitigating controls
Plans are maintained to respond quickly to incidents and minimise any impact to 
the Group. Our business is committed to the health and safety of all our employees 
and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to work safely. All of our 
manufacturing sites have a trained engineering resource, are supported by our major 
equipment suppliers and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts. They also all have 
fire protection systems and regular fire drills. Our information technology systems are 
regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas. We are also advised by 
a reputable insurance broker and maintain insurance cover for public and product 
liability, product recall and property damage and business interruption risks with 
reputable insurers.
Major projects
r isk area and potential impact
To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational projects 
following strategic reviews or have to undertake major projects or works in response 
to the changing condition of our infrastructure. Successful execution of these projects 
is often key to delivering strategic objectives. At the same time we have to ensure that 
major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day delivery of products and 
services to our customers.
Mitigating controls
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and 
appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these. Supervisory governance 
structures are also put in place to help successful delivery. We are aware that too 
much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental and manage 
this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate backfilling and use of 
third parties.
Product quality
r isk area and potential impact
Failure to maintain product quality could lead to reputational damage and loss of sales 
and profits. As we start to manufacture ingredients for infant formula this risk could 
increase.
Mitigating controls
We have well-established supply chains and a close working relationship with our 
milk suppliers. We have an independent quality team, including experienced cheese 
graders. Customer and consumer complaints are monitored and acted upon. Where 
possible we have liability caps in our contracts and using the advice of a reputable 
insurance broker we have product recall liability insurance in place with reputable 
insurers. Our contractual relationship with Fonterra, who will sell the infant formula 
ingredients we will produce, allows us to utilise its experience in this field.
People risks
r ecruitment and retention
r isk area and potential impact
We need to attract and retain high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
Mitigating controls
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits to 
ensure we can attract and retain the best people. We have a wide bonus scheme and 
a range of other incentives to reward good performance. Our Long Term Alignment 
Plan aligns the interest of management to shareholders and helps to retain key senior 
employees. We use a performance review and talent management scheme to identify 
and develop our own people. We undertake regular surveys to monitor our relationship 
with our employees and their engagement; communicate with them regularly and 
encourage them to ask questions.
Financial risks
Pension scheme
r isk area and potential impact
Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our pension 
scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and buying insurance 
to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired members in 2008 and 
2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we may then have to increase our 
contributions. The risk of a need for higher cash contributions to the scheme over 
a longer than anticipated period may be increased by a persisting low gilt yield 
environment.
Mitigating controls
We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve the 
Fund’s financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business. We have reduced 
the scheme’s exposure to equities and other higher-risk asset classes and aim to 
further do so. The strength of the Company’s covenant and ability to continue to fund 
contributions has been improved by the sale of the Dairies business.
l egal and compliance risks
Compliance with laws
r isk area and potential impact
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements. There is a risk of 
fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
Mitigating controls
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers. We have 
undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and actively monitor and 
adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes. We have Business Conduct and Data 
Protection Policies and programmes designed to ensure that all relevant employees 
understand what is and is not permissible under the Bribery and Data Protection Acts.
r egulatory change
r isk area and potential impact
Food safety and product specification regulations affecting the UK and other 
jurisdictions where products are sold impact the products that we manufacture. 
Regulatory authorities regularly enact changes to food safety and product specification 
legislation. Changes to legislation could result in restrictions on the movement and sale 
of the Group’s products and raw materials between territories or require changes to 
the production processes or specification of our products.
Mitigating controls
We have a strong technical function which routinely monitors planned and 
implemented changes to food and ingredients legislation in the UK and other relevant 
jurisdictions which might necessitate changes to our production processes or product 
specifications. Our product development function works in tandem with the technical 
function and key supplier partners and customers to respond to anticipated or 
implemented legislative changes. The Group has invested in its technical and product 
development functions and has recently opened its new technical and innovation 
centre at Harper Adams University with whom we have a cooperation agreement 
providing access to state of the art academic and technical expertise. We are a 
member of recognised industry bodies who represent our interests, along with others 
in the food and dairy industries and advise and lobby on our behalf. We have close 
links with UK government and government representatives to help represent our 
interests in jurisdictions outside the UK together with commercial partners already 
established in other jurisdictions. 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Goin G for £ million 2015/16 2014/15
Revenue 263.7 274.4
Product group profit 36.4 33.1
Margin (%) 13.8 12.1
Others 45% 55%
Dairy Crest
Share of branded 
everyday cheese
Source: IRI 52 weeks 
ended 26 March 2016
PeRfo RMance
c heese & whey Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 19
Strategic report
Dairy c rest produces and markets c athedral c ity, the 
UK’s leading cheese brand, and the premium Davidstow 
cheddar brand.
o ur world-class supply chain starts with milk supplied 
by nearly 400 farmers in the dairying heartlands of c ornwall 
and Devon. This top quality milk is made into cheddar 
cheese at our highly-automated creamery in Davidstow, 
c ornwall. The cheese then matures for around a year at our 
purpose-built n uneaton facility before being cut, packed 
and distributed. We have a second packing site in f rome, 
Somerset, for more complex and innovative packaging.
Whey is a by-product of the cheese making process. 
Historically, we produced sweet whey then sold this to a 
variety of food manufacturers. We now have a new state of 
the art facility at Davidstow to produce demineralised whey 
and Go S, a lactose-based prebiotic, both ingredients for 
infant formula, a high-growth, high-margin global market.
Market background
The UK dairy market continues to operate under pressure from 
high stocks and record global milk production. Market prices have 
suffered as a result and 2015/16 has been a challenging year for 
the whole dairy supply chain.
Low milk prices led to a reduction in cheese margins in the 
first half. The maturation process means we sell cheese made 
with milk purchased around a year before the sale takes place. 
This consequently means there is a time lag before this benefit is 
reflected in the cost of stock that is being sold. As expected, this 
started to change in the second half of 2015/16 as cheese made 
with less expensive milk was sold.
Furthermore, weak global dairy markets resulted in lower 
realisations from whey.
c athedral c ity: a true market leader
The UK cheese market experienced accelerating deflation 
throughout the period, with sales falling 0.4% in terms of value. 
This was predominantly offset by an increase in volume of 6%. 
Cathedral City was ahead of the market, with sales continuing 
to grow year on year both in terms of volume 6% and value 1%. It 
remains the UK’s 16th largest grocery brand worth £275m, bigger 
than all other competitor cheddar brands combined. Accounting 
for 55% of all branded everyday cheese sold by UK retailers, 
including non-cheddar, Cathedral City is now bought by nearly 
60% of UK households every year. 
Dairy Crest continues to innovate to drive future value into 
the category. In 2015, we launched new block sizes, as well as 
extending the Cathedral City brand into flavoured block. We will 
be launching a Spreadable Cheese range consisting of 3 popular 
varieties in May 2016, as well as new snacking formats.
In March 2016, we re-launched Cathedral City with a new 
‘Masterbrand’ identity, consisting of new and improved packaging 
design across the entire range. There will be a new media and 
advertising campaign, including TV from June 2016.
Dairy Crest’s Davidstow brand has managed to protect its 
premium position within the deflationary environment, at the cost 
of a slight loss in market share as we premiumise the brand. We 
also continue to support both Marks & Spencer and Waitrose with 
premium own label cheddar.
a world-class supply chain
Our farmers play a vital role in our world-class cheese supply 
chain, with 100% of the milk we buy coming direct from nearly 
400 farmers in the South West of England. 
We pride ourselves on the close working relationship with 
our farmers, through both our Farm Business Team and Dairy 
Crest Direct ('DCD'), the independently elected body which 
represents Dairy Crest farmers. This year we supported DCD 
through the process of gaining approval to become a Dairy 
Producers Organisation. We worked with DCD to implement the 
world-leading Davidstow Farm Standards, designed to reflect best 
practice in food safety and animal welfare on farm and ensure 
that all the milk supplied meets the strict requirements for the 
production of infant formula milk powder. We also jointly launched 
the new Davidstow Milk Balancing Contract in March 2016 to 
establish a milk supply model that is fit for the future. 
n ew infant formula ingredients come on stream 
We have now completed our investment at the Davidstow 
creamery in Cornwall to make demineralised whey and GOS. 
Fonterra, the world’s leading dairy exporter, is marketing and 
selling these products on our behalf, leveraging their strong, 
commercial relationships globally. 
We continue to expect to receive a full-year benefit in the 
year ending 31 March 2017. These added value products give 
Dairy Crest access to new sales channels in fast growing global 
markets. The premium we expect to receive as we move from 
sweet whey to demineralised whey remains unchanged. 
Potentially exciting new applications for Go S
We are investigating some potential further applications for GOS, 
including in animal feed and other adult human nutrition. GOS 
can play a role in these areas by improving gut health. We are 
at an early stage in exploring these opportunity areas with other 
commercial partners and academic institutions. 
a business with huge potential
Our cheese, whey & GOS business has state of the art facilities, 
strong brands with market-leading positions and opportunities 
within new and exciting markets. It remains well placed to 
generate attractive growth in the future.
Cathedral City remains the UK’s 16th largest 
grocery brand worth £275m, bigger than all other 
competitor cheddar brands combined. 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Goin G for PEr FOr MAn CE COn TIn UED
Share of retail 
butter and spreads 
market by value
Source: IRI 52 weeks 
ended 26 March 2016
Dairy Crest
Unilever 20%
Arla 34%
Retailer 
own 
label 
18%    
Others 14%
14%
£ million 2015/16 2014/15
Revenue 152.6 170.0
Product group profit 29.6 33.8
Margin (%) 19.4 19.9
Butters, spreads & oils Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 21
Strategic report
Dairy c rest manufactures a number of leading Butters, 
spreads and oils brands in the UK. Key brands include 
c ountry Life (butter) and c lover (spread) which are 
produced at a single facility in Kirkby, Merseyside, alongside 
a portfolio of smaller brands in the spreads category.
We also produce f rylight one calorie cooking spray at 
our facility in erith, Kent.
Butter and spreads market remains challenging
2015/16 has been another challenging year in the Butter, spreads 
and oils market, with overall volume and value retail sales in decline. 
The butter market has seen volume growth of 6%. This was more 
than offset by price deflation, resulting in the value declining by 2% 
year on year. The spreads category has seen both accelerating 
volume and value declines as consumers continue to switch their 
purchases into butter which is considered a more natural product. 
Dairy Crest has the benefit of operating brands in both 
categories; Clover and Vitalite in spreads and Country Life in 
butter. r esponding to a challenging first half where our brands 
lost share, we increased investment into both Clover and Country 
Life which resulted in a strong second half and out-performance 
of their respective categories. Our brand portfolio is therefore well-
positioned to grow as we move into 2016/17. 
Building a strong portfolio of brands
Country Life saw nearly 4% volume sales growth in 2015/16. 
Following the introduction of new British themed packaging in 
October, supported by increased investment, the brand materially 
outperformed the market in the second half, delivering significant 
volume growth and gaining market share as the best performing 
butter brand in the category.
In September 2015, we introduced a new ‘n o Artificial 
Ingredients’ recipe for Clover supported by an exciting new media 
campaign, which helped the brand gain volume and value share 
throughout the second half of the year. 
Country Life and Clover both increased penetration levels 
strongly during the second half of the year, resulting in an extra 
1.3 million households buying these brands. 
In March 2016, we re-launched Vitalite, our dairy free brand, 
with new packaging and an improved recipe. The renewed focus 
on this brand ensures we have brands across the Butters, spreads 
and oils category.
f rylight: another strong year
Frylight, the one calorie cooking spray had another year of strong 
growth with sales up 28% on last year. Since acquiring this 
business in 2011/12, we have invested in marketing and innovation 
and consistently grown profits, sales and penetration of the brand. 
In that time, the number of buyers of Frylight has trebled and in 
2015/16, Frylight, became the UK’s number one oil brand. Our 
plans are to drive further growth through continuing investment 
in marketing and innovation, as well as taking the brand into 
new markets.
Simplified supply chain, generating cash
With all butter and spreads manufacturing established on one 
site at Kirkby and a long-term bulk butter supply agreement with 
Müller, we are well-positioned to continue driving efficiency and 
to further lower manufacturing costs. The simplified supply chain, 
combined with improvements in brand performance, will enable 
continued investment into this high-margin category and underpin 
ongoing cash generation. 
Country Life and 
Clover have both 
grown their penetration 
levels strongly during 
the second half of 
the year, resulting in 
an extra 1.3 million 
households buying 
those brands. 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Our strategy has been successfully designed to meet these needs 
since inception in 2007, responding and evolving to current and 
emerging challenges through 2016 and beyond.
Whether it is our direct impact on the environment, the safety 
and wellbeing of our people, the healthiness of our leading brands 
or the communities that we share our environment with, our 
initiatives touch on all these areas.
For our financial year 2015/16, we are able to report on 
a number of successes that build on previous years (details 
covered in the following pages under Environment, Workplace, 
Marketplace and Community). 
A successful approach to corporate responsibility is an essential part of 
securing a sustainable business which thrives both today and in the future. 
Dairy Crest’s corporate responsibility strategy is designed to cover the whole 
range of our business activities; the environmental impact, our workplaces, 
our marketplace and our communities.
Corporate r esponsibility
Furthermore, we look forward to our continuing relationship 
with Business in the Community (‘BITC’) which is our corporate 
responsibility (‘CR’) index of choice. Following the disposals of the 
Dairies business, our historical CR Pledges have been reviewed to 
ensure we are targeting the right activities and creating value, but 
in a more simplified and streamlined way. 
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee has worked closely 
with the BITC team to ensure that we reframe our pledges and 
commitments, and therefore continue to deliver against the Index. 
Check our website for our progress in this area.
Greenhouse gas report 2015/16
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 our greenhouse gas 
(‘GHG’) emissions are quantified below.
2015/16 2014/15 2013/14
Scope 1 79,050 89,377 87,256 tonnes CO
2
e
Scope 2 57,256 77,612 74,646 tonnes CO
2
e
t otal scope 1&2 136,306 166,989 161,902 tonnes CO
2
e
intensity r atio 81.37 78.58 74.71
kg CO
2
e per 
tonne of milk 
intake
Emissions from 
Biomass fuel
22,033 22,192 27,619 tonnes CO
2
e
We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard to calculate emissions from the combustion of fuels (Scope 
1) and from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling (Scope 2). 
Carbon emission factors are used to convert each activity that gives 
rise to GHG emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2
e) using the 
latest UK Government conversion factors for company reporting.
 The GHG data reported below relates to emissions from activities in 
the operational control of Dairy Crest Group plc from 1 April 2015 to  
31 March 2016 consistent with our financial reporting period. 
scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil fuels used 
at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel used in the transport 
and distribution of intermediate and finished products. Road fuel 
used in company cars operated by Dairy Crest for business travel is 
also included. Minor losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment 
have been converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are 
included for completeness.
scope 2 emissions data includes purchased electricity used in 
manufacturing, distribution and in offices. 
 We employ a ‘per tonne of milk intake’ denominator as the most 
effective measure of relative performance. This measure is consistent 
with our internal target setting process and how we communicate 
relative performance.
 Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from biologically 
sequestered carbon are reported separately from the other Scopes. 
These comprise emissions from combustion of biomass fuel at our 
creamery in Davidstow that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions 
from fossil fuels. Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not 
included in the emissions intensity ratio reported above.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduced in 2015/16 by 18.4% compared 
to the previous year driven by the changes summarised in the chart 
below.
Divestment and supply Chain rationalisation:
– sale of the Dairies business on 26 December 2015 resulted in 
reduction in Scope 1 emissions (fuels used in processing sites and 
depots and road fuel used for distribution and business travel) and 
Scope 2 emissions (electricity used in processing sites and depots) for 
the final three months of the year
– compared to the preceding year both Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
reduced as a result of moving production of spreads from 
Crudgington to Kirkby in late 2014 and closure of the Chard 
processing site in October 2015.
o perational changes at continuing business sites:
– operational efficiencies – improving overall equipment effectiveness 
and investment in energy reduction initiatives delivered both Scope 
1 & 2 emissions reductions with an associated reduction in relative 
energy use per tonne of 9.3% across our continuing business sites 
– the carbon intensity of electricity imported from the public grid 
reduced by 7% compared to the previous year (based on annual 
emissions factors issued by DEFRA) reducing Scope 2 emissions
– the commissioning of new whey and GOS products at Davidstow, 
combined with increased production throughput, increased both 
Scope 1 & 2 emissions
– periods of reduced operation of the biomass boilers at Davidstow 
due to short-term engineering issues mid-year necessitated increased 
use of fossil fuel with resultant Scope 1 emissions increase. In 
2015/16 on site renewable energy represented 34% of total energy 
(51% of fuel) used in the manufacture of products by the continuing 
business. We are continuing to explore further opportunities for the 
use of cost effective renewable technologies. 
The overall effect of the changes described above on the emissions 
intensity metric was a year on year increase of 3.6%.
0
50
100
150
200
167.0
14/15
Divestment of
Dairies division
Supply Chain
Rationalisation
Operational
Efﬁciencies
Utilisation &
Commissioning
Biomass
Boilers
Grid Factor
136.3
15/16
25.6
8.8 1.3
4.0
5.5
3.5 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 23
Strategic report
2007/08 2015/16
44%
reduction
operational 
waste to 
landﬁll
%
CO
2
e 
cut by 
12.6% 
since last year
As a leading consumer food manufacturer 
we are determined to play an active role in 
mitigating and adapting to climate change, 
reducing waste and looking after our natural 
resources.
energy and climate change
We are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
associated with our direct operations and our wider supply chain. 
Using less energy reduces emissions and energy costs within 
our direct operations. We have undertaken energy surveys to 
identify additional opportunities – the most cost effective of which 
are prioritised in our utility reduction plans.
Projects include the installation of efficient lighting, lagging, 
motors, air, steam and refrigeration systems.
Our people also have a role to play through energy efficient 
behaviours, sharing their ideas and at our ‘Utilities Roadshows’ 
supported by our energy, water and waste partners.
These projects contributed to an annual reduction of 9.3% 
relative energy use and 12.6% relative greenhouse gas emissions 
from the sites of our continuing business.
On farm emissions are typically 1.3 kg CO
2
e per litre of milk 
and represent around 90% of our supply chain emissions. Our 
supplying dairy farmers have access to a tool to measure on 
farm emissions and identify opportunities to increase resource 
efficiency.
We also participate in CDP’s leading index that assesses 
management of emissions and in 2015 we further improved our 
‘disclosure’ rating to achieve our highest score to date.
Water
Securing sufficient, high quality freshwater is essential to our 
business strategy. Our investments help us to reduce loads on 
river basins where we operate and to reduce the physical and 
commercial risks associated with reliance on imported freshwater. 
We commissioned a new water recovery plant at Davidstow to 
treat process water to a high standard suitable for reuse within the 
Creamery.
The plant is designed to recover 1.7 million litres per day – 
equivalent to the daily needs of around 11,000 people. The reuse 
of treated water enables the manufacture of new products without 
significantly increasing freshwater imports by recovering up to 
70% of the site’s water needs.
We were proud to have this investment recognised as winners 
of the Best Contribution to Resource Efficiency at the Cornwall 
Sustainability Awards.
Combined with other efficiency initiatives, we achieved 
an annual reduction in relative abstraction of 21.1%, or 44.1% 
reduction compared to our original baseline (excluding the Dairies 
business).
The production of one litre of milk typically requires 6 litres 
of water. Efficient use of water on farm is therefore essential 
to production of our main ingredient. We assist our supplying 
farmers in measuring and managing water through the ‘Waterwell’ 
initiative. 
In 2015 BITC and Dairy Crest brought together a group of 
business leaders to explore how business can act on water 
stewardship. This important Prince’s ‘Seeing is Believing’ visit helped 
to highlight the food industry’s role in this area.
Waste
We have achieved our target to send zero operational waste to 
landfill from the sites of our continuing business by working with 
the right partners, identifying novel approaches to difficult wastes 
and improving our waste infrastructure and behaviours.
We also focus on ingredient and product waste. The Kirkby 
team commissioned a new system to recover oils that would 
otherwise be wasted for the production of biodiesel.
New products manufactured at Davidstow yield a nutrient 
rich process water containing phosphate which is present in the 
incoming raw milk. 
We have invested in a phosphate removal plant to produce a 
‘cake’ rich in both phosphate and calcium, essential components 
for crop production. The cake is well suited to agricultural reuse – 
a good example of the circular economy in action.
We still have more to do to reduce waste at source. We are 
pleased to be continuing our relationship with WRAP through 
the new Courtauld 2025 commitment which targets a reduction 
in the resources required and the environmental impacts of food 
production in the UK. 
environment  24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE RESPONSIBIl ITy CONTINUED
At Dairy Crest we are committed to providing 
a workplace that is safe, engaging, promotes 
diversity and offers employees the opportunity 
to grow and develop their skills
safety first
We believe a strong commitment to occupational health and 
safety contributes to excellent business performance. Achieved 
by engaging our people and constantly working to reduce risk, 
Dairy Crest has a track record of excellent progress in safety over 
a number of years.
By the end of March 2016, excluding transferred Dairies 
employees, we had reduced our l ost Time Accident Frequency 
Rate, (calculated based upon number of lost time accidents in the 
context of hours worked) including RIDDOR and over 3 day lost 
time accidents from 0.4 to 0.3. This shows progress against our 
challenging objective of a 50% reduction in Accident Incident Rate 
by 2018 against the 2013 baseline.
Encouraging employees to report near misses is key to 
achieving sustainable long-term change in safety behaviour. 
Against our target of 100:1 ratio of near miss and behavioural 
conversation versus all types of accident by 2018, we achieved a 
ratio of 175, (2014/15: 117).
Another important way of engaging our teams is through our 
cultural change programme. We encourage employees to ‘Stop, 
Think, Assess, Review’ (‘STAR’) and complete STAR cards where 
they see safety related conditions or actions. By discussing and 
addressing these issues, we have improved levels of dialogue, 
involvement and a safety-first culture.
Wellbeing
Proactively supporting employees to look after their health has been 
an important aspect of our occupational health and safety strategy 
for some time. Through our occupational health service, we provide 
employees with the opportunity of a free wellbeing check. Since 
introducing this and including the mandatory health checks required 
for certain roles, over 850 health checks have been provided 
(excluding transferred Dairies employees).
Wellbeing, health and safety days have been run across a 
number of our locations. These provide staff with a range of 
interesting and informative ideas to improve safety at work and 
in the home, as well as advice on health matters. Always well 
attended and motivating, these events help to reinforce our 
messages around wellbeing, health and safety.
engaging our employees
Employees are happier and more productive when they are 
actively engaged in the business.
2015/16 has seen huge change for employees with the sale of 
the Dairies business. Throughout this time, it has been essential 
to ensure communication to employees has been timely, accurate 
and delivered with sensitivity; We held regular ‘townhall’ events, 
published a dedicated website to include Questions and Answers 
raised, and sent regular staff updates via e-mail and newsletter. 
To further emphasise the importance of the sale of the Dairies 
business, 40% of the potential pay-out of all Management and 
Administrative bonuses (excluding Executive Directors’ which were 
set at 30%) were linked to the successful delivery of the sale. The 
combination of effective communication and targeted reward were 
crucial in maintaining engagement and business performance 
during this period of change.
Ongoing communication and engagement is supported by a 
weekly news round-up, regular business performance reports and 
our staff intranet.
Feeling valued is key to engagement and that is why we 
continue to provide all staff with the opportunity to be part of a 
bonus or incentive scheme which is linked to either personal, site 
and/or company performance.
To further recognise individuals and teams that ‘go the 
extra mile’ we have our Rewards & Recognition programme 
where staff can be nominated for Bronze and Silver awards that 
attract a monetary benefit. Silver award winners are selected 
by a committee of staff members to receive one of our three 
prestigious Gold awards. In 2015/16 399 Bronze/Silver awards 
were made. In addition, a team award is made to the group 
of employees who have delivered a great team outcome that 
contributes real value to the business. This year the award went to 
the team who developed and launched our successful new Clover 
with ‘No Artificial Ingredients’ product.
Workplace
We provide employees
the opportunity of a free
ellbeing
   check
Winners of this year’s Gold, Silver 
and Team Awards, part of our 
Reward and Recognition scheme. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 25
Strategic report
investing in learning
Our Talent function works across the business to ensure we offer 
the right development opportunities to the whole workforce and to 
help Managers develop talent and succession planning.
An assessment of talent is undertaken annually through our 
Talent Management Review process (TMR) where we review potential 
for progression and use this as the basis for our succession 
plans for senior roles. Due to the sale of the Dairies business, 
we did not undertake a formal talent development programme in 
2015/16, however we plan to re-instigate this in 2016/17 and broaden 
succession planning to incorporate all key management roles.
With the ongoing shortage of food specialists and engineering 
skills in the food sector, Dairy Crest maintains investment in our 
technology and engineering apprenticeship schemes, launched 
in 2011 and 2012 respectively. As part of our relationship with 
Harper Adams University, the home of our new Innovation Centre, 
we offer food science placements in product and packaging 
innovation to undergraduates.
2015/16 has seen further progress in training at all levels. 
A focus on induction training has delivered improvements in the 
timeliness of this training. A programme of targeted training has 
seen our manufacturing compliance skills completion rise from 
81% to 96%. Our investment in demineralised whey and GOS 
production at Davidstow has been supported by a wide range 
of learning events, covering technical operator training, product 
awareness and leadership/management development. 
Retention of staff helps provide consistent levels of service 
as well as development of expertise and experience. With the 
change undertaken within the business we have seen an increase 
in staff turnover from 13% to 15.3% this year. This is recognised 
as higher than desired and we will be working even harder this 
year to understand employee views on how we make Dairy Crest 
an even better place to work. To this end, we will run a revitalised 
employee survey focussed on what is really important in improving 
retention. On a positive note, we were pleased to see absence 
levels fall from 3% to 2.6%
Diversity and inclusion
We believe that for people to be the most productive, they need 
to achieve an appropriate balance in their commitment to the 
workplace and their home life. Any employee should feel that they 
can be flexible in their ways of working, according to business 
needs. We wish to have a fully diverse work force because we 
recognise that people from different backgrounds, experiences 
and abilities bring fresh ideas and innovations that improve our 
business. Employees are encouraged to reach their full potential 
regardless of their age, gender, marital status (including civil 
partnerships), disability, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, sexual 
orientation or religious affiliation. Dairy Crest does not tolerate 
discrimination or harassment on any of these grounds. To help us 
achieve our aims our polices include the right to apply for flexible 
working hours, a sabbatical, support with taking time off to study, 
and we provide maternity pay above the statutory minimum and 
full pay during paternity leave.
In the coming year, we will continue to focus upon driving 
diversity through effective recruitment and talent management 
strategies, increasing the number of female managers and 
supporting workers where their first language is not English.
Working with trade unions
Dairy Crest has good working relationships with the recognised 
unions, USDAW and Unite. We acknowledge the positive role 
trade unions can play in the development of our business. This 
year we have worked together constructively at a time of major 
change, most notably with the sale of the Dairies business.
Workplace
Emma Cotton, a nineteen-year-old from 
Glastonbury in Somerset, was named 
as this year’s winner of the South West 
Dairy Crest & NFU Scholarship Award
Gender proﬁle
All employees
Female
29%   
Male
71% 
Senior management
Female
27%   
Male
73% 
Claire Jones, a student 
from Harper Adams 
University, is on a 
placement year at 
Dairy Crest. 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE RESPONSIBIl ITy CONTINUED
Healthier choices 
Dairy Crest is proud to make healthy and nutritious products. 
We continue to invest in our healthier ranges, driving sales through 
promotions, advertising and innovation. Market data shows that 
the lower fat and added value variants of our brands achieved 
a collective retail sales value of £81 million (including Frylight) in 
2015/16, an increase of 0.9% from 2014/15.
Cathedral City Mature l ighter leads the lower fat branded 
Cheddar market, recording a retail sales value of £33.3 million, 
bigger than the next three brands combined. We launched a new 
range of snacking products in April 2015 including Mature l ighter 
Minis which have secured strong support from customers and 
consumers. We also launched a Cathedral City Mature l ighter twin 
pack in Asda in January 2016. 
Our lower fat spreads – Clover l ighter, Clover l ighter than 
l ight, Utterly Butterly l ightly, Country l ife l ighter and our 
Clover Additions range – have a collective retail sales value of 
£21.1 million. We launched a new ‘No Artificial Ingredients’ recipe 
for standard Clover in August 2015, supported by a wide-reaching 
media campaign, resulting in increased sales. 
Frylight, our one calorie per spray cooking spray, enjoyed another 
impressive year with sales growth of 18% year-on-year. Today the 
brand has a retail sales value of £26.7 million pa and is now the 
biggest brand in oils, bought by a fifth of UK households.
Since January 2016 all palm oil contracted for use in production 
from April 2016 for our spreads products has come from RSPO-
certified sustainable sources. Having originally pledged to move to 
fully certified sourcing by the end of 2020, we are pleased to say 
that we achieved this by April 2016, more than four and a half years 
ahead of our original commitment.
innovation
In December 2015 we were delighted to open our state of the art 
£4 million dedicated Food Innovation Centre on the Harper Adams 
University campus. The partnership with Harper Adams University 
provides a link into leading agriculture and food research and will 
help us to continue to develop healthy products.
Demineralised whey & Gos
We have made a significant investment at our cheese plant in 
Davidstow to enable us to supply high quality ingredients to infant 
formula manufacturers. This investment has been focused in two 
key areas – demineralised whey and creating a new plant that 
produces GOS. Demineralised whey is used in infant formula to 
provide protein and carbohydrate and is a purer, higher-value 
product than the sweet whey that we currently sell. GOS is a 
prebiotic which has been shown to help aid digestive health. We 
are investigating other potential opportunities for the use of GOS 
in animal feed. This exciting new area for Dairy Crest will enable us 
to explore delivering positive health benefits to consumers across 
the world.
ethical sourcing 
Dairy Crest works with our supplier base to exceed best practice 
around areas including quality, traceability and product recalls. 
Our Supplier Corporate Responsibility policy is embedded in our 
standard terms and conditions with suppliers. Dairy Crest works 
with our farmers and our auditing partner, White Gold, to ensure 
animal welfare and milk quality are of the highest standards 
possible. This year, we introduced Davidstow Farm Standards 
which complement and enhance the required Red Tractor Assured 
Dairy scheme. The Davidstow Farm Standards ensure that all 
milk supplied to us meets the strict international standards for the 
production of infant formula. We can trace milk and raw materials 
from farms and suppliers through to finished product. 
All of our manufacturing sites use systems and controls to 
ensure sure we are making safe products of the highest quality. 
Our quality management systems are regularly reviewed and 
audited by our own technical teams and third parties to ensure 
they comply with industry standards. Every site is accredited 
to the British Retail Consortium Standard by an independent 
auditing body.
 
We are committed to creating healthy, tasty 
enjoyable products, making it easier for 
consumers to choose healthier foods.
Marketplace 
Heavy Hitter in lighter healthier brands
HRH The Princess Royal hears about the 
evolution of packaging at the opening of 
the Dairy Crest Innovation Centre Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 27
Strategic report
Our community programme supports four key 
strategic aims; looking after the countryside, 
promoting healthy living and wellbeing, 
supporting education and employability and 
engaging with our local communities. 
l ooking after the countryside
At Dairy Crest, we know that a healthy, vibrant countryside is as vital 
to rural communities and dairy farmers as it is to our future success. 
Dairy Crest has a long-term relationship with The Prince’s 
Countryside Fund. The charity, set up by HRH The Prince of 
Wales in 2010, aims to protect, improve and promote the British 
countryside and the businesses which work within it.
Dairy Crest donated £100,000 to the Fund in 2015/16 through 
brand partnerships with Davidstow cheddar and Country l ife 
butter. In the summer of 2015, before the Dairies business was 
sold, the milk&more milkmen and customers helped raise a 
further £60,000 for the Fund through an envelope drop. In April 
2016, for the second year, we also co-sponsored a racing day 
to raise money for the Fund at Ascot. This year, the Fund has 
awarded more than £1.5 million in grants, in addition to £56,400 
in Emergency Funding to support victims of this winter’s flooding 
across the North of England and Scotland. 
In 2011 Dairy Crest, alongside other British dairy processors 
and through The Prince’s Countryside Fund, set up The Prince’s 
Dairy Initiative. Through a package of business advice and support 
it aims to improve confidence and increase efficiencies within a 
group of farmers identified as vulnerable and likely to cease being 
a dairy farmer. The Initiative has helped 291 farmers since 2012.  
Dairy Crest is also a long-term supporter of ‘Open Farm 
Sunday’. In June 2015, 389 farms opened their gates to the public 
to demonstrate food production methods.
We were delighted to be Highly Commended in the 
Waitrose Way Awards Championing British category. This was 
in recognition of the development of our world-leading farm 
standards and the work we are doing in partnership with our own 
nearly 400 farmers in the South West 
promoting healthy living and wellbeing
Dairy Crest is a long-term supporter of GroceryAid, the food 
industry charity which was set up in 1857. In their last financial year, 
GroceryAid awarded £4 million in welfare assistance to people who 
are currently working or who have worked in the food industry. 
In November 2015, Dairy Crest’s support was recognised with a 
Gold Award at the GroceryAid Achievement Awards. 
Dairy Crest staff voluntarily deliver healthy, fresh food to 
vulnerable people in our local communities through Meals On 
Wheels.
During winter 2015, we donated over 8,500 litres of milk to 
Crisis at Christmas. This enabled the homeless charity to help 
4,600 people take the first steps out of homelessness.
supporting education and employability 
The agri-food industry is the fourth fastest growing sector in terms 
of businesses and third fastest growing sector in terms of jobs. 
However, the agricultural sector is struggling to attract enough 
applicants with the right skills. 
Dairy Crest has set up a number of initiatives which actively 
encourage the next generation into the food and manufacturing 
sector. By working with the IGD and their Feeding Britain’s Future 
schools programme, we helped facilitate over 25 school careers 
sessions this year. 
In 2016 we worked with Marks & Spencer to deliver their 
youth unemployment programme, Movement to Work. Dairy 
Crest offered 45 placements in the financial year throughout the 
business, including in manufacturing roles.
Dairy Crest helps fund community educational programmes, 
including food science placements at Reading and Nottingham 
Universities.  
l ocal community programme
We operate a staff lottery, open to all Dairy Crest employees.
Each site also has a community budget to distribute to local 
charities and good causes nominated by members of staff.
This year staff have supported over 60 local causes through 
financial donations. 
Community
Dairy Crest donated 40kg of Cathedral City 
Cheddar for the Chelsea Pensioners to enjoy 
over the festive season 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Board of directors and advisers
3 2
5
7
4
6
1
Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board 
of Directors, which today comprises two 
Executive Directors, one Non-executive 
Chairman and three independent Non-
executive Directors. Together, the Executive 
Directors have over 30 years experience of 
the business. 
t he Board sets strategy and monitors progress. day-to-
day matters are the responsibility of the Management 
Board, which today comprises the two executive 
directors, the c ompany secretary & General c ounsel 
and three other senior managers. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 29
Governance
1. Mark allen
c hief executive ◊ ∆
Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief Executive in January 
2007. He joined Dairy Crest in August 1991. He was formally with 
Shell UK Ltd. He is a Trustee for The Prince’s Countryside Fund a 
Non-Executive Director of Howden Joinery Group Plc and a member 
of the GLF Schools Board and the Dairy UK Board.
2. t om atherton 
Group f inance director ◊ ∆
Appointed in May 2013. A Chartered Accountant who has worked 
for Dairy Crest for over 10 years. Prior to his appointment to the 
Board he served as Director of Financial Control. He has previously 
held senior finance positions in Logica plc and Thorn plc.
3. stephen alexander
c hairman ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in January 2011, as 
Chairman in September 2014 and Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee in March 2015. He is Chairman of Immediate Media 
Company Ltd and of Rhubarb Food Design Ltd, an Operating 
Partner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman of Look Ahead Care and 
Support. Previously Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd (parent company 
of EMI Group), Chairman of Odeon Cinemas, Chief Executive of 
Hillsdown Holdings Ltd and held senior positions with Allied Domecq 
PLC and Imperial Foods. He was also Senior Independent Director 
at Devro plc.
4. r ichard Macdonald
n on-executive director 
*
 † ‡ ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2010, as 
Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit Committee 
in May 2012 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 
November 2014, prior to which he was Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee. Richard had a 30 year career with the 
National Farmers Union, serving as Director General for 13 years. 
He is a Non-executive Director of Moy Park Limited and the 
Environment Agency, a Governor of The Royal Agricultural University 
Cirencester, Vice Chairman of the National Institute of Agricultural 
Botany and became Chairman of Farm Africa in 2013. In March 
2016 Richard was appointed acting Deputy Chairman of the 
Environment Agency.
5. andrew c arr-Locke
n on-executive director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee in August 2009. A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants, he has previously held senior finance 
positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak 
and was Group Finance Director at George Wimpey plc until 2007. 
More recently he was Executive Chairman of Countryside Properties. 
He has previously held Non-executive directorships at Royal Mail 
Holdings, Venture Production and AWG and was appointed a Non-
executive Director of Grainger plc in March 2015.
6. sue f arr
n on-executive director 
*
 † ‡ ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2011 and 
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee in November 
2014. She is a special advisor to Chime Communications PLC, 
having previously been a member of the Executive Management 
Team. Sue has extensive marketing communications experience 
having served as Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director 
of Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 years and Director 
of Corporate Communications, Vauxhall Motors. Sue is a Non-
executive Director of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, Accsys 
Technologies PLC and British American Tobacco p.l.c. She has 
previously held positions as a Trustee of the Historic Royal Palaces 
and as a Non-executive Director of Motivcom plc.
7. r obin Miller
c ompany secretary & General c ounsel ◊ ∆ #
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having worked in private 
practice and in-house in both retail and international manufacturing.
Auditor
ernst & Young LLP
Solicitors
eversheds LLP
Principal Bankers 
t he r oyal Bank of  
scotland plc
r abobank London 
Lloyds ts B plc
santander UK plc
Corporate Brokers
shore c apital Group Ltd
Peel Hunt LLP
Registered Office
c laygate House, 
Littleworth r oad, 
esher, surrey 
Kt 10 9Pn
Registered in England
no. 3162897
*
 audit c ommittee Member
† r emuneration c ommittee Member
‡ n omination c ommittee Member
◊ c orporate r esponsibility 
c ommittee Member
∆ Management Board Member
# n ot a Board Member 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Mike Barrington 
Group supply c hain 
director ∆
Before joining Dairy Crest 
in 2011, Mike held senior 
management positions 
with Cadbury Schweppes 
and Kraft Foods, latterly 
Manufacturing Director 
for Cadbury in the UK & 
Ireland. Mike joined Dairy 
Crest as Supply Chain 
Director, Dairies and was 
appointed to his current role 
in April 2013.
Mana GeMent Board
Day-to-day matters are 
the responsibility of the 
Management Board, 
which comprises the 
two Executive Directors, 
the Company Secretary 
& General Counsel, the 
Group Commercial Director, 
the Group Supply Chain 
Director and the Group 
HR Director.  
Other senior managers 
attend by invitation. 
The Management Board 
normally meets weekly.
◊ c orporate r esponsibility 
c ommittee Member
∆ Management Board Member
r obert Willock 
Group Hr director ◊ ∆
Robert joined Dairy Crest 
10 years ago as HR 
Director, Dairies from The 
Maersk Company where 
he was Director of Human 
Resources. He was 
appointed to his current role 
in April 2013.
adam Braithwaite 
Group c ommercial 
director ◊ ∆
Adam joined Dairy Crest 
in 2002 and has held 
a number of senior 
management positions 
within the business. He 
was appointed Group 
Commercial Director in 
April 2013 and joined the 
Management Board in 
November 2014. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 31
Governance
In my introduction to our last Governance report I spoke of a period 
of change as a board. I am pleased to be able to report that the last 
year has been a period of consolidation for the Board as we have 
completed our first year under my chairmanship. During the year we 
have focused on continuing to deliver our strategy, in particular the 
completion of the sale of the Dairies business and the construction 
of the demineralised whey and GOS plants at our Davidstow 
creamery, all of which are about strengthening our position in added 
value markets. We have focused on succession planning at Board 
and senior executive levels and have concluded our triennial board 
effectiveness review using an external facilitator; in this instance, 
Russell Reynolds Associates has assisted us. Further details of the 
effectiveness review are set out at page 33 under ‘Board 
effectiveness review’.
Organisations which demonstrate good governance have clear and 
understood values. The Board’s behaviour and the values it 
demonstrates set the tone for the organisation. Ensuring that the 
right tone is set at the top of our organisation in order to guide its 
behaviour and to ensure that our organisation lives by and 
demonstrates the right values is a core responsibility of the Board 
and is a part of the management of risk. The values must enable 
entrepreneurial and prudent management of the resources which 
you, our shareholders, have entrusted to us so that we can deliver 
long-term success for Dairy Crest and all its stakeholders. In this 
Report we demonstrate how we have addressed the principles of 
good governance through, amongst other things, ensuring that we 
have in place an effective internal framework of systems and controls 
which clearly define authority and accountability while at the same 
time enabling the appropriate management of risk.
A key benchmark is our compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council 
(‘FRC’) in September 2014 (‘Code’) – which can be found at www.
frc.org.uk. I am pleased to report that we have complied with all 
relevant provisions of the Code during the 2015/16 year.
c or Porate Governance
Governance framework
The diagram below sets out the structure used to govern the 
Company. Through our governance structure we have established a 
clearly defined set of values which are communicated throughout 
the Group. Our values are supported by a range of procedures and 
guidelines providing an appropriate roadmap to inform employees’ 
behaviour. Together with external governance codes they set an 
effective framework for the Group’s standards and governance.
As Chairman my role is to lead the 
Board and ensure it delivers against 
its responsibilities. A strong 
governance framework enables the 
Board to do so, helping to ensure it 
has clarity of purpose and a 
common understanding of the 
responsibilities and accountabilities 
which it must keep in mind when 
going about its business. The 
Board has two key responsibilities. It must provide 
entrepreneurial leadership to the business while at the same time 
exerting appropriate control. Our governance framework helps 
the Board to focus on the detailed activities which sit within those 
two broad responsibilities. As a Board we are committed to 
delivering the best possible outcomes and we are conscious of 
the need to take account of and balance the interests of all of our 
stakeholders.
c hairman’s introduction
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance 
of the Company. Its strong governance framework (as illustrated 
below) is supported by a combination of clear values, appropriate 
policy, and an environment of transparency and accountability. The 
Board’s central role is to work alongside the executive team 
providing support, challenge, guidance and leadership. I believe that 
the Board of Dairy Crest is well balanced with a broad range of skills, 
diversity and experience.
In the coming year we shall continue to focus on succession 
planning at Board level and the on-going execution of our strategy of 
generating growth by building strong positions in branded and 
added value markets, especially as manufacture commences at our 
new whey and GOS plants in Davidstow; all within an appropriate 
risk framework.
stephen alexander Chairman
18 May 2016
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
Group
Board
Nomination
Committee
CR
Committee
Demand HR Finance
Management
Board
Supply Legal
t he Board
r ole: The Board is collectively responsible for the entrepreneurial 
leadership and control of the Company against a framework of 
prudent and effective controls enabling the assessment and 
management of risk. As custodian of the Group’s strategic aims, 
vision and values it ensures that the necessary human, financial and 
other resources necessary for the delivery of long-term success of 
the Group are in place and scrutinises and reviews management’s 
performance. Each Director is aware of their responsibilities, 
individually and collectively, to promote the long-term success of the 
Company consistent with their statutory duties.
How it operates: The Board’s agenda through the year is pre-
planned with sufficient time allowed to enable the Board to react and 
respond to the changing landscape of the Group’s business as the 
year progresses. The Board’s key accountabilities are:
•	 Framing the Group’s values and associated behaviours
•	 Approval of the Group’s long-term objectives and business strategy
•	 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
•	 Maintaining an overview and control of the Group’s operating and 
financial performance
•	 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
and risk management
•	 Oversight of the Company’s governance and compliance 
framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and 
Safety and Business Conduct and considering regulatory changes 
and developments
A formal schedule of matters reserved has been adopted by the 
Board and is available on the Group’s website www.dairycrest.co.uk.
d elegation of authority: the Board has delegated authority to five 
committees;
•	 Audit Committee
•	 Nomination Committee
•	 Management Board
•	 Corporate Responsibility Committee
•	 Remuneration Committee
The individual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate 
Responsibility and Remuneration Committees prefaced by an 
introduction from the chairman of each can be found at pages 36 to 
60. The Committees’ terms of reference, which to the extent 
required, comply with the Code, can be found on the Group’s 
website. Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the 
Management Board which under its terms of reference has 
delegated authority from the Board over operational decisions.
c omposition: At the date of this Report, the Board comprises six 
Directors (two Executive, a Non-executive Chairman (who was 
independent on appointment) and three independent Non-executive 
Directors). Directors’ biographical details, experience, responsibilities 
and other commitments are set out at pages 28 to 29.
Balance and independence: With three independent Non-
executive Directors and a Chairman who was independent on 
appointment, all of whom are free of any relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment, 
the composition of the Board satisfies the requirements of the Code. 
The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate the suitable 
breadth of experience and backgrounds required to provide effective 
leadership for the Group. Details of the Group’s approach to diversity 
are set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee at page 39.
c hairman and c hief executive: These roles are distinct and 
separate with clearly defined accountabilities set out for each which 
can be found on the Group’s website (Chairman/Chief Executive 
Division of Responsibilities). The Chairman has particular 
responsibility for the effectiveness of the Group’s governance. He is 
accountable for ensuring the Board’s effectiveness in discharging its 
responsibilities, safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder 
interests and promoting effective communication with shareholders. 
Together with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the 
Company Secretary he sets the agenda for Board Meetings and 
directs the focus of the Board ensuring that adequate time is 
available for all agenda items. In promoting a culture of openness 
among the Board and ensuring constructive relations between 
Executive and Non-executive Directors, he facilitates the effective 
contribution of all Directors. To help ensure a proper dialogue with all 
Directors, the Chairman meets with Directors individually and talks to 
the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
senior independent d irector: Richard Macdonald is the 
Company’s Senior Independent Director. He provides a sounding 
board to the Chairman. He also acts as a lightning rod should 
matters arise which Directors wish to discuss with someone other 
than the Chairman. He is available to shareholders and other 
stakeholders in the Group’s business as needed; and where 
required, he deputises for the Chairman.
n on-executive d irectors: All Non-executive Directors (including 
the Chairman) confirmed on appointment that they had sufficient 
time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and that they 
would inform the Board should the position change. Details of the 
Chairman’s other significant professional commitments are included 
in his biography (page 29). The Board is satisfied that he continues 
to have sufficient time available to fulfil his obligations as a Director 
and Chairman. All significant commitments of Non-executive 
Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and 
the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors 
scrutinise management’s performance in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of 
performance. The Chief Executive’s objectives, achievement of 
which influences his remuneration, are agreed with the 
Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the 
Chairman. Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by 
the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee monitors and 
scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the 
robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk 
management. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting 
and recommending Directors for appointment and in succession 
planning. The appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors 
from the Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the running of 
the Company or a proposed action, they would be recorded in the 
Board minutes. The Non-executive Directors recognise the principle 
that if on resignation from the Board a Director has unresolved 
concerns, that Director should provide a written statement to the 
Chairman for circulation to the Board. The concept that Non-
executive Directors are free to question any executive decision of the 
Company is enshrined in the engagement letter of each Non-
executive Director.
information and support: The Company Secretary advises the 
Chairman and the Board on all governance matters and ensures 
Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations 
complied with. He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a quality which enables the 
Board to discharge its duties. The Board, the Committees and all 
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. He provides the Board with regular reports on 
governance issues. Procedures exist for Directors to seek 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense where 
required. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 33
Governance
Board and main c ommittee meetings
The Directors named in the table below held office during the year. The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors 
in the year is shown in the table below. The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended 
during 2015/16.
 
Board audit r emuneration n omination c orporate
r esponsibility
Management 
Board
Mr M allen 8(8) – – – 2(2) 36(40)
Mr t atherton 8(8) – – – 2(2) 36(40)
Mr s alexander 8(8) – – 1(1) – –
Mr a c arr-Locke 8(8) 4(4) 4(4) 1(1) – –
Ms s f arr 8(8) 4(4) 4(4) 1(1) 2(2) –
Mr r Macdonald 8(8) 4(4) 4(4) 1(1) 1(2) –
engaging with the Group HR Director, the Group Commercial 
Director and the Group Supply Chain Director; being the other 
members of the Management Board who have regular interaction 
with the Directors and regularly attend and present to Board 
meetings. Russell Reynolds then compiled their report which it 
discussed initially with the Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director before presenting their findings and recommendations to 
the full Board. In terms of future composition, the Board will be 
considering the benefits of increasing the size of the Board to add 
further relevant skills and experience.
The performance of Executive Directors in the context of their 
management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the 
normal way. As is the case with all management grade employees, 
Executive Directors participate in the Group’s performance and 
development review process. Under that process, the Chairman 
appraises the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Executive appraises the performance of the Group Finance Director. 
The outcome of reviews of performance of both Executive Directors 
is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee. The outcome of the 
performance review of Executive Directors is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report at page 49.
induction and development: the Company Secretary ensures 
that Directors undergo a comprehensive induction programme on 
appointment. In addition to equipping Directors with sufficiently 
detailed knowledge of the operations of the Group’s business 
necessary to enable them effectively to carry out their duties, the 
induction programme is tailored to their experience, background and 
particular areas of focus.
c onflicts of interest: The Companies Act 2006 places a duty on 
each Director to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have 
a direct or indirect interest which conflicts or may conflict with the 
interests of the Company. That duty is in addition to the obligation 
owed by Directors to the Company to disclose to the Board any 
transaction or arrangement which gives rise or may give rise to a 
conflict of interest under consideration by the Company. Procedures 
are in place for Directors to disclose conflicts or potential conflicts of 
interest. The Company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’) authorise 
the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise conflicts or possible 
conflicts of interest between Directors and the Company.  
Board effectiveness review
We reported last year that the Board normally undertakes an annual 
effectiveness review and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code arranges for the effectiveness review to be externally facilitated 
at least every three years. We also reported that as a result of the 
unforeseen need for changes to the Board in 2014 with Anthony 
Fry’s departure from the Board and the appointment of Stephen 
Alexander as Chairman, the Board’s plans for its effectiveness 
review had been interrupted. The Board decided that in light of 
Stephen’s new appointment as Chairman towards the end of 2014, it 
would be more valuable to the Board to defer its effectiveness review 
to give it time to adjust to the changes.
Preparations for an externally facilitated board effectiveness review 
commenced in 2015 with the selection of an external facilitator. 
Following a tender exercise run by the Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director, with the assistance of the Company 
Secretary, in which a long list of possible external facilitators was 
compiled resulting in a short list of three who then presented to the 
Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, Russell Reynolds 
Associates was appointed as the external facilitator for the 
effectiveness review which was conducted in the last quarter of the 
year. Russell Reynolds has been engaged by the Group in the past 
for the provision of search and selection services in relation to senior 
appointments to the Group.
Following appointment, Russell Reynolds met with the Chairman 
and the Company Secretary, with input from the Senior Independent 
Director, to agree the approach to and to scope the effectiveness 
review. The agreed scope of the effectiveness review was to develop 
a strong understanding of how the skills of each Director support the 
organisation’s strategy, as well as Directors’ contribution to ensuring 
the governance processes and Committees are operating 
effectively. In addition, the review included an assessment of all 
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, as well as specific 
executives, namely the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and 
the Company Secretary. 
Russell Reynolds attended a Board meeting to observe the Board in 
action and compiled an initial questionnaire for completion by all 
Directors and the Company Secretary. They then met with each of 
the Directors and the Company Secretary individually, as well as 
effectiveness: Normally the Board has eight scheduled meetings 
in its annual work plan. It holds additional meetings on an ad hoc 
basis as and when required. Details of the Board and Committee 
meetings held during the 2015/16 year and Directors’ attendance at 
those meetings is set out in the table below. 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment require them to 
obtain the prior approval of the Board to appointments external to 
the Company where those appointments might affect the time they 
are able to devote to their role. That requirement assists the Board to 
ensure no conflict of interest may result from such appointments. 
When considering conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, the 
conflicted or potentially conflicted Director is excluded from 
participation in the Board’s consideration of the conflict or potential 
conflict situation. As part of the formalised year-end sign off process 
Directors confirm in writing whether they have any present or 
anticipated conflicts of interest. As at April 2016 the Directors all 
confirmed that they had no present or anticipated conflicts of 
interest. No Director had a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
appointment and re-election: The Articles provide that the 
Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a 
Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director. A Director 
appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) following appointment and shall be eligible for 
election by the members. The Articles require all Directors to be 
elected annually. All Directors will stand for re-election at the 
Company’s 2016 AGM. Having regard to the roles performed by 
each of the Directors, the individual input and contribution they make 
and their individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied 
that each candidate’s performance justifies nomination for re-
election by shareholders. Service agreements of Executive Directors 
and a template letter of appointment of Non-executive Directors are 
published on the Company’s website and are available for inspection 
by any person at the Company’s registered office during normal 
office hours and will also be available at the 2016 AGM for 15 
minutes before and throughout the meeting.
d ialogue with shareholders
The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship 
with its shareholders. It fully supports the principles encouraging 
dialogue between companies and their shareholders in the Code 
and the UK Stewardship Code. The Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations. 
Presentations are made to analysts at various points through the 
year and meetings are held with key institutional shareholders to 
discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities 
immediately after the Interim and Preliminary Results 
Announcements. Slide presentations made to institutional 
shareholders are made available on the Company’s website along 
with annual and interim reports, interim management statements, 
trading updates and company announcements. Announcements are 
made as appropriate and required through a Regulatory Information 
Service.
All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with 
shareholders. Feedback from meetings with shareholders is 
provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders. The 
Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic 
reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the 
Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders. Following 
last year’s AGM we shall be writing to and engaging with key 
shareholders on our remuneration policy and its application during 
the year.
The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is 
dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
meeting. Ordinarily all Directors attend the AGM and are available to 
answer shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting. 
The Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on 
the progress and performance of the Group before the formal 
business of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed 
relating to the Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy 
voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM including the 
level of votes for and against resolutions and abstentions, and are 
posted on the Company’s website following the conclusion of the 
meeting. Consistent with corporate governance best practice, voting 
at the AGM is conducted on a poll.
r isk management and internal control
The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks it 
is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. It has overall 
responsibility for monitoring the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems and the effectiveness of those systems. It is 
assisted in that task by the Audit Committee and the Group Internal 
Audit function. There is an on-going process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Group. The 
Board has delegated responsibility for management of day-to-day 
operational risks to the Management Board. The Audit Committee 
conducts reviews of the internal control systems and the Board 
reviews them annually. The principal risks and uncertainties identified 
by the Group are set out at pages 16 to 17 along with the steps 
which are taken to mitigate and manage them. The Board has 
satisfied itself that its systems accord with the FRC’s Guidance on 
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting and that satisfactory internal control procedures 
and systems have been in place throughout the year and up to and 
including the date of this Report in compliance with the requirements 
of the Code. A rolling audit programme conducted by Group Internal 
Audit across the Group forms a key facet of the Group’s systems of 
internal control. The Head of Group Internal Audit reports 
independently to the chairman of the Audit Committee on assurance 
matters. It is not possible to eliminate risk entirely. Accordingly, 
although the systems are designed to manage risks they cannot 
provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
They provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can be 
identified promptly and remedied appropriately. The key 
components of the risk management and internal control systems 
include:
•	 The adoption and communication of clearly documented values, 
policies, procedures and processes, including, amongst others, 
Business Conduct policy
•	 Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all 
significant strategic, financial and organisational risks
•	 A management structure which includes clear lines of 
responsibility and documented delegations of authority with 
appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, 
incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Group’s assets
•	 The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, 
forecasting and review processes
•	 Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the 
Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Group’s control processes 
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial 
reporting
•	 The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the 
business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of 
the Group’s business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow 
information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of 
which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 35
Governance
•	 Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget (including 
analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for 
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks) 
in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each 
key constituent part of the Group and key departments report 
performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel 
comprising the Management Board and other senior managers
•	 Formal documented financial controls and procedures including 
specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of 
significant contracts
•	 Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of 
a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the 
approval of business unit management
•	 Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed 
by senior management, the Management Board and the Board 
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership 
and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management 
Board and independent assurance over the appropriate 
implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by 
Group Internal Audit
•	 Review by the Audit Committee of the Group’s risk register 
processes
•	 Review and approval of the audit plan for the Group’s Internal 
Audit function together with progress against and revision of the 
plan as appropriate, throughout the year
•	 Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all 
Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, 
corrective action plans and progress against those plans
•	 The operation of an integrated business planning process with 
formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle financial 
performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with 
associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to 
performance
f air balanced and understandable: Provision C.1 of the Code 
requires the Directors to present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects. When the 
provision was first introduced to the Code, the Audit Committee 
adopted a detailed process to enable the Board to report against 
this principle of the Code. The resultant more structured approach 
(see table below) to the preparation of the Report and Accounts has 
been repeated in the production of this Report and Accounts which 
the Board formally signed off at its meeting in May 2016.
January/f ebruary/March april May
initial content 
production
Prepare content 
not dependent on 
year end results, 
e.g.: business 
model, strategy, 
corporate 
governance 
sections.
Project Manager 
(‘PM’) considers 
whether content 
collated is itself and 
collectively fair 
balanced and 
understandable 
(‘FBU’): review and 
amend.
Identify material 
events/
performance 
issues that will 
need to be 
reported
agree key 
messages
Start completing 
and collating 
performance 
related content, 
e.g. remuneration 
report.
Consider new 
regulations and 
consistency with 
key messages and 
KPIs.
PM considers 
whether content 
collated is itself and 
collectively FBU: 
review and amend
r eview and  
sign off
Confirmation from 
contributors as to 
completeness of 
input.
Appropriate review 
of full content, for 
consistency, 
completeness and 
messaging: review 
and amend.
‘Sign-off’ by 
section owners.
• 	 Bring 	 t ogether 	 all	
section owners to 
agree that whole 
Annual Report and 
Accounts (‘ARA’) is 
FBU.
• 	 Consider 	 formal	
sign off from 
section owners to 
the Board.
f ormal sign off
Consider level of 
assurance 
obtained over 
non-financial 
information in the 
ARA.
Where applicable 
Audit Committee to 
formally report to 
the Board on how it 
has satisfied itself 
that ARA is FBU.
Board to minute 
consideration of 
FBU with Board 
paper showing the 
process and 
results.
The Board’s assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable 
nature of the Annual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, 
amongst other matters, the following:
The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management 
with overall coordination by the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel.
An internal verification process is undertaken by the Internal Auditors 
to ensure factual accuracy.
Comprehensive reviews of the draft Annual Report and Accounts 
are undertaken by Management Board members, and in relation to 
certain sections by the Company’s external lawyers, by the External 
Auditor and other advisers.
The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are 
prepared through an iterative drafting process by the Chairman of 
appropriate Committees of the Board and the final draft is reviewed 
by those Committees prior to consideration by the Board.
At its May 2016 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that 
the Annual Report and Accounts for financial year 2015/16, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board 
believes that the information contained therein provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
and Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
valuation being disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty 
within the interim financial statements. The sale completed on 26 
December 2015 and consequently the Dairies business has 
continued to be disclosed as discontinued in the full year Group 
financial statements. We considered carefully and concluded it was 
appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset from the sale.
2. r evenue recognition
Revenue recognition and promotional accruals are significant to the 
Group given revenue should not be incorrectly stated through the 
misrepresentation of promotional expenditure and accruals. The 
Committee and the external auditor considered the main areas of 
judgment exercised by management in arriving at the accounting 
treatment for all matters related to relevant recognition including the 
levels of promotional accruals, the representation of profits and 
liabilities, and the associated controls. The Committee and the 
external auditor concurred with the judgments made by 
management in respect of the accounting policy for accruals release 
and were satisfied that the revenue reported for the year had been 
appropriately recognised.
3. exceptional items 
For both the interim financial statements and the full year Group 
financial statements, the Committee examined the appropriateness 
of items being classified as exceptional and their compliance with 
the Group’s accounting policies in light of the guidance issued by the 
FRC. The Committee was satisfied that exceptional items had been 
appropriately classified and disclosed, treated consistently and that 
discussions with management were transparent.
4. f air balanced and understandable
The Committee has undertaken a detailed review in assessing 
whether the 2016 Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and 
understandable, and whether it provided the necessary information 
to shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. The Committee reviewed and made suggestions to the 
processes put in place by management to provide the necessary 
assurance that appropriate disclosures are made and it reviewed 
management’s assessment of items included in the financial 
statements and the prominence given to those items. The 
Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2016 Report 
and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
5. Going concern 
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of adopting the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the full year financial 
statements and assessed whether the business was viable in 
accordance with the new requirement of the Code. The assessment 
included a review of the principal risks facing the Group, their 
financial impact, how they were being managed, together with a 
discussion as to the appropriate period for assessment. The Group’s 
viability statement is included in the Directors’ report on page 61.
The regular challenge and engagement with management, the 
external auditor and the internal audit team, together with the timely 
receipt of high quality reports and information from them, has enabled 
the Committee to discharge its duties and responsibilities efficiently.
I would like to record my thanks for the support of the other 
members of the Committee, from Dairy Crest’s Internal Audit and 
Finance teams; and to Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’) for their thorough 
approach.
andrew c arr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee
18 May 2016
One of the Committee’s other key responsibilities is ensuring the 
Group’s published accounts have integrity and are consistent with 
accounting and governance requirements. In achieving this we have 
given particular consideration to the new viability statement and 
concentrated on the fair balanced and understandable requirements 
for the Annual Report. In this regard we are helped by receiving a 
number of appropriate papers from the Group Finance Director and 
his team and by the independent work of our external auditors.
We respond to developments during the year as required, focussing 
on key matters which arise in addition to our planned work 
programme. This year, the sale of the Dairies business was a key 
event. We have concentrated on appropriate accounting for the 
disposal, the control environment as the Group reorganised; and on 
our security strategy for IT and business systems.
As part of the Financial Reporting Council’s normal work programme 
we were fortunate to receive a report on EY’s audit of our prior year 
accounts and coincidentally a review by the Financial Reporting 
Council of the Company’s annual accounts as well.  We found this 
independent input both helpful and reassuring.
Looking ahead, and as previously indicated, we plan to conduct a 
tender process during 2016 with the objective of appointing new 
external auditors for the commencement of the 2017/18 financial year.
significant matters relating to the Group’s 2016 financial 
statements:
The most significant matters considered by the Committee in 
relation to the Group’s 2016 financial statements were:
1. accounting treatment for the d airies business
For both the interim financial statements and the full year Group 
financial statements, the Committee has reviewed with management 
and the external auditors the accounting treatment adopted and 
disclosed for the Dairies business. In reviewing the interim results, 
the Committee considered whether the transaction had met the 
criteria of highly probable under IFRS5 ‘non current assets held for 
sale and its discontinued operations’ based on the Competition and 
Markets Authority’s (‘CMA’) latest announcements on approving the 
transaction. The Committee confirmed that the accounting 
conclusion that the Dairies business should be presented as ‘held 
for sale’ was appropriate based on the CMA’s announcement that it 
proposed to accept modified undertakings provided by Müller, and 
that the level of impairment of assets was appropriate, with the 
This is my seventh year of chairing 
the Audit Committee. In that time, 
we have established and refined 
a process of governance and 
work. As a matter of course we 
reconsider our terms of reference 
each year, taking into account 
changes to Dairy Crest and to 
external governance requirements. 
We then develop a clear work plan 
through the year to ensure we fulfil all our responsibilities. At the 
core of those responsibilities is ensuring the Company is operating 
an effective risk assessment and management process and that 
an appropriate control framework is in place. We are helped by 
the Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Committee 
and which works against an agreed plan to ensure controls are 
effective.
 audit c ommittee report Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 37
Governance
11 May 2015 • Received and considered EY’s 2015 Audit Results Report
 
• Reviewed management’s review of changes to relevant 
accounting standards and policies affecting the draft Report 
and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2015 (including 
compliance with the fair balanced and understandable 
principle and the going concern assessment)
 
• Reviewed its own performance and that of EY along with 
EY’s objectivity and the independence and effectiveness of 
EY’s processes, and recommended to the Board EY’s 
reappointment as the external auditor
 
• Received Group Internal Audit’s report on financial and 
operational controls audits, updates on whistleblowing 
notifications and progress against its audit plan. Approved 
Group Internal Audit’s work plan for the next financial year
8 september 
2015
• Received and considered a report on the Group’s proposed 
accounting for its Dairies business within the interim financial 
statements 
 
• Considered EY’s 2015/16 Audit Planning Report
• Received Group Internal Audit’s report on financial and 
operational controls audits, and whistleblowing notifications
30 o ctober 
2015
• Received and reviewed an update on the Group’s safe 
contractor accreditation policy, together with the appropriate 
controls and recommended changes to the policy
 
• Received and considered management’s judgments and 
estimates in relation to the interim financial statements, in 
particular the classifications of the Dairies business as held 
for sale under IFRS 5 ‘Non current assets held for sale and 
its discontinued operations’ and the associated impairment 
of assets on ‘held for sale’ valuation. 
 
• Received management’s analytical review of the Group’s 
results for the 6 months ended 30 September 2015; 
reviewed and approved the draft Interim Financial 
Statements for that period for recommendation to the Board 
• Received and considered EY’s Interim Review Report for the 
6 month period ended at 30 September 2015
 
• Received an updated on the various operation work streams 
facilitating the sale of the Dairies business
11 March 2016 • Received and reviewed an update on the Group’s 
accounting for the disposal of the Dairies business 
• Received and considered a report on the changes to risk 
disclosure and the viability statement under the Code.
 
• Received and considered EY’s Audit Update Report
 
• Received and considered EY’s response to the FRC’s review 
of EY’s audit of the Group’s financial statements for the year 
ended 31 March 2016
• Received Group Internal Audit’s update on financial and 
operational audits conducted and progress with its audit 
plan, as well as whistleblowing notifications received and an 
update on the revised Group Internal Audit charter
• Received an update on audit regulations and proposal for 
the audit tender process in 2016/17
• Received an update on and reviewed the Group’s IT security 
risks
• Reviewed management’s response to the constructive 
enquiry received from the FRC which is now closed in 
respect of the Group’s 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 
and the resulting improvements to disclosure
• Reviewed the Committee’s performance during the year 
against its work plan satisfying itself that it had achieved its 
work plan as well as a number of additional matters which 
had arisen during the year and that it had satisfied its remit 
under its terms of reference, which it also reviewed and 
decided that no changes were required
Membership: details of the members of the Committee at the date 
of this report together with details of attendance at meetings are set 
out at page 33. No changes to the membership of the Committee 
occurred during the year. The Board considers that the Chairman of 
the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience for the 
purposes of the Code.
invitations to attend meetings: a standing invitation has been 
made by the Committee to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director to attend the Committee’s 
meetings. The Group Financial Controller, Head of Group Internal 
Audit and representatives of the external auditor attend all meetings 
at the invitation of the Committee. During the year the external and 
internal auditors attended all meetings and also met privately with 
the Committee.
r ole and responsibilities: the Committee’s role and 
responsibilities are concerned with financial reporting, narrative 
reporting, whistleblowing and fraud, internal controls and risk 
management systems, internal audit and external audit. The 
Committee’s scheduled activities are planned in accordance with its 
terms of reference, which have been approved by the Board. 
t erms of reference: the Committee has documented terms of 
reference which are approved by the Board. They are reviewed at 
least annually and were last reviewed at the Committee’s meeting in 
March 2016. The Committee’s terms of reference comply with the 
Code and can be found on the Group’s website.
o bjectives: the Board has delegated authority to the Committee to 
oversee and review the Group’s financial reporting process, system 
of internal control and management of business risks, the internal 
audit process, the external audit process and relationship with the 
external auditor and the Company’s process for monitoring 
compliance with applicable laws and external regulations. Final 
responsibility for financial reporting, compliance with laws and 
regulations and risk management rests with the Board to which the 
Committee regularly reports back.
Meetings: the Committee’s core work is driven by a structured 
programme of activity settled at the start of the year between the 
Committee Chairman, management and external auditors. As well 
as its core work, the Committee undertakes additional work in 
response to the evolving audit landscape. The following non-
exhaustive list provides highlights of the Committee’s core and 
additional work undertaken during the year: 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
The Committee discussed the implications of the CMA’s Order 
requiring FTSE 350 companies to hold an audit tender every 10 
years as well as the final European Commission (EC) regulations. 
The Committee noted that based on the EC transitional 
arrangements the final year that EY can be appointed as the Group’s 
auditors is for the year ended 31 March 2020.
At its meeting in March 2016, the Committee considered the timing 
of a potential tender for the external audit. It concluded that the 
tender process should take place during 2016 to enable the 
appointment of a new external auditor in readiness for the start of 
the 2017/18 financial year on 1 April 2017. EY will not be invited to 
tender.
The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor 
throughout the year and formally concludes the assessment of its 
performance every May and makes a corresponding 
recommendation on the appointment of EY for the forthcoming 
financial year to the Board. Shareholders formally appoint the 
external auditor at the AGM in July. In light of the assessments and 
review undertaken last May, the Board endorsed the Committee’s 
recommendation which was approved by shareholders in July 2015. 
At its meeting in May 2016, the Audit Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the re-appointment of EY as the Group’s external 
auditor for the 2016/17 year. In doing so it took account of the 
Committee’s review of the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and the effectiveness 
of the audit process together with other relevant review processes 
conducted throughout the year. The Committee was satisfied that it 
should recommend to the Board the re-appointment of EY as the 
Company’s and Group’s external auditor.
external auditor objectivity and independence: the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor is critical to the integrity of 
the Group’s audit. During the year the Committee reviewed the 
external auditor’s own policies and procedures for safeguarding its 
objectivity and independence. There are no contractual restrictions 
on the Group with regard to the external auditor’s appointment. The 
audit engagement partner provided his annual representation to the 
Committee as to the external auditor’s independence and confirmed 
that EY’s reward and remuneration structure includes no incentives 
for him to cross sell non-audit services to audit clients. The audit 
engagement partner rotation requirements have been routinely 
observed, with a change implemented in September 2015.
The Committee’s assessment of EY’s independence is underpinned 
by the Group’s policy on the use of EY for the provision of non-audit 
services. The policy contains a presumption against the use of the 
external auditor for non-audit services. EY may only be engaged for 
the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that 
presumption where those services are expressly permitted under 
the policy and where there is a demonstrable efficiency, audit 
enhancement or cost benefit resulting from the engagement of the 
external auditor. Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the 
provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have 
been considered and discounted.
Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to 
the Group include, amongst others:
•	 Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information
•	 The design, supply or implementation of financial information 
systems
•	 Appraisal or valuation services
•	 Internal audit services
•	 Actuarial services
Fees paid to EY during the year are set out in the table below, 
together with prior year comparisons:
2015/16
£m
2014/15
£m
t otal audit fees
0.4 0.4
n on-audit fees
Taxation services
0.1 0.1
Other non-audit services
0.1 0.5
t otal non-audit fees
0.2 0.6
t otal f ees
0.6 1.0
Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year, 
which included advice on the Dairies sale transaction, are set out at 
Note 2 to the Accounts at page 83. The Committee was satisfied 
that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees were not 
material relative to the income of the external auditor firm as a whole. 
It was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor was maintained throughout the year. 
external auditor appointment:
EY has been the Company and Group’s external auditor since the 
Company floated in 1996. The external audit appointment has not 
been tendered competitively since EY’s appointment. Their 
performance has been reviewed annually by the Committee since 
that time. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 39
Governance
d irector appointments: The Committee’s primary responsibility is 
to consider and recommend to the Board candidates who are 
appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-executive 
Directors. Its objective is to maintain an appropriate balance of skills 
and experience on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshment 
of the Board. 
Processes for d irector appointments: The process for the 
appointment of new Directors is rigorous and transparent. The 
Committee ensures that the recruitment exercise for Directors is 
conducted against a documented brief setting out the requirements 
of the role and the skills and experience required of the person to fill 
it. In the past, the Company has engaged the services of external 
search consultancies and it is anticipated, in the ordinary course, 
that it would continue to do so in the future. Were it not to do so, 
open advertising would be used as an alternative. Prospective 
appointees are interviewed by the members of the Committee and 
once the Committee has made a final decision on a 
recommendation to the Board, that recommendation is reported to 
the Board and the Board makes the decision as to whether to 
appoint the recommended individual. The Committee reports the 
outcome of its meetings to the Board.
d irector t enure: Andrew Carr-Locke is the longest serving of the 
independent Non-executive Directors. In August 2016 he will have 
served seven years on the Board. None of the other Non-executive 
Directors, or the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, 
has yet served six years in office. 
d irector c ommitments: The Committee evaluates the 
commitments of individual Directors. The Board believes that it is in 
the best interests of the Company that Executive Directors take up 
opportunities to act as non-executive directors in other appropriate 
companies. Unless the Board approves otherwise, Executive 
Directors may serve in a non-executive capacity on the board of one 
other company. Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, 
executive or otherwise, on the boards of other companies or 
appropriate organisations. Non-executive Directors’ letters of 
appointment require them to seek prior approval from the Board 
before accepting any additional commitment that might affect the 
time that they are able to devote to their role as a Non-executive 
Director of the Company. The Board has the opportunity to satisfy 
itself that Non-executive Directors’ other commitments allow them to 
devote adequate time to their commitments to the Company. The 
Board approved all new appointments of Directors during the year 
and is satisfied that all Directors continue to have sufficient time to 
devote themselves properly to their duties for the Company.
Main activities d uring the Year: The Committee has not been 
required during the year to assist the Board with the recruitment of a 
Director. During the year the Committee’s main focus was on Board 
succession planning. In that regard, the Committee concentrated on 
building the internal pipeline of suitable candidates for succession to 
Board roles. It retained the services of an external consultant to 
evaluate potential internal candidates, including assessment of 
training and development needs, culminating in the preparation of 
This report on the work of the Nomination Committee is my first 
since my appointment as Chairman of the Committee in March 
2015. All of our Non-executive Directors are now members of the 
Committee and details of their attendance at Committee meetings 
during the year are set out on page 33. The Chief Executive also 
attends meetings by invitation.
n omination c ommittee report
suitable development plans, fulfilment of which over an appropriate 
timeframe will result in future internal candidates for consideration for 
Board roles along with other candidates identified through the 
adoption of the above-mentioned process which would be used 
were the Committee required to assist the Board with the 
recruitment of a Director.
f ocus for the n ext Year: The Committee will be assisting the 
Board in its consideration of expanding the Board to add further 
relevant skills and experience.
d iversity: The Committee monitors diversity on behalf of the Board. 
The Group interprets diversity in its widest sense and aims to 
achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by ensuring an 
appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, experience and 
knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers and other 
employees. The Committee considers that first and foremost, 
appointments must be made based on an objective assessment of 
who is the best person to fill a role, with candidates drawn from a 
diverse range of backgrounds. The Company has not adopted 
targets for female representation amongst the Directors. The Group 
will continue to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, 
irrespective of age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, 
colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
Board effectiveness: The Board normally undertakes an annual 
effectiveness review. In accordance with the Code, every three 
years, it uses the services of an external facilitator to facilitate its 
effectiveness review. This year’s review of the effectiveness of the 
Board, its Committees and of me as Chairman has been conducted 
with the assistance of Russell Reynolds Associates. Details of that 
review can be found at page 33.
stephen alexander Chairman of the Nomination Committee
18 May 2016 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Management Board
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises 
the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Group’s 
executive team. Details of the members of the Management Board 
can be found at pages 28 to 30. The Management Board is 
responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Group’s 
strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business 
and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the 
day-to-day operations of the Group’s business, its performance 
against forecasts and budgets and profitability. The Management 
Board normally meets weekly.
information included in the d irectors’ report
Certain information fulfilling the requirements of the Corporate 
Governance Report can be found in the Directors’ Report at pages 
61 to 63 under the headings ‘Substantial shareholdings’, ‘Rights and 
obligations attaching to shares’, ‘Articles of association’ and 
‘Purchase of own shares’ and is incorporated into this Corporate 
Governance Report by reference.
By order of the Board
r obin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel
18 May 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
During the year the Committee has addressed the challenge of 
adapting the Group’s approach to corporate responsibility in light of 
the completion of the sale of our Dairies business. We have reviewed 
our historical corporate responsibility pledges which have evolved 
into simpler more streamlined pledges which create value for the 
Group. As we have done so we have maintained focus on the key 
areas of, amongst others, energy and climate change, water use, 
waste, safety and wellbeing, employee engagement, innovation and 
healthier choices for consumers of our products. More detail on our 
achievements and progress in those areas and the broader 
Corporate Responsibility arena is set out at pages 22 to 27 of this 
Annual Report, however I wanted to highlight some of our 
achievements in the year:
•	 We cut CO
2 
emissions by 12.9% year-on-year
•	 We commissioned a new waste water treatment plant at 
Davidstow recovering 1.7 million litres of water daily for re-use
•	 We achieved our target of zero operational waste to landfill
•	 We have reduced our Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate from 
0.4 to 0.3
•	 We received a Gold Award at the GroceryAid Achievement 
Awards for our support of the food industry charity
•	 Our lower fat and added value product variants achieved retail 
sales of over £80 million
•	 Our one calorie cooking spray Frylight achieved year-on-year sales 
growth of 19%
•	 We opened our £4 million innovation centre at Harper Adams 
University
The Committee recognises that our corporate responsibility strategy 
needs to evolve continually to meet the changing demands of our 
customers, employees and the consumers of the great products we 
make. The Committee will ensure that our corporate responsibility 
programme continues to evolve to meet the changing shape of our 
business. To that end I am pleased that by reorganising our pledges 
into four key areas of focus; Environment, Workplace, Community and 
Marketplace, each of which is the responsibility of a senior manager, 
we will deliver real traction in the business.
Effective corporate responsibility is in the interests of all Dairy Crest’s 
stakeholders, I believe that our approach will continue to spark 
creative, innovative ideas which will connect with consumers in a very 
real way, so helping to deliver increasing success in the future.
sue f arr Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
18 May 2016
I am pleased to present the report 
of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee to shareholders. 
Full details of our corporate 
responsibility programme can 
be found at pages 22 to 27. The 
committee oversees the Group’s 
corporate responsibility programme 
and ensures that key social, 
ethical and environmental issues 
are assessed and prioritised including reviewing the Company’s 
corporate responsibility pledges. In addition to me as Chairman, 
the Committee comprises Richard Macdonald, Mark Allen, Tom 
Atherton, Robin Miller, Robert Willock, Adam Braithwaite and 
Simon Hewitt (Group Technical Director).
r eport of the c orporate r esponsibility c ommittee Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 41
Governance
Transformation of Dairy Crest
Over the past two years Dairy Crest has been through a significant 
transformation, with 2015/16 marking the completion of the sale of 
our Dairies business to Müller. Over the year the passion and 
dedication of our senior management has played an even more 
critical role than usual in the delivery of the transaction and the 
associated benefits to the Company, shareholders and wider sector. 
Our share price responded positively to the deal, demonstrating the 
strength of support our investors have for the sale of the Dairies 
business, which has resulted in the repositioning of the Company as 
a stronger branded and added value business.
Following the announcement of the sale, a comprehensive strategic 
review has been undertaken, with the intention of restructuring and 
reshaping the Company to be more streamlined and responsive to 
enable us to deliver increased growth, cash generation and 
enhanced shareholder value. This is already converting into 
measureable performance with a greater than 15% margin in the 
continuing business (targeted to increase further next year) and 
improved profitability in the second half of the year (set against the 
context of a deflationary dairy market). As referenced in last year’s 
report, at an extraordinary general meeting in December 2014 
shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational 
Incentive Award (‘TIA’) to Mark Allen, outside of the approved Policy. 
This award supported the retention and motivation of Mark Allen 
through this critical period in which his knowledge and experience 
were vital to a successful outcome. The vesting outcome for the TIA 
is assessed based on the CEO’s performance against a number of 
objectives relating to and resulting from the deal. Outstanding 
progress has been achieved to date against these objectives and, in 
line with the commitment made in last year’s report, further detail on 
the TIA objectives and performance against these are set out in this 
report (subject to commercial confidentiality constraints). 
DireCTors’ remuneraTion reporT
2015/16
The sale was a highly positive step in Dairy Crest’s development, 
and was achieved against a challenging trading and economic 
backdrop. The nature of the transaction created short-term 
uncertainty for the Group and is reflected in the incentive outcomes 
under the financial measures that relate to the period in both annual 
bonus and Long Term Alignment Plan (‘LTAP’).
As set out in last year’s report, our annual bonus has been assessed 
against four metrics; operating profit, free cashflow, personal 
objectives and a metric dependent on the successful completion of 
the sale of the Dairies business. This approach was applied to all 
scheme participants, although a lesser percentage applied to 
Executive Directors for the transaction related element, so that all 
appropriate employees were incentivised and rewarded for their role 
in achieving the deal. 
The total bonus outcome for the year was 45% for Mark Allen and 
45% for Tom Atherton. This reflects the fantastic contribution by 
management to the successful transaction outcome (30% of bonus) 
and the strong delivery of personal objectives by both Executive 
Directors. However, the economic and trading circumstances faced 
by the business over the year, compounded by the uncertainty 
created in the market as a result of the sale of the Dairies business, 
resulted in the stretching 2015/16 financial performance targets set 
under the bonus in relation to operating profit and free cashflow not 
being achieved.  
Under the LTAP, our Executive Directors are measured against a 
pre-determined set of strategic performance indicators which 
determine the level of grant. The award is subject to a dividend 
performance underpin for the first 3 years of the vesting period, with 
awards vesting in two equal tranches four and five years after grant. 
The 2015/16 grant level of 67.6% was determined based on the 
performance of the Company over 2015/16 against the scorecard 
disclosed in the previous year’s report. Details of the achievement 
against each scorecard measure are detailed in this report, and 
reflect a consistent performance in a challenging year.
The 2013/14 LTAP dividend underpin performance period of three 
years is now complete with both dividend progression and dividend 
cover maintained within the required parameters. In accordance with 
the regulations, the value of this award has been included in the 
single figure of remuneration for this year as no further performance 
conditions will apply. However, the vesting period for this award is 
not yet complete, with the first half of the award vesting in 2017/18 
and the second half of the award vesting in 2018/19. As such it is 
important to note there are no long term incentive shares being 
released to Mark Allen and Tom Atherton this year, even though they 
are included for regulatory reasons in the single figure.
2016/17
The coming year will see the wholesale restructuring of the 
Company and will therefore be a dynamic and exciting period for the 
business – but not one without challenge. The delivery of strong 
financial performance in this period is paramount and therefore the 
annual bonus for 2016/17 will be principally based on operating profit 
and cashflow, being the key metrics against which the underlying 
performance of the business is measured. Personal objectives will 
remain within the bonus, however. The maximum opportunity will 
remain at 100% of salary.
Mark Allen’s salary was last increased five years ago in 2011. As noted 
previously in this statement, Mark Allen has demonstrated exceptional 
performance as our Chief Executive over this period and to reflect 
both this and the length of time his salary has been frozen, the 
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am 
pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the 
2015/16 financial year. 
The Dairy Crest remuneration 
policy continues to be based upon 
a core set of principles which 
support the strategic and financial 
ambitions of the Company: 
•	 The remuneration package should support a performance 
based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align 
executives’ and shareholders’ interests. 
•	 The remuneration structure is both uncomplicated and 
transparent, and we remain committed to open disclosure. 
•	 The measures used for incentive plans reflect the strategic 
priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future 
success of the Company. 
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy (‘Policy’) with a 96% vote in favour. A copy 
of the Policy is included after this statement for ease of reference. 
The full Policy as approved by shareholders is also available on 
our website. 
Chairman’s statement 42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
Committee has determined that his salary should be increased by 
4.2% to £540,000. This increase is below the corresponding increase 
of 5.6% received by the wider managerial, supervisory, administrative 
and clerical workforce of the Company in the period since 2011.
Tom Atherton was promoted into the Group Finance Director role at a 
salary significantly below the market rate with the intention that he 
would receive enhanced salary adjustments in line with increasing 
experience and good performance in role until a market median 
positioning is achieved. Tom continues to demonstrate strong 
performance as he develops in role and accordingly his salary has 
been increased by 13.3% to £340,000. Future increases to Tom’s 
salary are expected to be in line with inflation and the wider workforce. 
In all aspects of our remuneration we have operated within the 
approved Policy (and separate shareholder approval obtained in the 
case of the TIA) in the year. For ease of reference, we provide the 
complete Policy section within this report, although shareholder 
approval is not being sought for this at the 2016 AGM.
I would like to thank my fellow Committee members and internal and 
external teams who supported us with their commitment and hard 
work over the past year. We remain committed to hearing your views 
as shareholders. If you would like to discuss any aspect of our 
remuneration further I would welcome your comments.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
r ichard macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2015 to 31 
March 2016 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee’s 
activities and Remuneration Policy for the Company, together with 
payments and awards made to Directors.
•	 The Policy is set out in the section of this report entitled Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy. The Policy was approved by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM and applies from 1 April 2015 until the 2017 AGM. 
However, if the Policy ceases to be appropriate, the Committee 
will consider changes, putting any amended Policy to a 
shareholder vote at the relevant time. We have included a copy of 
the Policy in this Remuneration for ease of reference. The only 
updates we have made to the Policy are to remove references to 
the 2013/14 or 2014/15 financial years, as well as any Directors 
that have since left the Company and to update the section 
‘Illustrations of the application of Remuneration Policy’. We have 
also included references to the Transformational Incentive Award 
which was approved by shareholders outside Policy at an 
extraordinary general meeting in December 2014. The full Policy 
as approved by shareholders is available on the website in our 
2013/14 Directors’ Remuneration Report.
•	 The annual report on remuneration sets out the Committee’s 
activities and the Company’s payments and awards to Directors 
together with details of the link between Company performance 
and remuneration for the 2015/16 financial year. This part of the 
report (together with the Chairman’s s tatement) is subject to an 
advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
Directors’ r emuneration policy
We seek to ensure that the remuneration packages contribute to the 
delivery of long-term shareholder value. This is reflected in the 
Company’s annual bonus scheme and LTAP, which are explained in 
more details below. The Committee received shareholder approval 
of the following Policy at the Annual General Meeting on 15 July 
2014 to cover the period from 1 April 2015 to the 2017 AGM.
Directors’ r emuneration policy (approved by shareholders at the 2014 aGm)
How the element 
supports our 
strategic objectives o peration of the element maximum opportunity under the element
performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Base salary
Reflect assessment 
of market practice 
based on role and 
experience.
Benchmarked against executives with 
similar responsibilities in companies of 
comparable size and complexity, in 
particular the constituent companies of 
the FTs E 250 index (excluding financial 
services).
Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments 
during the year.
Reviewed annually and any changes are 
in the ordinary course effective from  
1st July.
Increases will normally be broadly in line with 
inflation and the wider employee population.
The Committee retains the flexibility to award 
higher base salary increases and to position 
salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Crest 
remains competitive in the market, and to take 
into account an individual’s personal 
performance and experience in the role – as 
such the Committee may apply increases over 
time as appropriate to achieve alignment with 
market levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a 
change in role or responsibility.
n ot applicable.
pension
Provide a market 
competitive level of 
provision with 
appropriate flexibility 
whilst minimising risk 
to the Group.
There is a defined contribution scheme 
and/or salary supplement in place. n o 
further service accrual under final salary 
pension scheme from 1 April 2010.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive employer 
contributions up to Annual Allowance plus cash 
supplements. Total benefit will not exceed 23% 
of salary.
n ot applicable.
Future policy table
The remuneration structure for Executive and n on-executive 
Directors (who are paid only fees and receive no additional benefits) 
at Dairy Crest and the underlying principles on which each element 
of the package is based are set out below. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 43
Governance
How the element 
supports our 
strategic objectives o peration of the element maximum opportunity under the element
performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Benefits
Provide market-
competitive benefits.
Includes company car benefit, life 
assurance cover, permanent health 
insurance and medical insurance.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the 
benefits on a monthly basis, or as 
required for one-off events.
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to add to or remove these 
benefits as required.
All Executives receive a company car/car 
allowance and private medical insurance, 
commensurate with market levels.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive life 
insurance cover of 7 x annual salary.
n ot applicable.
Bonus
Ensure that annual 
reward is consistent 
with successfully 
achieving the 
short-term financial 
targets and strategic 
objectives of the 
Group.
To deliver an appropriate balance 
between long-term and short-term 
reward, any bonus earned over 50% of 
annual salary is deferred into shares (see 
below). The remainder is paid as cash.
The cash element of the bonus is paid 
three months after the end of the financial 
year to which it relates.
Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Target award: 50% of salary.
Threshold award: 0% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to 
increase the maximum award to 150% of salary 
in exceptional circumstances. The Committee is 
not aware of any such circumstances and so 
does not currently expect to make awards above 
the maximum of 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the 
financial year.
Metrics used to determine performance under 
the bonus will be based on a mix of financial, 
operational and personal measures.
The Committee has the flexibility to vary the 
performance measures and weighting of 
metrics under this plan.
Deferred bonus
Deliver appropriate 
balance between 
long-term and 
short-term reward 
and to build up 
Directors’ 
shareholdings in line 
with Policy.
Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is 
deferred for three years, conditional on 
continued employment until vesting date.
Delivered in shares. Participants will 
normally be entitled to an amount, 
payable in shares, on vesting equal in 
value to the dividends payable on 
deferred bonus shares over the deferral 
period.
Policy maximum award: 50% of salary 
(maximum potential deferral).
In the exceptional event the Remuneration 
Committee exercises discretion to award a 
bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus earned 
above 50% of salary would be deferred into 
shares.
n one. Value growth is achieved only through 
change in share price, and dividend 
equivalents paid.
Long Term 
alignment plan 
(‘LTap ’)
Encourage and 
reward continuing 
improvement in the 
Group’s performance 
over the longer term.
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Measures identified 
are central to Dairy 
Crest’s strategy and 
are considered by 
Directors in 
overseeing the 
operation of the 
business.
Annual grant of share awards.
Awards will be subject to a phased 
vesting requirement, with 50% of the 
award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 5 
following grant.
Participants will normally be entitled to an 
amount on vesting, paid in shares, equal 
in value to the dividends payable on 
shares awarded.
The Board may at any time up to and on 
vesting reduce the number of shares that 
vest, should material misstatement or 
misconduct occur.
Maximum award: 90% of salary.
If performance falls below a minimum level 
against the scorecard no award will be made.
Achievements over the prior year against a 
pre-grant performance scorecard comprising 
measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic 
priorities.
The Committee has flexibility to amend the 
relevant measures, weightings and KPIs which 
determine the size of the awards granted. The 
weighting of financial KPIs in determining 
annual grant levels will be at least 60% of the 
scorecard.
Vesting is subject to continued employment.
The level of vesting may be reduced 
dependent on a dividend underpin over the 
first three years of the vesting period.
An amount of the award proportional to the 
percentage decrease in dividend may be 
clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 
50%. If the decline exceeds 50%, the 
Committee will use its discretion to determine 
the proportion of the award that shall vest. In 
such circumstances not more than 50% of the 
award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a 
specific range over the three-year 
measurement period. The Remuneration 
Committee retains discretion to reduce the 
vesting of awards as appropriate should 
dividend cover be outside this range. The 
dividend cover range will be determined by the 
Committee annually, and may be adjusted if 
the Committee determines this to be 
appropriate. 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
How the element 
supports our 
strategic objectives o peration of the element maximum opportunity under the element
performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
shareholding 
requirement
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Directors are encouraged to build a 
shareholding in the Company. s uch 
shareholdings exclude unvested options 
under the Long Term Incentive s hare Plan 
and include unvested deferred shares 
granted to Executive Directors as part 
payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP 
awards.
Directors who have not achieved the 
minimum shareholding requirement will 
be encouraged to retain 50% of any 
shares released under the deferred 
bonus/LTAP until the required level of 
shareholding is reached.
The shareholding requirement for Executive 
Directors is 200% of salary.
n ot applicable.
n on-executive 
Directors’ fees
Remunerates 
n on-executive 
Directors and 
attracts n on-
executive Directors of 
suitable calibre.
Benchmarked against n on-executive 
Directors with similar responsibilities in 
companies of comparable size and 
complexity.
The remuneration of the n on-executive 
Chairman is determined by the Board 
following recommendations from the 
Remuneration Committee and Chief 
Executive. The remuneration of 
n on-executive Directors is determined by 
the Board following recommendations 
from the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee having consulted with an 
external adviser and the Chief Executive.
The total fees for n on-executive Directors 
remain within the limit of £600,000 set out in the 
Articles of Association.
n ot applicable.
provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply – final award made 2012, no further awards will be made under the LTisp
Long Term 
incentive s hare 
plan (‘LTisp ’)
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Annual grant of share awards.
Three-year vesting period.
Annual limit – 150% of salary. 60% subject to three-year relative Ts R 
performance against a comparator group 
comprising FTs E 250 constituents (as at the 
grant date) (excluding financial service 
companies, real estate companies and 
investment trusts).
40% subject to three-year Adjusted EPs 
growth targets.
n otes on policy table and components of remuneration
performance measures and targets
Measures for incentive plans reflect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company. 
Targets are set by reference to budgeted financials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth 
outcomes.
Differences in remuneration for all employees
The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan. The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with 
specific measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTIs P arrangement. A smaller group of senior management 
now participates in the LTAP at a reward level appropriate to their role.
Ceo one-off Transformational incentive award 
At the EGM held in December 2014, shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational Incentive Award (TIA) to the CEO. The key 
terms of the TIA are detailed below: 
•	 The grant of a nil cost option to acquire Ordinary s hares was made to Mark Allen following the EGM. The option is exercisable three years 
after grant (in December 2017) to the extent that the stretching performance conditions set in relation to the award are achieved (as 
described below).
•	 The grant was made under rules of the LTIs P which were approved by shareholders in 2006 – this is the long-term incentive operated by 
Dairy Crest prior to the introduction of the LTAP. As set out in the table above, no further awards are intended to be made under the LTIs P.
•	 The award is structured as a base award over Ordinary s hares having a market value at grant equivalent to 75% of Mark Allen’s base salary. 
A multiplier of between 0 and 3 times the number of Ordinary s hares subject to the base award will be applied to it at the end of the three 
year vesting period depending on the level of performance achieved.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 45
Governance
•	 The Committee will determine the level of vesting of the TIA based on performance objectives which are intended to be demanding. In 
measuring performance in this regard, the Committee has identified three categories of objectives on which the assessment of performance 
will be based. These relate to the restructuring of the business and its future success, as follows:
 – managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business, requiring strong leadership and a high level of 
personal involvement from a chief executive officer as an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole 
through a period of extended uncertainty;
 – appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process; and
 – establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the 
delivery of value to shareholders.
•	 The objectives set by the Committee include both financial and non-financial objectives. Where appropriate, the Committee has set a 
performance range against which threshold, target and stretch performance will be measured. 
•	 In addition to the objectives themselves, the Committee will assess the quality of execution of the objectives, including, in particular, in 
relation to risk, sustainability and shareholder value.
•	 At the end of the three year performance period, the Committee will assess the sum of the evaluations of the individual objectives to 
determine the total level of vesting of the TIA and may exercise discretion to reduce the level of vesting when reviewing Dairy Crest’s 
performance in the round, including the level of value delivered to shareholders over the period.
•	 Updated objectives and performance against the objectives will be disclosed in each Directors’ Remuneration Report for each of the three 
financial years during the performance period and full disclosure of the performance levels achieved (including the multiplier applied and 
vesting level) will be set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial year in which the performance period ends. It is intended 
that the annual update provided to shareholders on the objectives and performance assessment will become more detailed over the course 
of the performance period.
•	 Updated objectives and performance against the objectives for the 2015/16 financial year are set out at pages 52 to 54.
•	 In line with best practice requirements under the Corporate Governance Code, the TIA is subject to malus and clawback provisions set by 
the Committee. 
statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these 
individuals into consideration when discussing packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not specifically ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors but any 
comments received are taken into account.
approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in 
the role. 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the 
appointment of an Executive Director. Any new Director’s remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the 
same constraints as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below:
Component policy and principles
Base salary and 
benefits
The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable 
companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract 
the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with 
reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Company’s ability to pay.
s hould relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the 
Company. s uch relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation/hotel 
cost, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household items. In addition, the Committee may grant additional 
support as appropriate.
Other benefits provided will be aligned to those set out on pages 42 to 44.
pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the defined contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and a cash supplement 
payment above this. The total benefit will not exceed 23% of Basic s alary.
annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
The Policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances. Any bonus over 
50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
Long-term 
incentives
The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long Term Alignment Plan at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 90% of salary.
Associated performance measures would apply as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
r eplacement 
awards
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period 
than the awards forfeited from a new recruit’s previous employer.
In determining quantum and structure of replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the value taking into account, as far as 
practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of remuneration forgone. The Committee has the flexibility to use cash and/or 
shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office
s ervice contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
executive Director Date of commencement of contract n otice period
M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months
T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months
Executive Directors’ service agreements are available on the Company’s website www.dairycrest.co.uk.
n on-executive Director Letters of appointment n otice period
A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months
R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months
s Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months
s Farr 6 October 2011 3 months
It is the Company’s Policy that n on-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years. A template n on-executive 
Director’s letter of appointment is available on the Company’s website.
external appointments
Executive Directors may be invited to become n on-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties 
can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company. External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and 
reported to the Board. Any external appointment must not conflict with a Director’s duties and commitments to Dairy Crest. Fees may be 
retained by Directors for such appointments. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 47
Governance
Termination policy
The Remuneration Committee’s approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual 
circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules 
(including relevant performance conditions).
The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Director service contract and Policy on payment for loss of office.
Component policy and principles
n otice period 12 months’ notice from Company.
12 months’ notice from Director.
Compensation for 
loss of office in 
service contracts
Up to 12 months’ salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in 
the notice period.
Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical benefits, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary 
representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
Under the terms of Mark Allen’s contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items – annual salary, 
benefits, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period. This will not be the Company’s Policy going forward for other 
Executive Directors. Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of office for Mark Allen are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in 
settlement of potential legal claims. This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment 
protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions. The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable 
reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as 
deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
Treatment of 
unvested deferred 
bonus awards 
under plan rules
If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, 
deferred shares may be released on termination.
Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
Treatment of 
unvested long-term 
incentive plan 
awards under plan 
rules
Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date 
with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting. Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the 
award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other 
factors the Committee consider relevant.
A proportion of the LTAP award will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time.
exercise of 
discretion
Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide 
flexibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee’s determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Director’s departure and the recent 
performance of the Company.
Change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance 
condition has been satisfied.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee. Deferred bonus awards would normally 
be released in full.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any 
outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions 
remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any 
reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for n on-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. 48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
illustration of application of r emuneration policy (updated for 2015/16)
A significant proportion of a Director’s total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short-term and 
long-term business objectives. The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance 
scenarios for the Executive Directors. The TIA is excluded. 
Director Value of package (£000s)
m allen
T atherton
n otes to the scenarios: 
Fixed: This element comprises salary as of 1 January 2016 (see page 58), pension benefits (including salary supplement) and other fixed 
benefits (company car, etc) as per the last known number. 
annual variable remuneration: This element shows annual bonus (including any amount deferred) at 100% of salary in the maximum 
scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario. 
Long-term variable remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP , at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario and 
70% of salary in the target scenario. n o allowance is made for share price growth, in accordance with the requirements of the disclosure rules.
statement of consideration of shareholders views
The Committee discusses matters relating to Directors’ remuneration with major investors on an on-going basis and takes into account any 
comments which are received. 
single total figure of remuneration – subject to audit
The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director. An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table. 
The total remuneration for each Director reflects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the 
on-going success of the Company.
It is important to note that the LTAP award included in the column LTAP/LTIs P for 2015/16 is incorporated in the single total figure of 
remuneration for regulatory reasons with no shares vesting in the year. The 2013 LTAP vests 50% in 2017/18 and 50% in 2018/19. 
Therefore the actual remuneration earned in 2015/16 for Mark Allen and Tom Atherton was £910k and £537k respectively.
Director   Base salary/fees   Taxable benefits   Bonus   LTap/LTisp 
i
  pension 
ii
  Total
(£’000s)   2015/16  2014/15   2015/16  2014/15   2015/16  2014/15   2015/16  2014/15   2015/16  2014/15   2015/16  2014/15
n on-executive 
Chairman
s Alexander 155 103 – – – – – – – – 155 103
executive Directors
M Allen 523 518 32 29 235 97 533 228 120 119 1,443 991
T Atherton 307 250 21 25 138 47 206 31  71 58 743 411
n on-executive 
Directors
A Carr-Locke 43 43 – – – – – – – – 43 43
R Macdonald 48 48 – – – – – – – – 48 48
s Farr 43 40 – – – –  – – – –  43  40
i For 2014/15 the values included are the actual value calculated using the closing price on 9 n ovember 2015 of the shares which vested on that day under the 2012 
LTIs P. n o awards were granted under the LTIs P in 2013 and therefore none will vest under the LTIs P in 2016. There will be no further awards made under the LTIs P. 
 For 2015/16, the values included are for the 2013 LTAP. Awards were subject to a dividend underpin over the period April 2013 – March 2016. The conditions under 
the dividend underpin were met and the awards are not subject to any further performance conditions – they are therefore included in the single figure. The value 
of the awards have been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2015/16. 50% of awards will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% 
will vest on 15 August 2018. As the vesting period for this award has not yet been completed, no value will be delivered to participants until 2017/2018.
ii Pension amounts include employer’s pension contribution and salary supplement. Base salary, bonus and LTIs P are defined on pages 42 to 44. 
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
Key:          Fixed Remuneration             Annual Variable Remuneration             Long-term Variable Remuneration 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
0 300 600 900 1200 1500 1800
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
41%
52%
28% (1,722)
28%
31%
20%
100%
(1,344)
41%
52%
28%
(696)
(1,085)
(847)
(439)
28%
31%
20%
100%
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
Key:          Fixed Remuneration             Annual Variable Remuneration             Long-term Variable Remuneration 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
0 300 600 900 1200 1500 1800
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
41%
52%
28% (1,722)
28%
31%
20%
100%
(1,344)
41%
52%
28%
(696)
(1,085)
(847)
(439)
28%
31%
20%
100%
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
Key:          Fixed Remuneration             Annual Variable Remuneration             Long-term Variable Remuneration 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
0 300 600 900 1200 1500 1800
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
41%
52%
28% (1,722)
28%
31%
20%
100%
(1,344)
41%
52%
28%
(696)
(1,085)
(847)
(439)
28%
31%
20%
100%
annual report on remuneration Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 49
Governance
n otes
Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus entitlement which would include deferred bonus shares. n o deferred bonus shares 
were awarded in 2014/15 or 2015/16.
Taxable benefits are valued at the taxable value, and include company car/car allowance and private medical insurance.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of n on-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee 
member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling £47k (2015: £45k).
additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table – subject to audit 
performance against targets for annual bonus
Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short-term financial targets and personal objectives. To ensure that an 
appropriate balance is maintained between long-term and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the 
Company’s shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Personal bonus objectives for Mark Allen and Tom Atherton for the year were focused on fundamentally restructuring the organisation into 
category aligned divisions as well as leading a high quality team able to focus on the continuing business’ operational performance and 
maintaining employee engagement. For Mark Allen, objectives also included maintaining key external stakeholder engagement and managing 
relationships with shareholders, customers and other key third parties during a period of significant uncertainty for the business, leading a 
strategic restructure of the contractual supply arrangements with dairy farmers, as well as developing leadership capability at Management 
Board and senior management level. For Tom Atherton, objectives also included refinancing bank facilities and loan notes, in his role as 
Chairman of MH Foods; driving revenue, volume and profit growth; and establishing a new IT systems roadmap post the Dairies business 
sale. All of above achievements took place in the context of a tough deflationary market where despite the challenging trading environment, if 
one disregards the performance of the Dairies business, the profit performance of the retained business would have been at a level to deliver a 
positive bonus pay out for the Operating Profit measure. It was determined that both individuals met or exceeded the stretching personal 
objectives set and, as a result, received the maximum amount under this element.
Bonus payouts for the 2015/16 performance year are set out below:
measure Details
maximum 
potential as a 
% of salary Threshold Target maximum actual
 
o perating profit s tretching targets based on 
budget, with a sliding scale 
between threshold and 
maximum.
45% £46.8m £49.3m £54.2m £32.7m 0% 0%
Free cash flow s tretching targets based on 
budget, with a sliding scale 
between threshold and 
maximum.
10% £45.1m £47.5m £52.3m £8.0m 0% 0%
personal 
objectives
A range of non-financial 
operational and strategic 
objectives will be assessed by 
the Committee, with an 
appropriate award level set 
under this element with 
reference to the overall 
performance of the business.
15%                  s ee description above 15% 15%
Transaction related 
target
s uccessful completion of the 
sale of the Dairies business to 
Müller triggered a full payout 
under this element.
30% s uccessful completion Achieved 30% 30%
Total – 100% of 
salary
45% of salary 
= £235k
45% of salary 
= £138k
Deferred into 
shares
– – n il n il
LTap 2013
Awards under the 2013 LTAP were subject to a dividend underpin over the period April 2013 – March 2016. The conditions under the dividend 
underpin were met and the awards are not subject to any further performance conditions – they are therefore included in the single figure.
o utcome as a % of salary
m allen T atherton 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
Director Grant date
Face value 
granted £000s
n umber of 
shares granted
Dividend underpin 
conditions
Dividend 
underpin 
conditions 
met?
Value of 
awards at 
31 march 
2016 
i
end of vesting period
mark allen 15 August 2013 414 79,329 To increase the dividend 
over the period April 2013 to 
March 2016 in line with 
progressive dividend policy 
whilst maintaining dividend 
cover within 1.5-2.5 x range 
for the period April 2013 to 
March 2016
Yes £533k 50% on 15 August 2017
50% on 15 August 2018
Tom atherton 15 August 2013 160 30,651 Yes £206k 50% on 15 August 2017
50% on 15 August 2018
i The value of the awards has been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2015/16 and includes the dividends accrued to date 
over the vesting period
Current position on other outstanding LTap awards – not subject to audit
The outstanding LTAP awards are subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made. The award may be reduced 
by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the decline exceeds 50%, the 
Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 – 2.5 over the three-year measurement period. 
LTap 2014: The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 6.6%, and the dividend cover is 1.7 times. 
LTap 2015: The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 6.9%, and the dividend cover is 1.8 times.
Total pension entitlements – subject to audit
Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund (a defined benefit scheme) to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued 
pension during the year other than inflationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010. Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual 
pension. Mark Allen and Tom Atherton were members of the defined contribution scheme throughout 2015/16. The Company made 
contributions of £50,000 for Mark Allen and £40,000 for Tom Atherton incorporating both employee and employer contributions. Further cash 
supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary. 
payments for loss of office – subject to audit
n o payments for loss of office were made in the year under review.
payments to past Directors – subject to audit
Alastair Murray received £61k from the vesting of the 2012 LTIs P (based on his vested award of 9,928 shares). 
Martyn Wilks received £160k from the vesting of the 2012 LTIs P (based on his vested award of 26,134 shares). £119k was disclosed in the 
single figure table in the 2014/15 report representing an estimate of Mr Wilks’ vested award and based on the average share price for the last 
quarter of that financial year.
scheme interests awarded during the financial year – subject to audit
LTap 2015 award  
The award made under the LTAP in 2015 was made on 26 May 2015. The award level is determined based on achievements over the prior 
year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic priorities. Outcomes against the 
2015 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in which 
decisions were made is included thereafter.
The outcome against the LTAP scorecard may fall between 0% and 100%, based on assessment of performance against each measure (as 
determined by the Committee) and the weighting attributable to each in the table below. This scorecard percentage outcome then determines 
the proportion of the award that will be granted, in the range of 50% to 90% of salary for Executive Directors. As set out in the approved 
Policy, in any year, in the event of performance below a certain threshold or where the performance against the scorecard for that year is 
determined not to be a fair reflection of the overall performance of the business, the Committee may determine that no award will be granted. 
The maximum opportunity under the LTAP (90% of salary) is lower than the typical long-term incentive level in the market, whilst certainty of 
payout for participants is higher.
n ote that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period and will be settled through nil cost share 
options. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 51
Governance
Director
Level of award % of 
salary Face value £000s
percentage vesting at 
threshold performance n umber of shares end of vesting period
mark allen 69.2% 358 n /A 71,496 50% at May 2019
50% at May 2020
Tom atherton 69.2% 208 n /A 41,437 50% at May 2019
50% at May 2020
The value of the awards has been calculated based on the middle market price on 22 May 2015.
Determination of 2015 grant:
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting o utcome
1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year. Delivery of profit is core to the business 
and supports the progressive dividend 
Policy.
30% 2.5%
2. Balance sheet 
efficiency
ROCE target each year whilst 
maintaining net debt/EBITDA in the 
1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on 
investment within a sustainable level of 
gearing.
15% 2.5%
3. Corporate 
activity & 
efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings targets.
Delivery of synergies and return on 
investment following acquisitions or 
successful divestments (when relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on 
an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major acquisitions/ 
divestments deliver against relevant 
synergy and return targets.
15% 15%
4. Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and 
three years versus markets in which they 
operate.
Brand growth is key to longer term 
business growth.
20% 12%
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted 
proportion of revenue from innovation in 
previous three years.
Innovation is a key driver of productivity 
and growth.
10% 8%
6. Corporate 
r esponsibility
A range of metrics including 
improvements in accident incident rates, 
reduced CO
2
 emissions & improved 
employee engagement.
Delivering results in a sustainable way 
which enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement.
10% 8%
Total 48%
For Executive Directors 
this converts to an award 
of 69.2% of salary
1. profit  Weighting: 30%. o utcome: 2.5%
The Remuneration Committee assessed profit performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA in 2014/15 was below prior year in what continued to be a very challenging market. Our Dairies business has faced very strong 
competition in liquid milk markets and sharp falls in commodity realisations. Our branded business performed relatively well in a deflationary 
market, but overall the Group failed to achieve the challenging EBITDA target it set for itself.
This weaker than expected adjusted EBITDA outcome, resulted in an award of 2.5%.
2. Balance sheet efficiency  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 2.5% 
The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2013/14 through the assessment of ROCE performance (calculated 
based on average operating assets) against an annual target based on budget and the long-term objective of 12%. As in previous years, the 
Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing (being net debt/EBITDA) remain 
below 2.0 times.
A ROCE for the year of 11.5% was behind the long-term 12% target but above the vesting level for this element. 2014/15 was a year of 
significant capital expenditure at Davidstow to support future demineralised whey and GOs production. However, returns will not start to be 
generated until 2015/16 and this reduces ROCE in 2014/15. The outturn of 11.5% is at the bottom of the vesting range. With a year-end 
gearing of 2.0 times, at the top end of the range, the Remuneration Committee awarded only 2.5% for this LTAP element. 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
3. Corporate activity & efficiencies  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 15%
Given no major completed M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings. The Group has, once 
again, considerably exceeded its £20m cost saving target and the full award of 15% has been made for this measure.
4. Brand growth  Weighting: 20%. o utcome: 12%
The key brand performance was mixed. Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth ahead of the market in 2014/15 when all sales 
channels were considered, with Cathedral City continuing to significantly outperform the market, Clover increasing market share and FRijj 
sales up 7%. Longer-term data showed two of our four key brands outperforming the market. On this basis the Remuneration Committee 
decided an award of 12% was appropriate.
5. innovation  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 8%
Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from 
product innovation over the previous three years. In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be 
considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue.
Against the challenging targets set, delivering 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as 
showing both good progress against this component and a competitive positioning to the market. The Committee also considered the 
on-going innovation in the non-branded area of the business with increasing use of environmentally friendly light-weighted polybottles. As a 
result, an award of 8% was made for this element.
6. Corporate responsibility  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 8%
Good progress has again been made on health and safety with reducing accidents and days lost and showed positive improvement against 
our environmental targets. Dairy Crest achieved the maximum 5 star rating in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, further improving on an 
impressive assessment in 2014. However, an employee survey was not undertaken in the year, and some quality customer complaint targets 
were not met. On balance across these various corporate responsibility measures, the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 8% 
as appropriate.
Dividend underpin
The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2015 – March 2018 is not met.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the 
decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest. In such 
circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range. 
Ceo o ne-off Transformational incentive award – update on objectives and performance against objectives 
The Remuneration Committee has determined that the vesting outcome for Mark Allen’s Transformation Incentive Award (‘TIA’) will be 
assessed based on his performance against a number of objectives related to the sale of the Dairies business. These objectives are grouped 
across three categories, as follows:
1. Managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business, requiring strong leadership and a high level of 
personal involvement from a chief executive officer as an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole 
through a period of extended uncertainty;
2. Appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process; and
3. Establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the 
delivery of value to shareholders.
In line with the commitment made by the Committee in the 2014/15 Remuneration report, this annual update provides shareholders with 
further detail on the TIA objectives and performance to date against them (subject to any commercial confidentiality constraints that may 
apply).
1. managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business
Under the TIA, Mark Allen was set a number of objectives relating to the success of negotiations and discussions with Müller and the UK 
Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’), and the management of the business through the transaction period.
Mark Allen has performed exceptionally in securing the successful completion of the sale of the Dairies business to Müller on 26 December 
2015. Dairy Crest’s share price has responded positively to the sale and the resulting change in focus, indicating the strength of support our 
investors have for the transaction. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 53
Governance
The outcome of the sale is a clear repositioning of Dairy Crest as a branded and added value business, focusing on growth, cash generation 
and enhanced shareholder value. Mark Allen’s contribution to the delivery of the sale and, in particular, the process of gaining CMA approval 
at the first stage was crucial to the successful outcome. The Committee has therefore determined that all objectives in this category have now 
been successfully completed.
Mark’s vast experience of Dairy Crest and the broader dairy market meant he was uniquely placed to lead the response to the CMA’s review 
of the sale, providing clear understanding of its impact on the sector and the consumer, and the outcome should the deal not receive approval. 
This knowledge and insight were essential in providing the CMA with appropriate information and arguments for their decision to be taken.
Mark led all main interactions with the CMA, and was involved in key meetings and calls with stakeholders within the CMA with whom Mark 
worked extremely hard to explain the position of the company and the industry. s teering the business through this complex and prolonged 
regulatory process took a significant proportion of Mark’s time and commitment, requiring huge energy and tenacity, clear vision and foresight 
in the thorough planning of Dairy Crest’s approach.
Mark simultaneously led the ongoing commercial discussions with Müller, directing the team in the negotiations surrounding the deal, applying 
judgment and experience to the process to achieve an optimum outcome for the Group. 
In addition, Mark personally led from the front the communications and engagement process with all staff, customers and suppliers to ensure 
the business remained focused on the necessary day to day activities whilst preparing all key stakeholders for the most profound change 
Dairy Crest has experienced since listing on the stock exchange in 1996. Over this period of uncertainty, Mark successfully led the 
segmentation of the Dairies functions and ensured a stable and sustainable Dairies business could be transferred to Müller, while ensuring the 
Group remained focused on service delivery and financial performance.  
2. appropriately reshaping the Group
A number of TIA objectives are built around a strategic review of the Group following the sale of the Dairies business, implementation of 
associated structural changes and the delivery of significant cost savings.
During 2015 and prior to the CMA’s approval of the sale, Mark led a full review of the Dairy Crest structure, the objective of which was to 
segment the Dairies business in order to deliver clearer category focus. This process delivered the intended outputs while also paving the way 
for a clean business transfer should the sale be approved.  
Given the success of the restructure covered above and although the sale was only completed at the end of December 2015, Mark Allen has 
already made significant progress in achieving the objectives under this element of the TIA and we are confident that he is on track to achieve 
them in full. n ote that some aspects of these objectives are commercially sensitive in nature so the level of granularity around progress that we 
are able to provide at this time is limited.
Mark has led a strategic review of the organisation’s structure, with a view to achieving increased simplicity and responsiveness across the 
organisation. He has established a refreshed five year business plan following the sale of the Dairies business and has initiated the process of 
restructuring the organisation. He has now completed the process of defining the organisational and structural changes required to achieve 
both the short and long-term plans developed, and has begun the implementation of these.
Over the remainder of the TIA period to 2017, Mark will continue this implementation process with a projected cost saving of £5 million 
achieved from 2017/18, in line with the pre-determined target.
3. establishing a successful future business
This category of objectives is intended to reward for performance in relation to the long-term development of a successful future for Dairy 
Crest. We are now half way through the TIA performance period and Mark’s contribution towards the achievement of this goal has been 
outstanding to date. 
One of the objectives under this category is the successful exploitation of our existing product streams and for effective investments to be 
made in support of continued brand growth and innovation. In line with this, major capital investments have now been made within the 
Butters, spreads and oils business, delivering positive returns to the Company. The Cheese business continues to show strong overall 
performance, with Cathedral City maintaining its growth trajectory. 
Mark’s objectives also require the delivery of new product streams to enhance the profitability of the business and develop shareholder 
returns. Demineralised whey and GOs are now in production with the installation of manufacturing capability at Davidstow. We continue to 
explore opportunities to widen this market, and are seeing exciting developments in the potential use of GOs in the animal feed sector – 
purchase of the remaining 50% interest from our GOs partner has resulted in Dairy Crest’s full ownership of this dynamic growth opportunity. 54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
Underlying the success of our future business is a shift towards a predominantly branded and simpler business with a significantly reduced 
overhead base – a further TIA objective. The successful sale of the Dairies business has resulted in Dairy Crest reducing its exposure to 
commodity dairy markets and focusing more on the profitable brands which have driven the success of the Company throughout Mark’s 
tenure as CEO. This process will continue, with overhead savings contributing to the £5 million reduction in the cost base we are on track to 
achieve from 2017/18 (as mentioned above).
The next stage of Dairy Crest’s evolution also requires that we develop the future leadership capability for the business. Mark has led a review 
of succession plans for all senior management positions with a framework now in place to ensure effective refreshing of the Dairy Crest talent 
pool over the next two years. 
The above shows the outstanding progress to date achieved by Mark Allen with regard to the objectives set under the TIA. Mark’s exceptional 
performance in delivering the deal to sell the Dairies business and his stewardship of the CMA process has unlocked huge opportunities, 
which Dairy Crest will exploit under Mark’s leadership in the coming years. 
In the view of the Remuneration Committee, Mark has delivered on, and in some cases considerably exceeded, the targets set to date. A 
significant proportion of the business transformation that the TIA was designed to recognise has now been implemented and in the next 
phase the emphasis is on continued implementation and delivery. Given the level of positive progress and achievements against the TIA 
objectives, vesting at the maximum end is currently anticipated.
shareholder dilution 
In accordance with the guidelines set by the Investment Association (‘IA’), the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its share 
plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to 
employees under all its share plans. Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue (as newly issued shares or from treasury) 5% of its 
issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans. Currently 7.6% of issued shares have been made under share 
plans, with 2.5% under discretionary or executive schemes.
statement of Director’s shareholdings and share interests – subject to audit
Executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end would normally retain 
50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved. s hareholdings exclude unvested 
options under the LTIs P and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP 
awards. Mark Allen and Tom Atherton have satisfied the shareholding requirement. 
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
Director
 
n umber of shares 
owned outright 
(including 
connected persons)
 
Vested LTisp 
2012 shares 
i
u nvested LTap 
2013 shares 
ii
 
u nvested LTap 
2014 shares 
iii
 
u nvested LTap 
2015 shares 
iv
 
u nvested  
Tia shares 
v
 
Deferred 
annual bonus 
shares 
vi
 
sa Ye 
vii
M Allen 170,865 39,066 87,201 88,870 74,588 252,558 38,001 2,393
T Atherton 6,097 5,283 33,693 44,639 43,229 – 14,250 4,787
A Carr-Locke 2,000 – – – – – – –
R Macdonald 1,000 – – – – – – –
s Alexander 1,000 – – – – – – –
s Farr 4,465 – – – – – – –
i Vested but unexercised LTIs P 2012 (nil cost share options) 
ii Long term Alignment Plan 2013 (nil cost share options): The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2016. 50% of awards will vest on  
15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018. Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report
iii Long term Alignment Plan 2014 (nil cost share options): The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2017. 50% of awards will vest on  
16 December 2018 and 50% will vest on 16 December 2019. Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report
iv Long term Alignment Plan 2015 (nil cost share options): The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2018. 50% of awards will vest on 26 May 
2019 and 50% will vest on 26 May 2020. Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report
v  One-off transformational award to the CEO (nil cost share options): The performance period will end 23 December 2017 and awards will vest shortly after. Amounts 
shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report
vi Deferred bonus scheme (nil cost share options)
vii s ave As You Earn s cheme 2014 (cost options). The exercise price for these options is 376 pence per share and the exercise period is 9/2017 – 2/2018. There are no 
applicable performance conditions
 There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 31 March 2016 and 18 May 2016. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 55
Governance
Gain on exercise of share options
Director  
n umber of options 
exercised o ption exercise price
 
market value at exercise 
date £’s
 
Gain on exercise of share 
options £’s
M Allen 3,202 281p 18,828 9,830
T Atherton n il n il n il n il
performance graph and table
The graph below sets out for the seven years ended 31 March 2016 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTs E 250 
index (excluding investment companies) of which the Company is a constituent member.
The table below sets out CEO pay over the same period.
Ceo pay 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16
Total remuneration 
(£’000s)
1,018 888 904 937 1,247 991 1,443
annual bonus (% max) 94% 54% 50% 52.5% 81.7% 18.8% 45%
Long-term incentive  
(% max)
0% 0% 0% 0% 23.5% 20.8% 89%*
* This figure represents the LTAP 2013 award (as shown in the single figure table) as a percentage of the maximum annual award under this plan. The vesting period for 
this award has not yet been completed – 50% will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018
percentage change in Ceo ’s remuneration
The table below sets out the percentage change in the CEO’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2014/15 and 2015/16, compared with the 
percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for those salaried members of the clerical, administrative, supervisory 
and management population allocated to Hay bands. This group comprises 41% of the total workforce, and has been identified as the most 
appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements:
 salary Taxable benefits Bonus
2015/16 2014/15 % change 2015/16 2014/15 % change 2015/16 2014/15 % change
Ceo (£’000s) 523 518 1% 32 29 10% 235 97 142%
average pay for wider 
employee population 
(£’000s)
47 41 14.6% 5.1 4.9 4% 4.6 1.1 318%
The figures for 2014/15 are based upon the relevant workforce within the Dairy Crest business including those employed within the Dairies 
business. The 2015/16 figures are based upon and reflect the change in the workforce of the Dairy Crest business post the sale of the 
Dairies business.
Dairy Crest – Total Shareholder Returns for £100 invested
Dairy Crest Group plc
FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment companies)
March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15 March 16
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED
r elative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 
2014/15 and 2015/16:
£m 2015/16 2014/15 % change
employee remuneration 
costs
44.3 144.0 -69.2%
Dividends 30.0 29.2 3%
The figures used for the 2014/15 employee remuneration costs are based upon the workforce within the Dairy Crest business, including those 
employed within the Dairies business. The 2015/16 figures are based upon and reflect the change in the workforce of the Dairy Crest business 
post the sale of the Dairies business.
LTap 2016 award
The award made under the LTAP 2016 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising 
measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic priorities. This award will be granted later in 2016. Outcomes against the 2016 scorecard are 
summarised in the second table below and detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is 
included thereafter. 
The outcome against the LTAP scorecard may fall between 0% and 100%, based on assessment of performance against each measure (as 
determined by the Committee) and the weighting attributable to each in the table below. This scorecard percentage outcome then determines 
the proportion of the award that will be granted, in the range of 50% to 90% of salary for Executive Directors. As set out in the approved 
Policy, in any year, in the event of performance below a certain threshold or where the performance against the scorecard for that year is 
determined not to be a fair reflection of the overall performance of the business, the Committee may determine that no award will be granted. 
The maximum opportunity under the LTAP (90% of salary) is lower than the typical long-term incentive level in the market, whilst certainty of 
payout for participants is higher.
Director Level of award % of salary Face value £’000s end of vesting period
mark allen 67.6% 365 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
Tom atherton 67.6% 230 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Determination of 2016 grant:
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting o utcome
1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each 
year.
Delivery of profit is core to the 
business and supports the 
progressive dividend Policy.
30% 0%
2. Balance sheet 
efficiency
ROCE target each year whilst 
maintaining net debt/EBITDA in 
the 1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on 
investment within a sustainable 
level of gearing.
20% 0%
3. Corporate activity & 
efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings 
targets.
Delivery of synergies and return 
on investment following 
acquisitions or successful 
divestments (when relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are 
delivered on an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major 
acquisitions/divestments  
deliver against relevant synergy 
and return targets.
15% 15%
4. Brand Growth Key brand value growth over 
one and three years versus 
markets in which they operate.
Brand growth is key to longer 
term business growth.
20% 15%
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted 
proportion of revenue from 
innovation in previous three 
years.
Innovation is a key driver of 
productivity and growth.
10% 10%
6. Corporate 
r esponsibility
Range of metrics aligned to the 
40 pledges including 
improvements in accident 
incident rates, reduced CO
2
 
emissions & improved/
maintained BITC score.
Delivering results in a 
sustainable way which 
enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement.
5% 4%
Total 44%
For Executive Directors this converts  
to an award of 67.6% of salary Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 57
Governance
1. profit  Weighting: 30%. o utcome: 0%
EBITDA for 2015/16 was below the target threshold due to the higher than anticipated losses in the Dairies business up until the date of 
disposal. It reflected the challenges faced throughout the year versus the Group’s budget expectations in a heavily deflating dairy environment 
with the added pressure that a prolonged Dairies business disposal had on the commercial performance of the liquid milk business. 
This weaker than expected EBITDA outcome resulted in 0% pay out.
2. Balance sheet efficiency  Weighting: 20%. o utcome: 0%
The KPI is targeted ROCE (operating profit/average operating assets) with an additional requirement that gearing should be between 1.0 and 
2.0 times. With regards to ROCE, the long-term objective was to maintain this above 12% with individual targets and ranges set each year by 
reference to budget. 
The ROCE for 2015/16 (based on a post-disposal operating asset position) was 15%. This demonstrates the transformational effect on ROCE 
that the disposal of the dairies business delivers. 
However, year-end gearing (net debt: EBITDA) was above the upper end of the target range of between 1.0 and 2.0 times. s taying within the 
range is an underpinning requirement for an award under the Balance s heet efficiency measure and therefore, no award was made under this 
element.  
3. Corporate activity & efficiencies  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 15% 
The KPI is targeted full year effect of cost efficiency projects initiated in any year and delivery of synergies and returns on acquisitions. Where 
there is no acquisition activity, the cost efficiency projects can deliver the full 15% award and this was the case in 2015/16. 
In 2015/16 great success was achieved in removing costs ahead of target up until the disposal of the Dairies business. For the final quarter, 
cost saving could not be maintained at this level given that the Dairies business accounted for much of the scale of the organisation. 
Although there was no relevant delivered M&A integration activity in 2015/16, related activity that was successfully delivered included the 
acquisition of the outstanding 50% of Promovita Ingredients Limited for a consideration of £6 million (giving Dairy Crest sole control over the 
development of the GOs business) and the segmentation of the Dairies business from the combined Group.  
The Remuneration Committee recognised the cost savings achieved ahead of target up to the point of sale of the Dairies business and the 
successful business split along with the long-term strategic importance of the acquisition of the balance of ownership of Promovita Ingredients 
Limited. On the basis of this performance it decided that a 15% payout for this element was merited.
4. Brand growth  Weighting: 20%. o utcome: 15%
Key brand performance was strong in a deflationary marketplace. The Remuneration Committee considered robust quantitative IRI and 
Kantar Worldpanel data for all brands in reviewing this element. Cathedral City, Country Life and Frylight all grew share over 12 months. Over a 
three year timeframe Cathedral City, Clover and Frylight have all grown value share.
On this basis the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 15% was appropriate.
5. innovation  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 10% 
The group target for innovation is that 10% of revenue should be from product innovation over the last three years. In the year ended 31 March 
2016 a number of new innovations were brought to market including re-launched Clover with no artificial ingredients and new coconut and 
rapeseed variants of Frylight which helped drive the percentage of key brand revenue from innovation in the preceding three years to 11%.
In addition the Remuneration Committee recognised innovation in other areas of the business including the opening of the new innovation 
centre at Harper Adams University, new supplier arrangements for spreadable cheese with Hochland who are helping us to develop further a 
stronger cheese n PD pipeline, and the arrangement with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd that gives us the opportunity to grow warehousing 
volumes whilst planning for the completion of the distribution agreement with Müller.
On this basis an award of 10% was made.
6. Corporate responsibility  Weighting: 5%. o utcome: 4% 
Our 2015/16 safety record has been better than was targeted. Customer complaints generally have been low and any quality issues have 
been addressed fully to investigate root cause and implement improved procedures. Energy usage was 6% below budget and carbon 
emissions were better than target and 13% below last year. There was no Employee s urvey conducted during 2015/16 due to the sizeable 
people impact of the sale of the Dairies business. However, considerable effort was put into maintaining employee engagement via enhanced 
communications and the inclusion of a sale related component in the Bonus s cheme for all Hay employees.
The Remuneration Committee felt that corporate responsibility performance had generally been better than target and a pay-out of 4% 
was agreed.  58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Dividend underpin
The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2016 – March 2019 is not met.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the 
decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest. In such 
circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range. 
statement of implementation of policy in the following financial year
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be implemented for the 2016/17 financial year as follows:
Base salary – £’000s
r ole 2015 Change to base salary (effective 1 January 2016)
mark allen 518 540 
T om a therton * 300 340
* Tom Atherton was brought onto the Board at a salary level below the market lower quartile for his role. In line with the Remuneration Committee’s intent as stated 
in the 2013 Remuneration Report, he has been an awarded an increase for 2016 to bring his salary closer towards a market competitive level. The 13.3% increase 
reflects our ongoing intention to move Tom Atherton to a market median positioning recognising excellent performance and development in role. Future increases to 
Tom Atherton’s salary are expected to be in line with inflation and the wider workforce (subject to any change potentially required in the future to ensure a continued 
competitive positioning as per our remuneration policy).
n on-executive Directors’ fees – £’000s
r ole 2015/16 effective 1 april 2016
n on-executive Chairman 155 155
n on-executive Director 
(base)
38 38
audit Committee Chair +5 +5
Corporate r esponsibility 
Chair
+5 +5
r emuneration Committee 
Chair
+5 +5
senior independent 
Director
+5 +5
Fees for n on-executive Directors have remained unchanged since the 2011/12 financial year
Bonus measures
Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the 2016/17 bonus remains at 100% of salary.
Performance will be assessed against the following measures:
•	 Profit before tax – 60% of award
•	 Free cash flow – 15% of award
•	 Personal objectives – 25% of award
The targets for the 2016/17 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the 
Company’s competitors. The targets and payout against them will be disclosed in the 2016/17 report.
Malus and clawback provisions will operate in respect of the 2016/17 bonus. The malus provision will apply to the deferred share awards up to 
vesting. The clawback provision will apply to the cash award for three years from the date of payment. Clawback may be operated in the event 
of gross misconduct on the part of the employee and/or material misstatement in Company or Group financial statements. 
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 59
Governance
LTap 2017 award 
A grant will be made in 2017 under the LTAP, in line with the disclosed Policy. As the grant will be based on a scorecard of metrics assessed 
over the 2016/17 financial year, below we set out the scorecard which will determine the grants made in 2017. We have included the 2016/17 
KPIs on which performance will be assessed and the associated alignment to strategy. We have not included specific targets on the KPIs, as 
the targets are considered commercially sensitive. The outcomes for this award will be disclosed in the 2016/17 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report.
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting
profit Adjusted EBITDA target Delivery of profit is core to the business and 
supports the progressive dividend policy
30%
Balance sheet efficiency ROCE target whilst maintaining net debt/ 
EBITDA in the 1-2 range
Ensuring acceptable return on investment 
within a sustainable level of gearing
20%
Corporate activity and 
efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings targets
Delivery of synergies and return on 
investment following acquisitions or 
successful divestments (when relevant)
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an 
on-going basis
Ensuring that major acquisitions/
divestments deliver against relevant 
synergy and return targets
15%
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and three 
years versus markets in which they operate
Brand growth is key to longer term 
business growth
20%
r evenue Growth through 
innovation
Achieve each year, the targeted proportion 
of revenue from innovation in previous three 
years
Innovation is a key driver of productivity and 
growth
10%
Corporate r esponsibility Range of metrics aligned to the CR pledges 
including improvements in accident 
incident rates, reduced CO
2
 emissions and 
improved/maintained BITC score
Delivering results in a sustainable way 
which enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement
5%
Measures and KPIs for 2016/17 are consistent with 2015/16 and support the long-term strategy of the Group. The LTAP maintains a minimum 
60% weighting of financial KPIs within the 2016/17 scorecard.
sharesave scheme 
The s haresave s cheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors. Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a 
three year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of £500 per month. At the end of the term, members have the right 
to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant. Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the 
market price at the time of grant.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration
members of the r emuneration Committee 
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of n on-executive Directors of the Company. During the year the Committee consisted of:
•	 Richard Macdonald (Chairman); 
•	 Andrew Carr-Locke; and
•	 s ue Farr.
s tephen Alexander in his capacity as Company Chairman and Mark Allen, Chief Executive attended the Remuneration Committee by 
invitation. Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not 
involved in the day-to-day running of the Company.
The Committee’s activities during the financial year
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad Policy with respect to senior executives’ salary and other remuneration. It 
specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and 
reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives. A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee 
can be found on the Company’s website. 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
In 2015/16, the Committee met 4 times. Attendance at meetings by members of the Committee is shown on page 33. The Committee 
discussed, amongst other matters, the following matters: 
meeting agenda items discussed
may 2015 Approval of 2014/15 Bonus, LTAP and LTIs P outcomes
Approval of 2015/16 Bonus rules, 2015/16 Bonus targets and LTAP targets
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Approval of Remuneration Report
o ctober 2015 Review of Remuneration Committee Advisers
Changes in Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report – Updates to reporting
s hareshave 2016
December 2015 Executive Directors’ Remuneration
march 2016 Review of draft Remuneration Report
Review of potential bonus and long-term incentive outcomes
advisers to the r emuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to provide advice on executive remuneration. PwC have 
provided such advice historically, and were originally appointed through a competitive tendering process. 
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and 
market practice, and providing remuneration benchmarking information for Executive Directors. In this financial year, they were paid £50,433  
based on agreed hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including corporate tax advice, share plans support and 
programme management support. 
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May 
each year. It is satisfied that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and has signed up to that group’s Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR 
Director of Dairy Crest. The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation, but is not present at any discussions relating specifically to his 
own remuneration.
statement of voting at General meeting
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2014/15 remuneration report at the 2015 AGM.
n umber of votes cast For against Withheld
 71,693,142 45,426,747
63.4%
26,190,774
36.6%
75,621
The Remuneration Committee noted the outcome of the advisory vote at the 2015 AGM and remains committed to an open dialogue with 
investors, with engagement planned through the period ahead of the AGM.
The Directors’ remuneration report from pages 41 to 60 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by
r ichard macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
18 May 2016
DIRECTORs’ REMUn ERATIOn REPORT COn TIn UED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 61
Governance
Directors’ report
The Companies Act 2006 (‘CA 2006’) together with the UK Listing 
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (‘DTRs’) and Listing 
Rules (‘LRs’) require companies to make certain disclosures in their 
Directors’ report. To make the information being presented more 
accessible and to present it in a more logical and readable 
sequence, a number of the disclosures required to be made in the 
Directors’ report have been made elsewhere in other sections of 
this Annual Report. The Strategic report and the Corporate 
Governance report can be found at pages 2 to 27 and pages 31 to 
40 respectively. Details of the Directors in office at the date of this 
Annual Report can be found at pages 28 to 29. The above-
mentioned sections are expressly incorporated by reference into 
this, the Directors’ Report.
Going concern: The Group and Company’s business activities, 
together with factors likely to affect future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from 
pages 2 to 21. The financial position, cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on 
pages 12 to 15 (which also form part of the Strategic report). In 
addition, Notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and 
Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk. As highlighted in Note 30, the 
Company and Group meet day-to-day working capital 
requirements through syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash 
to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus reasonable operating 
headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature at 
least 12 months after the year end. At 31 March 2016, effective 
headroom was £235.3 million. There were no breaches of bank 
covenants in the year ended 31 March 2016 and projections do not 
indicate any breaches in the foreseeable future. Having reviewed 
and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors are 
satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Viability statement: In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014, the directors have assessed 
the viability of the Group over a three year period. The directors 
have determined that a three year period to 31 March 2019 is an 
appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement. 
This is the period reviewed by the Board in the strategic planning 
process where assumptions are made around future growth for the 
existing business, new market opportunities, investment needs 
and funding requirements of the Group. A robust financial model of 
the Group is built by product and the metrics for the Group’s KPIs 
and bank covenants are reviewed.
Taking into account the Group’s current position and potential 
impact of the principal risks documented on pages 16 and 17 of 
the Annual Report, the directors confirm that they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue 
to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 
31 March 2019.
In making this statement the Board carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those 
that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity. The Board considers all of the principal risks, 
the likelihood of crystallisation, the potential net profit impact and 
the mitigating controls. In assessing the impact of a risk on the 
viability of the Group, the Board has considered the potential 
impact that the crystallisation of a severe but plausible risk may 
have on the Group meeting its bank covenants. 
The assumption has been made that the Group will be able to 
source an appropriate level of funding following the cessation of 
the £80 million bank facility in October 2018.
Future developments: Future developments are described in the 
Strategic report at pages 2 to 21.
Group results: The Group’s consolidated income statement set 
out on page 69 shows a loss for the financial year of £113.0 million 
compared with £20.5 million profit in 2014/15.
Dividends: the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 
16.0p (2014/15: 15.7p) per ordinary share, which if approved, will 
be paid to members whose name appears on the register at the 
close of business on 8 July 2016. Together, the final dividend and 
interim dividend (6.1p per ordinary share paid on 28 January 2016) 
make total dividends for the year of 22.1p per ordinary share 
(2014/2015: 21.7p).
Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of 
this Report are set out at pages 28 to 29.
Directors’ interests: Details of the interests in the shares of the 
Company of the Directors holding office at the date of this Report, 
along with those of the Directors who held office during the year 
but retired or resigned from office, and their immediate families 
appear in the Remuneration Report on page 54. Details of the 
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment appear in 
the Remuneration Report on page 46. No Director had a material 
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries during the year. Procedures for dealing with Directors’ 
conflicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively. The 
Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers 
and those of its subsidiaries. The Directors, Company Secretary 
and other Officers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are 
indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by company 
law. That indemnity provision has been in place during the year 
and remains in force.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor: So far as each 
Director in office at the date of approval of this Report is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
External Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware. Each of the Directors 
has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have 
taken in order to (i) make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and (ii) establish that the External Auditor is aware of 
such information. For the purposes of this statement on disclosure 
of information to the External Auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is 
the information needed by the Company’s External Auditor in 
connection with the preparation of its report at pages 65 to 68.
political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were 
made or incurred during the year.
Financial instruments: Details of the use by the Company and 
its subsidiaries of financial instruments and any related risk 
management objectives and policies (including hedging policy) and 
exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash 
flow risk (of the Company in connection with such financial 
instruments) can be found at Note 30 to the financial statements. 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED
post balance sheet events: Maturity of Fixed Coupon Loan 
Notes – On 4 April 2016, the Group repaid $123 million (£70.2 
million) and £10 million of 2006 fixed coupon loan notes on 
maturity.
Settlement of liability in relation to Farmright Limited – 
On 9 May 2016, the Group paid £1.0 million in full and final 
settlement of claims arising out of the debt originally owed to 
Farmright Limited. Claims between the Group, Farmright Limited 
and Quadra Foods Limited (and any asignees of the claims) are 
now resolved. At 31 March 2016, amounts owed to the Group by 
Quadra Foods limited had been fully provided for and the Group 
carried a creditor balance of £3.1 million for potential future 
liabilities in relation to Farmright Limited. Following settlement, £2.1 
million will be released as an exceptional item in the year ending 31 
March 2017.
r esearch and development: The Group has adopted a target of 
delivering 10% of its annual turnover through new product 
development. Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide 
product mix, and especially the development of lower fat variants 
of existing products. Dairy Crest remains at the forefront of dairy 
industry developments to reduce packaging waste through 
innovation.
employees: At the end of March 2016, the Group employed 
approximately 1,200 people. It depends on the skills and 
commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives. 
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest 
possible contribution to Dairy Crest’s success. Details of the 
Group’s employment policies can be found on page 25. Employees 
are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them and on 
issues affecting the Group’s performance through a variety of 
communication tools, including the Group intranet. Employee 
surveys enable an understanding of, amongst other matters, the 
general satisfaction level of employees with their employment, any 
questions or concerns which employees have in relation to the 
business of the Group, an understanding of the effectiveness of 
management of and communication with employees. Following 
employee surveys, specific action plans are drawn up and 
implemented on a site by site basis to address issues which are 
raised through the surveys. The Chief Executive holds monthly 
meetings with employees rotating around the Group’s sites. Those 
meetings involve question and answer sessions when employees 
have the opportunity to question the Chief Executive on any 
subject they choose. In the past, the senior management team has 
conducted road shows which all employees are invited to attend. 
They provided a forum for, amongst other matters, the 
communication to employees of the performance of the business 
of the Group, anticipated future developments, significant matters 
of required focus for the coming period, and the opportunity for 
employees to ask questions of senior management. Following the 
change in size and structure of the Group after the sale of the 
Dairies business, we are evaluating alternative approaches to more 
regular face-to-face communication with employees, especially 
face-to-face communication with the senior management team. 
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating 
arrangements with established trade unions. Employees are 
encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through participation in 
the savings-related share option scheme (‘Sharesave Scheme’).
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the 
financial statements
s hare capital: The authorised and issued share capital of the 
Company together with details of movements in the Company’s 
issued share capital during 2015/16 are shown in Note 24 to the 
financial statements at page 104. As at the date of this Report, 
140,726,919 ordinary 25p shares were in issue and fully paid with 
an aggregate nominal value of £35,181,729.
r ights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s Reports and 
Accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings of the 
Company; to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. To be 
effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting 
instructions must be received at the Company’s registered office, 
or such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant 
notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General 
Meeting. None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. There are no known arrangements under 
which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of 
the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share 
transfers or on voting rights. Shares acquired through Company 
share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue 
and have no special rights.
t ransfer of shares: Subject to applicable statutes and 
regulations, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on 
the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior 
approval of any transfers.
s hareholder waiver of dividends: The Company established an 
employee benefit trust in 1996 which holds shares in connection 
with the Group’s employee share incentive plans. As the registered 
holder, the voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the 
trustee. However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those 
rights and waives its entitlement to dividends.
issue of shares: At the AGM on 14 July 2015, shareholders 
renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise 
all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £22,961,296.
purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 14 July 2015, 
shareholders granted the Company authority to make market 
purchases of up to 13,776,777 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 
pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid 
for any such ordinary share is 25 pence (exclusive of expenses and 
appropriate taxes); the maximum price (exclusive of expenses and 
appropriate taxes) which may be paid for any such ordinary share 
shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market 
prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 
days immediately preceding the date of purchase. The Company 
did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market 
purchases. Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the 
contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and 
which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, 
the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this year’s 
AGM. The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of 
the above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with 
suitable alternatives, annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought 
from the shareholders at this year’s AGM to renew the authorities 
for a further year. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 63
Governance
substantial shareholdings: As at 31 March 2016, the Company 
had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of 
the following where interests had fallen below 3% in the Company’s 
existing issued ordinary share capital.
Notified No. of 
shares
Notified 
percentage of 
issued share 
capital
The Muller Group S.E.C.S – <3
UBS Investment Bank and 
UBS Group AG – <3
No changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in 
Accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 
during the period 1 April 2016 to 18 May 2016.
Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be 
approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in 
force from time to time.
significant agreements – change of control: A change of 
control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a 
number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries 
are party, to take effect, alter or terminate. The agreements that are 
considered significant are as follows:
Borrowing facilities – Non-compliance with the change of control 
clauses in the Group’s funding arrangements, or failure to reach 
agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any 
acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Supply agreements – Certain supply agreements contain 
provisions whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may 
be terminable. Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could 
result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for 
certain materials or services.
No compensation for loss of office: The Company does not 
have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a 
takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share schemes 
and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees 
under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors. 
Most employees in the Group are employed by the Company’s 
main subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited. Relevant companies within 
the Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations 
on 1 April 2013. Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April 
2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension 
arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into 
the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme also provided by 
Zurich. The Group’s defined benefit pension fund is closed to 
future accrual and is now in run-off. It remains under the control of 
a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the 
board of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest 
Limited and three directors elected by all members. Its assets are 
held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in 
accordance with the rules of the fund.
Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to state 
the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, 
including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility. 
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2016 and 
the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out 
on pages 22 to 23 and form part of the Directors’ report 
disclosures.
Directors’ responsibility statements: The responsibility 
statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 
are set out on page 64.
Branch offices outside the UK: The Company has no branch 
offices.
Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds 
LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 19 July 
2016 at 3.30 pm. The Notice convening the meeting will be issued 
separately, together with details of the business to be considered 
and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being 
proposed.
Auditor: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue as Auditor of the Company. A resolution to reappoint 
Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s Auditor will be put to the 
forthcoming AGM.
The Directors’ Report from pages 61 to 63 has been approved by 
the Board and is signed on its behalf by
r obin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel
18 May 2016
Dairy Crest Group plc  
Company No: 3162897 64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group’s and Company’s financial statements in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group’s 
and Company’s financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for 
that period. In preparing the financial statements the Directors are 
required to:
•	 present fairly the financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows of the Group and Company;
•	 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
financial position of the Group and Company and performance 
of the Group; 
•	 state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements; and
•	 make judgements and estimates that are responsible and 
prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate 
Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Dtr 4.1 statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set 
out on pages 28 to 29 confirms that to the best of his/her 
knowledge, they have complied with the above requirements in 
preparing the Group’s and Company’s financial statements in 
accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the 
financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities 
and financial position of the Group and Company and of the 
Group’s income statement and the Company’s profit for that 
period. In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the 
management report represented by the Directors’ Report includes 
a fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group and Company, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors’ Responsibility Statement has been approved by the 
Board and is signed on its behalf by
Mark Allen Chief Executive
t om Atherton Group Finance Director
18 May 2016
st Ate MeNt o F Directors’ respo NsiBilities i N rel Atio N  
to the Gro Up AND c o MpANy FiNANci Al st Ate MeNts Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 65
The numbers
Independent aud Itor’s report to the members 
of  daIry Crest Group plc
o pinion on financial statements
In our opinion: 
•	 The	financial	statements	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	
group	and	of	the	parent	company’s	affairs	as	at	31	March	2016	
and	of	the	group’s	loss	for	the	year	then	ended;
•	 The	group	financial	statements	have	been	properly	prepared	in	
accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	European	Union;	
•	 The	parent	company	financial	statements	have	been	properly	
prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	European	
Union	and	as	applied	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	
Companies	Act	2006;	and
•	 The	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	
the	requirements	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	and	as	regards	the	
group	financial	statements,	article	4	of	the	IAS	Regulation.
What we have audited 
We	have	audited	the	financial	statements	of	Dairy	Crest	Group	plc	for	
the	year	ended	31	March	2016	which	comprise:
Group parent company
Consolidated	balance	sheet	as	at	
31 March	2016
Balance	sheet	as	at	31	March	2016
Consolidated	income	statement	for	
the	year	then	ended
Statement	of	changes	in	equity	for	
the	year	then	ended
Consolidated	statement	of	
comprehensive	income	for	the	year	
then	ended
Cash	flow	statement	for	the	year	then	
ended
Consolidated	statement	of	changes	
in	equity	for	the	year	then	ended
Related	notes	1	to	35	to	the	financial	
statements
Consolidated	cash	flow	statement	for	
the	year	then	ended
Related	notes	1	to	35	to	the	financial	
statements
The	financial	reporting	framework	that	has	been	applied	in	their	
preparation	is	applicable	law	and	International	Financial	Reporting	
Standards	(IFRSs)	as	adopted	by	the	European	Union	and,	as	
regards	the	parent	company	financial	statements,	as	applied	in	
accordance	with	the	provisions	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	
o verview of our audit approach
r isks impacting 
audit strategy
•	Accounting	for	promotional	accruals,	including	the	
impact	on	revenue	recognition
•	Accounting	for	the	disposal	of	the	Dairies	
operations
•	Classification	of	items	as	exceptional
•	Deferred	tax	asset	recognition	relating	to	Dairies	
losses
audit scope •	We	have	3	full	scope	components	where	we	have	
performed	an	audit	of	the	financial	information
•	The	entities	where	we	performed	full	audit	
procedures	accounted	for	100%	of	profit	before	
tax	adjusted	for	non-recurring	items,	100%	of	
revenue	and	97%	of	total	assets
materiality •	Overall	Group	materiality	of	£2.8	million	which	
represents	5%	of	profit	before	tax	adjusted	for	
non-recurring	items
What has 
changed
•	We	have	removed	the	significant	risk	relating	to	
assessing	the	carrying	value	of	Dairies	non	current	
assets	following	its	disposal	during	2016.	We	have	
added	a	risk	regarding	the	recognition	of	a	
deferred	tax	asset	in	respect	of	losses	carried	
forward	on	the	Dairies	business	as	this	is	a	new	
area	of	significant	judgment
o ur assessment of risk of material misstatement
We	identified	the	risks	of	material	misstatement	described	below	as	
those	that	had	the	greatest	effect	on	our	overall	audit	strategy,	the	
allocation	of	resources	in	the	audit	and	the	direction	of	the	efforts	of	
the	audit	team.	In	addressing	these	risks,	we	have	performed	the	
procedures	below	which	were	designed	in	the	context	of	the	
financial	statements	as	a	whole	and,	consequently,	we	do	not	
express	any	opinion	on	these	individual	areas.
r isk o ur response to the risk
accounting for promotional accruals, including the impact on revenue 
recognition 
Refer	to	the	Audit	Committee	Report	(page	36);	Accounting	policies	(page	75);	
and	Note	1	of	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	(page	81).
Revenue	of	£422.3	million	(continuing)	is	recognised	net	of	rebates	and	
discounts,	which	comprise	promotional	expenses	in	relation	to	agreed	
promotional	activity	and	funding	with	customers.	We	focused	on	this	area	
given	the	significance	of	revenue	to	the	financial	statements	and	the	
subjectivity	in	determining	appropriate	redemption	rates	on	certain	types	of	
promotional	activity	on	which	to	determine	related	accruals	at	the	reporting	
date.	In	addition,	reasssessment	of	redemption	rates	can	lead	to	changes	to	
existing	accruals	impacting	the	income	statement.
Risks	include:
•	Promotional	expenses	are	recorded	in	the	wrong	financial	year
•	The	methodology	to	assess	the	redemption	rates	applied	in	calculating	the	
level	of	promotional	accruals	at	31	March	2016	is	inappropriate
•	Redemption	rates	do	not	reflect	ongoing	changes	in	both	consumer	
behaviour	and	the	nature	of	promotional	arrangements
This	risk	was	present	in	the	prior	year.
•	We	undertook	transaction	testing	to	verify	that	revenue	has	been	calculated	in	
accordance	with	contractual	terms	and	in	accordance	with	the	Group’s	revenue	
recognition	policy	and	included	cut-off	testing	procedures	to	verify	that	revenue	
has	been	recognised	in	the	correct	accounting	period.
•	We	evaluated	the	design	of	controls	in	relation	to	the	authorisation	of	promotional	
activity	and	the	determination	of	year	end	promotional	accruals.
•	We	tested	on	a	sample	basis	year	end	promotional	accruals	and	obtained	third	
party	documentation	to	support	the	existence	and	measurement	of	the	accruals	
balance.	
•	We	verified	the	appropriateness	of	management’s	key	assumptions	in	determining	
redemption	rates.	These	were	reassessed	based	on	observed	changes	in	
consumer	behaviour	in	relation	to	promotional	offerings	and	the	Group’s	
experience	of	payments	made	against	accruals	on	a	three	year	rolling	basis.	
•	We	have	corroborated	the	time	frame	for	retaining	unclaimed	promotional	accruals	
on	the	Group’s	balance	sheet	and	the	consistency	in	the	application	of	the	Group’s	
policy	between	reporting	periods.
•	In	assessing	changes	in	key	estimates	and	the	Group’s	policy,	we	assessed	both	
the	methodologies	and	rationale	applied	in	determining	changes	in	approach	from	
prior	periods	for	risk	of	management	override.
•	We	tested	subsequent	invoices	and	cash	paid	after	the	balance	sheet	date	to	
detect	any	unrecorded	liabilities	in	promotional	accruals	and	re-evaluated	the	
approach	to	determining	accrual	amounts	at	year	end.	
•	We	have	tested	a	sample	of	payments	through	the	profit	and	loss	account	during	
the	year	and	verified	to	supplier	documentation.	
What we concluded to the audit Committee:
Based	on	our	audit	procedures,	the	methodology	adopted	in	determining	promotional	expenditure	netted	against	the	revenue	recognised	is	appropriate,	and	the	
year-end	accrual	balance	is	correctly	stated. 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
INDEPENDENT	AUDITOR’S	REPORT	TO	Th E	MEMBERS		
OF	DAIRy 	CREST	GROUP	plc	CONTINUED
We	have	removed	the	risk	presented	in	the	2014/2015	audit	report	
relating	to	assessment	of	the	carrying	value	of	non-current	assets.	
Following	the	sale	of	the	Dairies	business	there	is	significant	
headroom	in	the	remaining	Cash	Generating	Units	in	the	Group	and	
we	have	therefore	determined	there	not	to	be	a	material	risk	of	
misstatement	in	respect	of	impairment	of	non-current	assets.
t he scope of our audit 
t ailoring the scope
Our	assessment	of	audit	risk,	our	evaluation	of	materiality	and	our	
allocation	of	performance	materiality	determine	our	audit	scope	for	
each	entity	within	the	Group.	Taken	together,	this	enables	us	to	form	
an	opinion	on	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	We	take	into	
account	the	level	of	group	revenue	and	operating	profit,	risk	profile,	
risk	determined	to	be	associated	based	on	the	grading	of	internal	
audit	findings,	controls	findings,	historical	knowledge	and	
discussions	with	management	and	the	level	of	growth	in	the	entity,	
the	number	of	significant	accounts	based	on	performance	
materiality	and	any	other	known	factors	when	assessing	the	level	of	
work	to	be	performed	at	each	entity.
In	assessing	the	risk	of	material	misstatement	to	the	Group	financial	
statements	and	to	achieve	adequate	quantitative	coverage	of	
significant	accounts	in	the	financial	statements,	of	the	34	entities	
within	the	Group,	we	have	selected	all	3	trading	entities,	which	
represent	the	principal	business	units	within	the	Group.	The	
remaining	entities	are	either	non-trading,	holding	or	dormant	entities.	
We	performed	an	audit	of	the	financial	information	of	all	3	entities	
(‘full	scope	entities’)	which	were	selected	based	on	their	size	or	risk	
characteristics.
The	reporting	entities	where	we	performed	audit	procedures	
accounted	for	100%	(2015:	greater	than	100%)	of	the	Group’s	profit	
before	tax	adjusted	for	non-recurring	items,	100%	(2015:	94%)	of	the	
Group’s	Revenue	and	97%	(2015:	97%)	of	the	Group’s	Total	assets.	
For	the	remaining	entities	within	the	group,	we	performed	other	
procedures,	including	analytical	review	and	enquiries	of	
management	to	address	the	residual	risk	of	material	misstatement.	
Involvement with entity teams 
In	establishing	our	overall	approach	to	the	Group	audit,	we	
determined	that	the	audit	work	on	all	in	scope	locations	would	be	
undertaken	by	the	primary	team.	
r isk o ur response to the risk
accounting for the disposal of the d airies operations
Refer	to	the	Audit	Committee	Report	(page	36);	Accounting	policies	(page	75);	
and	Notes	7	&	29	of	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	(pages	87	&	109	).
We	focused	on	this	area	given	the	material	nature	of	the	calculations	of	the	
loss	on	disposal	and	the	performance	of	the	Dairies	operations	for	the	period	
up	to	the	disposal	in	December	2015,	which	was	reported	as	a	single	line	item	
in	the	income	statement.	
When	accounting	for	discontinued	operations,	there	are	certain	disclosure	
requirements	which	must	be	both	compliant	with	IFRS	and	contain	accurate	
statements	with	respect	to	the	prevailing	facts	and	circumstances.	
In	the	prior	year	our	risk	related	to	the	classification	of	the	Dairies	operation	as	
‘held	for	sale’.	Our	current	year	risk	relates	to	the	calculation	of	the	loss	on	
disposal	as	well	as	the	recognition	and	disclosure	of	the	completed	Dairies	
disposal	as	a	‘discontinued	operation’.
•	We	have	validated	management’s	methodology	for	all	costs	included	within	the	
calculation	and	confirmed	that	the	costs	have	been	appropriately	included	as	they	
relate	solely	to	the	disposal	of	the	Dairies	business.
•	Where	there	are	judgments	on	the	quantification	of	certain	items,	we	have	
corroborated	management’s	position	by	reviewing	independent	advice.	
•	We	have	audited	the	underlying	results	of	the	business	for	the	period	up	until	
disposal	through	testing	where	we	have	sampled	transactions	of	income	and	
expenditure.
•	We	have	reviewed	the	nature	and	extent	of	the	disclosure	in	light	of	the	
requirements	of	IFRS,	including	the	disclosure	of	this	matter	as	a	significant	
judgment	in	the	accounting	policies	section	of	the	Financial	Statements.	
•	We	have	agreed	the	consistency	of	the	narrative	reporting	within	the	Annual	
Report	and	Accounts	with	the	accounting	judgment	adopted.
What we concluded to the audit Committee:
Based	on	our	audit	procedures,	we	have	concluded	that	the	disposal	of	the	Dairies	business	has	been	recognised	and	disclosed	appropriately	in	compliance	with	
IFRS	and	the	disclosures	reflect	the	substance	of	the	transaction.
Classification of items as exceptional
Refer	to	the	Audit	Committee	Report	(page	36);	Accounting	policies	(page	75);	
and	Note	4	of	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	(page	84).
Dairy	Crest	Group	considers	that	the	separate	reporting	of	exceptional	items	
helps	to	give	a	better	understanding	of	the	underlying	operational	performance	
of	the	Group	where	items	are	material	and	one-off	in	nature.
Excluding	the	disposal	of	the	Dairies	business	which	is	discussed	above,	we	
have	focused	on	the	£11.3	million	(2014/15	£36.3	million),	of	total	net	costs	that	
are	classified	as	exceptional	in	the	current	year.
Risks	include:
•	Inappropriate	classification	of	costs	as	exceptional	items
•	Inconsistent	treatment	of	exceptional	items	from	year	to	year
•	Inappropriate	quantification	of	exceptional	items
This	risk	was	present	in	the	prior	year.
•	We	have	challenged	whether	items	are	recorded	in	line	with	the	Group’s	policy	for	
exceptional	items	and	that	the	policy	has	been	applied	consistently	with	prior	
years.
•	In	particular,	we	corroborated	the	appropriateness	of	the	methodology	and	
rationale	supporting	the	calculation	of	duplicate	running	costs	in	relation	to	the	
initiation	costs	for	the	demineralised	whey	powder	and	GOS	projects,	through	
vouching	incremental	expenditure	to	supporting	documentation.	
•	We	have	reviewed	the	nature	of	both	the	income	and	expenditure	items	included	
within	exceptionals	and	tested	to	supporting	documentation	on	a	sample	basis.	
We	have	confirmed	that	management	has	adopted	a	consistent	treatment	for	this	
classification	from	the	prior	year.	
•	We	specifically	considered	the	level	of	transparency	of	the	disclosures.
What we concluded to the audit Committee:
We	are	satisfied	that	these	items	and	their	classification	as	exceptional	is	appropriate	and	in	accordance	with	the	Group’s	accounting	policy	for	exceptional	items	and	
consistent	with	the	treatment	in	prior	years.
d eferred tax asset recognition relating to d airies losses 
Refer	to	the	Audit	Committee	Report	(page	36);	Accounting	policies	(page	75);	
and	Note	6	of	the	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	(page	85).
Dairy	Crest	Group	has	recognised	a	deferred	tax	asset	of	£15.3	million	in	the	
current	financial	year,	that	arises	from	historic	losses	in	the	dairies	business.	
In	assessing	that	the	deferred	tax	asset	is	recoverable,	management	has	
determined	that	suitable	future	profits	will	be	generated	against	which	the	
asset	will	be	utilised.	
The	key	judgments	that	management	has	made	are	summarised	in	the	
accounting	policies	section.
This	risk	is	new	for	the	current	year	as	the	deferred	tax	asset	relating	to	the	
Dairies	losses	carried	forward	arose	following	the	completion	of	the	sale	itself.
•	Management	has	prepared	a	paper	to	set	out	their	position,	which	Ey	 Corporate	
Tax	specialists	have	considered	in	light	of	the	prevailing	tax	legislation.	
•	We	obtained	corroborative	evidence	to	support	the	key	judgments	highlighted	in	
management’s	paper	supporting	their	assessment.
•	We	have	considered	case	law	with	respect	to	similar	instances	of	tax	positions	
that	have	been	challenged	and	considered	the	circumstances	in	the	Dairies	
operations	as	compared	to	these	facts.
•	We	have	considered	the	future	profitability	of	the	business	in	assessing	the	
recoverability	of	the	asset.
What we concluded to the audit Committee:
Based	on	our	audit	procedures,	we	concluded	that	management’s	judgments	in	relation	to	deferred	tax	asset	recognition	and	the	disclosures	made	are	appropriate. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 67
The numbers
o ur application of materiality 
We	apply	the	concept	of	materiality	in	planning	and	performing	the	
audit,	in	evaluating	the	effect	of	identified	misstatements	on	the	audit	
and	in	forming	our	audit	opinion.	
materiality
The	magnitude	of	an	omission	or	misstatement	that,	individually	or	in	
the	aggregate,	could	reasonably	be	expected	to	influence	the	
economic	decisions	of	the	users	of	the	financial	statements.	
Materiality	provides	a	basis	for	determining	the	nature	and	extent	of	
our	audit	procedures.
•	 We	determined	materiality	for	the	Group	to	be	£2.8	million	
(2014/2015:	£2.7	million),	which	is	5%	(2014/2015:	5%)	of	profit	
before	tax	adjusted	for	non-recurring	items.	We	believe	that	profit	
before	tax,	adjusted	for	the	items	described	in	the	table	below,	
provide	us	with	a	consistent	year	on	year	basis	for	determining	
materiality	and	is	the	most	relevant	performance	measure	to	the	
stakeholders	of	the	entity	and	one	which	management	uses	as	a	
key	performance	indicator	when	reporting	to	the	market.
During	the	course	of	our	audit,	we	reassessed	initial	materiality.	Our	
initial	materiality	was	based	on	forecast	profit	before	tax,	loss	from	
discontinued	operations	and	exceptionals.	Actual	materiality	was	
£0.1	million	lower	than	our	initial	materiality.	We	adjusted	the	
allocated	performance	materiality	applied	by	each	component	in	
performing	our	audit	procedures.
performance materiality
The	application	of	materiality	at	the	individual	account	or	balance	
level.	It	is	set	at	an	amount	to	reduce	to	an	appropriately	low	level	the	
probability	that	the	aggregate	of	uncorrected	and	undetected	
misstatements	exceeds	materiality.
•	 On	the	basis	of	our	risk	assessments,	together	with	our	
assessment	of	the	Group’s	overall	control	environment,	our	
judgment	was	that	performance	materiality	was	75%	(2014/15:	
75%)	of	our	planning	materiality,	namely	£2.1	million	(2014/15:	£2.0	
million).	Our	objective	in	adopting	this	approach	was	to	conclude	
that	undetected	audit	differences	in	all	accounts	did	not	exceed	
our	planning	materiality	level.	
Audit	work	at	entity	locations	for	the	purpose	of	obtaining	audit	
coverage	over	significant	financial	statement	accounts	is	undertaken	
based	on	a	percentage	of	total	performance	materiality.	The	
performance	materiality	set	for	each	entity	is	based	on	the	relative	
scale	and	risk	of	the	entity	to	the	Group	as	a	whole	and	our	
assessment	of	the	risk	of	misstatement	at	that	entity.	In	the	current	
year,	the	range	of	performance	materiality	allocated	to	entities	was	
£2.1	million	to	£0.525	million	(2014/15:	£2	million	for	all	entities).	
r eporting threshold
An	amount	below	which	identified	misstatements	are	considered	as	
being	clearly	trivial.
We	agreed	with	the	Audit	Committee	that	we	would	report	to	them	
all	uncorrected	audit	differences	in	excess	of	£140,000	(2014/15:	
£135,000),	which	is	set	at	5%	of	planning	materiality,	as	well	as	
differences	below	that	threshold	that,	in	our	view,	warranted	
reporting	on	qualitative	grounds.	
We	evaluate	any	uncorrected	misstatements	against	both	the	
quantitative	measures	of	materiality	discussed	above	and	in	light	of	
other	relevant	qualitative	considerations	in	forming	our	opinion.
scope of the audit of the financial statements
An	audit	involves	obtaining	evidence	about	the	amounts	and	
disclosures	in	the	financial	statements	sufficient	to	give	reasonable	
assurance	that	the	financial	statements	are	free	from	material	
misstatement,	whether	caused	by	fraud	or	error.	This	includes	an	
assessment	of:	whether	the	accounting	policies	are	appropriate	to	
the	Group’s	and	the	Parent	Company’s	circumstances	and	have	
been	consistently	applied	and	adequately	disclosed;	the	
reasonableness	of	significant	accounting	estimates	made	by	the	
directors;	and	the	overall	presentation	of	the	financial	statements.	In	
addition,	we	read	all	the	financial	and	non-financial	information	in	the	
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	to	identify	material	inconsistencies	with	
the	audited	financial	statements	and	to	identify	any	information	that	
is	apparently	materially	incorrect	based	on,	or	materially	inconsistent	
with,	the	knowledge	acquired	by	us	in	the	course	of	performing	the	
audit.	If	we	become	aware	of	any	apparent	material	misstatements	
or	inconsistencies	we	consider	the	implications	for	our	report.
r espective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As	explained	more	fully	in	the	Directors’	Responsibilities	Statement	
set	out	on	page	64,	the	directors	are	responsible	for	the	preparation	
of	the	financial	statements	and	for	being	satisfied	that	they	give	a	
true	and	fair	view.	Our	responsibility	is	to	audit	and	express	an	
opinion	on	the	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	applicable	
law	and	International	Standards	on	Auditing	(UK	and	Ireland).	Those	
standards	require	us	to	comply	with	the	Auditing	Practices	Board’s	
Ethical	Standards	for	Auditors.
This	report	is	made	solely	to	the	company’s	members,	as	a	body,	in	
accordance	with	Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	
Our	audit	work	has	been	undertaken	so	that	we	might	state	to	the	
company’s	members	those	matters	we	are	required	to	state	to	them	
in	an	auditor’s	report	and	for	no	other	purpose.	To	the	fullest	extent	
permitted	by	law,	we	do	not	accept	or	assume	responsibility	to	
anyone	other	than	the	company	and	the	company’s	members	as	a	
body,	for	our	audit	work,	for	this	report,	or	for	the	opinions	we	have	
formed.	
o pinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies act 
2006
In	our	opinion:
•	 	 the	part	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	to	be	audited	has	
been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	Companies	Act	
2006;	and
•	 	 the	information	given	in	the	Strategic	Report	and	the	Directors’	
Report	for	the	financial	year	for	which	the	financial	statements	are	
prepared	is	consistent	with	the	financial	statements.
•	Exceptional	items	–	increase	basis	by	£165.1	million	
(2014/15:	£36.3	million)
•	Loss	on	Dairies	discontinued	operations	–	increase	
basis	by	£32.8	million	(2014/15:	£0	million)
•	Normalisation	of	property	profits	–	decrease	basis	by	
£0	million	(2014/15:	£4.8	million)
Adjustments
•	Take	5%	of	£56.6	million	(2014/15:	£53.6	million)	
adjusted	profit	before	tax	–	£2.8	million	(	2014/15:	
£2.7 million)
Materiality
•	Reported	loss	before	tax	–	£141.2	million	(2014/15:	
£22.1	million	profit)
Starting	basis 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
INDEPENDENT	AUDITOR’S	REPORT	TO	Th E	MEMBERS		
OF	DAIRy 	CREST	GROUP	plc	CONTINUED
matters on which we are required to report by exception
Isa s (u K and Ireland) reporting We	are	required	to	report	to	you	if,	in	our	opinion,	financial	and	non-financial	information	in	the	annual	report	
is:	
•	materially	inconsistent	with	the	information	in	the	audited	financial	statements;	or	
•	apparently	materially	incorrect	based	on,	or	materially	inconsistent	with,	our	knowledge	of	the	Group	
acquired	in	the	course	of	performing	our	audit;	or	
•	otherwise	misleading.	
In	particular,	we	are	required	to	report	whether	we	have	identified	any	inconsistencies	between	our	
knowledge	acquired	in	the	course	of	performing	the	audit	and	the	directors’	statement	that	they	consider	the	
annual	report	and	accounts	taken	as	a	whole	is	fair,	balanced	and	understandable	and	provides	the	
information	necessary	for	shareholders	to	assess	the	entity’s	performance,	business	model	and	strategy;	
and	whether	the	annual	report	appropriately	addresses	those	matters	that	we	communicated	to	the	audit	
committee	that	we	consider	should	have	been	disclosed.
Companies act 2006 reporting We	are	required	to	report	to	you	if,	in	our	opinion:
•	adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept	by	the	parent	company,	or	returns	adequate	for	our	audit	
have	not	been	received	from	branches	not	visited	by	us;	or
•	the	parent	company	financial	statements	and	the	part	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	to	be	audited	
are	not	in	agreement	with	the	accounting	records	and	returns;	or
•	certain	disclosures	of	directors’	remuneration	specified	by	law	are	not	made;	or
•	we	have	not	received	all	the	information	and	explanations	we	require	for	our	audit.
Listing r ules review requirements We	are	required	to	review:
•	the	directors’	statement	in	relation	to	going	concern,	set	out	on	page	61,	and	longer-term	viability,	set	out	
on	page	61;	and
•	the	part	of	the	Corporate	Governance	Statement	relating	to	the	company’s	compliance	with	the	ten	
provisions	of	the	UK	Corporate	Governance	Code	specified	for	our	review.
Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception:
We	have	nothing	to	report	in	respect	of	any	of	the	items	above.
statement on the d irectors’ assessment of the principal r isks that Would t hreaten the solvency or Liquidity of the entity
Isa s (u K and Ireland) reporting We	are	required	to	give	a	statement	as	to	whether	we	have	anything	material	to	add	or	to	draw	attention	to	in	
relation	to:
•	the	directors’	confirmation	in	the	annual	report	that	they	have	carried	out	a	robust	assessment	of	the	
principal	risks	facing	the	entity,	including	those	that	would	threaten	its	business	model,	future	performance,	
solvency	or	liquidity;
•	the	disclosures	in	the	annual	report	that	describe	those	risks	and	explain	how	they	are	being	managed	or	
mitigated;
•	the	directors’	statement	in	the	financial	statements	about	whether	they	considered	it	appropriate	to	adopt	
the	going	concern	basis	of	accounting	in	preparing	them,	and	their	identification	of	any	material	
uncertainties	to	the	entity’s	ability	to	continue	to	do	so	over	a	period	of	at	least	twelve	months	from	the	
date	of	approval	of	the	financial	statements;	and
•	the	directors’	explanation	in	the	annual	report	as	to	how	they	have	assessed	the	prospects	of	the	entity,	
over	what	period	they	have	done	so	and	why	they	consider	that	period	to	be	appropriate,	and	their	
statement	as	to	whether	they	have	a	reasonable	expectation	that	the	entity	will	be	able	to	continue	in	
operation	and	meet	its	liabilities	as	they	fall	due	over	the	period	of	their	assessment,	including	any	related	
disclosures	drawing	attention	to	any	necessary	qualifications	or	assumptions.
Conclusion
We	have	nothing	to	add	or	to	draw	attention	to	in	respect	of	the	above.
anup sodhi	(Senior	statutory	auditor)
for	and	on	behalf	of	Ernst	&	young	LLP,	Statutory	Auditor
(London)
18	May	2016
Notes:
1.	The	maintenance	and	integrity	of	the	Dairy	Crest	Group	plc	website	is	the	
responsibility	of	the	directors;	the	work	carried	out	by	the	auditors	does	not	
involve	consideration	of	these	matters	and,	accordingly,	the	auditors	accept	
no	responsibility	for	any	changes	that	may	have	occurred	to	the	financial	
statements	since	they	were	initially	presented	on	the	website.
2.	Legislation	in	the	United	Kingdom	governing	the	preparation	and	
dissemination	of	financial	statements	may	differ	from	legislation	in	other	
jurisdictions. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 69
The numbers
      2016   Restated 2015
  Note
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Revenue 1 422.3 – 422.3 448.2 – 448.2 
Operating costs 2,4 (360.3) (17.3) (377.6) (381.7) (19.8) (401.5)
Remeasurement gain on Promovita Ingredients 4,29 – 6.0 6.0 – – – 
Other income – property 3 3.6 – 3.6 – – – 
Profit on continuing operations 65.6 (11.3) 54.3 66.5  (19.8) 46.7 
Finance costs 5 (8.3) – (8.3) (8.1) – (8.1)
Other finance expense – pensions 20 (0.6) – (0.6) (1.8) – (1.8)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 56.7 (11.3) 45.4 56.6 (19.8) 36.8 
Tax (expense)/credit 6 (9.9) 3.0 (6.9) (11.4) 4.0 (7.4)
Profit from continuing operations 46.8 (8.3) 38.5 45.2 (15.8) 29.4 
(Loss)/Profit from discontinued operations 7,29 (26.4) (125.1) (151.5) 5.0 (13.9) (8.9)
(Loss)/Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders 20.4 (133.4) (113.0) 50.2 (29.7) 20.5 
The prior year comparatives have been restated to reclassify the Dairies operation sold during the year ended 31 March 2016 as a  
discontinued operation (see Note 7).
  Earnings per share  
2016 Restated 2015
 
  Basic earnings per share from
continuing operations (pence)
8 27.9 21.5
 
  Diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations (pence)
8 27.7 21.4
 
  Adjusted basic earnings per share
from continuing operations (pence)*
8
34.5 34.3
 
  Adjusted diluted earnings per share
from continuing operations (pence)*
8 34.2 34.1
 
  Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 8 (81.9) 15.0  
  Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 8 (81.3) 14.9  
  Dividends  
2016 2015
 
  Proposed final dividend (£m) 9 22.3 21.6  
  Interim dividend paid (£m) 9 8.4 8.2  
  Proposed final dividend (pence) 9 16.0 15.7  
  Interim dividend paid (pence) 9 6.1 6.0  
* Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The 
calculations exclude exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, being 
dependent upon market assumptions at 31 March each year.
Conso LiDaTED in Com E sTaTEmEnT
Year ended 31 March 2016 70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Conso LiDaTED sTaTEmEnT of Com PREhEnsiv E in Com E 
Year ended 31 March 2016
    Note  
2016
£m
 
2015
£m
(Loss)/Profit for the year       (113.0)  20.5
             
o ther comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years:          
Cash flow hedges – reclassification adjustment for gains/(losses) in income statement   31   4.4   (16.1)
Cash flow hedges – (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income     (5.4)  15.0 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income   6   0.2   0.2 
      (0.8)  (0.9)
o ther comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years:      
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans   20   (20.5)  4.3 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income   6   1.0   1.7 
        (19.5)  6.0 
o ther comprehensive (loss)/gain for the year, net of tax       (20.3)  5.1 
Total comprehensive (loss)/gain for the year, net of tax       (133.3)  25.6 
All amounts are attributable to owners of the parent company.
            Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 71
The numbers
Conso LiDaTED an D PaREnT Com Pany BaLan CE sh EETs
At 31 March 2016
      Consolidated   Parent Company
  Note
 
2016
£m
 
2015
£m
 
2016
£m
 
2015
£m
assets                
n on-current assets                
Property, plant and equipment 11   233.9 328.5 – – 
Goodwill 12   86.3 74.3 – – 
Intangible assets 13   11.1 25.6 – – 
Investments 14   0.5 0.5 484.3 482.8 
Deferred tax asset 6   19.3 – 0.8 0.2 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 17   2.3 14.7 2.3 14.7 
      353.4 443.6 487.4 497.7 
Current assets              
Inventories 15   152.1 199.7 – – 
Trade and other receivables 16   43.2 95.3 10.5 0.4 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 17   16.0 – 16.0 – 
Cash and short-term deposits 18   100.3 50.6 40.1 0.2 
    311.6 345.6 66.6 0.6 
Total assets 1   665.0 789.2 554.0 498.3 
               
Equity and Liabilities              
n on-current liabilities              
Financial liabilities – Long-term borrowings 19   (250.3) (263.0) (144.2) (158.2)
   – Derivative financial instruments 19   (1.3) (1.9) (1.3) (1.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 20   (42.5) (41.4) – – 
Deferred tax liability 6   – (11.1) – – 
Deferred income 22   (4.5) (6.2) – – 
      (298.6) (323.6) (145.5) (160.1)
Current liabilities              
Trade and other payables 21   (120.3) (168.1) (3.2) (40.0)
Financial liabilities – Short-term borrowings 19   (96.5) – (95.6) – 
   – Derivative financial instruments 19   – (0.2) – – 
Current tax liability   (3.8) (2.8) (0.1) (0.1)
Deferred income 22   (1.6) (1.6) – – 
Provisions 23   (10.0) (3.1) – – 
      (232.2) (175.8) (98.9) (40.1)
Total liabilities     (530.8) (499.4) (244.4) (200.2)
               
shareholders’ equity              
Ordinary shares 24   (35.2) (34.4) (35.2) (34.4)
Share premium 24   (84.3) (79.8) (84.3) (79.8)
Interest in ESOP 25   0.5 0.1 – – 
Other reserves 25   (50.6) (51.4) (157.0) (156.5)
Retained earnings     35.4 (124.3) (33.1) (27.4)
Total shareholders’ equity     (134.2) (289.8) (309.6) (298.1)
Total equity and liabilities     (665.0) (789.2) (554.0) (498.3)
mark allen Chief Executive
Tom atherton Group Finance Director
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 18 May 2016. 72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
attributable to owners of the parent
2016
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2015 34.4 79.8 (0.1) 51.4 124.3 289.8 
Loss for the year – – (0.3) – (112.7) (113.0)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – (1.0) – (1.0)
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plan – – – – (20.5) (20.5)
Tax on components of other comprehensive income – – – 0.2 1.0 1.2 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (0.8) (19.5) (20.3)
Total comprehensive loss – – (0.3) (0.8) (132.2) (133.3)
Issue of share capital 0.8 4.5 – – – 5.3 
Shares acquired by ESOP – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Exercise of options – – 0.2 – (0.2) –
Share-based payments – – – – 2.3 2.3 
Tax on share-based payments – – – – 0.4 0.4 
Equity dividends – – – – (30.0) (30.0)
at 31 march 2016 35.2 84.3 (0.5) 50.6 (35.4) 134.2 
2015 
At 31 March 2014 34.2 77.6 (0.6) 52.3 125.9 289.4 
Profit for the year – – – – 20.5 20.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – (1.1) – (1.1)
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plan – – – – 4.3 4.3 
Tax on components of other comprehensive income – – – 0.2 1.7 1.9 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (0.9) 6.0 5.1 
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (0.9) 26.5 25.6 
Issue of share capital 0.2 2.2 – – – 2.4 
Exercise of options – – 0.5 – (0.6) (0.1)
Share-based payments – – – – 1.7 1.7 
Equity dividends – – – – (29.2) (29.2)
At 31 March 2015 34.4 79.8 (0.1) 51.4 124.3 289.8 
* Further details are provided in Note 25.
Conso LiDaTED sTaTEmEnT of Chang Es in Equi Ty
Year ended 31 March 2016 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 73
The numbers
PaREnT Com Pany s TaTEmEnT of Chang Es in Equi Ty
Year ended 31 March 2016
2016
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total  
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2015 34.4 79.8 142.7 (0.9) 14.7 27.4 298.1 
Profit for the year – – – – – 34.5 34.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – (1.2) – – (1.2)
Tax on components of other comprehensive 
income – – – 0.2 – – 0.2 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (1.0) – 34.5 33.5 
Issue of share capital 0.8 4.5 – – – – 5.3 
Share-based payments – – – – 1.5 0.8 2.3 
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – 0.4 0.4 
Equity dividends – – – – – (30.0) (30.0)
at 31 march 2016 35.2 84.3 142.7 (1.9) 16.2 33.1 309.6 
2015
At 31 March 2014 34.2 77.6 142.7 (0.6) 14.0 48.7 316.6 
Profit for the year – – – – – 8.3 8.3 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Tax on components of other comprehensive 
income – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (0.3) – 8.3 8.0 
Issue of share capital 0.2 2.2 – – – – 2.4 
Share-based payments – – – – 0.7 (0.4) 0.3 
Equity dividends – – – – – (29.2) (29.2)
At 31 March 2015 34.4 79.8 142.7 (0.9) 14.7 27.4 298.1 
 * Other reserve represents the share-based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 14).  74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Conso LiDaTED an D PaREnT Com Pany s TaTEmEnT of Cash f Lows
Year ended 31 March 2016
     
Consolidated   Parent Company
  Note
 
2016
£m
 
2015
£m
 
2016
£m
 
2015
£m
Cash generated from operations 32 31.3 35.3 – – 
Interest paid (12.8) (10.5) – – 
n et cash inflow from operating activities 18.5 24.8 – – 
Cash flow from investing activities
Capital expenditure (66.8) (80.1) – – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 5.4 22.5 – – 
Purchase of businesses and investments 29 (6.0) (0.1) – – 
Sale of businesses net of fees 29 49.0 4.0 – – 
Amounts (paid to)/received from subsidiaries – – (11.2) 54.4 
n et cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (18.4) (53.7) (11.2) 54.4 
Cash flow from financing activities
Issue/(repayment and cancellation) of loan notes 33 76.1 (27.4) 76.1 (27.4)
Net drawdown under revolving credit facilities 33 – 69.0 – – 
Dividends paid 9 (30.0) (29.2) (30.0) (29.2)
Proceeds from issue of shares (net of issue costs) 24 5.0 2.4 5.0 2.4 
Finance lease repayments 33 (1.5) (1.8) – – 
n et cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 49.6 13.0 51.1 (54.2)
n et increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 49.7 (15.9) 39.9 0.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33 50.6 67.3 0.2 – 
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 33 – (0.8) – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33 100.3 50.6 40.1 0.2
n et debt at end of year 33 (229.0) (198.7) (180.3) (144.1) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 75
The numbers
Accounting policies
Year ended 31 March 2016
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, modified in respect of the 
revaluation to fair value of financial instruments, assets held by 
defined benefit pension plans and on consolidation the original 
interest in an acquiree purchased through a stepped acquisition. 
They are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the 
nearest 0.1 million (£ million) except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union (‘EU’). The separate Company financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 
not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. The financial statements have therefore continued to be 
prepared on a going concern basis. See Going Concern section on 
page 61 of the Directors’ Report.
Areas of estimation 
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant 
risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are (i) the 
measurement of impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and 
property, plant and equipment, (ii) the measurement of defined 
benefit pension scheme assets and obligations (iii) the calculation 
of promotional discount accruals and (iv) the estimation of tax 
costs in France in relation to the sale of St Hubert, (v) the 
measurement of the sales proceeds from the sale of the Dairies 
operation. 
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an 
annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of 
the cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
goodwill. This requires estimation of future cash flows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate. See Note 12. The Group tests 
whether intangible assets, property, plant and equipment are 
impaired where there are indications that there is a risk of 
impairment. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units in which these assets reside. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
assets. This requires estimation of future cash flows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate. 
(ii) The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit 
obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational 
requirement of IAS 19 ‘Retirement Benefit Obligations’. The 
calculations include a number of judgments and estimations in 
respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, 
inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life 
expectancy, amongst others. Changes in these assumptions can 
have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit 
obligation. See Note 20.
(iii) The Group accrues for agreed promotional funding. Accruals 
for promotional funding are calculated based on an estimated 
redemption rate of the promotion. The redemption rate used is 
dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers known 
historical data on the performance of that mechanic. 
Management considers this to be an area of judgment which is 
dependent on the customer mix and promotion mechanic. See 
Note 21.
(iv) The sale of St Hubert will result in tax payable in France both 
on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend payments 
made to the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the date of 
disposal in August 2012. An estimate has been made of the likely 
tax costs resulting from these transactions however the final 
assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities, 
which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
(v) The final sales proceeds for the sale of the Dairies operation 
have been estimated based on agreement of certain purchase 
price metrics, but this is subject to agreement to the final levels of 
working capital and EBITDA which are in the process of being 
determined by an independent expert. See Note 29.
Areas of judgment
The key areas of judgment are the timing and nature of exceptional 
costs and the recognition of a deferred tax asset in relation to 
Dairies losses. 
(i) Items of a material, one-off nature, which result from a 
restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance 
are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement as 
exceptional. Management considers this to be an area of judgment 
due to the assumptions made around the timing and nature of 
exceptional costs. See Note 4 and Note 7.
(ii) The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset in relation to 
the trading losses of the Dairies operation. Management considers 
this to be an area of judgment due to the assumption made that 
this deferred tax asset can be set off against future trading profits 
despite the disposal of the Dairies operation in the year. See Note 6.
c hanges in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
 • IAS 19 ‘Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – 
Amendments to IAS 19’
 • Improvement to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment – Definitions of 
vesting conditions
 • Improvement to IFRS 3 Business Combinations – Accounting for 
contingent consideration in a business combination
 • Improvement to IFRS 8 Operating Segments – Aggregation of 
operating segments and Reconciliation of the total of the 
reportable segments assets to the entity’s assets
 • Improvement to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 
Intangible Assets – Revaluation method
 • Improvement to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures – Key 
management personnel
 • Improvement to IFRS 3 Business Combinations – Scope 
exceptions for joint ventures
 • Improvement to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement – Scope of 
paragraph 52
 • Improvement to IAS 40 Investment Property – Interrelationship 
between IFRS 3 and IAS 40 (ancillary services)
The application of these standards has had no material impact on 
the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year 
ended 31 March 2016.  76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
ACCOUNTING POl ICIES CONTINUED
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and 
interpretations (with an effective date after the date of these 
financial statements):
 • IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (effective 
1 January 2018) 
 • IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (effective 1 January 2018)
 • IFRS 16 ‘l eases’ (effective 1 January 2019)
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these 
standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the 
Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application with 
the exception of IFRS 16 ‘l eases’.
IFRS 16 ‘l eases’ will apply to annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2019 and will be applicable to the Group in its 
financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2020.
IFRS 16 will remove the distinction between Operating l eases and 
Finance l eases and will require lessees to report operating leases 
on the balance sheet, similar to the treatment of finance leases 
under IAS 17. l essees will recognise an asset and a liability for 
each lease and will have to recognise an element of each lease 
payment as an interest charge.
The effect of this on the Group’s financial statements will be that 
the gross assets and gross liabilities will each increase by an equal 
and opposite amount. There will also be a timing effect on the 
income statement, as interest on leases will have to be charged in 
a similar way to that in which interest is charged on a loan which 
will result in more interest being charged in early periods of each 
lease and less interest being charged in the later periods.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc (the Company), its subsidiaries and associates 
(together referred to as the Group). The financial statements are 
drawn up to 31 March each year using consistent accounting 
policies. 
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by 
the Group. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which 
the Group obtains control and continue to be consolidated until the 
date control ceases. All intercompany balances and transactions, 
including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-group 
transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
a) Acquisitions
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the 
date on which control is transferred to the Group. The separable 
net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the newly acquired 
subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial 
statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of 
control, if appropriate. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed in 
the income statement.
If a business acquisition is achieved in stages, the acquisition date 
carrying amount of the Group’s previously held interest in the 
acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through 
the consolidated profit and loss account. The fair value 
measurement is determined using the hierarchy principles of 
IFRS13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’.
b) Discontinued operations 
Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial 
year are included in the financial statements up to the effective date 
of disposal. Where a business component representing a separate 
major line of business is disposed of, or classified as held for sale, 
it is classified as a discontinued operation. The post-tax profit or 
loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on 
the face of the income statement, separate from the other results 
of the Group. The comparative consolidated income statement, 
other comprehensive income and associated notes have been 
restated as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of 
the comparative year. 
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group 
plc and its subsidiaries is Sterling (£). 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the 
functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated into Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences on monetary items are generally taken to the income 
statement. However, foreign currency differences arising from the 
translation of qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent the hedges 
are effective are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable 
of operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation 
is calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, 
plant and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
l easehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period 
of the lease
Vehicles, plant and equipment: 4 to 20 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down 
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value 
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does 
not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable 
amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated 
income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to 
arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated 
income statement in the year that it is derecognised. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 77
The numbers
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are 
capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the 
period they occur.
g oodwill
Goodwill arising on an acquisition is carried at cost at acquisition 
date less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured as the cost of the 
acquisition less the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and 
the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination. 
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the consideration 
transferred (measured at acquisition date fair value), the amount of 
any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and in the case of 
business combinations achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair 
value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may be impaired. 
Any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating unit or 
groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the 
combination’s synergies as at the acquisition date. Impairment is 
determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the 
carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Where 
goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the 
operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated 
with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount 
of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of 
the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is 
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation 
disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and any recognised impairment losses. All intangible assets 
recognised by the Group have finite useful economic lives and are 
being amortised on a straight line basis.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business 
are recognised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value 
can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future 
expected economic benefits flow to the Group. Acquired intangible 
assets comprise the Frylight brand which was considered to have 
a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software 
development. Software development is amortised over a period of 
up to ten years dependent on the type of software developed. 
Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available for 
use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for 
impairment where appropriate.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as 
required by IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’.
inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a first in first 
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing 
each product to its present location and condition. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Financial Assets and l iabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value on initial 
recognition.
The Group and Company classify financial assets on initial 
recognition within the scope of IAS 39 as: 
– financial assets at fair value through income statement;
– loans and receivables; 
– held-to-maturity investments; or 
– available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. 
The Group and Company classify non-derivative financial liabilities 
into the following categories: 
– financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss; or 
– other financial liabilities
The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its 
foreign currency exposures.
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash 
flows from that asset have expired. A financial liability is 
dereognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, 
cancelled or expires. 
a) t rade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. 
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full 
amount is no longer probable. Trade receivable debts are written 
off when there is no expectation of recovery. 
b) c ash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand 
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, 
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as 
defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
c) interest bearing loans and borrowings
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the 
fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. After 
initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any issue costs and any discount or premium on 
settlement. Gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised. 78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
ACCOUNTING POl ICIES CONTINUED
d) n et debt
The Group and Company define net debt as interest bearing loans 
and borrowings and finance leases less cash and cash 
equivalents. The calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of 
derivative financial instruments with the exception of cross 
currency swaps to fix foreign currency debt in Sterling where they 
are designated as cash flow hedges. In this case the fixed Sterling 
debt, not the underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is 
included in net debt. It includes any cash or borrowings included 
within disposal groups classified as held for sale and excludes 
unamortised upfront facility fees.
e) Derivative financial instruments
The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such 
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps to hedge its 
risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. Such derivative 
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and 
subsequently re-measured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value 
are taken directly to the income statement for the year.
f) c ash flow hedges
When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a cash flow 
hedging instrument at inception of the hedge relationship, the 
effective portion of the changes in fair value of the derivative is 
recognised to other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the hedging reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised in the 
income statement.
The cumulative amount recognised to other comprehensive 
income is reclassified into the income statement out of other 
comprehensive income in the same period or periods during which 
the hedged forecast cash flows affects the income statement or 
the hedged item affects the income statement, for example when 
the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or 
when debt matures. If the forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for 
hedge accounting, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised, or designated as revoked, the hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the forecast transaction 
is no longer to occur, then the cumulative amounted recognised in 
other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income 
statement. 
Fair value measurement
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or 
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that 
price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or liability, the 
Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability 
if marker participants would take those characteristics into account 
when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. 
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or 
disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair 
value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level 
input that is observable and significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
 • l evel 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities
 • l evel 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
 • l evel 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by 
re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
provisions
A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount that is 
recognised when the Group or Company has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) where, as a result of a past event, it is more 
likely than not that payment will be required to settle the obligation 
and the amount can be estimated. If the effect is material, 
expected future cash flows are discounted using the current 
pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability. 
Provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timings of future 
cash flows are dependent on future events. Provisions are 
reviewed regularly by management, with any difference between 
the amounts previously recognised and current estimate or actual 
liability being recognised to the income statement.
l eased assets
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair 
value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. The net present value of future lease 
rentals is included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest 
element of lease rentals is charged to the income statement in the 
year. l eases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and 
benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under operating leases are not recognised in the 
Group’s balance sheet, with the operating lease rentals being 
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a defined 
benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
a) Defined benefit scheme
The net asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect 
of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of scheme 
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at 
the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service 
cost. Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past 
service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and 
reductions in future contributions to the scheme. Where the Group 
is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the scheme 
above the accounting value of the liabilities, an onerous obligation 
is recognised as an unrecoverable notional surplus. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 79
The numbers
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments 
and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full to the 
statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme and therefore 
no current service costs are required to be charged to income 
statement. Past service costs are recognised in the income 
statement at the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or 
curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises related 
restructuring costs. 
Scheme administration costs that are not directly related to 
investment activities are charged to the income statement. 
Administration costs that are directly related to investment are 
recognised as part of the re-measurement exercise through the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
The net interest charge is calculated by applying the discount rate 
to the net defined benefit liability or asset. 
b) Defined contribution scheme
These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation 
to the Group. Members of these schemes will contribute a 
percentage of their salary into the scheme and the Company will 
pay an additional amount into the scheme. The size of an 
individual’s pension on retirement is based on the performance of 
the asset portfolio and is not linked to salary. Company contributions 
to the scheme are charged to the income statement in the same 
period as services are rendered by the relevant employee. 
s hare-based payments
a) equity-settled performance payments
The Group and Company have issued equity instruments for which 
they receive services from employees in consideration for these 
equity instruments. All of the awards granted under existing plans 
are classified as equity-settled awards. The Group and Company 
recognise a compensation expense that is based on the fair value 
of the awards measured at grant date using an appropriate pricing 
model. Fair value is not subsequently remeasured unless relevant 
conditions attaching to the award are modified. 
Fair value reflects any market performance conditions and all 
non-vesting conditions. Adjustments are made to the 
compensation expense to reflect actual and expected forfeitures 
due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market 
performance conditions. 
The compensation expense is generally recognised to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and a 
corresponding credit is recognised in equity. 
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled it is treated as if it had 
vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised 
in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over 
equity instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in 
the Company’s balance sheet.
b) employees’ s hare o wnership plan (‘eso p’)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy l ong Term Incentive Share 
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at 
shareholders’ equity. Consideration received from the sale of such 
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised 
in the consolidated income statement.
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of 
goods net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group. 
Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals and overriding 
discounts. The Group accrues against agreed promotional funding 
and agreed customer terms. The redemption rate used is 
dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers known 
historical data on the performance of that mechanic and is 
adjusted for actual performance. The overriding discounts are 
calculated as a proportion of the level of customer sales in the 
period. 
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to 
receive payment is established.
o ther income
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of depots as a 
result of rationalisation.
exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the income statement as 
exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, which result 
from a restructuring of the business or some other event or 
circumstance, are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better 
understanding of the underlying operational performance of the 
Group. The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a 
result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items. 
g overnment and other grants
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates 
to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs 
that it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an 
asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is 
released to the income statement over the expected useful life of 
the relevant asset in equal annual installments.
income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised to the income statement except to the extent it relates 
to items recognised directly to equity or other comprehensive 
income.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date. 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial 
statements, except as indicated below. Deferred tax is not 
recognised in respect of:
 • temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of 
the transaction affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss; and
 • taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profit will be available against which they can be utilised. The 
carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or 
part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal 
enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same 
taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a 
single net payment.
ACCOUNTING POl ICIES CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 81
The numbers
Notes to the fi NaNcial stateme Nts
1 segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of 
resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
Following the creation of a standalone Dairies operation and before its disposal, the CODM’s primary focus for review and resource allocation 
in the year has been between the continuing business and the Dairies operation which is classified as a discontinued operation and whose 
results are disclosed in Note 7 rather than in this note. 
The continuing business is managed centrally by functional teams (Demand, Supply, Procurement and Finance) that have responsibility for the 
whole of the continuing Group’s product portfolio. Although some discrete financial information is available to provide insight to the 
management team of the key performance drivers, the product group profit is not part of the CODM’s review. Management has judged that 
the continuing Group comprises one operating segment under IFRS 8. As such, disclosures required under IFRS 8 for the financial statements 
are shown on the face of the consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
To assist the readers of the financial statements, management considers it appropriate to provide voluntary disclosure on a basis consistent 
with historical reporting of the cheese and spreads product group results included within the consolidated income statement. In disclosing the 
product group profit for the year, certain assumptions have been made when allocating resources which are centralised at a group level for 
the continuing business and property income.
The ‘Other’ product group comprises revenue earned from distributing products for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to 
the other product groups. Generally, central costs less external ‘Other’ revenue is recharged back into the product groups such that their 
result reflects the total cost base of the Group. ‘Other’ operating profit therefore is nil.
The results under the historical segmentation basis for the continuing business included in the financial information are as follows:
  Note
 
2016
£m
 
Restated 
2015
£m
external revenue    
Cheese   263.7   274.4 
Spreads   152.6   170.0 
Other
 
6.0 
 
3.8 
t otal product group external revenue – continuing operations   422.3   448.2 
   
Product group profit*    
Cheese   36.4   33.1 
Spreads   29.6   33.8 
t otal product group profit – continuing operations   66.0   66.9 
Finance costs 5   (8.3)  (8.1)
adjusted profit before tax – continuing operations **   57.7   58.8 
Acquired intangible amortisation 2   (0.4)  (0.4)
Exceptional items 4   (11.3)  (19.8)
Other finance expense – pensions 20   (0.6)  (1.8)
Group profit before tax – continuing operations     45.4   36.8 
 
 
2016
£m
 
2015
£m
t otal assets      
Cheese     331.6   292.4 
Spreads     147.2   158.5 
Dairies     –   229.8 
Investments and share of associate     0.5   0.5 
Other     47.8   42.7 
Total product group     527.1   723.9 
Unallocated assets  
 
137.9 
 
65.3 
t otal assets     665.0   789.2 
* Profit on operations before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles. 
** Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest. 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
NOTES TO Th E FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
    Year ended 31 march
  Note
 
2016
£m
 
Restated 
2015
£m
Product group depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired  
intangible assets)
     
Cheese     (8.1)  (7.0)
Spreads     (4.5)  (2.6)
Other     (5.0)  (5.3)
t otal     (17.6)  (14.9)
         
Product group additions to non-current assets        
Cheese     65.8   55.7 
Spreads     2.5   6.0 
Other     4.1   4.9 
t otal     72.4   66.6 
Dairies additions not included above amounted to £7.3 million (2015: £16.1 million)
Product group exceptional items      
Cheese     (10.2)  (3.4)
Spreads     0.7   (16.7)
Share of Associate – 0.6 
Unsegmented     (1.8)  (0.3)
t otal exceptional operating costs 4   (11.3)  (19.8)
Interest income and expense are not included in the measure of product group profit. Group treasury has always been centrally managed and 
external interest income and expense are not allocated to product groups. Further analysis of the Group interest expense is provided in Note 5.
Tax costs are not included in the measure of product group profit.
Product group assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables and investments in 
associates using the equity method and deferred consideration but exclude cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets and 
deferred tax assets. Other product group assets comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not reported in product groups.
Product group depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £0.4 million (2015: £0.4 million) as these 
costs are not charged in the product group result.
Product group additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through 
capital expenditure and acquisition of businesses.
Geographical information – continuing operations  
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
 
2016
£m  
Restated 
2015
£m
UK   411.3   432.8 
Rest of world   11.0   15.4 
Total revenue   422.3   448.2 
   
Non-current assets* based on location    
UK   350.6   428.4 
Rest of world   0.5   0.5 
Total   351.1   428.9 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments and investment in associate.
The Group has four customers which individually represent more than 10% of revenue from continuing operations in the year ended 31 March 
2016 (2015: three) with each customer accounting for £46.9 million, £53.6 million, £67 .6 million and £102.1 million (2015: £66.2 million, £73.7 million 
and £100.7 million) of revenue from continuing operations being 11.1%, 12.7%, 16.0% and 24.2% (2015: 14.8%, 16.4% and 22.5%)
1 segmental analysis continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 83
The numbers
2 o perating costs – continuing operations
2016
Restated
2015 
Before
exceptional
items
£m
exceptional
items
£m
t otal
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Cost of sales 295.6 15.5 311.1 315.7 19.8 335.5 
Distribution costs 26.7 – 26.7 23.3 – 23.3 
Administrative expenses 38.0 1.8 39.8 42.7 – 42.7 
360.3 17.3 377.6 381.7 19.8 401.5 
Profit from continuing operations is stated after (charging)/crediting
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Release of grants 1.7 1.7 
Depreciation (16.5) (13.5)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (0.4) (0.4)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (1.1) (1.4)
Realised exchange loss on early loan note repayment and translation of foreign currency balances – (0.8)
Operating lease rentals (4.5) (8.3)
Research and development expenditure (2.3) (3.3)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (295.6) (315.7)
Including: movement in inventory provision 1.0 (0.3)
The equivalent disclosure for discontinued operation is contained within Note 7.
Remuneration paid to auditors
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors – audit of Company’s annual accounts* 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 
Taxation services 0.1 0.1 
Other services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.1 0.5 
0.6 1.0 
* £10,000 (2015: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Non-audit services carried out in the year include advice in relation to the disposal of the Group’s Dairies operations and tax advisory services. 
Fees paid to Ernst & Young ll P and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts of 
the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Ernst & Young ll P are auditors of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund. Fees paid by the Fund for audit services are not included in the above 
table.
3 o ther income – property
Other income of £3.6 million (2015: £nil) relates to the profits from the disposal of closed Dairies depots retained by Dairy Crest. 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
4 exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
The exceptional items charge to the operating costs of the continuing operations are analysed below. The exceptional items charged in 
relation to discontinued operations are analysed in Note 7.
o perating costs
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Demineralised whey powder and GOS projects (16.2) (3.4)
Property provision (1.8) –
Spreads restructuring costs 0.7 (16.7)
Business reorganisation – (0.3)
Disposal of remaining interest in Wexford Creamery l imited – 0.6 
(17.3) (19.8)
Gain on remeasurement to fair value of original investment in Promovita Ingredients l imited 6.0 – 
(11.3) (19.8)
Tax relief on exceptional items 3.0 4.0 
(8.3) (15.8)
Demineralised whey powder and Gos projects
The Group has completed an investment in its cheese creamery at Davidstow, Cornwall enabling the Group to manufacture demineralised 
whey powder, a base ingredient of infant formula, and GOS, widely used in infant formula. During the year £16.2 million of exceptional costs 
were incurred in relation to this major project of which £5.3 million related to the commissioning of the facility and £6.5 million on project review 
costs. A further £4.4 million was charged for set up costs. In the year ending 31 March 2015 the project costs of £3.4 million were for initiation 
and set up. The tax credit relating to this exceptional charge in the year was £2.7 million (2015: £0.7 million).
Property provision
During the year, the Group commissioned a dilapidation assessment on some of its leasehold properties. The £1.8 million exceptional charge 
represents an increase in provision for property dilapidation liabilities on properties where the Group considers there to be a high likelihood of 
exiting when the lease term expires. The tax credit on this exceptional charge was £0.4 million.
spreads restructuring costs
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group completed the consolidation of its spreads production operations into one site in Kirkby, 
l iverpool. As a result of this consolidation, the site at Crudgington, Shropshire ceased production in December 2014. The exceptional credit of 
£0.7 million in the year represents the release of a prior year provision relating to the completion of this project that was not required. The tax 
charge relating to this exceptional credit was £0.3 million. In the prior year, exceptional costs relating to this project were £16.7 million with an 
associated tax credit of £3.2 million.
Gain on remeasurement to fair value of original investment in Promovita ingredients l imited
On 18 December 2015, the Group completed the stepped acquisition of Promovita Ingredients l imited (‘Promovita’). In accordance with IFRS 
3 (Revised), the original investment was revalued to fair value at point of acquisition and the resulting gain of £6.0 million has been recognised 
within exceptional items. See Note 29.
Prior Year
Business reorganisation
The Group reorganised the business into a single management and operational structure from 1 April 2013. This reorganisation resulted in 
exceptional redundancy costs in the prior year of £0.3 million with an associated tax credit of £0.1 million.
Disposal of remaining interest in Wexford c reamery l imited
On 16 May 2014 the Group completed the sale of its 30% shareholding in Wexford Creamery l imited for €3.4 million (£2.8 million) realising a 
gain on disposal in the comparative period of £0.6 million. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 85
The numbers
6 t ax expense
c ontinuing operations
The major components of income tax expense for continuing operations for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 2015 are:
c onsolidated income statement
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Deferred income tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.5 7.6 
Effect of change in tax rate (0.2) – 
Adjustments in respect of previous years – deferred tax (0.4) (0.2)
6.9 7.4 
Analysed: Before exceptional items 9.9 11.4 
  Exceptional items (3.0) (4.0)
6.9 7.4 
Reconciliation between tax charge and the profit before tax multiplied by the statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK:
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Profit before tax  45.4 36.8 
Tax at UK statutory corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 21%) 9.1 7.7 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.4) (0.2)
Adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate* (0.2) (0.4)
Non-deductible expenses 1.1 0.9 
Profits offset by available tax relief (2.7) (0.6)
6.9 7.4 
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on the Group’s profit before tax from continuing operations is 17.5% (Restated 2015: 20.1%). 
The total Group effective tax rate is below the headline rate of UK corporation tax at 15.2% (Restated 2015: 20.1%). The principal reason for 
this is a credit relating to goodwill arising on the acquisition of 50% of the share capital of Promovita Ingredients l imited, taking the Group’s 
interest in this company to 100%. We expect the effective tax rate to increase next year and be broadly in line with the statutory corporation 
tax rate.
* UK corporation tax rate reduced to 20% from April 2015. Two further 1% reductions have been enacted, taking the rate to 19% from April 2017 and to 18% from April 
2020. Accordingly, deferred tax has been provided on all temporary differences at the rate in force when they are anticipated to reverse. A further 1% reduction in the 
rate from April 2020 was announced in the 2016 Budget, taking the rate to 17% but this has not been reflected in the accounts.
Discontinued o perations
The total income tax credit in respect of discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2016 is £35.7 million (Restated 2015: £5.8 
million credit). Tax relief on exceptional costs incurred by discontinued operations in the year ended 31 March 2016 was £28.8 million 
(Restated 2015: £2.6 million). Tax attributable to discontinued operations is disclosed in Note 29.
5 f inance costs and other finance income
f inance costs
2016
£m
2015
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (8.2) (8.1)
Finance charges on finance leases (0.1) (0.1)
Pre-exceptional finance costs – continuing operations (8.3) (8.2)
Finance income on cash balances (financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss) – 0.1 
Total net finance costs – continuing operations (8.3) (8.1)
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts is stated after capitalising £3.8 million (2015: £2.4 million) of interest on expenditure on capital 
projects at a rate of 5.0% (2015: 5.0%). The tax impact of the capitalised interest was £0.7 million (2015: £0.5 million). 86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
t ax charge relating to components of consolidated other comprehensive income
2016
£m
2015
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
Pension deferred tax movement taken directly to reserves (1.0) (1.7)
Valuation of financial instruments (0.2) (0.2)
Tax credit (1.2) (1.9)
t ax on items recognised directly to equity
Deferred tax of £0.4 million relating to share-based payments was credited directly to equity in the year ended 31 March 2016 (2015: nil).
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2016 and 2015 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (4.5) (29.5)
Goodwill and intangible assets (7.9) (8.5)
(12.4) (38.0)
Deferred tax asset
Government grants 1.2 1.6 
Share-based payments 0.9 0.1 
Pensions 12.5 16.0 
Financial instruments valuation 0.3 0.1 
Trading losses 15.3 9.0 
Other 1.5 0.1 
31.7 26.9 
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 19.3 (11.1)
The recognition of the deferred tax asset relating to trading losses is based on the expectation that the business will continue to be profitable 
going forward.
The Company has a deferred tax asset of £0.8 million at 31 March 2016 (2015: £0.2 million asset). This relates to temporary differences in 
respect of financial instruments valuations.
The movement on the net deferred tax asset/(liability) is shown below:
Deferred tax asset/(liability)
Goodwill and
intangible
assets
£m
Pensions
£m
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Total
£m
Balances at 31 March 2015 (8.5) 16.0 (29.5) 10.9 (11.1)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations 0.6 (4.5) (3.5) 0.5 (6.9)
Credit to income statement: discontinued operations – – – 7.2 7.2 
Credit to other comprehensive income – 1.0 – 0.2 1.2 
Credit taken directly to reserves – – – 0.4 0.4 
Disposal of business – – 28.5 – 28.5 
Balances at 31 march 2016 (7.9) 12.5 (4.5) 19.2 19.3 
Balances at 31 March 2014 (8.0) 17.9 (28.0) 6.7 (11.4)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations (0.5) (3.6) (7.2) 3.9 (7.4)
Credit to income statement: discontinued operations – – 5.7 0.1 5.8 
Credit to other comprehensive income – 1.7 – 0.2 1.9 
Balances at 31 March 2015 (8.5) 16.0 (29.5) 10.9 (11.1)
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £55.4 million (2015: £34.0 million) that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable 
gains. Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of their being utilised. The Group has 
realised capital gains amounting to £47 .9 million (2015: £39.2 million) for which rollover relief claims have been or are intended to be made. 
6 t ax expense continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 87
The numbers
7 Discontinued operations
On 26 December 2015, the Group completed the disposal of its Dairies operation to Muller UK & Ireland Group ll P. The Dairies operation has 
therefore been classified as a discontinued operation given it was a major product group of the business and prior period comparatives have 
been adjusted accordingly.
The results of the Dairies operation which have been included in the consolidated income statement within discontinued operations can be 
analysed as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Revenue 529.1 881.6
Operating costs (562.5) (897.4)
Other income – property 0.1 17.6 
o perating (loss)/profit before exceptional operating items and tax attributable to discontinued 
operations
(33.3) 1.8 
Exceptional operating items (16.6) (16.5)
o perating loss before tax attributable to discontinued operations (49.9) (14.7)
Attributable tax 9.1 5.8
l oss after tax from discontinued operations (40.8) (8.9)
l oss on disposal (137.3) – 
Attributable tax on disposal 26.6 – 
l oss for the period from discontinued operations (151.5) (8.9)
l oss per share from discontinued operations
Basic (pence) (109.9) (6.5)
Diluted (pence) (109.0) (6.5)
l oss from discontinued operations is stated after charging
2016
£m
2015
£m
Depreciation (6.9) (13.9)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (0.9) (1.8)
Operating lease rentals (13.7) (18.2)
Research and development expenditure (0.4) – 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (426.3) (706.6)
a. exceptional items
2016
£m
2015
£m
Exceptional operating items after attributable tax (14.4) (13.9)
l oss on disposal after attributable tax (Note 29) (110.7) – 
Exceptional items after tax (125.1) (13.9)
exceptional operating costs
2016
£m
2015
£m
Rationalisation of operating sites (7.7) (11.8)
Costs associated with the separation and proposed sale of the Dairies operation (8.9) (4.3)
Disposal of the business and assets of FoodTec UK l imited – (0.4)
Exceptional operating costs – discontinued operations (16.6) (16.5)
Tax relief on exceptional items 2.2 2.6
(14.4) (13.9) 88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
Rationalisation of operating sites
In September 2014, the Group announced it had started consultation with employees and their representatives regarding the closure of its 
glass bottling dairy in h anworth, West l ondon. An exceptional charge of £1.7 million was incurred in the year (2015: £2.5 million), primarily 
comprising accelerated depreciation of assets following an assessment of their useful economic lives as well as other associated closure 
costs. The Group ceased production at its specialist cream potting factory in Chard, Somerset in September 2015, a £7.8 million impairment 
charge was recognised in the prior year to write the assets down to £nil along with a charge of £1.5 million in relation to redundancy and 
closure costs. In the current year a charge of £6.0 million was recognised in relation to site decommissioning and demolition costs. The tax 
credit on these exceptional costs in the period was £0.3 million (2015: £2.1 million).
c osts associated with the separation and proposed sale of the Dairies operations 
In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group started the process of separating its Dairies operation into a standalone operating unit to support 
the potential sale and increase focus in the challenging Dairies market. In the prior year, the Group incurred £2.7 million of professional fees 
relating to the transaction and £1.6 million in relation to the separation of the Dairies operation including one off systems costs. In the current 
year the Group incurred £8.9 million of separation costs such as one off systems costs and professional fees. The tax credit on this 
exceptional charge in the year was £1.9 million (2015: £0.5 million).
Disposal of business and assets of f oodt ec UK l imited
On 29 July 2014, the Group completed the sale of the business and assets of FoodTec UK l imited for a cash consideration of £1.2 million, 
realising a loss on disposal of £0.4 million. The carrying value of the assets sold was £1.6 million representing net working capital (£1.5 million) 
and tangible fixed assets (£0.1 million).
b. Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations
Net cash flows attributable to the Dairies operation in the period and comparative period are as follows: 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash flow from operating activities (51.6) (21.5)
Cash used in investing activities (10.4) 7.5 
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations (62.0) (14.0)
8 earnings per share
The basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) measures for the year have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders from 
the relevant operations (continuing, discontinued and total Group) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the 
period, excluding those held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust which are held as treasury shares and treated as 
cancelled.
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic EPS is detailed below along with the diluted weighted average 
number of ordinary shares used for the calculation of diluted EPS. The diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares reflects the dilutive 
impact of share options exercisable under the Group’s share option schemes. Note that in the circumstances where there is a basic loss per 
share from continuing operations, share options are anti-dilutive and therefore are not included in the calculation of any other EPS measures.
7 Discontinued operations continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 89
The numbers
8 earnings per share continued
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the Directors’ opinion reflects the underlying performance of the Group more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share has been calculated.
Year ended 31 march 2016
Restated
Year ended 31 March 2015 
earnings
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
million
Per share 
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
million
Per share 
amount
pence
Basic ePs from continuing operations 38.5 137.9 27.9 29.4 136.7 21.5
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.1 (0.2) – 0.9 (0.1)
Diluted ePs from continuing operations 38.5 139.0 27.7 29.4 137.6 21.4
adjusted ePs from continuing operations
Profit from continuing operations 38.5 137.9 27.9 29.4 136.7 21.5
Exceptional items (net of tax) 8.3 – 6.0 15.8 – 11.6
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 0.3 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.2
Pension interest expense (net of tax) 0.5 – 0.4 1.4 – 1.0
adjusted basic ePs from continuing operations 47.6 137.9 34.5 46.9 136.7 34.3
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.1 (0.3) – 0.9 (0.2)
adjusted diluted ePs from continuing operations 47.6 139.0 34.2 46.9 137.6 34.1
Basic loss per share from discontinued operations (151.5) 137.9 (109.9) (8.9) 136.7 (6.5)
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.1 0.9 – 0.9 –
Diluted loss per share from discontinued operations (151.5) 139.0 (109.0) (8.9) 137.6 (6.5)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share for the year (113.0) 137.9 (81.9) 20.5 136.7 15.0
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.1 0.6 – 0.9 (0.1)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share for the year (113.0) 139.0 (81.3) 20.5 137.6 14.9
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of signing of 
these financial statements.
9 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2016
£m
2015
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2015: 15.7 pence (2014: 15.4 pence) 21.6 21.0 
Interim dividend for 2016: 6.1 pence (2015: 6.0 pence) 8.4 8.2 
30.0 29.2 
Proposed for approval at aGm (not recognised as a liability at 31 march)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2016: 16.0 pence (2015: 15.7 pence) 22.3 21.6  90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
10 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees (continuing operations) – Group
2016
number
Restated 
2015
number
Average number of employees:
Production 620 660 
Sales, distribution and administration 560 576 
Total employees 1,180 1,236 
The average number of people employed relating to discontinued operations was 2,708 (2015: 2,973).
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel
c ontinuing operations
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 44.3 47.5 
Social security costs 4.7 4.7 
Equity settled share-based payments expense (Note 26) 1.4 1.2 
Pension costs (Note 20) 2.1 2.3 
52.5 55.7 
The above costs include amounts paid to the Company’s Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Discontinued operations
2016
£m
Restated 
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 64.7 96.5 
Social security costs 6.7 9.5 
Equity settled share-based payments expense (Note 26) 0.8 0.5 
Pension costs (Note 20) 2.9 4.3 
75.1 110.8 
Key management compensation
Key management is represented by the Company’s Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Directors
2016
£000
2015
£000
Salaries and benefits 1,058 1,424 
Bonuses 373 198 
Fees and benefits to Non-executive Directors 289 388 
Emoluments 1,720 2,010 
Severance payments – 219 
Employer payments to defined contribution pension scheme 16 20 
The comparatives include emoluments paid to Martyn Wilks who left the Board on 31 March 2015.
In addition, the Executive Directors exercised options during the year. Aggregate gains made by the Directors on the exercise of these share 
options were £9,830 (2015: £189,374). The amount of the gain relating to highest paid director was £9,830 (2015: £106,048).
h ighest paid director
2016
£000
2015
£000
Salary and benefits 675 666 
Bonus 235 97 
Emoluments 910 763 
Further information relating to Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2016 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 41 to 60. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 91
The numbers
11 Property, plant and equipment
c onsolidated 2016
l and and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
t otal
£m
c ost
At 1 April 2015 171.7 310.0 74.9 556.6 
Additions 7.0 12.8 44.4 64.2 
Disposals (5.0) – – (5.0)
Disposal of Dairies operation (Note 29) (92.4) (147.3) – (239.7)
Transfers and reclassifications 0.7 22.4 (23.1) – 
at 31 march 2016 82.0 197.9 96.2 376.1 
accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2015 68.6 159.5 – 228.1 
Charge for the year – continuing 2.0 14.5 – 16.5 
Charge for the year – discontinued operations 1.8 5.1 – 6.9 
Asset impairments – discontinued operations – 1.6 – 1.6 
Disposals (3.4) – – (3.4)
Disposal of Dairies operation (Note 29) (38.7) (68.8) – (107.5)
at 31 march 2016 30.3 111.9 – 142.2 
Net book amount at 31 march 2016 51.7 86.0 96.2 233.9 
Consolidated 2015
Cost
At 1 April 2014 174.0 287.3 69.5 530.8 
Additions 2.6 3.9 74.9 81.4 
Disposals (6.5) (45.9) – (52.4)
Disposal of FoodTec UK l imited (Note 7) (0.3) (2.9) – (3.2)
Transfers and reclassifications 1.9 67.6 (69.5) – 
At 31 March 2015 171.7 310.0 74.9 556.6 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2014 63.7 178.5 – 242.2 
Charge for the year – continuing 1.5 12.0 – 13.5 
Charge for the year – discontinued operations 3.5 10.4 – 13.9 
Asset impairments – discontinued operations 3.5 5.7 – 9.2 
Disposals (3.3) (44.2) – (47.5)
Disposal of FoodTec UK l imited (Note 7) (0.3) (2.9) – (3.2)
At 31 March 2015 68.6 159.5 – 228.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 103.1 150.5 74.9 328.5 
2015/16
In the year ending 31 March 2016, £1.6 million of exceptional accelerated depreciation was charged in relation to h anworth prior to the 
disposal of the Dairies operation (see Note 7).
2014/15 
During the year ending 31 March 2015, £9.2 million of assets were impaired. The Chard site was to be closed on economic grounds in the 
second half of 2015, a £7.8 million impairment charge was recognised to write the assets down to nil being their net realisable value after 
selling costs which is lower than their value in use. In addition, £1.4 million of exceptional accelerated depreciation was charged in relation to 
h anworth (see Note 7).
c apitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cost 28.9 29.0 
Accumulated depreciation (19.8) (22.7)
Net book amount 9.1 6.3  92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
12 Goodwill
£m
c ost
At 31 March 2014 147.3 
Disposal of FoodTec UK l imited (Note 7) (1.7)
At 31 March 2015 145.6 
Acquisition of Promovita Ingredients l imited (Note 29) 12.0 
Disposal of discontinued operations (Note 29) (70.7)
at 31 march 2016 86.9 
accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2014 (73.0)
Disposal of FoodTec UK l imited (Note 7) 1.7 
At 31 March 2015 (71.3)
Disposal of discontinued operations (Note 29) 70.7 
at 31 march 2016 (0.6)
Net book amount at 31 march 2016 86.3 
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 74.3 
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group acquired the remaining share capital of Promovita Ingredients l imited leading to the 
recognition of £12.0 million of goodwill (see Note 29) and disposed of its Dairies operation leading to the disposal of £70.7 million of goodwill 
which was fully written down during the year ended 31 March 2012.
impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to three groups of cash-generating units (’CGUs’): Spreads, Mh Foods 
and Cheese. Goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Promovita Ingredients l imited is included in the Cheese CGU as the business is 
directly linked to the cheese product group with a number of shared overheads.
All groups of CGUs with goodwill are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and 
strategic plans approved by senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate 
applied to the projections was 6.0% for Spreads (2015: 8.8%), Mh Foods and Cheese (2015: 8.9%).
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period for Mh Foods, Cheese and Spreads is nil (2015: nil Cheese, Mh 
Foods and Spreads).
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2016 is:
Mh Foods £6.7 million (2015: £6.7 million)
Spreads £65.5 million (2015: £65.5 million)
Cheese £14.1 million (2015: £2.1 million)
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, initiatives implemented and associated efficiency improvements. The budgeted margins 
form the basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends.
Discount rates – Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of 
equity based on the capital asset pricing model and CGU-specific risk factors.
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the market place adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reflect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three year time frame.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU where appropriate and to be 
realistically achievable in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
2015/16 and 2014/15
sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Spreads, Mh Foods and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those units to exceed their recoverable amount. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 93
The numbers
13 intangible assets
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
c ost
At 31 March 2014 6.5 29.2 8.7 44.4 
Additions 1.3 – – 1.3 
Transfers and reclassifications (6.4) 6.4 – – 
At 31 March 2015 1.4 35.6 8.7 45.7 
Additions 3.5 – – 3.5 
Disposal (0.4) (31.2) – (31.6)
Transfers and reclassifications (1.0) 1.0 – – 
at 31 march 2016 3.5 5.4 8.7 17.6 
accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2014 – 13.0 3.5 16.5 
Amortisation for the year – continuing – 1.4 0.4 1.8 
Amortisation for the year – discontinued operations – 1.8 – 1.8 
At 31 March 2015 – 16.2 3.9 20.1 
Amortisation for the year – continuing – 1.1 0.4 1.5 
Amortisation for the year – discontinued operations – 0.9 – 0.9 
Disposal – (16.0) – (16.0)
at 31 march 2016 – 2.2 4.3 6.5 
Net book amount at 31 march 2016 3.5 3.2 4.4 11.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2015 1.4 19.4 4.8 25.6 
In the year ending 31 March 2016, additions to assets in the course of construction of £3.5 million comprised third party systems and set-up 
support costs relating to the Demineralised whey powder and GOS projects at Davidstow. In the prior year, the assets in the course of 
construction comprised the enterprise resource planning costs and integrated business systems costs.
Internally generated intangible assets comprise software development and implementation costs across manufacturing sites and h ead Office. 
Acquired intangibles comprise predominantly brands acquired with the acquisition of businesses. The largest component within acquired 
intangibles is the ‘Frylight’ brand acquired with the acquisition of Morehands l imited (Mh Foods) in June 2011. A useful life of 15 years has been 
assumed for this brand, with 10 years remaining. The carrying value of the Frylight brand at 31 March 2016 is £4.1 million (2015: £4.5 million).
14 investments
c onsolidated
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group acquired the outstanding share capital of Promovita Ingredients l imited (‘Promovita’) for a 
cash consideration of £6.0 million. Promovita was established in 2014 as a joint venture between the Group and Fayrefield Foods l imited to 
develop and produce GOS, a prebiotic for use in infant formula. See Note 29.
In the prior year, the Group acquired a further 3.5% of the share capital of h IECO l imited for a consideration of £0.1 million and a 50% share of 
the share capital of Promovita Ingredients l imited for a consideration of £0.1 million.
c ompany
Share grants 
awarded in 
subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
c ost
At 1 April 2014 14.0 468.1 482.1 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 0.7 – 0.7 
At 31 March 2015 14.7 468.1 482.8 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.5 – 1.5 
at 31 march 2016 16.2 468.1 484.3 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings comprise an investment in Dairy Crest l imited of £239.2 million and an investment of £228.9 million in Dairy 
Crest UK l imited. 94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
14 investments continued 
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represent the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share-based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
At 31 March 2016 the subsidiary undertakings were:
Parent Business
Percentage of 
ordinary share 
capital held
all subsidiary undertakings:
Dairy Crest UK l imited Dairy Crest Group plc h olding Company 100%
Dairy Crest France h oldings 1 l imited Dairy Crest l imited h olding Company 100%
Dairy Crest (Jersey) l imited Dairy Crest l imited h olding Company 100%
Magnuss & Usher l imited Dairy Crest l imited h olding Company 100%
Dairy Crest (Services) l imited Dairy Crest France h oldings 1 l imited h olding Company 100%
t rading:
Dairy Crest l imited Dairy Crest Group plc Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Morehands l imited Dairy Crest l imited Manufacture of cooking oils 100%
Promovita Ingredients l imited Dairy Crest l imited Development and sales of GOS 100%
Non-t rading:
Dairy Crest Dairy Products l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest Quest Trustees l imited Dairy Crest Group plc Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest Facilities l imited Dairy Crest UK l imited Non-Trading 100%
Coombe Farm Dairies l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest (Foston) l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest Food Ingredients l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest Investments l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest Pension Trustees l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest Share Trustees l imited Dairy Crest l imited Non-Trading 100%
Dairy Crest France h oldings 2 l imited Dairy Crest France h oldings 1 l imited Non-Trading 95%
Dairy Crest (Services) l imited Non-Trading 5%
Unigate Dairies l imited Dairy Crest (Jersey) l imited Non-Trading 100%
Cressdene l imited Dairy Crest (Jersey) l imited Non-Trading 100%
Morehands IP l imited Morehands l imited Non-Trading 100%
Being Dissolved:
Dairy Crest FoodTec l imited Dairy Crest l imited Dormant 100%
Davidstow Cheese l imited Dairy Crest l imited Dormant 100%
Fermanagh Creameries l imited* Dairy Crest l imited Dormant 100%
Frylight l imited Dairy Crest l imited Dormant 100%
Proper Welsh Milk l imited Dairy Crest l imited Dormant 100%
Wessex Dairy Products l imited Dairy Crest l imited Dormant 100%
Mh Foods l imited Magnuss & Usher l imited Dormant 100%
* The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings is England and Wales except Fermanagh Creameries l imited whose 
country of incorporation is Northern Ireland. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 95
The numbers
15 inventories
c onsolidated
2016
£m
2015
£m
Raw materials and consumables 12.5 30.6 
Finished goods 139.6 169.1 
152.1 199.7 
Cheese inventories at 31 March 2016 totalled £129.6 million (2015: £149.2 million). This matures over an average of 11 months, and up to a 
maximum of 50 months.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, £0.4 million of product produced during commissioning of demineralised whey and GOS was 
written off.
In April 2014, the Group granted the Trustee of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a floating charge over maturing cheese inventories with a 
maximum realisable value of £60 million.
16 t rade and other receivables
c onsolidated Parent c ompany
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade receivables 30.4 74.8 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 10.1 – 
Other receivables 9.2 13.5 0.4 0.4 
Prepayments and accrued income 3.6 7.0 – – 
43.2 95.3 10.5 0.4 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are financial assets.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
c onsolidated
2016
£m
2015
£m
Sterling 29.4 71.5 
Euro 1.0 1.3 
US Dollar – 1.9 
Swiss Franc – 0.1 
30.4 74.8 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at 31 
March 2016, trade receivables at nominal value of £6.2 million (2015: £7.7 million) have been impaired and provided for. £4.3 million relates to 
an impairment provision against a debt with Quadra Foods l imited from the financial year ending 31 March 2012 and £1.6 million relates to 
trade debt retained on disposal of the Dairies operation that had been impaired prior to disposal. £0.3 million relates to trade debt within 
continuing operations.
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: 
Past due, not impaired
Neither past
due nor
Total
£m
impaired
£m
30 – 60 days
£m
60 – 90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 march 2016 30.4 26.2 2.3 1.0 0.9 
31 March 2015 74.8 60.8 11.8 1.3 0.9 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used. 96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
17 f inancial assets
Derivative financial instruments
c onsolidated Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
c urrent
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 16.0 –
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 2.3 14.7 
c ompany Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
c urrent
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 16.0 –
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 2.3 14.7 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise l evel 2 valuations under ’IFRS 13: Fair Value 
Measurement’, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
18 c ash and short-term deposits
c onsolidated Parent c ompany
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cash and short-term deposits 100.3 50.6 40.1 0.2 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Counterparty risk and the Group’s policy for managing deposits are described in Note 30. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 97
The numbers
19 Financial liabilities
Consolidated Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current
Obligations under finance leases 31 1.5 – 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 31 95.6 – 
Debt issuance costs (0.6) – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 96.5 – 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) – – 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash flow hedge) 31 – 0.2 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments – 0.2 
Current financial liabilities 96.5 0.2 
Non-current
Obligations under finance leases 31 2.4 – 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 31 144.2 158.2 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 31 105.0 105.0 
Debt issuance costs (1.3) (0.2)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 250.3 263.0 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 1.3 1.9 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.9 
Non-current financial liabilities 251.6 264.9 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 13: ‘Fair Value 
Measurement’, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:  
Maturity
2016
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2016
2015
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2015
Current
Loan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 85.6 5.31% – –
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% – –
Finance leases 1.5 3.61% – –
Debt issuance costs (0.6) – 
96.5 –
Non-current
Revolving credit facilities: Sterling floating October 2018 53.0 LIBOR + 190bps – –
Sterling floating October 2020 52.0 LIBOR + 160bps – –
Multi-currency revolving  
credit facilities:
Sterling floating October 2016 
(Cancelled 
October 2015)
– – 105.0 LIBOR + 115bps
Loan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 –  – 82.9 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 –  – 10.0 5.27%
Euro swapped into £ April 2017 8.5 5.53% 7.7 5.53%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 2.8 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 17.4 3.87% 16.8 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 39.2 4.52% 38.0 4.52%
US$ swapped into £ March 2023 31.3 3.33% – –
Sterling March 2026 45.0 3.34% – –
Finance Leases 2.4 3.61% – –
Debt issuance costs (1.3) (0.2)
250.3 263.0  98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
19 Financial liabilities continued 
On 6 October 2015, the Group refinanced its revolving credit facility. The £170 million plus €90 million revolving facility which was due to expire 
in October 2016 was cancelled and replaced by a £240 million facility, of which £80 million will expire on 6 October 2018 and £160 million will 
expire on 6 October 2020. Upfront debt issuance costs amounted to £1.6 million and these are being charged to the consolidated income 
statement over the expected life of the facility. There were no debt issuance costs charged to the income statement relating to the cancelled 
facility in the year.
On 23 March 2016, the Group raised £45 million and US$45 million by way of fixed coupon loan notes. The Sterling loan notes have a maturity 
of 10 years and an interest rate of 3.34%. The US dollar loan notes have a maturity of seven years, the principal and the interest cash flows 
have been swapped into Sterling at an exchange rate of 1.4471 and interest rate of 3.23%. Upfront debt issuance costs amounted to £0.4 
million and these are being charged to the consolidated income statement over the term of the loan notes. 
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times and minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 
times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2016 (2015: None). Key covenants to the 2015 revolving credit facility and 
March 2016 private placement debt were unchanged from existing covenants.
On 23 June 2015, the Group entered into a secondary lease arrangement for certain assets at Nuneaton for a period of 3.75 years.
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in Notes 30 and 31.
Company
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 95.6 – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 95.6 – 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) – – 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments – – 
Current financial liabilities 95.6 – 
Non-current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 144.2 158.2 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 144.2 158.2 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 1.3 1.9 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.9 
Non-current financial liabilities 145.5 160.1 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under ‘IFRS 13: Fair Value 
Measurement’, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Maturity
2016
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 
2016
2015
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 
2015
Current
Loan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 85.6 5.31% – –
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% – –
95.6 –
Non-current
Loan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 – – 82.9 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 – – 10.0 5.27%
Loan notes: Euro swapped into £ April 2017 8.5 5.53% 7.7 5.53%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 2.8 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 17.4 3.87% 16.8 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 39.2 4.52% 38.0 4.52%
US$ swapped into £ March 2023 31.3 3.33% – –
Sterling March 2026 45.0 3.34% – –
144.2 158.2  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 99
The numbers
20 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme (Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund), which is closed to future service accrual and a defined 
contribution scheme (Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme).
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
The Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund (‘the Fund’) is a final salary defined benefit pension scheme, which was closed to future service accrual 
from 1 April 2010 and had been closed to new joiners from 30 June 2006. This pension scheme is a final salary scheme.
The Fund is administered by a corporate trustee which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee’s directors comprise representatives 
of both the employer and employees, plus a professional trustee. The Trustee is required by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries 
and is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day administration of the benefits.
The Company and Trustee have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk as and where appropriate. This includes an 
asset-liability matching policy which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the pension plan by investing in assets which perform in 
line with the liabilities of the plan so as to protect against inflation being higher than expected. In December 2008 and June 2009, certain 
obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of annuity contracts. 
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 
31 March 2013 by the Fund’s independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially. 
This valuation resulted in a deficit of £145.0 million compared to the IAS19 deficit of £56.3 million reported at that date. The next full actuarial 
valuation will be carried out in 2016/17 on the 31 March 2016 position.
Under the latest schedule of contributions, which was signed in March 2014, the level of contributions is £13 million per annum from April 2014 
to March 2016, then £16 million per annum until March 2017 and then £20 million per annum until March 2020. Until June 2018, these 
contributions included £2.8 million per annum of rental payments for land and buildings that were subject to a sale and leaseback 
arrangement between the Group and the Fund as part of the final schedule of contributions. The Group bought back the land and buildings 
for £8.3 million in November 2015 with rental payments ceasing from this date. This reduced contributions payable to £11.8 million per annum 
to March 2016, £13.2 million per annum from April 2016 to March 2017, £17.2 million per annum until June 2018 and then £20 million per 
annum until March 2020.
A new schedule of contributions will be agreed with the Trustee following the next actuarial review as at 31 March 2016.
The Fund duration is an indicator of the weighted-average time until benefit payments are made. For the Fund as a whole, the duration is 
around 17 years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit obligation (including insured pensioners) between deferred members 
(duration of 23 years), current non-insured pensioners (duration of 14 years) and insured pensioners (duration of 11 years).
The principal risks associated with the Group’s defined benefit pension arrangements are as follows:
Asset Volatility
The liabilities are calculated using the discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperform this yield, this will 
create a deficit. The Fund holds a significant proportion in a range of return-seeking assets which, though expected to outperform corporate 
bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in the short-term. The allocation to return-seeking assets is monitored to ensure it remains 
appropriate given the Fund’s long-term objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Fund’s liabilities for accounting purposes, although this will be 
partially offset by an increase in the value of the fund’s bond holdings.
Inflation Risk
A significant portion of the Fund’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher expected future inflation will lead to higher liabilities 
(although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation). The majority of the assets 
are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in expected future inflation will also increase the 
deficit.
Longevity Risk
The majority of the Fund’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase 
in liabilities.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (‘GMP’). The UK Government intends to implement 
legislation which could result in higher benefits for some members. This would increase the defined benefit obligation of the Fund. At this 
stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change. 100 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The following tables summarise the components recognised in the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement and 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Defined benefit obligation
2016
£m
2015
£m
Fair value of scheme assets: – Equities 43.7 53.1 
– Bonds and cash 592.9 592.6 
– Equity return swaps valuation* 1.9 10.7 
– Property and other 114.6 106.0 
– Insured retirement obligations 291.3 306.8 
1,044.4 1,069.2 
Defined benefit obligation: – Uninsured retirement obligations** (786.8) (790.4)
– Insured retirement obligations (288.0) (303.3)
Total defined benefit obligation (1,074.8) (1,093.7)
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus (12.1) (16.9)
(1,086.9) (1,110.6)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (42.5) (41.4)
Related deferred tax asset 12.5 16.0 
Net pension liability (30.0) (25.4)
* Comprises a positive synthetic equity exposure of £107.7 million (2015: £155.3 million) and a negative LIBOR exposure of £105.8 million (2015: £144.6 million). 
** Includes obligations to deferred members of £541.9 million (2015: £551.6 million) and non-insured members of £244.9 million (2015: £238.8 million).
The Group is entitled to any surplus on winding up of the Fund albeit refunds are subject to tax deductions of 35% at source. Based on the 
present value of committed cash contributions at 31 March 2016 and the IAS 19 valuation at that date of £30.4 million, £12.1 million would be 
deducted from any notional surplus returned to the Group and this has been recognised as an additional liability in accordance with IFRIC 14. 
However, it should be noted that cash contributions are determined by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation, not the IAS 19 valuation. 
The actuarial deficit is greater than that recognised under IAS 19 since liabilities are discounted by reference to gilt yields rather than high 
quality corporate bond yields.
Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2016
£m
2015
£m
Administration expenses (0.8) (0.8)
Past service cost – 1.8 
Other finance costs – pensions (0.6) (1.8)
Loss before tax (1.4) (0.8)
Deferred tax 0.3 0.2 
Loss for the year (1.1) (0.6)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
2016
£m
2015
£m
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest) (44.0) 89.3 
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 14.1 10.1 
Actuarial gains/(losses) due to changes in the financial assumptions 4.6 (88.3)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain (25.3) 11.1 
Movement in liability for unrecoverable notional surplus 4.8 (6.8)
Recognised in other comprehensive income (20.5) 4.3 
Related tax 1.0 1.7 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in other comprehensive income (19.5) 6.0 
Actual returns on plan assets were £(8.0) million (2015: £130.2 million). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 101
The numbers
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation (1,093.7) (1,011.7)
Interest cost (36.6) (42.7)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 18.7 (78.2)
Past service cost – 1.8 
Benefits paid 36.8 37.1 
Closing defined benefit obligation (1,074.8) (1,093.7)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 1,069.2 964.1 
Interest income on fund assets 36.0 40.9 
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on fund assets (44.0) 89.3 
Contributions by employer 20.8 12.8 
Administration costs incurred (0.8) (0.8)
Benefits paid out (36.8) (37.1)
Closing fair value of plan assets 1,044.4 1,069.2 
The Fund’s assets are invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market with the exception of 
property, annuity policy and cash).
Assets
2016
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Equities:
United Kingdom 35.0  49.9  50.6 
North America 46.3  65.9  62.8 
Europe (ex UK) 17.9  26.4  29.1 
Japan 12.2  17.1  15.8 
Asia (ex Japan) 8.5  9.2  8.2 
Emerging Markets 15.4  23.7  21.0 
Global Small Cap 16.1  16.2  13.7 
Cash/LIBOR Synthetic Equity (105.8) (144.6) (152.4)
Emerging Market Debt * 52.3  54.0  61.2 
High Yield Bonds –    –    –   
Multi Asset Credit ** 62.0  62.5  60.0 
Insurance Linked Securities *** 31.7  29.4  24.7 
Absolute Return Bonds **** 32.5  33.1  30.4 
Bonds:
Government Index Linked Gilts – –    –   
Network Rail Index Linked Gilts –    –    –   
Corporate Bonds 123.8  118.1  98.0 
Liability Driven Investments ***** 225.3  224.6  170.0 
Annuity Policy 291.3  306.8  299.4 
Property 82.9  76.6  67.6 
Cash 97.0  100.3  104.0 
Total 1,044.4  1,069.2 964.1 102 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Equities are a combination of physical equities of £43.7 million (2015: £53.1 million), a positive synthetic equity exposure of £107.7 million (2015: 
£155.3 million) and a negative LIBOR exposure of £105.8 million (2015: £144.6 million).
The Group does not use any of the pension fund assets.
*   This is debt issued by emerging market countries denominated in the emerging market’s domestic currency. The debt is almost entirely issued by governments and 
not by corporations. Investors benefit from higher yields on the bonds due to the additional risks of investing in emerging market countries, compared to developed 
countries and it is also expected that emerging market currencies will appreciate over time relative to developed countries.
**  Multi Asset Credit strategies invest globally in a wide range of credit-based asset classes which include bank loans, high yield bonds, securitised debt, emerging 
market debt and distressed debt of non-investment grade. The investment strategies will also allocate amounts in investment grade credit, sovereign bonds and 
cash for defensive reasons. The strategies are opportunistic and allocate dynamically to the best opportunities within the credit market from an asset allocation and 
individual security selection perspective.
***  Insurance linked securities are event-linked investments which allow investors outside the insurance industry to access insurance premiums for assuming various 
forms and degrees of insurance risk. The underlying risk premium is a type of investment risk where the event is linked to natural or man-made catastrophes. The 
premium paid to the investor represents compensation for the “expected loss” due to the uncertainty around the size and timing of the insured event.
****   Absolute Return Bond strategies are designed to deliver a positive return in all market environments and will take advantage of numerous alpha opportunities within 
the fixed income universe. The objective of the strategy is to capture returns from active management in a number of areas within fixed income including interest 
rates, currencies, asset allocation and security selection. The strategy will have long and short positions and employ a degree of leverage. The strategies tend to 
have low sensitivity to the direction of interest rates and credit.
*****  Insight have been appointed to manage the Liability Driven Investment (‘LDI’) portfolio for the Fund. The objective is to hedge a proportion of the Fund’s liabilities 
against changes in interest rates and inflation expectations by investing in assets that are similarly sensitive to changes in interest rates and inflation expectations. 
Insight will seek to add interest and inflation exposure to the LDI portfolio over time in line with parameters that have been set by the Trustee. Insight are permitted 
to use a range of swaps and gilt based derivative instruments as well as physical bonds to structure the liability hedge for the Fund. In addition, Insight are 
responsible for monitoring market yields against a number of pre-set yield triggers and will increase the level of hedging as and when the triggers are met.
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement benefit obligations for the Fund are shown below:
2016
%
2015
%
2014
%
Key assumptions:
Price inflation (RPI) 3.2 3.1 3.6 
Price inflation (CPI) 2.1 2.0 2.6 
Pension increases (Pre 1993 – RPI to 7%/annum) 3.2 3.1 3.6 
Pension increases (1993 to 2006 – RPI to 5%/annum) 3.1 3.0 3.4 
Pension increases (Post 2006 – RPI to 4%/annum) 2.9 2.8 3.1 
Life expectancy at 65 for a male currently aged 50 (years) 24.0 23.9 23.8 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 22.4 22.4 22.3 
Life expectancy at 65 for a female currently aged 50 (years) 26.9 26.8 26.7 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 24.7 24.6 24.5 
Discount rate 3.5 3.4 4.3 
The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Fund’s liabilities. The mortality assumptions are based on analysis of the Fund 
members, and allow for expected future improvements in mortality rates. It has been assumed that members exchange 25% of their pension 
for a cash lump sum at retirement and 30% of deferred members take the Pension Increase Exchange option at retirement.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are discount rate, inflation and mortality. If different assumptions were used, this could have a material 
effect on the results disclosed. The sensitivity of the results (excluding unrecoverable notional surplus) to these assumptions is as follows:
Expected Expense for 2016/17
Service
Cost
£m
Net
Interest
£m
Total P&L
Charge
£m
March 2016
Deficit
£m
Current Figures (excluding unrecoverable notional surplus) 0.8 0.8 1.6 (30.4)
Effect of a 0.1% decrease in the discount rate – 0.5 0.5 (15.2)
Recalculated value 0.8 1.3 2.1 (45.6)
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the inflation assumption – 0.5 0.5 (13.2)
Recalculated value 0.8 1.3 2.1 (43.6)
Effect of a 1 year increase in life expectancy – 1.1 1.1 (29.7)
Recalculated value 0.8 1.9 2.7 (60.1) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 103
The numbers
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
The above sensitivities assume that, with the exception of the annuity contracts, the Fund’s assets remain unchanged due to changes in 
assumptions, but in practice changes in market interest and inflation rates will also affect the value of the Fund’s assets. The Company and 
Trustee have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes an asset-liability matching policy 
which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the Fund by investing in assets which perform in line with the liabilities of the Fund. In 
December 2008 and June 2009, certain obligations relating to retired members were fully hedged by the purchase of annuity contracts. The 
Fund’s other investments include matching assets which protect against changes in bond yields and against inflation risk. The respective 
interest rate and inflation hedge ratios for these assets as at 31 March 2016 were both 36% of those obligations not covered by annuity 
contracts.
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognised income 
and expense in relation to the Fund. The legal sponsor of the Fund is Dairy Crest Limited. 
Defined Contribution Pension Scheme
The Group has charged £2.1 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2016 (2015 
restated: £3.2 million). The Company has made no charge in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 
31 March 2016 (2015: nil).
21 Trade and other payables
Consolidated Parent Company
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade payables * 50.2 100.3 – – 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – – 36.9 
Other tax and social security 1.3 3.6 – – 
Other creditors * 32.4 9.7 – – 
Accruals * 36.4 54.5 3.2 3.1 
120.3 168.1 3.2 40.0 
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Included within accruals is £13.0 million in relation to promotional funding which is subject to a degree of estimation uncertainty (2015: £12.6 
million).
22 Deferred income
Current
2016
£m
2015
£m
Grants 1.6 1.6 
Non-current
Grants 4.5 6.2 
In 2010/11 two new biomass boilers were installed at the Davidstow cheese manufacturing site. Capital expenditure amounted to £3.9 million 
and we received cash grants of £0.8 million during the year ended 31 March 2011 and £0.2 million during the year ended 31 March 2012 from 
the South West of England Regional Development Agency. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions principally regarding continued 
use and ownership of the boilers until 29 November 2014. In the year ended 31 March 2013, £0.4 million of this grant was voluntarily repaid in 
order to receive annual renewable heat incentives. The conditions concerning the remaining outstanding grant are unchanged.
In 2012/13 the Group announced that it was consolidating its spreads manufacturing into a single site at Kirkby, Liverpool. During 2012/13 the 
Group received a grant of £5.3 million under the Regional Growth Fund from the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills in relation to 
this project. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions over a five year term, principally the project being completed and the creation or 
safeguarding of an agreed number of jobs. 104 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
23 Provisions
Onerous 
contracts
£m
Site 
restructuring 
and  
rationalisation 
£m
Dairies 
disposal 
provision
 £m
Dilapidation
Provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2014 – current 1.7 – – – 1.7 
Settled on disposal (1.7) – – – (1.7)
Charged during the year – 3.1 – – 3.1 
At 31 March 2015 – current – 3.1 – – 3.1 
Utilised during the year – (2.4) – – (2.4)
Charged during the year – 4.3 3.0 2.0 9.3 
At 31 March 2016 – current – 5.0 3.0 2.0 10.0 
Onerous contract
An onerous contract provision of £3.6 million was created in relation to minimum cheese purchase volumes from Wexford Creamery Limited 
(‘WCL ’) following the Group’s disposal of 50% of the share capital in June 2010. When the Group sold its remaining shareholding on 16 May 
2014, the remaining onerous contract provision of £1.7 million was released.
Restructuring and rationalisation of operating sites
During the year, the Group provided through exceptional operating items, decommissioning and demolition costs in relation to the closure of 
the Chard site of £4.3 million. The Group expects a large proportion of these costs to be paid in the year ending 31 March 2017.
Dairies disposal provision
At 31 March 2016, the Group held a provision of £3.0 million for future expected costs in relation to the disposal of the Dairies operation to 
Muller UK & Ireland Group LLP on 26 December 2015. The Group expects payments relating to this provision to be made in the year ending 
31 March 2017.
Dilapidation provision
At 31 March 2016, the Group held a provision relating to leasehold property dilapidation liabilities on properties where the Group considers 
there to be a high likelihood of exiting when the lease term expires. The payment of this provision would occur following vacation of the 
property.
24 Share capital
Authorised
2016
Thousands
2015
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000
Issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2014 136,709 34.2 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 866 0.2 
Issued for cash to ESOP at par 150 – 
At 31 March 2015 137,725 34.4 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 1,766 0.5 
Issued to ESOP at par for nil consideration 1,200 0.3 
At 31 March 2016 140,691 35.2 
During the year ended 31 March 2016 2,965,762 shares were issued at a premium of £4.5 million for an aggregate consideration of 
£5.0 million (2015: 1,016,309 shares at a premium of £2.2 million for an aggregate consideration of £2.4 million). Exercises of management 
share options are fulfilled by the transfer of existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) – see Note 25. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 105
The numbers
25 Notes to statement of changes in equity
Consolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under the Company’s management share option schemes (see Note 26).
At 31 March 2016 the ESOP held 1,203,367 shares (2015: 90,768 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.3 million (2015: £0.1 million). The 
ESOP was established in August 1996 to acquire shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group including 
shares awarded under the Company’s management share option schemes. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP transferred 87,401 (2015: 
188,256) shares following exercises of options and subscribed for 1,200,000 shares at 25 pence per share. The market value of the shares 
held by the ESOP, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange was £7.4 million at 31 March 2016 (2015: £0.4 million).
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2015 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (0.8) – (0.8)
At 31 March 2016 55.9 (3.8) (1.5) 50.6 
At 31 March 2014 55.9 (2.1) (1.5) 52.3 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (0.9) – (0.9)
At 31 March 2015 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest Limited in 1996. The cumulative amount of 
goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2015: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the gains and losses on hedging instruments, to the extent that they are effective cash flow hedges. Any gains 
and losses previously recorded in the hedging reserve are reclassified in profit and loss when the underlying hedged item affects profit and 
loss.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives designated to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. The profit for the 
year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £34.5 million (2015: £8.3 million) including dividends received from subsidiary companies of 
£34.5 million (2015: £8.5 million). Dividends paid amounted to £30.0 million (2015: £29.2 million) which, along with a debit for share-based 
payments of £0.8 million (2015: £0.4 million credit) resulted in a £5.7 million increase in retained earnings (2015: £21.3 million decrease).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest Limited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue of 
109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve of 
£142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million.
26 Share based payment plans
Consolidated
The Group has five share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy Crest Long Term Alignment Plan (‘LTAP’)
The LTAP is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to Directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire 
shares for a nominal price. The vesting period for grants made under this scheme is 50% of the award after 4 years and 50% after 5 years. 
Pre-grant performance criteria determine the amount of any initial grant after which there are no significant performance conditions prior to 
vesting. As such, these options are fair valued at 100% of the price at the date of the grant.
The Transformational Incentive Award (‘TIA’)
The TIA was granted, under the rules of the LTISP, in December 2014. The TIA is a nil price option to acquire ordinary shares subject to certain 
performance objectives being met in addition to continuing employment. The performance objectives relate to three categories detailed 
below:
1) managing the competition approval process relating to the proposed Dairies operation disposal; 
2) appropriate reshaping of the Group, taking into account the competition approval process; and
3) establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group, including delivering value to shareholders.
The vesting period is three years from the date of grant. There are no cash settlement alternatives. 106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
26 Share based payment plans continued 
Deferred Bonus Plan (‘DBP’)
Any bonus in excess of 50% of basic annual salary is deferred in share options with a vesting period of 3 years. The only vesting condition is 
continuing employment. The cost of these share options is based on the number of shares issued and the share price at the date of grant, 
spread over the vesting period. During the year ended 31 March 2016, no deferred shares were awarded in relation to the year ended 31 
March 2015 (2015: 65,086).
The Dairy Crest Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’)
This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to Directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of financial targets based on (i) total shareholder returns (‘TSR’) over a three year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in adjusted basic earnings per share. The TSR element represents 60% of the awards granted. The 
vesting period for grants made under this scheme is 3 years with an exercise period of 7 years. There were no awards granted in the year 
ended 31 March 2016 (2015: nil). There are no cash settlement alternatives. The LTISP was replaced by the LTAP in the year ended 31 March 
2014.
Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme, which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No financial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. There were no grants under the scheme 
in the current year (2015: 1,467,484 options at 376 pence). There are no cash settlement alternatives. 
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the principal schemes is set out as follows:
LTAP * TIA * DBP * LTISP * Sharesave Scheme
number number number number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2015 716,937 240,623 68,934 196,737 3,119,443 319.3 
Options granted during the year 264,779 – – – – – 
Reinvested dividends 38,490 11,935 2,189 8,902 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – (71,738) (1,771,686) 285.9 
Options forfeited during the year (142,375) – – (2,332) (355,957) 351.9 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2016 877,831 252,558 71,123 131,569 991,800 367.8 
Exercisable at 31 March 2016 63,640 – – 131,569 579,195 – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2014 337,595 – 2,875 985,198 2,994,777 276.0 
Options granted during the year 380,273 236,843 65,086 – 1,467,484 376.0 
Reinvested dividends 20,395 3,780 973 57,931 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – (169,241) (866,309) 266.3 
Options forfeited during the year (21,326) – – (677,151) (476,509) 318.2 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2015 716,937 240,623 68,934 196,737 3,119,443 319.3 
Exercisable at 31 March 2015 – – – 196,737 62,607 – 
* The weighted average exercise price for LTAP, TIA, DBP and LTISP options is nil.
LTAP options are exercisable at varying dates up to May 2025 (March 2015: December 2024). TIA options are exercisable up to December 
2024 (March 2015: December 2024). DBP options are exercisable at varying dates up to December 2024 (March 2015: December 2024). 
LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (March 2015: July 2022). Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to 
February 2018 at prices ranging from 281p to 376p (March 2015: exercisable up to February 2018 at prices ranging from 265p to 376p).
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at March 2016 is 8.4 years for the LTAP, 8.7 years for the TIA, 8.6 years 
for the DBP, 6.1 years for the LTISP and 1.8 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2015: LTAP 9.1 years, TIA 9.8 years, DBP 9.6 years, LTISP 7.1 
years and Sharesave Scheme 2.0 years). 
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in June 2014 was 17.9% giving a fair value of £0.83 per option granted. This has 
been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model were expected share price 
volatility 22%, risk free rate of interest 1.55% and dividend yield 4.40%. The volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of the Dairy 
Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the grant date of option.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 107
The numbers
26 Share based payment plans continued 
The fair value of TIA options issued on 23 December 2014 was £4.91 per option granted. This has been computed using a Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model were: Expected share price volatility 24% and a risk free rate of interest 
0.85%. The volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with 
the expected option life, ending on the grant date of option.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2016 was £1.4 million 
(2015: £1.2 million). The Group expense related to discontinued operations was £0.8 million (2015: £0.5 million). See Note 10.
Company
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is set out as 
follows:
LTAP TIA DBP LTISP Sharesave Scheme
number number number number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2015 392,313 240,623 68,934 73,355 21,572 333.7 
Options granted during the year 128,741 – – – – – 
Reinvested dividends 20,221 11,935 2,189 3,638 – – 
Adjustment for change of director during the year (24,020) – (18,872) (26,134) (5,595) – 
Options exercised during the year – – – – (3,202) – 
Options forfeited during the year (92,880) – – – – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2016 424,375 252,558 52,251 50,859 12,775 352.2 
Exercisable at 31 March 2016 – – – 50,859 – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2014 179,857 – 2,875 406,757 9,606 281.0 
Options granted during the year 201,611 236,843 65,086 – 11,966 376.0 
Reinvested dividends 10,845 3,780 973 22,199 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – (76,626) – –
Options forfeited during the year – – – (278,975) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2015 392,313 240,623 68,934 73,355 21,572 333.7 
Exercisable at 31 March 2015 – – – 73,355 – – 
LTAP options are exercisable at varying dates up to May 2025 (March 2015: December 2024). TIA options are exercisable up to December 
2024 (March 2015: December 2024). DBP options are exercisable at varying dates up to December 2024 (March 2015: December 2024). 
LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (March 2015: July 2022). Sharesave Scheme options are exercisable up to 
February 2018 at prices ranging from 281p to 376p (March 2015: exercisable up to February 2018 at prices ranging from 265p to 376p).
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at March 2016 is 8.4 years for the LTAP, 8.7 years for the TIA, 8.6 years 
for the DBP, 7.3 years for the LTISP and 1.5 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2015: LTAP 9.1 years, TIA 9.8 years, DBP 9.6 years, LTISP 7.3 
years and Sharesave Scheme 2.3 years).
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2016 was £0.8 million (2015: £0.5 million). 108 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
27 Commitments and contingencies
Operating Leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. There are no material renewal options, 
escalation clauses or purchase options included in the lease contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material 
sub-leases. There are no significant restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between three and seven years. Within the prior year operating lease commitments, £48.5 million relates to 
discontinued operations.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Within one year 2.6 20.0 
After one year but not more than five years 3.7 25.8 
More than five years – 13.1 
Finance leases
On 23 June 2015 the Group recognised a finance lease for certain assets at Nuneaton. The lease term is for 3.75 years. Future minimum 
payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
2016 2015
Minimum 
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Minimum 
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 1.5 1.5 – – 
After one year but not more than five years 2.6 2.4 – – 
More than five years – – – – 
Total minimum lease payments 4.1 3.9 – – 
Less: amounts representing finance charges (0.2) – – – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 3.9 3.9 – – 
Trading guarantees
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £nil at 31 March 2016 (2015: £1.7 million). Historically, these 
guarantees have been made by Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to customers as performance bonds and to the Rural 
Payment Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed. The trade and assets of this subsidiary were sold as part of the sale of the Dairies 
operation.
Capital commitments
Consolidated
2016
£m
2015
£m
Future capital expenditure contracted on property, plant and equipment 13.1 21.6 
Contingent liabilities
Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement of the Dairies operation, the Group has a potential dilapidations liability to the date of 
completion in relation to the Chadwell Heath site. The lease does not end until July 2032, with break clauses in July 2022 and July 2027. Any 
obligations are dependent on both the intentions of the landlord in respect of the site and whether Muller UK & Ireland Group LLP continue to 
use the site after the end of the lease. As a result of these factors any potential contingent liability cannot be currently quantified. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 109
The numbers
28 Related party transactions
The Group had no significant related parties.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group and Company
2016
£m
2015
£m
Short-term employee benefits 1.9 2.1 
Share-based payments 0.8 0.5 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel * 2.7 2.6 
* Further details relating to compensation of key management personnel are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This includes a description of pension 
arrangements and any cash supplements paid.
Key management personnel comprise Executive and Non-executive Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc. The senior management team is small 
and all key decisions are made by either the two Executive Directors or by the Group Board which meets regularly.
Company
Dairy Crest Limited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £1.9 million (2015: £2.1 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest Limited received £1.8 million (2015: £2.0 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest Limited.
Interest charges of £4.0 million (2015: £3.7 million) were incurred by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on loans reflecting an interest rate 
of LIBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £11.5 million (2015: £11.0 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on 
loans reflecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2015: 5.3%) and a further £0.4 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest UK Limited on 
floating rate loans paying LIBOR plus margin (2015: £0.3 million). The Company paid no interest (2015: £nil) to Dairy Crest Limited on cross-
currency swaps paying LIBOR and receiving EURIBOR.
29 Business combinations and disposals
(i) Disposal of Discontinued Operations
On 26 December 2015, the Group completed the disposal of its Dairies operation to Muller UK & Ireland Group LLP (‘Müller’). The Dairies 
operation has therefore been classified as discontinued operations given it was a major product group and prior period comparatives have 
been adjusted accordingly.
The disposal resulted in a post tax loss of £110.7 million which is analysed below. The total consideration consists of £54.5 million received in 
cash during the year net of £25.9 million which was repaid to Müller subsequent to the year end, based on the agreement of certain purchase 
price metrics. The final consideration is subject to the agreement of the levels of working capital and EBITDA, which are in the process of 
being determined. The disposal resulted in a net cash inflow in the year to the Group of £49.0 million, after £5.5 million of professional fees.
Year ended
31 March 
2016
£m
Property, plant and equipment (132.2)
Intangible assets (15.6)
Inventories (33.0)
Trade and other receivables (9.0)
Trade and other payables 29.4 
Net assets and liabilities disposed (160.4)
Consideration 28.6 
Disposal costs (5.5)
Loss on disposal before tax (137.3)
Attributable tax 26.6
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (110.7)
(ii) Acquisitions
On 18 December 2015, the Group acquired the outstanding share capital of Promovita Ingredients Limited (‘Promovita’) for a cash 
consideration of £6.0 million bringing its shareholding to 100%. Promovita was established in 2014 as a joint venture between the Group and 
Fayrefield Foods Limited to develop and produce GOS, a prebiotic for use in infant formula. In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business 
Combinations’, the value of the previously held 50% shareholding has been restated to fair value at the acquisition date. The difference 
between the fair value of the equity owned prior to acquisition of £6.0 million and the book value of the original investment of £nil was 
recognised in the consolidated income statement, with the gain of £6.0 million reported in exceptional items under continuing operations. 110 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
29 Business combinations and disposals continued
The fair value of the original shareholding has been calculated based on the principles of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ under Hierarchy 
Level 2, with the fair value being equal to the amount paid for Fayrefield Foods Limited’s 50% share.
Book and 
provisional 
fair value
£m
Net assets acquired:
Trade and other receivables 0.8
Trade and other payables (0.8)
–
Gain on remeasurement to fair value (6.0)
Goodwill 12.0
Total consideration satisfied by cash 6.0
The goodwill of £12.0 million arising on acquisition represents future opportunities in relation to the use of GOS sale in infant formula and other 
products. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for corporate income tax purposes.
During the period to acquisition of the remaining 50% share, the Group recognised a £0.1 million loss within operating profit from its original 
shareholding. This is disclosed within the operating profits of Cheese within the voluntary segmental disclosure due to the value being 
immaterial.
30  Financial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s financial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value of 
the Group’s and Company’s financial assets and liabilities, on reported profitability and on cash flows.
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, finance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to 
manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is, and has been throughout 
2015 and 2016, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of financial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objectives are:
 • to ensure that forecast peak net borrowings, plus a prudent operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature after at 
least 12 months; 
 • to ensure that prudent headroom versus bank and loan note covenant ratios are forecast for the next three years;
 • to maintain flexibility of funding by employing diverse sources of funds (eg use of non-bank markets such as private placements); and
 • to avoid a concentration of facility maturities in any particular year.
The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 19. At 31 March 2016 the Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £479.8 million 
(2015: £393.3 million) excluding finance leases of £3.9 million (2015: £nil) and the impact of cross-currency swaps on US Dollar and Euro loan 
notes of £19.4 million (2015: £13.9 million). The facilities at 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 consisted of:
March 2016
 • £240 million revolving credit facility of which £80 million will expire on 6 October 2018 and £160 million on 6 October 2020. 
 • loan notes totalling £239.8 million repayable between April 2016 and March 2026.
March 2015
 • £170 million plus €90 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
 • loan notes totalling £158.2 million repayable between April 2016 and November 2021.
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2016 amounted to £135.0 million (2015: £130.1 million). Effective headroom including cash and 
short-term deposits amounted to £235.3 million (2015: £180.7 million). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 111
The numbers
30  Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and by monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short-term and long-term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. 
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with a floating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s long-term strategy is to keep 
between one third and three quarters of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient 
manner, the Group has issued fixed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps from time to time on a portion of its floating 
bank borrowings, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest 
amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest 
cash flow obligations. In the short-term the proportion of fixed and floating rate borrowings can go outside the long-term range.
At 31 March 2016, 70% of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest (2015: 60%). On 23 March 2016, the Group raised £76.1 
million sterling equivalent by way of fixed coupon loan notes and on 4 April 2016 the Group repaid £80.2 million sterling equivalent of fixed 
coupon loan notes. This resulted in a high percentage of fixed interest rate debt as at 31 March 2016. In the medium term we expect the fixed 
proportion of borrowings to continue to be in the target range.
The Group’s borrowing facilities require minimum interest cover of 3.0 times. 
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is shown (by way of a sensitivity analysis) in Note 31.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has no significant operations outside the UK. However it buys and sells a small amount of goods in currencies other than Sterling. 
As a result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in 
exchange rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling. The Group’s exposure to Euro/Sterling is increasing due to the investment in demineralised 
whey production which is sold in Euros. The Group’s policy is to match foreign currency transaction exposures where possible and where 
appropriate the Group will use financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts to hedge future transaction and cash 
flows denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures are 
currently limited. It can be seen in Note 16 that the only significant non-Sterling debtors are in Euros (2016: £1.0 million). Following the disposal 
of the Dairies operation, the Group no longer trades skimmed milk products and bulk butter to customers outside of the United Kingdom. 
However, it will begin trading demineralised whey products in Euros during 2016 and the non-Sterling debtors will increase.
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006, 2007, 2011 and 2016 the Group issued loan notes denominated either in $US, € or £. Cross-currency swaps were implemented as 
required to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash flows. These have the effect of fixing the liability and coupon in Sterling. The 
principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with 
counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no profit and loss exposure in relation to $US or € note debts as any retranslation impact on 
the profit and loss account is offset by reclassification of amounts from other comprehensive income into profit and loss.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil and crude oil by-products 
(used in packaging).
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on profitability and to assess whether the 
amount of forward cover is appropriate. This includes vegetable oil contracts and energy, which is generally contracted one season in 
advance for both summer and winter energy but with some requirement contracted at more regular intervals.
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Commodity Risk Committee comprising senior operational and finance management and external advisers.
Credit risk
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognised, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not significant.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly when payment terms are breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these financial assets of £158.2 million (2015: £153.6 million).  112 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
30  Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
All revolving credit facility borrowings are through banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business 
requirements are invested through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of A or better. The Group 
currently has no requirement to place deposits for long periods, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. Derivative 
financial instruments are contracted with a range of banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive concentration of 
financial instruments with one counterparty.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is 3.5 
times. At 31 March 2016 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.69 times (March 2015: 1.97 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No significant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2016 or the prior year.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The analysis of net debt is included in Note 
33. The gearing ratio at 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 can be analysed as follows:
 
2016 
£m
 
2015
£m
Net debt   229.0   198.7
Shareholders’ funds   134.2   289.8
Gearing ratio   171%   69%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 9. The dividend policy is to maintain a progressive dividend whilst 
seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times. The final proposed dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 
2016 is 16.0 pence, up 0.3 pence, from last year (2015: 15.7 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 March 
2016 amount to 22.1 pence (2015: 21.7 pence).
31 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies is set out in the discussion of Treasury 
policies in Note 30.
Consolidated
Interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2016
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Loan notes * (95.6) (11.3) (17.4) – – (115.5) (239.8)
Finance leases – – (3.9) – – – (3.9)
Cross currency swaps 16.0 (0.7) 1.0 – – 0.7 17.0 
Floating rate
Bank loans – – (53.0) – (52.0) – (105.0)
Cash at bank and in hand 100.2 – – – – – 100.2 
At 31 March 2015
Fixed rate
Loan notes * – (92.9) (10.5) (16.8) – (38.0) (158.2)
Forward currency contracts (0.2) – – – – – (0.2)
Cross currency swaps – 14.4 (1.5) 0.4 – (0.5) 12.8 
Floating rate
Bank loans – (105.0) – – – – (105.0)
Cash at bank and in hand 50.6 – – – – – 50.6 
* Classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 113
The numbers
31 Financial instruments continued
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no material impact on the Group’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 
2016, 70% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates of interest (2015: 60%) (see Note 30).
The sensitivity analysis below excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative 
floating rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that 
gains and losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to 
the hedge and are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss 
exposure due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2016 analysis below reflects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2015 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2015.
Increase/
decrease in
basis points
Effect on
profit
 before tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2016
Sterling +100 1.1 – 
Sterling –50 (0.5) – 
2015 –
Sterling +100 1.1 – 
Sterling –50 (0.5) – 
Equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (see Note 20).
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to financial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 30).
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial 
liabilities at 31 March 2016 and 2015 based on contractual undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2016
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (100.9) (33.0) (4.1) (4.1) (42.5) (85.9) (270.5)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (74.0) (28.1) (2.6) (2.6) (37.9) (33.1) (178.4)
receipt leg 89.2 28.7 2.6 2.6 41.0 33.4 197.5 
Bank loans – – (53.0) – (52.0) – (105.0)
Finance leases (1.5) (1.5) (1.1) – – – (4.1)
At 31 March 2015
Loan Notes (8.0) (95.5) (12.6) (18.7) (1.5) (40.4) (176.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (6.5) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (1.6) (38.8) (149.4)
receipt leg 7.3 85.3 9.8 18.7 1.5 40.4 163.0 
Bank loans – (105.0) – – – – (105.0)
Short-term payables all mature within one year.  114 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Notes to the fi NANCiAl st Ateme Nts Co Nti Nue D
31 Financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The carrying amounts and the fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements are the same, 
with the exception of the loan notes. The carrying amount of the loan notes was £239.8 million and the fair value was £231.0 million. The fair 
value of borrowings has been calculated based on the principles of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ under Hierarchy Level 2, by discounting 
the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Cross currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding $US/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2016 was $249.4 million (£173.5 
million) (2015: $204.4 million (£137.7 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2016 the fixed interest rates varied from 3.227% to 5.305% (2015: 3.863% to 
5.305%). Any gains/losses arising from fair value adjustments deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the 
next one to seven years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2016 was €10.7 million (£8.5 million) 
(2015: €10.7 million (£7.7 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2016 the fixed interest rates varied from 5.47% to 5.60% (2015: 5.47% to 5.60%). The loss 
deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
Forward currency contracts
The Group enters into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases and 
receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They all 
have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then be reclassified to the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2016 of £135.0 million (2015: £130.1 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. Undrawn facilities expire on 6 October 2018 (£27.0 million) and 6 October 2020 
(£108.0 million).
Company
Interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2016
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Loan notes * (95.6) (11.3) (17.4) –  –  (115.5) (239.8)
Intercompany receivables 191.1 – – – – – 191.1 
Cross currency swaps 16.0 (0.7) 1.0  –  –  0.7 17.0 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (181.0) – – – – – (181.0)
At 31 March 2015
Fixed rate
Loan notes * – (92.9) (10.5) (16.8) – (38.0) (158.2)
Intercompany receivables 179.8 – – – – – 179.8 
Cross currency swaps – 14.4 (1.5) 0.4 – (0.5) 12.8 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (216.7) – – – – – (216.7)
* These have been classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Company’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge.
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure 
due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 115
The numbers
31 Financial instruments continued
The 2016 analysis below reflects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2015 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2015.
 
Increases/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect on
profit before 
tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2016
Sterling +100 – – 
Sterling –50 – – 
2015
Sterling +100 – – 
Sterling –50 – – 
Equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
Credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of financial assets.
Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s 
financial liabilities at 31 March 2016 and 2015 based on contractual undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2016
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (100.9) (33.0) (4.1) (4.1) (42.5) (85.9) (270.5)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (74.0) (28.1) (2.6) (2.6) (37.9) (33.1) (178.4)
receipt leg 89.2 28.7 2.6 2.6 41.0 33.4 197.5 
At 31 March 2015
Loan Notes (8.0) (95.5) (12.6) (18.7) (1.5) (40.4) (176.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (6.3) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (1.6) (38.8) (149.2)
receipt leg 7.3 85.3 9.8 18.7 1.5 40.4 163.0 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
The carrying amounts and the fair values of all of the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements are the same, 
with the exception of the loan notes. The carrying amount of the loan notes was £239.8 million and the fair value was £231.0 million. The fair 
value of borrowings has been calculated based on the principles of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ under Hierarchy Level 2, by discounting 
the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Cross currency swaps
External
The notional principal amount of the outstanding $US/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2016 was $249.4 million (£173.5 
million) (2015: $204.4 million (£137.7 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2016 the fixed interest rates varied from 3.227% to 5.305% (2015: 3.863% to 
5.305%). Any gains/losses arising from fair value adjustments deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the 
next one to seven years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2016 was €10.7 million (£8.5 million) 
(2015: €10.7 million (£7.7 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2016 the fixed interest rates varied from 5.47% to 5.60% (2015: 5.47% to 5.60%). The loss 
deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2016 of £135.0 million (2015: £130.1 million) in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. Undrawn facilities expire on 6 October 2018 (£27.0 million) and 6 October 
2020 (£108.0 million). 116 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
32 Cashflow from operating actiivities
Year ended
31 March 
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2015
£m
Profit before taxation – continuing operations 45.4 36.8 
Loss before taxation – discontinued operations (187.2) (14.7)
Finance costs and other finance income – continuing operations 8.9 9.9 
Loss on disposal of Dairies operation 137.3 – 
Profit on operations 4.4 32.0 
Depreciation 23.4 27.4 
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 2.0 3.2 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.4 0.4 
Difference between cash outflow on exceptional items and amounts recognised in the income statement (excluding 
disposal of Dairies operation)
10.3 16.5 
Release of grants (1.7) (1.7)
Share-based payments 2.2 1.7 
Profit on disposal of depots (3.7) (17.6)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (20.0) (13.8)
R&D tax credits – (0.8)
Realised exchange loss on early loan note repayment and translation of foreign currency balances – 0.8 
Decrease in inventories 13.8 15.4 
Decrease in receivables 44.2 22.8 
Decrease in payables (44.0) (51.0)
Cash generated from operations 31.3 35.3 
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2016 (2015: nil). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 117
The numbers
33 Analysis of net debt
Consolidated
At 1 April
2015
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement**
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2016
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 50.6 49.7 – – 100.3 
Borrowings (current) – – (92.9) (2.7) (95.6)
Borrowings (non-current) (263.2) (76.3) 92.9 (2.6) (249.2)
Finance leases – 1.5 (5.4) – (3.9)
Debt issuance costs 0.2 1.6 0.1 – 1.9 
(212.4) (23.5) (5.3) (5.3) (246.5)
Debt issuance costs excluded (0.2) (1.6) (0.1) – (1.9)
Impact of cross-currency swaps * 13.9 0.2 – 5.3 19.4 
Net debt (198.7) (24.9) (5.4) – (229.0)
At 1 April
2014
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 67.3 (15.9) – (0.8) 50.6 
Borrowings (current) (25.3) 25.3 – – –
Borrowings (non-current) (180.2) (69.0) – (14.0) (263.2)
Finance leases (1.8) 1.8 – – –
Debt issuance costs 1.1 – (0.9) – 0.2 
(138.9) (57.8) (0.9) (14.8) (212.4)
Debt issuance costs excluded (1.1) – 0.9 – (0.2)
Impact of cross-currency swaps * (2.2) 2.1 – 14.0 13.9 
Net debt (142.2) (55.7) – (0.8) (198.7)
* The Group has $249.4 million and €10.7 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to fix interest and principal repayments in 
Sterling (March 2015: $204.4 million and €10.7 million). Under IFRS, currency borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-currency 
swaps are recorded at fair value and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group defines net debt so as to include the effective 
Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £19.4 million adjustment included in the above 
(March 2015: £13.9 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£182.0 million (March 2015: £145.4 million)) to 
the fixed Sterling liability of £162.6 million (March 2015: £131.5 million).
** Finance lease non-cash movement relates to the recognition of the agreement of a secondary lease term for assets at Nuneaton.
On 4 April 2014 there was a natural maturity of loan notes of €30.6 million (£27.4 million). 118 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
33 Analysis of net debt continued
Company
At 1 April
2015
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2016
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 39.9 – – 40.1 
Borrowings (current) – – (92.9) (2.7) (95.6)
Borrowings (non-current) (158.2) (76.3) 92.9 (2.6) (144.2)
(158.0) (36.4) – (5.3) (199.7)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 13.9 0.2 – 5.3 19.4 
Net debt (144.1) (36.2) – – (180.3)
At 1 April
2014
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents – 0.2 – – 0.2 
Borrowings (current) (25.3) 25.3 – – – 
Borrowings (non-current) (144.2) – – (14.0) (158.2)
(169.5) 25.5 – (14.0) (158.0)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps (2.2) 2.1 – 14.0 13.9 
Net debt (171.7) 27.6 – – (144.1)
34 Post Balance Sheet Events
Maturity of Fixed Coupon Loan Notes
On 4 April 2016, the Group repaid $123 million (£70.2 million) and £10 million of 2006 fixed coupon loan notes on maturity.
Settlement of liability in relation to Farmright Limited
On 9 May 2016, the Group paid £1.0 million in full and final settlement of claims arising out of the debt originally owed to Farmright Limited. 
Claims between the Group, Farmright Limited and Quadra Foods Limited (and any assignees of the claims) are now resolved. At 31 March 
2016, amounts owed to the Group by Quadra Foods Limited had been fully provided for and the Group carried a creditor balance of £3.1 
million for potential future liabilities in relation to Farmright Limited. Following settlement, £2.1 million will be released as an exceptional item in 
the year ending 31 March 2017.
35 Corporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 were authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the Directors on 18 May 2016 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by  
Mr M Allen and Mr T Atherton. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United 
Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 119
The numbers
Consolidated income statement summary – continuing operations
Restated
2012
£m
Restated
2013
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Restated
2015
£m
2016
£m
Product group revenue
Cheese 229.6 231.3 264.6 274.4 263.7 
Spreads 211.3 194.5 177.4 170.0 152.6 
Other 4.8 4.2 4.2 3.8 6.0 
Group 445.7 430.0 446.2 448.2 422.3 
Product group profit *
Cheese 35.5 33.1 39.3 33.1 36.4 
Spreads 23.2 25.5 16.8 33.8 29.6 
Associate (0.3) – 0.3 – – 
Total product group profit – continuing operations 58.4 58.6 56.4 66.9 66.0 
Finance costs (21.1) (18.7) (9.9) (8.1) (8.3)
Adjusted profit before tax – continuing operations ** 37.3 39.9 46.5 58.8 57.7 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (0.8) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Exceptional items (91.3) (26.0) (8.4) (19.8) (11.3)
Other finance (expense)/income – pensions 5.5 (3.5) (0.3) (1.8) (0.6)
Group profit/(loss) before tax – continuing operations (49.3) 10.0 37.4 36.8 45.4 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangibles and investments 713.9 375.9 391.9 428.9 331.8 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income, deferred tax asset and 
provisions 45.8 74.1 109.6 116.2 80.1 
Total operating assets 759.7 450.0 501.5 545.1 411.9 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt 0.9 1.5 2.8 (1.3) (2.4)
Tax (70.1) (17.2) (15.0) (13.9) (3.8)
Retirement obligations (79.8) (67.2) (57.7) (41.4) (42.5)
Net debt (336.4) (59.7) (142.2) (198.7) (229.0)
Shareholders' equity 274.3 307.4 289.4 289.8 134.2 
Cash flow summary
Generated from/(used in) operations 84.5 19.1 (13.8) 35.3 31.3 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (53.1) (46.0) (58.8) (80.1) (66.8)
31.4 (26.9) (72.6) (44.8) (35.5)
Interest paid (23.6) (18.0) (14.0) (10.5) (12.8)
Taxation repaid/(paid) (14.1) (4.7) 2.1 – – 
Dividends paid (26.5) (27.4) (28.5) (29.2) (30.0)
Purchase of businesses and investments (12.3) (0.6) – (0.1) (6.0)
Other items (principally business and asset disposals) 20.3 354.3 30.5 28.1 54.0 
Movement in net debt (24.8) 276.7 (82.5) (56.5) (30.3)
* Profit on operations before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
** Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest.
The Consolidated Income Statement Summary – Continuing Operations has been restated in all years to reclassify the results of the sold 
Dairies operation to discontinued operations. 
GROuP FINANCIAL hISTORY 120 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Shareholder S’ information
Company r egistrar and Shareholder enquiries
If you have administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings  
in the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change of 
address, dividend payment arrangements or amalgamation of 
accounts, please contact the Company’s registrar by writing to, 
Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or by telephone on 0371 664 9266.
Calls are charged at the standard geographical rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls from outside the UK are charged at the applicable 
international rate. Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Capita also provides online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy, and there is no 
fee involved, simply access www.dairycrestshares.com
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a 
bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank mandate forms are available from 
Capita whose details appear above or you can register your 
mandate details online at www.dairycrestshares.com
l ow cost share dealing service
If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy Crest 
has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Capita Share 
Dealing Services. Shareholders wishing to use the service should 
either visit the Capita Share Dealing website at www.capitadeal.com 
or call 0371 664 0445. Calls are charged at the standard 
geographical rate and will vary by provider. Calls from outside the 
UK are charged at the applicable international rate. Lines are open 
8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday. 
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme – administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation – a registered charity. Information 
can be found at www.sharegift.org Telephone: 020 7930 3737.
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN.
Telephone: 01372 472200
e-mail: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk
f inancial calendar
dividends final
Ex-dividend Thursday 7 July 2016
Record date Friday 8 July 2016
Payment date Thursday 11 August 2016
Group results (a nticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2016
Preliminary Announcement 
of 2016/17 results May 2017
2016/17 Report and Accounts 
circulation  June 2017
analysis of ordinary shareholders at 18 may 2016
h olders
n umber
% Shares %
Category        
Individuals and other holders 16,988 87.59 28,327,183 20.13
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks,        
nominees and limited companies 2,408 12.41 112,399,736 79.87
  19,396 100.00 140,726,919 100.00
Size of holdings        
Up to 5,000 shares 17,939 92.49 24,270,984 17.25
5,001 – 20,000 shares 1,222 6.30 9,133,820 6.49
20,001 – 100,000 shares 122 0.63 5,461,275 3.88
Over 100,000 shares 113 0.58 101,860,840 72.38
  19,396 100.00 140,726,919 100.00 This report is printed on Chorus Lux Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Easton.
Board photography by Ed Hill. 
Dairy Crest is a leading British dairy company. 
We have a well-established strategy, a clear 
vision, robust values and great people.
Dairy Crest makes market-leading brands including Cathedral City 
cheese, Clover dairy spread, Country Life butter and Frylight one 
calorie cooking spray. This year we have also invested to enter the 
high-growth global infant formula market.
We constantly innovate, bringing new products to market and 
introducing new ways of working across the business.
We are a responsible business and always aim to do the right 
thing for our employees, our farmers, our customers and our 
consumers. We continue to ensure we are setting the standard 
for responsible business practice.
The year ended 31 March 2016 has been transformational for 
Dairy Crest with the completion of the sale of our loss-making 
Dairies business in December 2015. Dairy Crest is now well-
positioned for profitable and sustainable growth in our added 
value and branded markets.
ABout us
t he uK’s No1 branded cheese
t he uK’s No1 oil brand
t he uK’s No1 dairy spread
t he uK’s fastest growing butter brand  Dairy Crest Group plc  Annual Report 2016
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2016
Goin G for
