 annual report 2010 Cover image This photograph by Jane LaGoy shows the microstructure of a sample of an aluminium alloy casting that has undergone Hot Isostatic Pressing (HIP). The tree or skeleton-like dendrite structure is 
typical of aluminium. The HIP process removes voids and porosity in the casting but still preserves the original microstructure of the metal. The result is a component with many desirable features, 
including exceptional strength. 
Bodycote continually improves the website offerings for both customers and investors. The most recent is the 
addition of an audio webcast of Bodycote’s 2010 Results presentation in the Investor Relations section of the website. 
We invite you to view and to listen by visiting www.bodycote.com/audiocast
www.bodycote.com/audiocast 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 1
FinanCial	 HiGHliGHts
1
		 a	 detailed	 reconciliation	 is	 provided	 on	 page	 15	 and	 excludes	 exceptional	 items	 such	 as	 the	 deduction	 of	 major	 facility	 closure	 costs	 of	 £nil	 (2009:	 £25.4m)	 and	 impairment
of	 goodwill	 of	 £nil	 (2009:	 £29.0m).
2
		 Headline	 operating	 cash	 flow	 is	 defined	 as	 operating	 cash	 flow	 stated	 before	 cash	 flow	 relating	 to	 exceptional	 items	 (£9.2m,	 2009:	 £19.2m).
3
	operating	 cash	 flow	 is	 defined	 as	 cash	 generated	 by	 operations	 (£103.9m,	 2009:	 £47.7m)	 less	 net	 capital	 expenditure	 (£35.8m,	 2009:	 £32.2m).
4
	a	 detailed	 reconciliation	 is	 provided	 in	 note	 10	 on	 page	 64.
5
	see	 note	 9	 on	 page	 64.
6
	return	 on	 capital	 employed	 is	 defined	 as	 headline	 operating	 profit	 (£52.1m)	 divided	 by	 average	 capital	 employed	 (£517.9m).	 Capital	 employed	 is	 defined	 as	 net	 assets	 plus	 net	 debt.
	 2010 	 2009
revenue	-	 continuing	 operations 	 £499.8m 	 £435.4m
Headline	 operating	 profit
1
	 -	 continuing	 operations 	 £52.1m 	 £8.0m
operating	profit/(loss)	 -	 continuing	 operations 	 £51.2m 	 £(50.2)m
Headline	 profit	 before	 taxation
1
	 -	 continuing	 operations 	 £46.1m 	 £3.7m
profit/(loss)	 before	 taxation	 -	 continuing	 operations 	 £45.2m 	 £(54.5)m
Headline	 operating	 cash	 flow
2
	 £77.3m 	 £34.7m
operating	cash	 flow
3
	 £68.1m 	 £15.5m
net	debt 	 £51.3m 	 £85.5m
	 	 basic	 headline	 earnings	 per	 share
4
	 -	 continuing	 operations 	 18.3p 	 0.4p
basic	earnings/(loss)	 per	 share 	 14.9p 	 (27.0)p
dividend	per	 share
5
	 8.7p 	 8.3p
return	on	 capital	 employed
6
	 -	 continuing	 operations 	 10.1% 	 1.5%
7.0 8.0	 8.3 8.3 8.7
06 07 08 09 10
DiviDenD	per	share
pence
413.9 465.2 551.8 435.4 499.8
06 07 08 09 10
revenue	 -	 Continuing	operations
£	 Million 	 2	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
Business	 review
Financial	 Highlights	 1
what	is	bodycote’s	business?	 2
Core	technologies	 3
the	outsourcing	principle	 4
on	solid	 Foundations	 –	 a	 component	 journey	 5	
our	Global	network	 6
strategy	and	objectives	 8
Key	performance	indicators	 9
Chairman’s	statement	 10
Chief	executive’s	review	 12
down	to	earth	 –	 a	 component	 journey	 14
business	performance	 15
powder	power	 –	 a	 component	 journey	 16
business	overview	 17
business	review	–	aerospace,	defence	 &	energy	 18
business	review	–	automotive	 &	 General	industrial	 20
Finance	director’s	report	 22
principal	risks	and	uncertainties	 26
Corporate	responsibility	 and	sustainability	 28
Corporate	governanCe
directors’	report	 32
Corporate	 Governance	statement	 34
report	of	 the	audit	 Committee	 36
report	of	 the	nomination	 Committee	 38
board	report	on	remuneration	 39
directors’	responsibilities	statement	 44
board	of	directors	 and	advisers	 45
aCCounts
independent	auditors’	report	 -	 Group	 Financial	s tatements	 46
Consolidated	income	statement	 47
Consolidated	s tatement	 of	 Comprehensive	i ncome	 47
Consolidated	balance	sheet	 48
Consolidated	 Cash	 Flow	statement	 49
	 Consolidated	s tatement	 of	 Changes	 in	e quity	 50
Group	accounting	policies	 51
	 notes	 to	 the	 Consolidated	 Financial	statements	 56
Five	year	summary	 90
Company	balance	sheet	 91
	 i ndependent	auditors’	report	 –	 Company	 Financial	s tatements	 92
	 Company	accounting	policies	 93
notes	to	 the	 Company	 Financial	statements	 94
aDDitional	information
principal	subsidiary	undertakings	 99
shareholder	information	 101
Financial	 Calendar	 102
what	 is	 BoDyCote’s	Business?
operating	an	 international	 network	 of	 facilities	 and	 serving	 a	 wide	
range	 of	 industries,	bodycote	 is	 the	 world’s	 largest	 and	 most	 respected	
provider	 of	 thermal	 processing	 services	 –	 a	 vital	 link	 in	 the	 manufacturing	
supply	 chain.
bodycote	 operates	 in	 two	 major	 areas:	 the	aerospace,	defence	 &	e nergy	
(ade)	business	 serves	 the	 aerospace,	 defence,	 power	 generation	 and	
oil	 &	 gas	 industries,	 whilst	 the	automotive	 &	 General	industrial	 (aGi)	
business	 serves	 sectors	 including	 automotive,	 construction,	 agriculture,	
medical	 and	 transportation. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 3
thermal	proCessing	
Bodycote	 provides	 thermal	 processing	 services	 which	 improve	
material	 properties	 such	 as	 strength,	 durability	 and	 corrosion	
resistance,	 enabling	 manufacturers’	 components	 to	 work	 more	
efficiently	 with	 significantly	 extended	 operational	 lifetimes.		
Bodycote’s	 treatment	 services	 consist	 of	 a	 number	 of	 core	
technologies:	 heat	 treatment	 and	 metal	 joining,	 hot	 isostatic	
pressing	 (hip)	 and	 surface	 technology.
heat	treatment	and	metal	 Joining
Heat	 treatments	 are	 controlled	 processes	 used	 to	 alter	
the	 microstructure	 of	 materials,	 such	 as	 metals	 and	 alloys,	
to	 impart	 properties	 which	 benefit	 the	 working	 life	 of	 a	 component,	
for	 example:	 increased	 surface	 hardness,	 temperature	 resistance,	
ductility	 and	 strength.	 Metal	 joining	 includes	 specialised	 processes	
such	 as	 electron	 beam	 welding,	 vacuum	 and	 honeycomb	 brazing	 –	
complex	 operations	 requiring	 a	 fusion	 of	 expertise	 and	 technology.
bodycote	 offers	 an	 extensive	 range	 of	 heat	 treatment	 services	 and	
specialist	 metal	 joining	 techniques	 from	 facilities	 around	 the	 world.		
with	unmatched	 capacity	 and	 computerised	 systems,	bodycote	
facilities	 can	 process	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 component	 sizes	 to	 exacting	
standards	 with	 reliable,	 repeatable	 results.
hot	isostatic	pressing	 (hip)
Hip	 combines	 very	 high	 temperature	 (up	 to	 2,000°C)	 with	 inert	
gas	 under	 very	 high	 pressure	 (up	 to	 30,000	 psi	 –	 equivalent	 to	
that	 found	 at	 an	 ocean	 depth	 of	 11,000m	 such	 as	 at	 the	 bottom	
of	 the	 Mariana	trench	 in	 the	pacific	ocean).	 Hip	can	 be	 used	 to	
eliminate	 porosity	 in	 castings	 and	 consolidate	 encapsulated	 powders	
to	 dense	 materials.	dissimilar	 materials	 can	 be	 bonded	 together	
to	 manufacture	 unique	 cost-effective	 components.	every	 week	
a	 typical	bodycote	 Hip	plant	 will	 process	 many	 tons	 of	 titanium,	
aluminium,	 steel	 and	 super-alloy	 castings,	 removing	 porosity	 and	
improving	 the	 performance	 of	 parts	 such	 as	 turbine	 blades	 and	
oilfield	 components.
with	the	 largest	 operational	 capacity	 in	 the	 world	 and	 a	
wide	 variety	 of	 sizes	 of	 equipment,	bodycote	 Hip	is	 able	 to	
accommodate	 large	 volumes	 of	 small	 product	 as	 economically	
as	 large	 individual	 components.
surface	technology
surface	technologies	 are	 used	 extensively	 to	 prolong	 the	 working	
life	 of	 components	 and	 protect	 them	 from	 environmental	 factors	
such	 as	 corrosion	 and	 abrasion.	the	 range	 of	 surface	 treatments	
available	 from	bodycote	 covers	 a	 wide	 variety	 of	 applications,	
providing	 manufacturers	 with	 solutions	 to	 meet	 requirements	
such	 as	 durability,	 wear	 resistance,	 improved	 hardness	 and	
electrical	 conductivity.
bodycote	is	 a	 provider	 of	 specialised	 plasma	 spray,	 high	 velocity	
oxy	 fuel	 (HvoF)	and	 thermally	 formed	 ceramic	 treatments	 and	 is	
able	 to	 surface	 engineer	 components	 (including	 complex	 geometric	
shapes	 and	 internal	 bores)	 that	 are	 designed	 to	 operate	 in	 the	 most	
demanding	 of	 industrial	 applications.
Core	 teCHnoloGies 	 4	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
bodycote	has	 a	 long	 history	
of	 successful	 outsourcing	
partnerships,	 from	 global	 to	
local	 manufacturers...
the	partner	 of	ChoiCe
bodycote	has	 become	 the	 partner	 of	 choice	 for	 the	 world’s	 most	
respected	 and	 innovative	 engineering	 companies	 by	 providing	 highly	
efficient,	 cost-effective	 services	 to	 the	 highest	 quality	 standards	
through	 strategic	 investment	 in	 people	 and	 the	 latest	 technology,	
equipment	 and	 quality	 systems.
by	outsourcing	 non-core	 but	 vitally	 important	 thermal	 processing	
requirements	 to	b odycote,	 customers	 are	 able	 to	 concentrate	 their	
business	 resources	 where	 they	 are	 needed	 most.	bodycote’s	
services	 offer	 tangible	 benefits	 to	 customers	 such	 as	 reduced	
equipment	 maintenance,	 capital	 expenditure,	 energy	 costs,	
people	 costs	 and	 a	 major	 reduction	 in	 Co
2
	 emissions.
bodycote	has	 a	 long	 history	 of	 successful	 outsourcing	 partnerships,	
from	 global	 to	 local	 manufacturers.	in	 many	 cases,	 subcontracting	
relationships	 lead	 to	 component	 and	 service-specific	 long-term	
agreements,	 or	 strategic	 partnering	 arrangements,	 which	 embody	
protection	 and	 freedom	 from	 risk	 for	 the	 customer	 and	bodycote.		
these	are	 often	 exclusive	 in	 character	 and	 provide	 the	 basis	 for	
mutual	 business	 development,	 with	 both	 companies	 freed	 to	
concentrate	 capital	 and	 other	 resources	 on	 core	 competencies.
making	 innovations	 possiBle
bodycote’s	extensive	 facilities	 and	 expertise	 mean	 development	
projects	 can	 expand	 far	 beyond	 customers’	 in-house	 capabilities,	
helping	 to	 realise	 goals	 more	 quickly	 and	 more	 cost-effectively.
around	the	 globe,	bodycote	 has	 dedicated	 teams	 working	 on	 a	
variety	 of	 projects.	when	 required,	 this	 may	 include	 the	 development	
of	 specific	 processes	 and	 equipment	 for	 a	 customer	
or	 verification	 of	 materials	 or	 designs,	 prior	 to	 their	 application.
in-house	 development	 and	 improvement	 of	 standard	 processes	 has	
led	 to	bodycote	 offering	 a	 range	 of	 proprietary	 processes	 such	 as	
Kolsterising
®
,	 Corr-i-dur
®
	 and	sheraCote
®
,	 which	 far	 outperform	
their	 standard	 counterparts.
tHe	outsourCinG	 prinCiple 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 5
on	solid	Foundations	 -	 a	CoMponent	 journey
	 	 shafts	 requiring	 an	ebw	
operation	 after	 heat	 treatment	
are	 first	 selectively	 chemically	
coated	 to	 prevent	 carbon	
penetration;	 this	 will	 ensure	
a	 clean	 electron	 beam	 weld	
at	 a	 later	 stage
	 the	 shafts	 require	
carburising	 to	 increase	 their	
wear	 resistance	 and	 impart	
high	 hardness	 properties.	
they	are	 then	 quenched	
and	 tempered	 to	 remove	
internal	 stresses
	 	 the	 parts	 undergo	 automatic	
shaft	 straightening	 to	 correct	
any	 distortion	 caused	 by	 high	
processing	 temperatures
the	shafts	 are	 machined	
again	 to	 achieve	 final	
engineering	 dimensions
	 	 the	 shafts	 need	 assembly	 with	 their
gear	 or	 drum	 using	ebw.	the	 parts	 are	
ultrasonically	 cleaned	 and	 measured	 to	
ensure	 no	 contamination	 of	 the	 parts	 during	
the	ebw	 vacuum	 process	 which	 fuses	
the	 parent	 metal	 of	 the	 parts	 together
transmission	 shafts
transmission	shafts	 form	 part	 of	 the	
drivetrain	 of	 all	 vehicles.	in	 this	 example,	
we	 will	 look	 at	 how	 these	 hard	 working	
components	 are	 given	 a	 longer	 lifetime	
as	 part	 of	 powerful	 construction	 vehicles,	
such	 as	 excavators,	 through	 heat	 treatment	
and	 metal	 joining	 processes.
transmission	shafts	 are	 an	 excellent	
example	 of	 thermal	 processing’s	
contribution	 to	 value	 engineering.	
the	electron	beam	welding	 (ebw)	
process,	 in	 particular,	 allows	 the	
fabrication	 of	 a	 high	 performance	
component	 from	 two	 pieces,	 thereby	
avoiding	 machining	 from	 solid	 which	
is	 both	 wasteful	 and	 expensive.	
	 denotes	 the	 parts	 of	 the	 component	 journey	 undertaken	 by	bodycote
BoDyCote	Component	Journeys
this	is	 just	 one	 example	 of	 how	bodycote	 brings	 together	 the	
huge	 wealth	 of	 knowledge	 and	 expertise	 from	 across	 the	 Group	
to	 provide	 the	 vital	 engineering	 services	 our	 customers	 need...
For	 more	 component	 journeys	 visit	 www.bodycote.com
t he	 forged	 steel	 part	
is	 then	 machined	 into	
its	 near	 net	 shaft	
shape	 and	 sent	 for	
heat	 treatment
the	shafts	 begin	 life	
as	 high	 grade	 steel	
alloy	 forgings
end	 application	 –	 construction	 vehicle	
such	 as	 an	 excavator 	 6	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
paGe	title	 in	Here	[delete	 iF	 not	 required]
[paGe	title	 line	 2	 iF	 required]
our	Global	 networK
overview
a s	 the	 only	 truly	 global	 provider	 of	 subcontract	 thermal	 processing	
services,	bodycote	 is	 able	 to	 offer	 a	 significant	 advantage	 to	 its	
customers.	through	 an	 international	 network	 of	 plants,	b odycote	 can	
effectively	 utilise	 a	 wealth	 of	 knowledge,	 experience	 and	 specialist	
expertise	 to	 deliver	 quality	 service	 when	 and	 where	 it	 is	 needed.
the	network	 operates	 from	 173	 facilities,	 with	 customers	 able	 to	
benefit	 from	bodycote’s	 comprehensive	 range	 of	 services	 from	
multiple	 locations.	 Customers	 know	 that	 if	 their	 business	 expands,	
bodycote	will	 have	 the	 capability	 to	 meet	 their	 needs.	they	 know	
that	 if	 they	 were	 to	 broaden	 their	 manufacturing	 footprint,	bodycote	
would	 be	 able	 to	 assist	 them.	they	 know	 that	 they	 can	 obtain	 the	
same	 process	 to	 the	 same	 quality	 standards	 from	 multiple	 locations.	
such	a	 large	 network	 brings	 economies	 of	 scale,	 with	 technology	
developed	 at	 one	 location	 being	 available	 globally	 if	 the	 market	
requires	 it.
the	bodycote	 network	 has	 a	 wealth	 of	 technical	 accreditations,	
some	 industry	 or	 customer	 specific,	 others	 more	 general.	individual	
operations	 concentrate	 on	 the	 accreditations	 suited	 to	 their	 market.
although	bodycote	 is	 headquartered	 in	 the	uK,	 89%	 of	 the	 Group’s	
revenue	 is	 derived	 outside	 the	uK.	with	 facilities	 in	 26	 countries,	
bodycote	is	 truly	 global.
north	 ameriCa
bodycote	has	 39	 facilities	 in	north	america,	 concentrated	 where	
manufacturing	 and	 technical	 industries	 are	 located.
the	network	 includes	 five	 specialist	 operations,	 four	 offering	 Hip,	
and	 the	 other	 offering	 surface	 technology.	 Hip	capacity	 has	 recently	
been	 expanded	 to	 ensure	 that	bodycote	 is	 best	 positioned	 to	 satisfy	
its	 customers’	 needs	 as	 the	 economic	 climate	 continues	 to	 improve.	 	
low	pressure	 carburising	 capability	 has	 been	 similarly	 expanded.	
this	energy	 efficient	 technology	 can,	 for	 example,	 enable	 automotive	
manufacturers	 to	 produce	 7-	 and	 8-speed	 automatic	 transmissions	 of	
modest	 weight	 and	 compact	 dimensions,	 which	 assist	 in	 the	 quest	
for	 lower	 emissions.
	aerospace	 &	defence
	energy
	automotive
	 Civil	eng,	agriculture,	rail	 &	 Marine
	other	 General	industrial
revenue	By	 market	 seCtor	 –	north	 ameriCa
	aerospace	 &	defence
	energy
	automotive
	 Civil	eng,	agriculture,	rail	 &	 Marine
	other	 General	industrial
group	 revenue	By	 market	 seCtor
	aerospace	 &	defence 	power	 Generation 	oil	 &	 Gas 	automotive 	 Civil	e ng,	a griculture,	rail	 &	 Marine 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 7
paGe	title	 in	Here	[delete	 iF	 not	 required]
[paGe	title	 line	 2	 iF	 required]
western	 europe
bodycote	has	 104	 facilities	 in	western	europe	 including	 seven	
Hip	 plants	 and	 seven	 dedicated	 surface	 technology	 facilities.	
the	important	 French,	 German	 and	scandinavian	 markets	 are	
particularly	 well	 served	 with	 28,	 19	 and	 18	 facilities	 respectively.		
recent	capacity	 extensions	 include	 expanded	 facilities	 aimed	 at	
the	 needs	 of	 the	 wind	 energy	 market.
Hip	 capacity	 has	 been	 significantly	 enhanced	 to	 meet	 customers’	
growing	 needs	 for	 this	 service.	
emerging	 markets
bodycote	has	 30	 facilities	 in	 emerging	 geographies	 including	
two	 dedicated	 surface	 technology	 plants,	 one	 each	 in	singapore	
and	dubai.	b odycote	 is	 the	 number	 one	 thermal	 processing	 provider	
in	 both	brazil	 and	eastern	europe	 and	 is	 number	 two	 in	 China.	
these	markets	 have	 a	 special	 emphasis	 in	 the	 Group’s	 growth	
strategy	 for	 the	 future.			
	aerospace	 &	defence
	energy
	automotive
	 Civil	eng,	agriculture,	rail	 &	 Marine
	other	 General	industrial
revenue	By	 market	 seCtor	 –	 emerging	 markets
	aerospace	 &	defence
	energy
	automotive
	 Civil	eng,	agriculture,	rail	 &	 Marine
	other	 General	industrial
revenue	By	 market	 seCtor	 –	 western	 europe
	tooling 	 Consumer	product 	electronics	 &	telecoms 	 Medical	 &	environmental 	 Mining 	 8	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
strateGy	 and	 objeCtives
bodycote’s	objective	 is	 to	 create	 superior	 shareholder	 returns	
through	 the	 provision	 of	 selected	 thermal	 processing	 services	 	
that	 are	 highly	 valued	 by	 our	 customers.
	 		 serving	 the	 aerospace,	 defence	 and	 energy	 markets,	 with	 a	 focused	 network	 of	 globally
coordinated	 facilities,	 attuned	 to	 these	 customers’	 specific	 needs	 and	 requirements.
	 		 serving	 the	 automotive	 and	 chosen	 general	 industrial	 markets	 through	 a	 regionally	 organised
business,	 catering	 for	 these	 customers’	 specific	 local	 needs	 and	 proximity	 requirements.
	 		 achieving	 the	 highest	 levels	 of	 customer	 service	 in	 terms	 of	 quality,	 delivery,
reliability	 and	 technical	 problem	 solving.
	 		 Capitalising	 on	 our	 proprietary	 technologies	 to	 provide	 our	 customers	 with	 the	 ability
to	 create	 innovative,	 differentiated	 products.
	 		 Migrating	 technology,	 over	 time,	 from	 the	 developed	 markets	 to	 our	 target	 emerging	 markets
with	 an	 emphasis	 on	eastern	europe,	brazil	 and	 China.
bodycote	aims	 to	 achieve	 this	 in	 a	 safe	 working	 environment
and	 with	 minimal	 environmental	 impact.
Our strategy is based on the following fundamentals:	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 9
Key	perForManCe	 indiCators
the	Group	 focuses	 on	 a	 small	 number	 of	
Key	performance	indicators	 (Kpis),	which	
cover	 both	 financial	 and	 non-financial	 metrics.
the	financial	 Kpis	are	return	 on	 Capital	
employed
1
	 (ro Ce),	return	 on	s ales
2
	 (ros )	
and	 Headline	e arnings	 per	s hare
3
	 and	 the	 non	
financial	 Kpis	 are	 the	p ercentage	 of	iso	14001	
accredited	 facilities	 and	accident	 Frequency
4
.
financial
in	 2010	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 performance	
improved	 significantly.	as	 a	 result,	roCe	
for	 2010	 was	 10.1%	 (2009:	 1.5%),	ros	
was	 10.4%	 (2009:	 1.8%)	 and	 Headline	
earnings	per	share	 was	 18.3p	 (2009:	 0.4p).
non	 financial
reducing	the	 environmental	 impact	 of	 the	
Group’s	 activities	 is	 taken	 very	 seriously.		
Compliance	 with	 the	 requirements	 of	
iso	14001	 helps	 minimise	 the	 risk	 of	 adverse	
environmental	 effects	 at	bodycote	 locations.	
at	the	 end	 of	 2010,	 81%	 of	 our	 plants	 had	
iso	14001	 accreditation	 -	 140	 plants	 out	 of	
a	 total	 of	 173	 (2009:	 137	 out	 of	 178).
bodycote	 works	 tirelessly	 to	 reduce	 workplace	
accidents	 and	 is	 committed	 to	 providing	
a	 safe	 environment	 for	 anyone	 who	 works	 at	
or	 visits	 our	 locations.	the	 major	 restructuring	
programme	 has	 not	 made	 this	 an	 easy	 task	 in	
2010.	nevertheless,	 the	accident	 Frequency	
rate	 was	 reduced	 to	 1.8	 (2009:	 1.9).
14.1 15.1 12.9	 1.8 10.4
06 07 08 09 10
return	 on	sales	 (ros)
%
12.1 13.7 12.1 1.5 10.1
06 07 08 09 10
r eturn 	 on 	 Capital 	e mploye D	 (ro Ce)	
%
3.1 2.4 2.0	 1.9 1.8
06 07 08 09 10
aCCiDent	 frequenCy
number
47 68 71 77 81
06 07 08 09 10
iso	14001	 aCCreDiteD	 faCilities
%
definitions:
1
	 Headline	 operating	 profit	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 average	 capital	 employed	 from	 continuing	 operations.	 Capital	 employed	 is	 defined	 as	 net	 assets	 plus	 net	 debt.
2
	 Headline	 operating	 profit	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 revenue	 from	 continuing	 operations.
3
	 Headline	earnings	per	share	 is	 defined	 in	 note	 10	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
4
	accident	 Frequency	 –	 the	 number	 of	 lost	 time	 accidents	 x	 200,000	 hours	 (approximately	 100	 man	 years),	 divided	 by	 the	 total	 hours	 worked. 	 10	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
overview
after	a	 year	 which	 saw	 variable	 rates	 of	 recovery	 across	 our	
major	 markets,	i	 am	 pleased	 to	 report	 that	 the	 Group	 has	 made	 a	
substantial	 recovery	 from	 the	 loss	 reported	 in	 2009.	s ales	 increased	
by	 14.8%	 to	 £499.8m.	the	 improvement	 was	 underpinned	 by	
the	 success	 of	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 announced	 in	 2008	
and	 the	 continuing	 focus	 on	 tight	 operational	 and	 balance	 sheet	
management.	operating	 profit	 recovered	 to	 £51.2m	 and	 borrowings	
dropped	 from	 £85.5m	 to	 £51.3m.
w e	 saw	 improvement	 in	 the	 automotive	 and	 general	 industrial	 (a Gi)	
markets	 although	 volumes	 remain	 some	 way	 below	 the	 levels	 of	
2008.	the	 aerospace,	 defence	 and	 energy	 (ade)	markets	 tend	 to	
peak	 later	 in	 the	 economic	 cycle	 and	 sales	 growth	 reflected	 this.	
as	a	 result	 of	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 the	 Group	 has	 now	
exited	 large	 amounts	 of	 unprofitable	 commodity	 business,	 and	 is	
actively	 growing	 its	 higher	 added	 value	 services.	b odycote	 should	 be	
capable	 of	 delivering	 improved	 through-cycle	 returns	 going	 forward.
sustainaBility
the	safety	 performance	 of	 the	 Group	 is	 closely	 monitored	 at	
all	 management	 and	board	 meetings.	bodycote	 is	 committed	
to	 improvements	 in	 employee	s afety	 and	 Health	 performance	 to	
ensure	 that	 all	 employees	 and	 visitors	 operate	 in	 a	 safe	 working	
environment.	the	 Company	 continues	 to	 gain	 accreditations	 for	
its	 environmental	 compliance.	at	 the	 end	 of	 2010	 over	 80%	 of	
its	 facilities	 had	 met	 the	 requirements	 for	iso	14001.	we	 also	
track	 energy	 and	 water	 usage	 and	 reductions	 are	 being	 realised	
although	 more	 needs	 to	 be	 done	 to	 reach	 our	 internal	 targets.	
Further	 information	 regarding	 the	 Group’s	 objectives	 in	 relation	
to	 sustainability	 can	 be	 found	 on	 page	 28.
DiviDenD
in	 2009	 the	board	 recommended	 a	 maintained	 dividend	 despite	
the	 challenges	 posed	 by	 the	 downturn,	 based	 upon	 its	 confidence	
that	 actions	 taken	 by	 the	 new	 management	 team	 would	 restore	 the	
Company	 to	 a	 satisfactory	 level	 of	 profitability	 and	 cash	 generation.	
the	board	 is	 satisfied	 with	 the	 steady	 improvement	 in	 results	
throughout	 2010	 and	 is	 confident	 in	 the	 future	 outlook	 for	 the	
business.	the	board	 is	 recommending	 that	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	
5.75p	 be	 paid	 to	 shareholders,	 giving	 an	 increased	 total	 of	 8.7p	
(4.8%	 increase)	 for	 the	 full	 year.		
CHairMan’s	 stateMent
alan	thomson
Chairman
the	financial	 turmoil	
of	 the	 past	 two	 years	
has	 been	 testing	 for	 the	
Group,	 but	 the	board	
believes	 that	bodycote	
has	 emerged	 strengthened	
by	 the	 challenges	 which	
it	 has	 faced.	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 11
BoarD
after	the	 changes	 made	 to	 the	 composition	 of	 the	board	 in	
2008	 and	 2009	 the	 membership	 was	 unchanged	 in	 2010	 and	
should	 remain	 so	 throughout	 2011.	during	 the	 year,	 in	 accordance	
with	 its	 usual	 practice,	 the	board	 conducted	 a	 formal	 internal	
evaluation	 of	 its	 performance,	 including	 that	 of	 the	 Chairman.	
in	 2011	 the	board	 has	 decided	 that	 this	 process	 will	 be	 carried	
out	 by	 an	 external	 facilitator	 with	 the	 results	 being	 reported	 in	 the	
2011	annual	report.	this	 external	 evaluation	 will	 assist	 the	 Chairman	
in	 the	 process	 of	 gradually	 refreshing	board	 membership	 to	 meet	
the	 changing	 requirements	 of	 a	 growing	 business.	during	 the	 last	
year	 all	board	 members	 received	 training	 on	 current	 topics	 including	
reporting	 standards,	 risk	 management	 and	 sustainability.	
in	 line	 with	 the	 revised	 Governance	 code	 all	directors	 have	 agreed	
to	 seek	 re-election	 at	 the	annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	april.	
summary
the	financial	 turmoil	 of	 the	 past	 two	 years	 has	 been	 testing	 for	
the	 Group,	 but	 the	board	 believes	 that	bodycote	 has	 emerged	
strengthened	 by	 the	 challenges	 which	 it	 has	 faced.	with	 a	 strong	
balance	 sheet	 and	 an	 excellent	 management	 team	 we	 face	 the	
future	 with	 confidence.		
despite	the	 mixed	 business	 climate	 over	 the	 last	 twelve	 months	
the	 Group	 has	 delivered	 a	 significant	 improvement	 in	 performance	
and	 is	 well	 positioned	 for	 the	 future.	this	 is	 largely	 due	 to	 the	 hard	
work	 and	 commitment	 of	stephen	 Harris	 and	 his	 colleagues	 around	
the	 world.	the	board	 congratulates	 them	 on	 their	 achievements	
and	 commitment	 which	 have	 resulted	 in	 increased	 value	 for	
shareholders.	bodycote	 remains	 a	 first	 class	 business	 with	 good	
prospects	 for	 the	 future.
a.	m.	thomson
Chairman	
24	 February	 2011 	 12	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
CHieF	exeCutive’s	 review
traDing	overview
2010	 was	 a	 year	 of	 recovery	 for	bodycote	 after	 the	 difficulties	
of	 the	 downturn	 in	 2009.	sales	 grew	 by	 14.8%	 to	 £499.8m	 with	
like	 for	 like	 sales	 (at	 constant	 currencies	 and	 rebased	 to	 take	 account	
of	 the	 sites	 closed	 in	 2009)	 up	 17.8%.	 Much	 of	 the	 sales	 growth	
was	 driven	 by	 the	 end	 of	oeM	 supply	 chain	 destocking	 and	
increased	 end	 market	 demand	 with	 strong	 growth	 from	 the	 general	
industrial,	 oil	 and	 gas	 and,	 in	 particular,	 the	 automotive	 and	 heavy	
truck	 segments.	these	 developments	 more	 than	 offset	 the	 decline	
in	 demand	 in	 power	 generation.	demand	 improvements	 in	 aerospace	
and	 defence	 also	 contributed	 to	 the	 sales	 growth	 but	 only	 marginally.	
it	 is	 noteworthy,	 however,	 that	 all	 of	 the	 Group’s	 markets	 are	 still	
materially	 below	 2008	 levels.	in	 addition	 to	 increases	 in	 end	 market	
demand,	 sales	 improved	 as	 a	 result	 of	 notable	 gains	 in	 market	
share.	the	 most	 marked	 of	 these	 share	 gains	 was	 in	 the	 automotive	
segment	 where	 the	 latest	 technologies	 offered	 by	bodycote	 are	
supplanting	 more	 traditional	 forms	 of	 heat	 treatment.
the	drive	 for	 efficiency	 in	 the	 Group	 yielded	 excellent	 results.	
total	headcount	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2010	 of	 5,487	 was	 marginally	 below	
that	 of	 a	 year	 earlier	 and	 28%	 below	 the	 peak	 headcount	 of	june	 2008.	
the	year	 end	 headcount	 was	 311	 lower	 than	 the	 number	 at	 half	 year	
as	 the	 tail	 end	 restructuring	 programmes	 in	 France	 and	brazil	 came	
into	 effect.	the	 tight	 discipline	 on	 the	 build	 back	 of	 expenses	 against	
a	 backdrop	 of	 rising	 sales	 drove	 margins	 up	 to	 10.4%	 (1.8%	 in	 2009).	
increased	 selling	 prices	 contributed	 100	 basis	 points	 to	 the	 margins,	
offset	 by	 70	 basis	 points	 of	 increased	 input	 costs.
n et	 capital	 expenditure	 at	 £35.8m	 amounted	 to	 0.8	 times	 depreciation	
(0.6	 in	 2009).	approximately	 half	 of	 the	 expenditure	 in	 2010	 (0.4	 times	
depreciation)	 was	 spent	 on	 developing	 capacity	 in	 emerging	 markets,	
increasing	 capacity	 for	 specific	 high	 added	 value	 processes	 in	north	
a merica	 and	 investing	 in	 the	 Group’s	 chosen	 proprietary	 technologies.	
the	remainder	 of	 the	 capital	 expenditure	 was	 spent	 on	 maintenance.	
the	Group	 is	 relatively	 well	 equipped	 with	 long	 life	 assets	 and	 has	
a	 low	 requirement	 for	 maintenance	 capital	 in	 the	 short	 and	 medium	
term.	the	 level	 of	 capital	 expenditure,	 combined	 with	 strong	 control	
of	 working	 capital,	 led	 to	 headline	 operating	 cash	 flow	 of	 £77.3m,	
representing	 a	 cash	 conversion	 ratio	 of	 148%.	as	 a	 result,	 net	 debt	
at	 the	 year	 end	 was	 reduced	 to	 £51.3m.
strategiC	 Developments
a s	 well	 as	 the	 drive	 for	 increased	 sales	 and	 higher	 levels	 of	 operating	
efficiency,	 2010	 was	 a	 year	 of	 implementation	 of	 the	 strategic	 agenda	
outlined	 in	 February	 of	 that	 year.
at	the	 end	 of	 2009	 the	 Group	 was	 reorganised	 into	 two	 business	
areas.	the	 aerospace,	 defence	 and	 energy	 business	 (ade )	 is	 organised	
on	 a	 global	 basis,	 and	 comprises	 the	 Hot	isostatic	pressing	 (Hip)	and	
heat	 treatment	 divisions.	the	 Group’s	 surface	 technology	 business	 is	
part	 of	 the	ade	 heat	 treatment	 division.	in	 contrast,	 the	 automotive	
and	 general	 industrial	 business	 (aGi)	is	 organised	 geographically,	
covering	western	europe,	north	america	 and	 the	 emerging	 markets.	
Customer	 reaction	 to	 the	 reorganisation	 has	 been	 very	 positive,	 with	
industry	 specialist	 sales	 teams	 able	 to	 engage	 with	 their	 customers	
in	 a	 far	 more	 productive	 way	 than	 was	 possible	 in	 the	 past.	i n	 addition,	
the	 specialisation	 of	 the	 plants	 in	 each	 business	 area	 has	 helped	
simplify	 the	 operations	 and	 improve	 efficiency.
stephen	harris
Chief	executive
the	reorganisation	 of	
the	 Group	 into	 market	
focused	 divisions	 has	
enhanced	 revenue	 growth	
and	 careful	 targeting	 of	
capital	 investment	 has	
improved	 cash	 flow	 and	
return	 on	 capital. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 13
d evelopment	 of	 the	 emerging	 markets	 and	 investment	 in	b odycote’s	
chosen	 proprietary	 technologies	 are	 key	 elements	 of	 the	 strategy.	
the	emerging	 markets	 focus	 for	bodycote	 is	 on	eastern	europe,	
brazil	and	 China.	while	 emerging	 markets	 revenues	 represent	 just	
over	 10%	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 today,	bodycote	 is	 already	 the	
market	 leader	 in	eastern	europe	 and	brazil	 and	 number	 two	 in	 China.	
in	 2010	 new	 greenfield	 sites	 were	 added	 in	poland,	 Czech	republic	
and	brazil,	 while	 additional	 modern	 capacity	 was	 deployed	 in	 existing	
plants	 in	turkey,	brazil	 and	 China.
the	development	 of	 the	 Group’s	 proprietary	 technologies	 continued	
apace	 in	 2010:
	 		 the	speciality	stainless	steel	 business	 unit	 (s3p)	capacity	 was	
expanded	 by	 20%,	 with	 a	 further	 25%	 put	 on	 order	 in	 readiness	
for	 the	 increased	 demand	 now	 expected	 for	 this	 business.
	 		 the	 Hot	isostatic	pressing	product	 Fabrication	 business	 unit
(Hip	pF)	 grew	 at	 70%,	 albeit	 from	 a	 relatively	 modest	 base.	
the	business	 operates	 from	 centres	 of	 excellence	 in	 Germany,	
sweden	and	 the	usa	with	 much	 of	 the	 process	 development	
and	 computer	 modelling	 carried	 out	 in	 the	uK	 and	 the	usa.
	 		 the	 Corrosion	prevention	processes	 business	 unit	 (Cpp)	
commissioned	 its	 first	 commercial	 production	 unit	 for	 the	
sheraCote
®
	 family	 of	 processes.
progress	 was	 also	 made	 on	 developing	 the	 Group’s	 personnel	 both	
internally	 and	 through	 the	 appointment	 of	 new	 talent	 in	 many	 areas.	
in	 addition,	 the	 Group’s	 executive	 committee	 was	 also	 strengthened	
with	 new	 talent	 recruited	 during	 the	 year.	the	 committee	 comprises	
five	 divisional	presidents,	 the	 Human	resources	director	 and	 the	
Group	 Finance	director,	 together	 with	 the	 Chief	executive	officer,	
who	 chairs	 the	 committee.
future	trenDs	
the	future	 trends	 for	bodycote’s	 markets	 are	 very	 favourable.	
the	more	 notable	 trends	 include:
	 		 in	 the	 aerospace	 segment	 most	 industry	 analysts	 foresee	 a	
significant	 growth	 in	 flying	 hours	 and	 new	 build	 of	 aeroplanes	
associated	 with	 traffic	 for	 the	 emerging	 markets.	the	 move	 to	
higher	 engine	 operating	 temperature	 requirements	 increases	
thermal	 processing	 needs.	these	 are	 all	 positive	 factors	 for	
the	 demand	 for	 thermal	 processing.
	 		 r ising	 oil	 and	 gas	 prices,	 together	 with	 the	 increasing	
sophistication	 associated	 with	 extracting	 difficult	 to	 reach	
reserves,	 are	 increasing	 the	 material	 requirements	 of	 exploration	
and	 production	 equipment,	 which	 in	 turn	 is	 driving	 greater	
demand	 for	 thermal	 processing	 services.
	 		 power	 generation,	 where	bodycote	 enjoys	 a	 strong	 presence
in	 both	 heat	 treatment	 and	 Hip	services,	 will	 resume	 its	 long	
term	 growth	 path	 in	 due	 course,	 as	 the	 expansion	 in	 the	
emerging	 markets	 continues.
	 		 t he	 automotive	 segment	 is	 moving	 to	 more	 sophisticated	 materials	
engineering	 as	 manufacturers	 try	 to	 reduce	 weight	 and	 increase	
strength.	this	 in	 turn	 directly	 increases	 the	 amount	 of	 thermal	
processing	 required.	i n	 addition,	 the	 introduction	 of	 hybrid	 vehicles	
is	 leading	 to	 a	 larger	 number	 of	 components	 in	 vehicles,	 which	
in	 turn	 require	 more	 services	 offered	 by	bodycote.
outsourcing	remains	 a	 major	 opportunity	 for	 the	 Group.	agreements	
are	 typically	 framework	 in	 nature,	 with	 standard	 terms	 and	 conditions	
and	 a	 commitment	 to	 sole	 source	 the	 work	 from	bodycote.	pricing	 is	
normally	 defined	 as	 a	 base	 level	 with	 prices	 linked	 to	 various	 indices	
such	 as	 the	 cost	 of	 energy.
Going	 forward	 it	 is	 expected	 that	 the	 pace	 of	 outsourcing	 and	 size	 of	
outsource	 contracts	 will	 increase.	this	 is	 due	 not	 only	 to	 the	 general	
tendency	 of	 companies	 to	 eliminate	 non	 core	 activities	 over	 time,	 but	
also	 to	 two	 other	 significant	 factors.
	 		 the	 rising	 cost	 of	 energy.	bodycote	 is	 typically	 more	 energy	
efficient	 than	 manufacturers	 that	 process	 the	 work	 in-house	
and	 can	 balance	 the	 load	 in	 its	 process	 lines	 by	 aggregating	
work	 from	 several	 customers.	level	 loading,	 in	 itself,	 is	 a	 much	
more	 efficient	 way	 of	 operating	 thermal	 processing	 plants	 than	
the	 fluctuating	 load	 conditions	 faced	 by	 most	 manufacturers’	
in-house	 facilities.	as	 a	 result,	 rising	 energy	 prices	 tend	 to	 drive	
increased	 levels	 of	 outsourcing.
	 		 the	 general	 move	 of	 manufacturing	 industries	 to	 emerging	
markets.	this	 not	 only	 creates	 opportunities	 in	 emerging	
markets	 for	bodycote	 to	 serve	 these	 customers,	 but	 also	
provides	 a	 source	 of	 opportunity	 in	 developed	 economies.	
this	is	 because	 most	 customers	 that	 move	 their	 manufacturing	
to	 emerging	 markets	 tend	 not	 to	 close	 their	 facilities	 completely	
in	 the	 developed	 economies.	instead,	 these	 facilities	 stop	 being	
expanded	 and	 have	 investment	 constrained.	the	 capital	 intensive	
nature	 of	 thermal	 processing	 means	 that	 such	 facilities	 often	
become	 undercapitalised	 or	 outmoded	 and	 outsourcing	 becomes	
an	 attractive	 option.	the	 choice	 of	 companies	 capable	 of	 taking	
on	 such	 outsourced	 work	 in	 a	 reliable	 way	 is	 small,	 and	bodycote	
becomes	 the	 preferred	 partner	 for	 most	 of	 the	 customer	 base.
summary	 &	outlook
2010	 saw	 a	 notable	 and	 pleasing	 improvement	 in	 the	 performance	
of	 the	 Group.	better	 macro	 economic	 conditions	 were	 an	 important	
contributor	 to	 this	 and	 the	 underlying	 ability	 of	 the	 business	 to	 deliver	
consistently	 superior	 value	 has	 been	 strengthened	 considerably.	
total	revenue	 growth	 was	 well	 ahead	 of	 market	 improvement.	
the	reorganisation	 of	 the	 Group	 into	 market	 focused	 divisions	 has	
enhanced	 revenue	 growth	 and	 careful	 targeting	 of	 capital	 investment	
has	 improved	 cash	 flow	 and	 return	 on	 capital.
looking	at	 2011,	 it	 is	 anticipated	 that	 automotive	 and	 general	
industrial	 business	 will	 continue	 to	 grow	 at	 a	 reasonable	 pace.	
aerospace,	defence	 and	 energy	 demand	 has	 begun	 to	 recover,	
although	 within	 this	 the	 power	 generation	 segment	 remains	 soft,	
with	 the	 timing	 of	 improvement	 still	 unclear.	in	 summary,	 the	board	
is	 confident	 that	 2011	 will	 be	 another	 year	 of	 growth	 for	bodycote,	
albeit	 at	 a	 less	 rapid	 rate	 than	 experienced	 in	 2010.	the	 year	 has	
started	 in	 line	 with	 these	 expectations.	looking	 further	 out,	 the	b oard	
sees	 encouraging	 opportunities	 for	 improved	 through-cycle	 returns.
s.	 C.	harris
Chief	executive	
24	 February	 2011 	 14	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
	 a	 thermochemically	 formed	
ceramic	 surface	 treatment	 is	
applied	 resulting	 in	 a	 super-hard,	
corrosion	 resistant	 layer	 which	
protects	 the	 steel	 and	 gives	
superior	 wear	 resistance
	 	 the	 rotor	 must	 be	 finish	
polished	 using	 diamond	 tools	
due	 to	 the	 extreme	 hardness	
of	 the	 ceramic	 treatment
end	 application	 –	 oil	 drilling	 service
	 denotes	 the	 parts	 of	 the	 component	 journey	 undertaken	 by	bodycote
BoDyCote	Component	Journeys
this	is	 just	 one	 example	 of	 how	bodycote	 brings	 together	 the	
huge	 wealth	 of	 knowledge	 and	 expertise	 from	 across	 the	 Group	
to	 provide	 the	 vital	 engineering	 services	 our	 customers	 need...
For	 more	 component	 journeys	 visit	 www.bodycote.com
the	steel	 is	 then	 machined	
into	 the	 rotor	 shape	 required	
for	 down-hole	 drilling
photo	 courtesy	 of	weingartner	 www.weingartner.com
the	rotors	 begin	 life	
as	 pieces	 of	 steel	 bar
down	 to	 eartH	 -	 a	CoMponent	 journey
muD	 rotors
Corrosion	 and	 wear	 can	 lead	 to	 expensive	 downtime	 in	
oil	 &	 gas	 exploration,	 where	 equipment	 is	 in	 continual	 use.	
Mud	 rotors	 operate	 at	 the	 bottom	 of	 drilling	 wells,	 and	 as	 a	 result,	
the	 removal	 and	 replacement	 of	 worn	 rotors	 is	 particularly	
time	 consuming	 and	 costly.	 Following	 processing	 by	b odycote,	
the	 life	 of	 mud	 rotors	 is	 improved	 significantly. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 15
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
revenue	–	 continuing	 operations 499.8	 435.4
operating	 profit/(loss) 51.2	 (50.2)
add	back:
		 Major	 facility	 closure	 costs 	 .– 25.4
		impairment	 charge 	 .– 31.5
			 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangible	
fixed	 assets 0.9	 1.3
headline	 operating	 profit	 –	
continuing	 operations 52.1 8.0
Group	 revenue	 from	 continuing	 operations	 was	 £499.8m,	 an	 increase	
of	 £64.4m	 (14.8%)	 on	 2009	 (£435.4m).	the	 increase	 in	 revenues	 at	
constant	 exchange	 rates	 amounted	 to	 £64.7m	 (14.9%).	the	 year	 on	
year	 reduction	 in	 revenues	 as	 a	 result	 of	 site	 closures	 was	 £10.3m	 at	
constant	 exchange	 rates.
the	Group	 made	 an	 operating	 profit	 of	 £51.2m	 (2009:	 loss	 £50.2m).	
Headline	 operating	 profit	 for	 the	 Group’s	 continuing	 operations	 was	
£52.1m,	 an	 increase	 of	 £44.1m	 compared	 to	 2009.	 Foreign	 exchange	
rate	 movements	 decreased	 profits	 by	 £0.5m.	 Headline	 operating	
margins	 from	 continuing	 operations	 increased	 from	 1.8%	 to	 10.4%.
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
headline	 operating	 profit 52.1 8.0
add	back	 non-cash	 items:
		depreciation	 and	 amortisation 47.4 49.6	
		share-based	 payments 4.2 (0.1)	
			 loss/(profit)	 on	 disposal	 of	 property,	
plant	 and	 equipment 0.7 (0.1)
headline	eBitDa
1
104.4 57.4
net	capital	 expenditure (35.8) (32.2)
net	working	 capital	 movement 8.7 9.5
headline	 operating	 cash	 flow 77.3 34.7
Cash	 cost	 of	 restructuring (9.2) (19.2)
operating	 cash	 flow 68.1 15.5
interest (5.5) (4.4)
taxation (5.4) (24.4)
lump	sum	 contribution	 to	 pension	 scheme .– (1.5)
free	cash	 flow 57.2 (14.8)
Headline	 operating	 cash	 flow	 of	 £77.3m	 is	 made	 up	 of	 £104.4m	
headline	ebitda,	 a	 positive	 contribution	 from	 reduced	 working	
capital	 of	 £8.7m,	 and	 net	 capital	 expenditure	 of	 £35.8m.	after	
interest	 and	 tax	 payments,	 the	 headline	 free	 cash	 flow	 was	 £66.4m.	
the	outflow	 on	 exceptional	 items	 totalled	 £9.2m,	 and	 all	 of	 this	 was	
cash	 spend	 on	 the	 restructuring	 programme.	
Capital	 expenditure	 has	 continued	 to	 be	 managed	 carefully.	 Capital	
spend	 (net	 of	 asset	 sales)	 in	 2010	 was	 £35.8m,	 being	 0.8	 times	
depreciation	 compared	 to	 0.6	 times	 in	 2009.	there	 has	 been	 a	
continued	 focus	 on	 cash	 collection	 and	 debtor	 days	 have	 been	
reduced	 to	 59	 days	 at	 31	december	 2010,	 compared	 to	 63	 days	 at	
31	december	 2009.	the	 increase	 in	 sales	 of	 £64.4m	 compared	 to	
2009	 has	 resulted	 in	 an	 increase	 in	 debtors	 of	 £7.7m,	 although	 this	
has	 been	 more	 than	 offset	 by	 higher	 creditor	 balances.
business	 perForManCe
definitions:
1
	earnings	 before	 interest,	 tax,	 depreciation,	 amortisation,	 share-based	 payments	 and	 exceptional	 items. 	 16	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
	 	 Following	 material	 selection,	bodycote’s	
design	 engineers	 will	 work	 closely	 with	
customers	 to	 explore	 the	 unique	 and	 flexible	
component	 design	 opportunities	 afforded	 by	
pM	 Hip	nns.	when	the	 final	nns	component	
design	 is	 received	 from	 the	 customer,	
bodycote	will	 create	 an	 engineering	 drawing		
	 Component	 design	 is	 then	
translated	 into	 a	 capsule	
design	 where	 skilled	 engineers	
manufacture	 the	 canister	 and	 use	
welding	 techniques	 to	 produce	
the	 complex	 capsule	 assembly	
	 	 the	 fabricated	 capsule,	 almost	
identical	 in	 shape	 to	 the	
finished	 component	 but	 larger	
in	 size,	 is	 filled	 with	 powder
	 	 the	 encapsulated	p M	
valve	 is	 then	 Hiped	 using	
high	 temperatures	 and	
pressures	 which	 allows	
the	 powder	 to	 become	
100%	 dense	 and	 form	
an	nns	component
	 	 the	 Hiped	 and	 heat	 treated	
nns	 shape	 valve	 body	 is	
laser	 scanned	 to	 compare	
the	 dimensions	 of	 the	 actual	
component	 with	 the	nns	
product	 drawing
	 	 after	 Hip	 the	nns	component	
is	 solution	 heat	 treated	 and	
water	 quenched	 to	 achieve	
optimum	 material	 properties	
which	 are	 isotropic	 in	 nature
end	 application	 –	offshore	 oil,	
chemical	 or	 energy	 industries
valve	 BoDy
valve	components	 operating	 in	 the	 harsh	
environments	 of	 the	 oil	 &	 gas	 and	 chemical	
industries	 must	 withstand	 extreme	 material	
demands	 and	 resist	 attack	 from	 a	 variety	 of	
aggressive	 environments.	the	 use	 of	 powder	
metal	 Hiped	near	net	s hape	 (pM	 Hip	nns )	
components	 offers	 optimised	 material	 solutions	
for	 enhanced	 product	 strength	 and	 durability.
	 denotes	 the	 parts	 of	 the	 component	 journey	 undertaken	 by	bodycote
BoDyCote	Component	Journeys
this	is	 just	 one	 example	 of	 how	bodycote	 brings	 together	 the	
huge	 wealth	 of	 knowledge	 and	 expertise	 from	 across	 the	 Group	
to	 provide	 the	 vital	 engineering	 services	 our	 customers	 need...
For	 more	 component	 journeys	 visit	 www.bodycote.com
the	valve	 body	 begins	
life	 as	 high	 quality	 gas	
atomised	 stainless	 steel	
and	 nickel-based	 powders		
powder	 power	 -	 a	CoMponent	 journey
Finally	 the	 component	 can	 be	 pickled	
or	 machined	 to	 remove	 the	 capsule	
material	 resulting	 in	 a	pM	 Hip	nns	
valve	 body	 which	 is	 inspected	 using	
ultrasonic	 testing	 techniques 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 17
business	 overview
aerospaCe,	
DefenCe	 &	energy
see	page	 18	 for	 an	 in-depth	 review
automotive	 &	
general	inDustrial
see	page	 20	 for	 an	 in-depth	 review
%	 of	group	
revenue
Divisional	
revenue
Divisional	
heaDline	
operating	 profit
1,926	
2009	 :	 1,934
£202.1m	
2009	 :	 £189.5m
£33.9m	
2009	 :	 £24.7m
2009	 :	 43%
40
3,456	
2009	 :	 3,505
£297.7m	
2009	 :	 £245.9m
£25.6m	
2009	 :	loss	 £(12.3)m
2009	 :	 57%
60
no. 	 of	
employees
aerospaCe,	 DefenCe	 &	energy	(aDe)	
incorporating	hip	 and	surface	technology
within	the	ade	 sectors,	 our	 customers	 think	 and	
operate	 globally	 and	 increasingly	 expect	bodycote	
to	 service	 them	 in	 the	 same	 way.	 Consequently,	
the	ade	 business	 is	 organised	 globally.	this	 gives	
bodycote	a	 notable	 advantage	 as	 the	 only	 thermal	
processing	 company	 with	 a	 global	 footprint	 and	
knowledge	 of	 operating	 in	 all	 of	 the	 world’s	 key	
manufacturing	 areas.	a	 number	 of	bodycote’s	
most	 important	 customers	 fall	 within	 the	 compass	
of	ade	 and	b odycote	 intends	 to	 continue	 to	 leverage	
its	 unique	 market	 position	 to	 increase	 revenues	 in	
these	 market	 sectors.	the	 business	 incorporates	
the	 Group’s	 activities	 in	 hot	 isostatic	 pressing	 and	
surface	 technology	 as	 well	 as	 the	 relevant	 heat	
treatment	 services.
automotive	 &	general	inDustrial	 (agi)	
incorporating	speciality	stainless	steel	
processes	 –	s3p
whilst	the	aGi	 marketplace	 has	 many	 multinational	
customers,	 it	 also	 has	 very	 many	 medium-sized	 and	
smaller	 businesses,	 with	 the	 large	 multinationals	
tending	 to	 operate	 on	 a	 more	 regionally-focused	
basis,	 as	 opposed	 to	 globally.	 Generally,	 there	 are	
more	 competitors	 to	bodycote	 in	aGi	 and	 much	
of	 the	 business	 is	 locally-oriented,	 meaning	 that	
proximity	 to	 the	 customer	 is	 very	 important	 and	
excellent	 service	 is	 vital.	
bodycote’s	uniquely	 large	 network	 of	 110	aGi	
facilities	 enables	 the	 business	 to	 offer	 the	 widest	
range	 of	 technical	 capability	 and	 security	 of	 supply,	
continuing	 to	 increase	 the	 proportion	 of	 technically	
differentiated	 services	 that	 it	 offers.	bodycote	 has	
a	 long	 and	 successful	 history	 of	 serving	 this	 wide-
ranging	 customer	 base	 and	 the	aGi	 business	 serves	
the	 following	 geographies:		
	 		 north	america
	 		 western	europe
	 		 emerging	 Markets 	 18	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
results
revenues	for	aerospace,	defence	 &	energy	 (ade)	were	 £202.1m	
in	 2010	 compared	 to	 £189.5m	 in	 2009,	 an	 increase	 of	 6.6%,	
reflecting	 improved	 aerospace	oeM	 and	 oil	 &	 gas	 demand,	 partly	
offset	 by	 soft	 aerospace	 maintenance	 and	 repair	 requirements	 and	
weak	industrial	 Gas	turbine	 (iGt)	markets.	revenues	 in	 constant	
currencies	 were	 also	 higher	 by	 6.6%.	like-for-like	 revenue	 growth,	
excluding	 revenues	 from	 closed	 sites,	 was	 8.5%.
Headline	 operating	 profit	 for	ade	 was	 £33.9m	 (2009:	 £24.7m),	
with	 margins	 improving	 from	 13.0%	 to	 16.8%.
2010	 saw	 a	 lower	 level	 of	 capital	 expenditure	 in	ade,	 as	 we	 focus	
on	 filling	 available	 capacity.	we	 expect	 that	 capital	 expenditure	
will	 continue	 to	 be	 lower	 than	 depreciation	 in	 2011.	net	 capital	
expenditure	 in	 2010	 was	 £9.9m	 (2009:	 £19.1m)	 which	 represents	
0.6	 times	 depreciation	 (2009:	 1.1	 times	 depreciation).
Capital	 employed	 in	ade	 in	 2010	 was	 £240.0m	 (2009:	 £244.2m).		
the	reduction	 reflects	 continuing	 management	 focus	 on	 improving	
return	 on	 capital.	return	 on	 capital	 employed	 in	 2010	 was	 14.6%	
(2009:	 10.1%).
gloBal	markets	
a erospace	 demand	 in	 2010	 differed	 markedly	 between	 requirements	
for	 new	 build	 programmes	 and	 for	 the	 maintenance	 and	 repair	
market.	new	 build	 revenues	 were	 robust,	 being	 driven	 by	 raw	
material	 requirements	 (for	 example	 major	 forgings),	 which	 tend	
to	 increase	 more	 than	 a	 year	 ahead	 of	 corresponding	 finished	
components.	this	 is,	 therefore,	 an	 encouraging	 leading	 indicator	
for	 future	 demands	 for	 our	ade	 business.	on	 the	 other	 hand,	
demand	 for	 maintenance	 and	 repair	 was	 soft,	 although	 it	 showed	
signs	 of	 increasing	 in	 quarter	 four,	 as	 passenger	 miles	 continued	
to	 rise	 from	 the	 depressed	 levels	 of	 2009.
power	 generation	 demand	 fell	 by	 28%	 in	 2010	 compared	 to	 2009,	
largely	 as	 a	 result	 of	 a	 severe	 reduction	 in	 industrial	 gas	 turbine	 build.	
this	sector	 began	 to	 fall	 in	 quarter	 four	 of	 2009,	 a	 year	 later	 than	
early	 cycle	 businesses	 felt	 the	 impact	 of	 the	 recession,	 and	 reflects	
continuing	 difficulty	 in	 obtaining	 financing	 for	 major	 capital	 projects.	
the	new	 build	 weakness	 has	 been	 exacerbated	 by	 generally	 lower	
electricity	 demand	 in	 the	 western	 economies,	 which	 has	 reduced	
maintenance	 requirements.
r evenues	 from	 oil	 &	 gas	 customers	 increased	 by	 37%.	north	american	
gas	 production	 has	 been	 good	 and	 exploration,	 particularly	 for	 shale	 gas,	
has	 been	 strong.	oil	 markets	 have	 been	 robust	 and	 increased	 in	 quarter	
four	 of	 2010	 as	 oil	 prices	 moved	 towards	 the	 $100	 per	 barrel	 level.
business	 review	 -	aerospaCe,	 deFenCe	 &	enerGy
£202.1m
2009	 :	 £189.5m	
revenue £33.9m
2009	 :	 £24.7m
headline 
operating profit 	aerospace	 &	defence
	energy
	 General	industrial
revenue	 By	market	 seCtor
	western	europe
	north	america
	emerging	 Markets
revenue	By	 geography 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 19
aChievements	in	 2010
w ith	 its	 modest	 restructuring	 programme	 completed	 early,	 the	ade	
business	 has	 been	 able	 to	 focus	 on	 strengthening	 its	 management	
teams	 and	 developing	 its	 customer	 offerings.	in	 heat	 treatment	 we	
have	 gained	 additional	oeM	 approvals	 for	 airframe	 components,	
opening	 additional	 opportunities	 for	 new	 build	 aircraft	 heat	 treatment.	
in	 Hip,	revenues	 for	 product	 fabrication	 (Hip	pF)	 increased	 by	 70%	
and	 work	 included	 the	 largest	 yet	 single	 piece	 manifold	 for	 a	 sub-sea	
oil	 &	 gas	 application.
organisation	anD	people
as	part	 of	 developing	 our	 customer-facing	 divisions,	 a	 number	
of	 key	 management	 appointments	 have	 been	 made.	in	ade,	
this	 has	 included	 recruitment	 of	 managers	 with	 global	 remits	 for	
sales,	 marketing	 and	 operations	 for	 both	 heat	 treatment	 and	 Hip.	
Measures	 to	 improve	 productivity,	 including	 the	 use	 of	 ‘lean’	
techniques,	 have	 taken	 over	 from	 the	 2009	 focus	 on	 restructuring.	
overall	headcount	 remained	 constant,	 at	 1,926,	 and	 despite	 modest	
overall	 revenue	 growth	 in	ade,	 headline	 operating	 profit	 improved	
from	 £24.7m	 to	 £33.9m.
looking	aheaD
the	key	 objective	 for	ade	 in	 2011	 is	 to	 build	 on	 the	 foundation	
laid	 in	 2010	 to	 realise	 growth	 from	 new	 customers	 and	 processes,	
while	 driving	 further	 productivity	 and	 operating	 efficiency	 improvements.	
the	clear	 focus	 on	 customer	 requirements	 and	 satisfaction	 and	
proprietary	 technology	 has	 produced	 revenue	 gains	 in	 2010	 and	
we	 expect	 further	 progress	 in	 2011. 	 20	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
results
automotive	&	 General	industrial	 (aGi)	revenues	 were	 £297.7m	
in	 2010,	 compared	 to	 £245.9m	 in	 2009,	 an	 increase	 of	 21.1%,	
reflecting	 a	 general	 improvement	 in	 demand,	 particularly	 from	
automotive	 and	 heavy	 truck	 customers,	 in	 all	 geographies.	
sales	began	 to	 improve	 in	 quarter	 four	 of	 2009	 and	 accelerated	
in	 the	 first	 half	 of	 2010	 with	 further	 incremental	 improvement	
in	 the	 second	 half.	like-for-like	 revenue	 growth,	 excluding	 revenues	
from	 closed	 sites,	 was	 25.1%.
Headline	 operating	 profit	 in	aGi	 was	 £25.6m	 compared	 to	 a	 headline	
operating	 loss	 of	 £12.3m	 in	 2009.	 Margins	 improved	 markedly	 from	
minus	 5.0%	 to	 8.6%.
net	capital	 expenditure	 in	 2010	 was	 £24.3m	 (2009:	 £12.5m),	
which	 represents	 0.8	 times	 depreciation	 (2009:	 0.4	 times	
depreciation).	we	 expect	 that	 capital	 expenditure	 will	 continue	
to	 be	 lower	 than	 depreciation	 in	 2011.	return	 on	 capital	 employed	
in	 2010	 was	 9.3%	 (2009:	 minus	 4.2%).	on	 average,	 capital	
employed	 in	 2010	 was	 £302.0m	 (2009:	 £315.1m).	the	 reduction	
reflects	 continuing	 restraint	 in	 capital	 expenditure	 as	 the	 Group	
maintains	 focus	 on	 improving	 capital	 returns	 by	 increasingly	
focusing	 on	 higher	 added-value	 activities.
markets	anD	geographies
the	aGi	business	 serves	 an	 extensive	 customer	 base	 across	
a	 wide	 range	 of	 market	 sectors.	the	 impact	 of	 the	 downturn	 was	
severe	 in	 most	 of	 our	 markets	 and	 recovery	 rates	 in	 2010	 have	
varied	 significantly.	 First	 to	 show	 improvement	 was	 automotive,	
which	 along	 with	 aerospace	 and	 defence,	 is	 one	 of	 the	 two	 largest	
sectors	 for	bodycote.	automotive	 revenues	 grew	 by	 40%	 in	 2010.	
while	demand	 increased	 strongly	 in	 all	 territories,	 market	 share	
gains	 accounted	 for	 25%	 of	 the	 improvement	 as	bodycote’s	
strength	 in	 depth	 proved	 attractive	 to	 customers	 worried	 about	
supply	 chain	 failure	 in	 the	 recession	 and	 afterwards	 and	 due	 to	
contract	 wins	 for	 specialist	 processes.	 General	 industrial	 markets	
have	 recovered	 at	 a	 gradual	 and	 more	 measured	 pace,	 with	
revenues	 ahead	 by	 13%.
in	north	america,	 automotive	 revenues	 grew	 very	 strongly	
in	 the	 first	 half	 and	 with	 market	 share	 gains	 growth	 was	 over	
100%	 compared	 to	 the	 first	 half	 of	 2009.	the	 second	 half	 saw	
more	 modest	 growth	 and	 for	 the	 year	 as	 a	 whole,	 sales	 were	
ahead	 by	 69%.	 General	 industrial	 has	 witnessed	 steady	 growth	
throughout	 the	 year	 and	 was	 higher	 than	 2009	 by	 20%.
as	with	north	america,	 automotive	 led	 the	 recovery	 in	western	
europe	 and	 particularly	 benefited	 France,	italy	 and	 Germany	 for	
which	 this	 is	 the	 most	 important	 sector.	automotive	 demand	 and	
market	 share	 gains	 together	 resulted	 in	 year	 on	 year	 revenue	
growth	 of	 28%.	 General	i ndustrial	 demand	 has	 improved	 gradually	
over	 the	 whole	 year	 with	 sales	 ahead	 of	 2009	 by	 7%.
business	 review	 -	 autoMotive	 &	General	 industrial
£297.7m
2009	 :	 £245.9m	
revenue £25.6m
2009	loss	 :	 £(12.3)m
headline 
operating profit 	automotive
	truck
	other	 General	industrial
	energy
revenue	 By	market	 seCtor
	western	europe
	north	america
	emerging	 Markets
revenue	By	 geography 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 21
the	improvement	 in	 the	nordic	 countries	 came	 later	 in	 the	 year,	
being	 driven	 particularly	 by	 the	 return	 of	 heavy	 truck	 work,	 notably	 in	
sweden.	overall	 sales	 in	 the	nordic	 region	 were	 up	 29%	 compared	
to	 2009,	 with	 revenues	 in	western	europe	 overall	 being	 up	 13%.
the	Group’s	 business	 in	 emerging	 markets	 generally	 fared	 very	
well	 in	 2010.	revenues	 grew	 25%	 in	eastern	europe,	 with	poland	
in	 the	 lead,	 and	 by	 58%	 in	 China.	the	brazilian	 business	 has	 been	
the	 subject	 of	 major	 restructuring	 which	 has	 included	 reducing	 the	
workforce	 by	 32%.	the	 largest	 facility	 was	 closed,	 a	 new	 greenfield	
location	 was	 established,	 benefiting	 from	 the	 Group’s	european	
know-how,	 and	 capacity	 was	 expanded.	even	 during	 the	 disruption,	
sales	 in	brazil	 increased	 by	 7%	 year	 on	 year.	the	 business	 has	 a	
much	 reduced	 cost	 base	 and	 improved	 capability	 and	 has	 the	 right	
platform	 to	 benefit	 from	 short	 and	 medium	 term	 growth	 that	 we	
expect	 in	latin	america.
aChievements	in	 2010
t he	 major	 restructuring	 effort	 in	 the	aGi	 business	 is	 all	 but	 complete,	
and	 was	 aimed	 at	 reducing	 the	 cost	 base	 and	 exiting	 low	 value	
added	 activities.	this	 significant	 management	 challenge	 has	 been	
met	 in	 all	 parts	 of	 the	 business	 and	 the	 benefits	 are	 clearly	 evident	
in	 the	 2010	 financial	 performance.	there	 has	 also	 been	 a	 high	
level	 of	 attention	 to	 maintaining	 the	 benefits	 of	 the	 restructuring.	
during	2010	 we	 have	 increased	 capacity	 in	 several	 differentiated	
technologies	 in	 both	 the	united	states	 and	europe.	 Greenfield	
sites	 have	 been	 opened	 in	 the	 Czech	republic,	poland	 and	brazil.	
speciality	stainless	steel	processing	 capacity	 has	 been	 added	 in	
europe	 and	 the	 first	 production	 facility	 for	sheraCote®	 has	 been	
commissioned	 in	 the	uK.	new	 outsourcing	 contracts	 have	 been	
won	 in	 all	 geographies.
organisation	anD	people
in	july	 2008,	 the	aGi	 business	 employed	 5,201	 people.	b y	 the	 end	
of	 2009	 this	 had	 been	 reduced	 to	 3,505.	notwithstanding	 revenues	
in	aGi	 increasing	 by	 21%,	 headcount	 has	 declined	 from	 3,505	 to	
3,456	 in	 2010,	 clearly	 demonstrating	 success	 in	 keeping	 costs	
under	 control	 and	 driving	 productivity	 improvements.		
looking	aheaD
the	business	 is	 set	 to	 build	 on	 the	 notable	 improvements	 in	
performance	 delivered	 in	 2010.	this	 will	 be	 founded	 on	 continued	
cost	 control,	 capital	 expenditure	 targeted	 at	 the	 Group’s	 various	
proprietary	 technologies	 and	 the	 development	 of	 emerging	
markets,	 along	 with	 close	 attention	 to	 meeting	 and	 exceeding	
all	 customers’	 expectations.	 	 22	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
finanCial	overview
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
revenue 499.8	 435.4
Headline	 operating	 profit 52.1	 8.0
amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.9) (1.3)
impairment	 charge .– (31.5)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs .– (25.4)
operating	profit/(loss) 51.2	 (50.2)
net	finance	 charge (6.0) (4.3)
profit/(loss)	 before	 taxation 45.2	 (54.5)
taxation (11.7) 3.4
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 –	 continuing	 operations 33.5 (51.1)
loss	for	 the	 year	 –	 discontinued	 operations (5.8) .–
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year 27.7 (51.1)
Group	 revenues	 for	 2010	 increased	 by	 14.8%	 from	 £435.4m	 to	
£499.8m.	in	 constant	 currencies	 the	 annual	 increase	 was	 14.9%	
(£64.7m).	the	 improvement	 in	 the	 second	 half	 was	 somewhat	
better	 than	 in	 the	 first,	 with	 revenues,	 all	 of	 which	 were	 generated	
organically,	 increasing	 by	 22.2%	 from	 £207.5m	 in	 2009	 to	 £253.5m.	
Headline	 operating	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 increased	 from	 £8.0m	 to	
£52.1m,	 and	 headline	 operating	 margin	 was	 10.4%	 (2009:	 1.8%).	
operating	profit	 was	 £51.2m	 (2009:	 loss	 £50.2m)	 after	 charging	
£0.9m	 (2009:	 £1.3m)	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	
intangibles,	 £nil	 (2009:	 £31.5m)	 for	 impairment,	 and	 £nil	 (2009:	 £25.4m)	
for	 major	 facility	 closure	 costs.
Headline	 operating	 cash	 flow	 for	 the	 Group	 was	 £77.3m	 (2009:	
£34.7m).	this	 was	 148.4%	 (2009:	 433.8%)	 of	 headline	 operating	
profit,	 reflecting	 tight	 control	 of	 working	 capital,	 especially	 payables,	
which	 more	 than	 offset	 higher	 inventory	 and	 receivables,	 which	
increased	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 recovery	 in	 activity	 levels.	net	 capital	
expenditure	 in	 2010	 at	 £35.8m	 (2009:	 £32.2m)	 continued	 below	
the	 level	 of	 depreciation,	 reflecting	 continued	 careful	 management	
and	 a	 focus	 on	 utilising	 existing	 equipment.
after	deducting	 interest	 and	 tax,	 the	 Group	 reported	 a	 positive	
free	 cash	 flow	 of	 £57.2m	 (2009:	 negative	 £14.8m).
during	2010,	bodycote	 secured	 its	 funding	 position	 with	 two	
of	 the	 Group’s	 three	 bank	 facilities,	 both	 of	 which	 were	 due	 to	
mature	 during	 2010,	 being	 refinanced.	total	 funding	 now	 available	
to	b odycote	 under	 its	 committed	 facilities	 is	 £230.9m	 (2009:	 £348.4m),	
expiring	 between	 March	 and	july	 2013.
eXCeptional	 Costs
the	total	 exceptional	 costs	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	
amounted	 to	 £0.9m	 (2009:	 £58.2m).
t he	 current	 year	 charge	 relates	 wholly	 to	 the	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	
assets	 arising	 from	 prior	 years’	 acquisitions.	there	 were	 no	 acquisitions	
during	 the	 year.	the	 level	 of	 the	 charge	 reduced	 compared	 to	 the	 prior	
year	 (2009:	 £1.3m)	 as	 certain	 assets	 were	 fully	 amortised	 in	 2009.
with	 improved	 market	 conditions	 and	 the	 benefit	 of	 the	 wide	 ranging	
restructuring	 programme	 charged	 in	 2008	 and	 2009,	 the	board	 has	
concluded	 that	 no	 impairment	 charge	 is	 required	 in	 2010	 (2009:	
goodwill	 impairment	 of	 £29.0m	 and	 investment	 impairment	 of	 £2.5m).
FinanCe	 direCtor’s	 report
DaviD	lanDless
Finance	director 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 23
t here	 were	 no	 major	 facility	 closure	 costs	 during	 2010	 (2009:	 £25.4m).	
restructuring	actions	 are	 now	 complete	 in	 most	 parts	 of	 the	 Group;	
the	 only	 exceptions	 being	 the	 finalisation	 of	 work	 in	 France,	b razil	 and	
italy,	 which	 will	 continue	 into	 early	 2011.	net	 cash	 expenditure	 as	 a	
result	 of	 the	 programme	 was	 £9.2m	 (2009:	 £19.2m),	 including	 £3.2m	
proceeds	 from	 the	 disposal	 of	 redundant	 assets.	the	 restructuring	
initiatives	 delivered	 annualised	 cumulative	 savings	 of	 £45.0m	 in	 2010.	
as	the	 restructuring	 programme	 is	 now	 essentially	 complete	 further	
savings	 will	 be	 modest.	
restructuring	provisions	 outstanding	 at	 31	december	 2010	 total	
£20.2m,	 being	 £19.9m	 related	 to	 the	 2008/2009	 programme	 and	
£0.3m	 related	 to	 environmental	 remediation	 from	 earlier	 initiatives.	
of	the	 remaining	 £20.2m	 cash	 costs,	 £12.5m	 is	 expected	 to	 be	
spent	 in	 2011	 and	 £7.7m	 in	 2012	 and	 later.	all	 expenditure	 after	
the	 end	 of	 2011	 will	 relate	 to	 environmental	 remediation.
operating	profit	from	 Continuing	operations
after	charging	 exceptional	 items	 of	 £0.9m	 (2009:	 £58.2m),	
the	 operating	 profit	 from	 continuing	 operations	 was	 £51.2m	
(2009:	 loss	 of	 £50.2m).	
profit	 Before	taX	from	 Continuing	operations
Headline	 profit	 before	 tax	 for	 continuing	 operations	 was	 £46.1m	
(2009:	 £3.7m).	the	 profit	 before	 tax	 for	 continuing	 operations	 was	
£45.2m	 (2009:	 loss	 of	 £54.5m),	 and	 these	 amounts	 are	 reconciled	
as	 follows:	
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Headline	 operating	 profit 52.1 8.0
net	finance	 charge (6.0) (4.3)
Headline	 profit	 before	 tax 46.1 3.7
a mortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.9) (1.3)
impairment	 charge .– (31.5)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs .– (25.4)
profit/(loss)	 before	 tax	 -	 continuing	 operations 45.2 (54.5)
finanCe	 Charge	
the	net	 finance	 charge	 from	 the	 continuing	 operations	 of	 the	
Group	 was	 £6.0m	 compared	 to	 £4.3m	 in	 2009	 (see	 details	 below).	
there	is	 no	 movement	 due	 to	 interest	 rates;	 however,	 there	 has	
been	 an	 increase	 due	 to	 higher	 undrawn	 committed	 facility	 fees	
(£1.0m),	 costs	 of	 refinancing	 early	 in	 2010	 (£0.9m)	 and	 an	 increase	
in	 other	 charges	 (£0.3m),	 offset	 by	 lower	 average	 net	 debt	 (£0.1m)	
and	 a	 lower	 pension	 finance	 charge	 (£0.4m).
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
net	interest	 payable 1.9 2.0
Financing	 costs 2.3 0.4
other	charges 0.9 0.6
pension	 finance	 charge 0.9 1.3
net	finance	 charge 6.0 4.3
taXation	
the	tax	 charge	 was	 £11.7m	 for	 the	 year	 compared	 to	 a	 credit	
of	 £3.4m	 for	 2009.	the	 effective	 tax	 rate	 on	 continuing	 operations	
of	 25.9%	 (2009:	 6.2%)	 resulted	 from	 the	 blending	 of	 differing	
tax	 rates	 in	 each	 of	 the	 countries	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 operates.	
the	low	 effective	 tax	 rate	 for	 2009	 resulted	 from	 the	 blending	
of	 profit	 making	 jurisdictions	 with	 loss	 making	 jurisdictions	 in	
that	 particular	 year	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 economic	 downturn.
t he	 headline	 tax	 rate	 on	 continuing	 operations	 for	 2010	 was	 25.4%	
(2009:	 108.1%),	 being	 stated	 before	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	
intangibles	 (which	 are	 generally	 not	 allowable	 for	 tax	 purposes).	
in	 addition,	 £5.8m	 (2009:	 £nil)	 was	 charged	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 2008	
disposal	 of	 the	testing	 division	 (see	discontinued	operations	 below).
subject	to	 any	 future	 tax	 legislation	 changes,	 the	 headline	 tax	 rate	
is	 expected	 to	 remain	 below	 the	 current	uK	 statutory	 tax	 rate	 of	
28%	 in	 the	 medium	 term.
DisContinueD	operations
bodycote	 has	 not	 discontinued	 any	 business	 streams	 during	 2010.	
in	 2008,	 the	 Group	 sold	 its	testing	 division	 and	 during	 2010	
provisions	 relating	 to	 taxation	 expected	 to	 arise	 from	 this	 disposal	
were	 reassessed.	the	 impact	 on	 the	 Group	 accounts	 of	 these	
additional	 provisions	 is	 a	 charge	 of	 £5.8m	 (2009:	 nil).	in	 the	 2008	
Group	 accounts,	 the	 effective	 rate	 of	 tax	 on	 the	 profit	 on	 disposal	
was	 stated	 as	 11.0%.	the	 revised	 effective	 rate	 of	 tax	 for	 the	
disposal,	 taking	 account	 of	 the	 additional	 tax	 provision,	 is	 13.9%.	
earnings	per	share	
basic	headline	 earnings	 per	 share	 from	 continuing	 operations	 (as	
defined	 in	 note	 10)	 increased	 to	 18.3p	 from	 0.4p.	b asic	 earnings/(loss)	
per	 share	 for	 the	 year	 are	 shown	 in	 the	 table	 below:
	 2010 	 2009
	 pence 	 pence
basic	earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 from:
Continuing	 operations 18.0 (27.0)
discontinued	operations (3.1) .–
Continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations 14.9 (27.0)
DiviDenD	
t he	b oard	 has	 recommended	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 5.75p	 (2009:	 5.35p)	
bringing	 the	 total	 dividend	 to	 8.7p	 per	 share	 (2009:	 8.3p).	i f	 approved	
by	 shareholders,	 the	 final	 dividend	 of	 5.75p	 per	 share	 for	 2010	 will	
be	 paid	 on	 6	 May	 2011	 to	 all	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 close	
of	 business	 on	 8	april	 2011.
t he	b oard	 aims	 to	 follow	 a	 progressive	 dividend	 policy	 as	 long	 as	 the	
dividend	 is	 covered	 at	 least	 twice	 by	 current	 year	 headline	 earnings.	
dividend	cover	 for	 2010	 was	 2.1	 times.	the	 dividend	 in	 2009	 was	
not	 covered	 by	 headline	 earnings.	 	 24	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
Capital	struCture	
t he	 Group’s	 balance	 sheet	 at	 31	december	 2010	 is	 summarised	 below:
	 assets 	 l iabilities 	 n et	assets
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 458.0 .– 458.0
Goodwill	 and	 intangible	 assets 118.1 .– 118.1
Current	 assets	 and	 liabilities 120.2 (144.0) (23.8)
other	non-current	 assets	
and	 liabilities 3.1 (16.9) (13.8)
retirement	benefit	 obligations .– (11.6) (11.6)
deferred	tax 48.3 (73.1) (24.8)
total	before	 net	 debt 747.7 (245.6) 502.1
net	debt 23.5 (74.8) (51.3)
net	 assets	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2010 771.2 (320.4) 450.8
net	 assets	 as	 at	 31	d ecember	 2009 771.1 (348.5) 422.6
n et	 assets	 increased	 by	 £28.2m	 (6.7%)	 to	 £450.8m	 (2009:	 £422.6m).	
the	major	 movements	 compared	 to	 31	december	 2009	 were	 a	
significant	 reduction	 in	 net	 debt	 (£34.2m),	 a	 decrease	 in	 property,	
plant	 and	 equipment	 (£3.8m),	 a	 decrease	 in	 retirement	 benefit	
obligations	 (£3.4m),	 together	 with	 an	 increase	 in	 net	 current	 assets	
(£1.7m)	 and	 an	 increase	 in	 net	 deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 (£8.3m).
t he	 decrease	 in	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 was	 due	 to	 net	 capital	
expenditure	 of	 £35.8m	 being	 exceeded	 by	 depreciation	 of	 £46.1m,	 with	
foreign	 exchange	 variances	 of	 £8.0m	 reducing	 the	 net	 decrease	 to	 £3.8m.
Movements	 in	 net	 current	 assets	 were	 due	 to	 the	 increased	 level	 of	
trading	 activity	 in	 2010	 compared	 to	 2009,	 which	 resulted	 in	 an	 increase	
in	 inventories	 by	 £2.8m.	trade	 receivables	 and	 other	 receivables	
increased	 by	 £7.7m	 as	 a	 result	 of	 increased	 sales	 levels,	 and	 tight	 control	
of	 working	 capital	 led	 trade	 and	 other	 payables	 to	 increase	 by	 £23.8m.	
Current	 tax	 liabilities	 decreased	 by	 £1.8m	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	
reassessment	 of	 tax	 liabilities	 resulting	 from	 the	 ongoing	 restructuring	
programme,	 while	 the	 changes	 in	 the	 timing	 of	 dividend	 payments	
from	january	 to	november	 resulted	 in	 a	 reduction	 in	 the	 proposed	
dividend	 creditor	 of	 £5.5m.	restructuring	 provisions	 reduced	 by	
£6.9m,	 as	 Group	 restructuring	 activities	 proceeded	 as	 planned.
net	liabilities	 for	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 decreased	 by	
£3.7m	 due	 to	 a	 combination	 of	 instrument	 maturity	 and	 changes	
in	 exchange	 and	 interest	 rates.
retirement	benefit	 obligations	 reduced	 by	 £3.4m	 during	 the	 year,	
primarily	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 announced	 change	 in	 the	 relevant	 index	
for	 the	uK	 scheme	 from	rpi	to	 Cpi	in	 respect	 of	 the	 revaluation	 of	
deferred	 members’	 benefits.
the	net	 deferred	 tax	 liability	 increased	 by	 £8.3m	 during	 the	 year	 due	
to	 reductions	 in	 tax	 rates	 in	 certain	 countries,	 which	 resulted	 in	 a	
decrease	 in	 the	 value	 of	 the	 Group’s	 recognised	 deferred	 tax	 losses.	
net	DeBt
Group	 net	 debt	 at	 31	december	 2010	 was	 £51.3m	 (2009:	 £85.5m).	
during	the	 year,	 loans	 of	 £32.6m	 under	 committed	 facilities	 were	
repaid.	the	 Group	 continues	 to	 be	 able	 to	 borrow	 at	 competitive	
rates	 and	 therefore	 currently	 deems	 this	 to	 be	 the	 most	 effective	
means	 of	 funding.
Cash	flow
t he	 net	 increase	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 was	 £0.5m	 (2009:	 net	
decrease	 of	 £231.6m),	 made	 up	 of	 net	 cash	 from	 operating	 activities	 of	
£95.6m	 (2009:	 £11.0m),	 less	 investing	 activities	 of	 £36.6m	 (2009:	 £27.3m)	
and	 less	 cash	 used	 in	 financing	 activities	 of	 £58.5m	 (2009:	 £215.3m).
t he	 increase	 in	 net	 cash	 from	 operating	 activities	 from	 £11.0m	 to	 £95.6m	
is	 driven	 primarily	 by	 the	 increase	 in	 headline	ebitda	 from	 £57.4m	
to	 £104.4m.	tight	 control	 of	 working	 capital,	 especially	 payables,	 more	
than	 offset	 increases	 in	 the	 level	 of	 inventory	 and	 receivables	 which	
were	 higher	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 increased	 level	 of	 activity.	the	 net	
effect	 was	 a	 decrease	 in	 the	 level	 of	 working	 capital	 of	 £8.7m,	 and	
£1.1m	 when	 the	 movements	 in	 restructuring	 provisions	 are	 included.
n et	 cash	 outflows	 from	 investing	 activities	 increased	 from	 £27.3m	 to	
£36.6m,	 as	 the	 levels	 of	 net	 capital	 expenditure	 in	 2010	 at	 £35.8m	 (2009:	
£32.2m),	 although	 higher	 than	 in	 the	 prior	 year,	 remained	 below	 historic	
levels,	 reflecting	 continued	 tight	 management	 control.	p roceeds	 on	 disposal	
of	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 reduced	 from	 £6.9m	 in	 2009	 to	 £nil	 in	 2010.
n et	 cash	 outflows	 used	 in	 financing	 activities	 reduced	 from	 £215.3m	
to	 £58.5m.	 2009	 saw	 the	 repayment	 of	 £231.9m	 of	 loans	 following	 the	
disposal	 of	 the	testing	 division	 in	 2008,	 while	 2010	 saw	 a	 further	
repayment	 of	 loans	 of	 £34.0m,	 together	 with	 payment	 of	 three	
dividends	 (totaling	 £20.9m),	 following	 the	b oard’s	 decision	 to	 pay	 the	
interim	 dividend	 of	 2010	 two	 months	 earlier	 than	 in	 previous	 years.
t here	 has	 been	 a	 continued	 focus	 on	 cash	 collection	 with	 debtor	 days	
at	 31	december	 2010	 falling	 to	 59	 days	 from	 63	 days	 a	 year	 earlier.	
n et	 interest	 payments	 for	 the	 year	 were	 £5.5m	 (2009:	 £4.4m)	 and	 tax	
payments	 were	 £5.4m	 (2009:	 £24.4m).
Capital	eXpenDiture	
n et	 capital	 expenditure	 (capital	 expenditure	 less	 proceeds	 from	 asset	
disposals)	 for	 the	 year	 was	 £35.8m	 (2009:	 £32.2m).	the	 multiple	 of	 net	
capital	 expenditure	 to	 depreciation	 was	 0.8	 times	 (2009:	 0.6	 times),	
which	 reflects	 the	 Group’s	 continued	 careful	 management	 of	 its	 capital	
expenditure	 programme.	as	 at	 31	december	 2010	 the	 Group	 had	
capital	 expenditure	 creditors	 of	 £6.9m	 (2009:	 £8.3m).	in	 addition	
capital	 expenditure	 commitments	 amounted	 to	 £2.5m	 (2009:	 £6.7m).	
a	proportion	 of	 the	 current	 year	 capital	 expenditure	 was	 incurred	 to	
support	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 in	 the	 consolidation	 of	 plants	 and	
the	 re-installation	 of	 furnaces	 transferred	 from	 closed	 plants.	 Major	
capital	 projects	 that	 were	 in	 progress	 during	 2010	 include	 the	 upgrade	 of	
large	 capacity	 heat	 treatment	 equipment	 for	 the	us	 aerospace	 sector,	
additional	 capacity	 in	 France	 for	 an	 automotive	 outsourcing	 project,	
increased	 stainless	 steel	 processing	 capacity,	 expansion	 of	 capacity	 in	
Mexico	 and	 production	 equipment	 for	 our	 new	sheraCote
®
	 process.
Borrowing	faCilities	
a t	 31	december	 2010,	 the	 Group	 had	 the	 following	 committed	 facilities:
Facility expiry	date 	 Facility
	 l oan	
	 utilisation
	 l etter	
	of 	 Credit	
	 utilisation
	 f acility	
	 head-	
	 room
	 £m	 £m	 £m	 £m
£110m	
revolving	Credit 31	 March	 2013 110.0 .– .– 110.0
€125m
revolving	Credit 31	july	 2013 107.9 64.4 .– 43.5
$20m	
revolving	Credit 31	 March	 2013 13.0 0.2 5.4 7.4
230.9 64.6 5.4 160.9
FinanCe	direCtor’s	 report
Continued 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 25
Capital	management	
the	Group	 manages	 its	 capital	 to	 ensure	 that	 entities	 in	 the	 Group	
will	 be	 able	 to	 continue	 as	 going	 concerns,	 while	 maximising	 the	
return	 to	 shareholders.	the	 capital	 structure	 of	 the	 Group	 consists	
of	 debt,	 which	 includes	 borrowings,	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 and	
equity	 attributable	 to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent,	 comprising	 capital,	
reserves	 and	 retained	 earnings.	
t he	 capital	 structure	 is	 reviewed	 regularly	 by	 the	b oard	 of	directors.	
the	Group’s	 policy	 is	 to	 maintain	 gearing,	 determined	 as	 the	
proportion	 of	 net	 debt	 to	 total	 capital,	 within	 defined	 parameters,	
allowing	 movement	 in	 the	 capital	 structure	 appropriate	 to	 the	
business	 cycle	 and	 corporate	 activity.	the	 gearing	 ratio	 at	 31	
december	2010	 has	 fallen	 to	 11%	 (2009:	 20%)	 as	 a	 result	 of	
both	 reduced	 net	 debt	 and	 increased	 profit	 in	 the	 period.
t he	 Group’s	 debt	 funding	 policy	 is	 to	 borrow	 centrally	 (where	 it	 is	
tax	 efficient	 to	 do	 so),	 using	 a	 mixture	 of	 short-term	 borrowings,	
longer-term	 loans	 and	 finance	 leases.	these	 borrowings,	 together	
with	 cash	 generated	 from	 operations,	 are	 lent	 or	 contributed	 as	
equity	 to	 subsidiaries	 as	 required.	the	 aim	 of	 the	 Group’s	 funding	
policy	 is	 to	 ensure	 continuity	 of	 finance	 at	 reasonable	 cost,	 based	
on	 committed	 facilities	 from	 several	 sources,	 arranged	 with	 a	 spread	
of	 maturities.	the	 recent	 market	 for	 bank	 funding	 has	 been	 restricted	
to	 shorter	 tenures	 than	 have	 been	 available	 in	 the	 past	 and,	 therefore,	
it	 is	 intended	 in	 due	 course	 to	 extend	 the	 maturity	 profile	 of	 the	
Group’s	 funding	 (currently	 2.4	 years).
DefineD	Benefit	pension	arrangements
the	Group	 has	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 obligations	 in	 the	uK,	
Germany,	s witzerland,	liechtenstein,	usa	and	b razil	 and	 cash	 lump	
sum	 obligations	 in	 France,	italy	 and	turkey,	 the	 entire	 liabilities	
for	 which	 are	 reflected	 in	 the	 Group	 balance	 sheet.	in	 the	uK,	
the	 Group	 has	 a	 final	 salary	 scheme	 that	 was	 closed	 to	 new	
members	 in	november	 2000,	 but	 continues	 to	 accrue	 benefits	
for	 the	 123	 current	 employee	 members.	the	 deficit,	 as	 calculated	
by	 the	 scheme	 actuary	 at	 31	december	 2010	 using	 the	 principles	
of	ias	 19	 is	 £0.6m	 (2009:	 £3.7m).	the	uK	 scheme	 deficit	 decreased	
by	 £3.1m	 during	 the	 year,	 primarily	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 announced	
change	 in	 the	 relevant	 index	 for	 the	uK	 scheme	 from	rpi	to	 Cpi	
in	 respect	 of	 the	 revaluation	 of	 deferred	 members’	 benefits.
the	Group’s	 heat	 treatment	 business	 in	 Germany	 has	 inherited	
several	 small	 defined	 benefit	 arrangements	 as	 a	 result	 of	 prior	
years’	 acquisitions.	they	 are	 all	 unfunded	 and	 are	 closed	 to	 new	
members	 but	 the	 existing	 members	 continue	 to	 accrue	 benefits.	
t he	ias	 19	 liability	 at	 31	december	 2010	 was	 £3.6m	 (2009:	 £3.5m).	
in	liechtenstein	the	ias	 19	 liability	 at	 31	december	 2010	 was	
£0.4m	 (2009:	 £0.2m)	 and	 in	s witzerland	 was	 £0.3m	 (2009:	 £0.1m).	
arrangements	in	 both	 countries	 are	 funded.
in	 France,	 the	 Group	 operates	 a	 plan	 which	 pays	 a	 cash	 lump	 sum	
on	 retirement	 and	 also	 for	 long	 service.	the	 plan	 is	 open	 to	 new	
employees	 but	 by	 its	 nature	 is	 not	 mortality	 dependent.	i t	 is	 unfunded	
and	 the	ias	 19	 liability	 at	 31	december	 2010	 was	 £5.2m	 (2009:	 £5.7m).	
italy	 and	turkey	 also	 have	 unfunded	 cash	 lump	 sum	 obligations,	
which	 by	 statute	 are	 open	 to	 new	 members.	the	ias	 19	 liability	 is	
£0.7m	 for	italy	 (2009:	 £0.8m)	 and	 £0.2m	 for	turkey	 (2009:	 £0.2m).
the	Group	 sponsors	 three	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 arrangements	
in	 the	usa	that	 were	 inherited	 with	 the	 acquisition	 of	lindberg	 and	
these	 had	 a	 total	ias	 19	 deficit	 at	 31	december	 2010	 of	 £0.5m	
(2009:	 £0.6m).	there	 is	 no	 future	 accrual	 of	 benefits.	in	brazil,	
bodycote	operates	 a	 defined	 benefit	 plan	 for	 a	 senior	 member	
of	 staff.	it	 is	 funded	 and	 the	 member	 continues	 to	 accrue	 benefits.	
a t	 31	december	 2010	 it	 had	 a	 deficit	 of	 £0.1m	 (2009:	 £0.2m	 deficit).
post	 BalanCe	sheet	events
t here	 are	 no	 post	 balance	 sheet	 events	 following	 the	 2010	 year	 end.
Change	in	aCCounting	poliCies
the	changes	 in	 accounting	 policies	 are	 detailed	 in	 the	accounting	
policies	 on	 page	 51	 of	 this	 report.	the	 adoption	 of	 new	 accounting	
policies	 has	 not	 had	 any	 material	 impact	 on	 the	 amounts	 reported	
in	 these	 financial	 statements.
going	 ConCern	
the	Group’s	 business	 activities,	 together	 with	 the	 factors	 likely	
to	 affect	 its	 future	 development,	 performance	 and	 position	 are	
set	 out	 in	 this	 Group	review.	the	 review	 includes	 an	 overview	
of	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 position,	 its	 cash	 flows,	 liquidity	 position	
and	 borrowing	 facilities.	in	 addition,	 there	 is	 a	 description	 of	 the	
Group’s	 objectives,	 policies	 and	 processes	 for	 managing	 its	 capital;	
its	 financial	 risk	 management	 objectives;	 details	 of	 its	 financial	
instruments	 and	 hedging	 activities;	 and	 its	 exposures	 to	 credit	
and	 liquidity	 risk.
the	Group	 meets	 its	 working	 capital	 requirements	 through	 a	
combination	 of	 committed	 and	 uncommitted	 facilities	 and	 overdrafts.	
the	overdrafts	 and	 uncommitted	 facilities	 are	 repayable	 on	 demand	
but	 the	 committed	 facilities	 are	 due	 for	 renewal	 as	 shown	 below.	
there	is	 sufficient	 headroom	 in	 the	 committed	 facility	 covenants	
to	 assume	 that	 these	 facilities	 can	 be	 operated	 as	 contracted	 for	
the	 foreseeable	 future.
	 	us$20m	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 maturing	 31	 March	 2013
	 	 £110m	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 maturing	 31	 March	 2013
	 	€125m	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 maturing	 31	july	 2013
the	Group’s	 forecasts	 and	 projections,	 taking	 account	 of	 reasonable	
potential	 changes	 in	 trading	 performance,	 show	 that	 the	 Group	 should	
be	 able	 to	 operate	 within	 the	 level	 of	 its	 current	 committed	 facilities.	
the	directors	have	 reviewed	 forecasts	 and	 projections	 for	 the	
Group’s	 markets	 and	 services,	 assessing	 the	 committed	 facility	 and	
financial	 covenant	 headroom,	 central	 liquidity,	 and	 the	 company’s	
ability	 to	 access	 further	 funding.	the	directors	 also	 reviewed	
downside	 sensitivity	 analysis	 over	 the	 forecast	 period.	 Following	
this	 review,	 the	directors	 have	 formed	 a	 judgement,	 at	 the	 time	
of	 approving	 the	 financial	 statements,	 that	 there	 is	 a	 reasonable	
expectation	 that	 the	 Group	 has	 adequate	 resources	 to	 continue	
in	 operational	 existence	 for	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	 For	 this	 reason	
the	directors	 continue	 to	 adopt	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 in	 preparing	
the	 financial	 statements.
D.	f.	landless
Finance	director	
24	 February	 2011 	 26	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
effective	 management	 of	 risks	 is	 essential	 to	 the	 delivery	 of	 the	
Group’s	 objectives.	the	 Group’s	 approach	 has	 been	 for	 divisional	
management	 to	 report	 their	 significant	 risks	 to	 the	 Group,	 explaining	
the	 nature	 and	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 mitigation	 that	 is	 in	 place	
to	 manage	 each	 risk.	the	 recent	 appointment	 of	 a	vice-president	
(risk	and	business	processes)	 will	 ensure	 continuing	 improvements	
in	 the	 Group’s	 risk	 management	 framework.	
the	principal	 risks	 shown	 below	 represent	 the	 most	 significant	 areas	
which	 the	b oard	 believes	 could	 most	 likely	 impact	 the	 Group’s	 financial	
performance	 and	 position,	 together	 with	 the	 actions	 initiated	 to	 mitigate	
the	 consequences.
market	 and	 Customer	risks
Markets
bodycote’s	presence	 in	 26	 countries	 and	 in	 a	 wide	 variety	 of	 end	
markets	 acts	 as	 a	 natural	 hedge	 to	 balance	 out	 localised	 economic	
volatility.	nevertheless,	 the	 Group	 is	 continuously	 working	 to	 improve	
its	 responsiveness	 to	 changes	 in	 demand	 and	 uses	 analytical	 tools	 to	
assess	 the	 flexibility	 of	 its	 cost	 base.	 Close	 contact	 with	 customers	
provides	 management	 with	 market	 intelligence	 that	 allows	 timely	 action	
to	 minimise	 the	 impact	 of	 a	 downturn.	this	 was	 demonstrated	 in	 the	
last	 downturn,	 which	 began	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2008,	 when	 the	 Group	 reacted	
quickly	 to	 changes	 in	 demand	 and	 reduced	 its	 cost	 base	 by	 £45m	 in	
the	 face	 of	 a	 21%	 fall	 in	 sales.
Loss of key customers
t he	 Group	 benefits	 from	 many	 long	 term	 and	 partnership	 agreements	
with	 key	 customers.	damage	 to,	 or	 loss	 of,	 any	 of	 these	 relationships	
may	 be	 detrimental	 to	 Group	 results,	 although	 the	b oard	 believe	 this	
is	 highly	 unlikely	 as	bodycote	 has	 excellent	 long-term	 relationships	
with	 its	 major	 customers	 and	 the	 Group’s	 network	 of	 strategically	
located	 facilities	 ensures	 that	 it	 is	 the	 supplier	 of	 choice	 to	 these	 major	
manufacturers.	 Furthermore	 there	 is	 no	 significant	 customer	 dependency,	
with	 the	 Group’s	 top	 ten	 customers	 accounting	 for	 less	 than	 13%	
of	 sales	 and	 the	 balance	 made	 up	 by	 many	 thousands	 of	 customers.
Corporate	 and	 Community	risks
Human	resources
bodycote	 is	 reliant	 on	 its	 ability	 to	 recruit,	 develop	 and	 retain	 staff	 to	
meet	 future	 growth	 plans.	 Competition	 for	 resources	 is	 high	 and	 there	
is	 a	 risk	 that	bodycote	 may	 not	 be	 able	 to	 attract	 or	 to	 retain	 skilled	
individuals.	as	 the	 market	 leader	b odycote	 is	 seen	 as	 a	 source	 of	 talent	
by	 competitors.	during	 the	 last	 two	 years	 the	 Group	 has	 addressed	
the	 risk	 by	 updating	 its	 Human	resources	 (Hr )	 strategy,	 which	 covers	
succession	 planning	 and	 staff	 development	 programmes,	 performance	
management	 processes,	 recruitment	 policies	 and	 remuneration	 strategy.
safety	&	 Health
bodycote	 is	 committed	 to	 providing	 the	 highest	 level	 of	 protection	 in	
its	 work	 environment	 and	 to	 safeguarding	 the	 safety	 of	 its	 employees.	
the	Group’s	 work	 environment	 presents	 a	 number	 of	 risks	 which	
require	 management.	shortcomings	 in	 health	 and	 safety	 procedures	
can	 have	 a	 significant	 effect	 on	 individual	 employees,	 cause	 disruption	
to	 business	 and	 lead	 to	 financial	 penalties	 and	 loss	 of	 reputation.	s afety	
and	 Health	 (s&H)	 policies	 are	 set	 by	 the	 Group’s	 safety	 committee	 and	
all	 facilities	 are	 required	 to	 operate	 in	 accordance	 with	 these	 policies.	
responsibility	for	 implementation	 of	s&H	 policies	 lies	 with	 divisional	
management	 and	 each	 division	 has	 a	 professionally	 competent	 Head	
of	s &H	 in	 place.	all	 facilities	 are	 subject	 to	 safety	 audits	 at	 least	 once	
a	 year,	 following	 standard	 audit	 programmes,	 and	 findings	 are	 reported	
to	 divisional	 and	 corporate	 management.
environment
bodycote	is	 committed	 to	 providing	 the	 highest	 level	 of	 protection	
to	 the	 environment.	 Historical	 use	 of	 solvents	 and	 other	 hazardous	
chemicals	 could	 have	 led	 to	 ground	 contamination.	the	 environmental	
laws	 of	 the	 various	 jurisdictions	 impose	 actual	 and	 potential	 obligations	
on	bodycote	 to	 remediate	 contaminated	 sites,	 both	 those	 currently	
operated	 and,	 in	 some	 cases,	 those	 which	 have	 been	 sold.	b odycote	
incurs	 costs	 annually	 in	 meeting	 its	 obligations	 and	 maintains	 a	 provision	
of	 £16.8m	 to	 meet	 liabilities.	if	 this	 existing	 provision	 is	 inadequate	
to	 meet	 costs	 arising	 from	 environmental	 obligations,	 then	 this	 could	
impact	 the	 Group’s	 results.	s ome	 of	 the	 Group’s	 heat	 treatment	 plants	
continue	 to	 use	 solvents	 and	 other	 hazardous	 chemicals	 in	 small	 quantities	
but	 the	 risk	 of	 future	 contamination	 is	 managed	 by	 stringent	 procedures,	
typically	 under	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	iso	 14001	 environmental	 system.
operational	risks
service	quality
work	that	 is	 released	 into	 use	 which	 is	 not	 in	 compliance	 with	
specification	 could	 arise	 as	 a	 result	 of	 system	 or	 human	 failure.	
bodycote	 has	 stringent	 quality	 systems	 in	 place	 and	 where	 necessary	
its	 plants	 have	 relevant	 accreditations,	 such	 as	iso	 9000,	nadcap	 and	
ts	16949.	all	 facilities	 are	 subject	 to	 internal	 audits,	 external	 audits	
by	 accreditors	 or	 customer	 inspections	 at	 least	 once	 a	 year.
energy
an	energy	 risk	 management	 committee	 oversees	 the	 purchasing	
of	 all	 the	 Group’s	 energy	 requirements.	its	 objective	 is	 to	 minimise	
the	 potential	 exposure	 to	bodycote	 of	 rapid	 changes	 in	 energy	 prices	
and	 to	 match	 commitments	 to	 buy	 energy,	 both	 in	 terms	 of	 price	
and	 volume,	 with	 demand	 for	 the	 Group’s	 services.	an	 increase	 in	
energy	 cost	 is	 a	 risk	 which	 the	 Group	 is	 largely	 able	 to	 mitigate	
through	 price	 adjustments	 and	 surcharges,	 although	 with	 some	 time	
lag.	bodycote	 is	 confident	 that	 it	 will	 continue	 to	 be	 able	 to	 pass	 on	
energy	 cost	 increases	 to	 its	 customers	 in	 future.
regulatory	risks
regulatory	and	legislative	 Compliance
bodycote	operates	 in	 26	 countries	 which	 all	 have	 unique	 legislative	
and	 regulatory	 requirements,	 including	 tax	 regulations.	i n	 some	 countries	
regulations	 can	 vary	 from	 state	 to	 state.	non-compliance	 could	 lead	 to	
penalties,	 disruption	 to	 business,	 diversion	 of	 management	 time	 and	
loss	 of	 reputation.	to	 mitigate	 this	 risk	bodycote	 engages	 specialists	
with	 expertise	 in	 the	 local	 legislative	 and	 regulatory	 landscape	 to	
perform	 compliance	 activity	 or	 to	 advise	 local	 management.
financial	risks
the	Group’s	 treasury	 function	 provides	 a	 centralised	 service	 to	 the	
Group	 for	 funding,	 foreign	 exchange,	 interest	 rate	 management	 and	
counterparty	 risk.	treasury	 activities	 have	 the	 objective	 of	 minimising	
risk	 and	 treasury	 operations	 are	 conducted	 within	 a	 framework	 of	 policies	
and	 guidelines	 authorised	 and	 reviewed	 periodically	 by	 the	b oard.	
Further	 details	 on	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 risks	 and	 risk	 management	
policies	 are	 provided	 in	 note	 20	 to	 the	 financial	 statements.
prinCipal	risKs	and	unCertainties 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 27
risk Description impact mitigation
market	 anD	Customer	risks
Markets a	substantial	 proportion	 of	bodycote’s	
sales	 are	 closely	 linked	 to	 the	 economic	
cycle.	s ales	 in	 the	 markets	 served	 by	 the	
aGi	businesses	 (67%	 of	 the	 total	 Group)	
tend	 to	 develop	 in	 line	 with	 or	 ahead	 of	
the	 economic	 cycle,	 whereas	 aerospace	
sales	 (20%)	 tend	 to	 track	 behind	 the	
economic	 cycle.	sales	 to	 the	 energy	
sectors	 (13%)	 are	 closely	 linked	 to	 energy	
prices,	 which	 in	 turn	 can	 be	 affected	 by	
general	 economic	 activity.	short	 order	
visibility	 means	 that	 accurately	 forecasting	
demand	 remains	 difficult.
as	a	 low	 proportion	 of	 the	 Group’s	
costs	 are	 variable	 (approx	 20%),	 a	 fall	
in	 sales	 will	 have	 a	 significant	 impact	
on	 profitability.	
	 		 engage	 in	 continuous	 dialogue	 with	 customers	 and	
monitor	 macro-economic	 forecasts	 which	 should	 alert	
the	 Group	 to	 likely	 changes	 in	 demand.
	 		 Maintain	 flexibility	 of	 cost	 base	 e.g.	 by	 ensuring
that	 a	 proportion	 of	 the	 workforce	 is	 employed	 on	
temporary	 contracts.
	 		 respond	 quickly	 to	 changes	 in	 customer	 demand
on	 a	 local	 or	 a	 Group-wide	 level.	
loss	of	 key	
customers
damage	to	 the	 relationship	 with	
key	 customers	 that	 will	 result	 in	
loss	 of	 sales.
a	loss	 of	 a	 key	 customer	 will	 result	
in	 a	 reduction	 in	 profit	 and	 may	 affect	
the	 viability	 of	 one	 or	 more	 of	 the	
Group’s	 facilities.	
	 		 Continue	 the	 emphasis	 on	 long-term	 agreements.
	 		 Maintain	 excellent	 relationships	 with	 major	 customers.
use	key	 account	 management	 to	 monitor	 customer	
satisfaction	 with	 Group’s	 service	 levels.	
Corporate	 anD	Community	risks
Human	
resources
bodycote’s	 growth	 plans	 rely	 on	 its	
ability	 to	 retain,	 develop	 and	 attract	 staff.	
a	shortage	 of	 staff	 with	 the	
appropriate	 skills	 will	 impede	 the	
Group’s	 ability	 to	 execute	
its	 business	 plans.	
	 		 Continue	 development	 of	 a	 Hr	strategy	 to	 address
the	 long-term	 development	 and	 retention	 of	 staff.
	 	develop	 succession	 plans.
	 		 ensure	 performance	 management	 processes
are	 properly	 implemented	 and	 used	 effectively.
safety	and	
Health
shortcomings	in	 safety	 and	
health	 framework.	
Failure	 to	 develop,	 implement	 or	
comply	 with	 the	 highest	 levels	 of	
safety	 and	 health	 processes	 can	 lead	 to	
injury,	 financial	 and	 reputational	 loss.	
	 		 Maintain	 a	 Group	 safety	 committee	 to	 develop	 health	
and	 safety	 policies.
	 		 Maintain	 Group-wide	 health	 and	 safety	 policies	 enforced	
by	 divisional	 health	 and	 safety	 teams.	
	 		 s afety	 compliance	 audits	 at	 least	 once	 a	 year	 at	 all	 plants.
environment Ground	 and	 water	 contamination	
through	 the	 use	 of	 potentially	
hazardous	 substances	 and	 emissions	
of	 carbon	 dioxide.	
Financial	 impact	 of	 cleaning	 up	
contamination	 from	 past	 and	 present	
activities	 involving	 hazardous	
substances.	reputational	 impact,	
particularly	 for	 facilities	 which	 operate	
in	 urban	 or	 residential	 areas.
	 		 remediation	 of	 contaminated	 sites	 as	 required
by	 local	 legislation.
	 		 reduce	 use	 of	 hazardous	 substances,	 such	 as
chlorinated	 solvents.
	 	adopt	iso	 14001	 certification.
	 		 Continuously	 improve	 energy	 efficiency.
operational	risks
service	quality work	being	 released	 for	 end	 use	 that	
has	 not	 been	 processed	 to	 specification.
processed	 part	 will	 not	 perform	 as	
required,	 leading	 to	 financial	 cost	 of	
remediation,	 breakdown	 in	 customer	
relationship,	 reputational	 loss,	 and	
potential	 for	 damages/litigation.
	 		 Maintain	 industry	 relevant	 accreditations.
	 		 divisional	 quality	 teams	 to	 maintain	 quality	 process
at	 plant	 level.
	 		 perform	 quality	 audits	 at	 all	 plants	 at	 least	 once	 a	 year.	
energy increase	 in	 energy	 prices. energy	 is	 the	 second	 largest	 variable	
cost	 to	bodycote.	the	 volatility	 of	
energy	 prices	 means	 that	 cost	 changes	
are	 difficult	 to	 forecast	 which	 could	 lead	
to	 a	 reduction	 in	 the	 Group’s	 profitability.
	 		 energy	 risk	 management	 committee	 oversees
energy	 purchasing	 and	 energy	 price	 agreements.
	 		 pass	 on	 energy	 costs	 to	 customers	 through
contractual	 arrangements	 and	 regular	 price	 reviews.
regulatory	risks
regulatory	
and	 legislative	
compliance
non-compliance	with	 regulatory	
or	 legislative	 requirements.
non-compliance	could	 lead	 to	
financial	 penalties,	 disruption	 to	
business,	 diversion	 of	 management	
time,	 personal	 and	 corporate	 liability	
and	 loss	 of	 reputation.
	 		 engage	 local	 specialists	 to	 support	bodycote	 at	 local,	
divisional	 and	 Group	 level.
	 		 develop	 business	 process	 to	 incorporate	 local
regulatory	 requirements. 	 28	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
our	approaCh
bodycote’s	objective	 is	 to	 create	 superior	 shareholder	 returns	
through	 the	 provision	 of	 selected	 thermal	 processing	 services	
that	 are	 highly	 valued	 by	 our	 customers	 and	 to	 achieve	 this	 in	
a	 safe	 working	 environment,	 with	 minimal	 environmental	 impact.
bodycote	is	 dedicated	 to	 improving	 management	 of	 corporate	
responsibility	 issues	 and	 is	 implementing	 policies	 and	 initiatives	
to	 achieve	 this	 goal.	the	 future	 success	 and	 growth	 of	 the	 Group	
is	 intrinsically	 linked	 to	 our	 ability	 to	 ensure	 the	 Group’s	 operations	
are	 sustainable	 and	 that	 we	 can	 nurture	 and	 develop	 our	 talent.
our	people
the	strength	 of	 the	 Group	 primarily	 rests	 in	 its	 people	 and	 one	
of	 the	 key	 challenges	 for	 management	 is	 to	 ensure	 availability	
of	 appropriately	 qualified	 people	 to	 support	 its	 continued	 growth.	
bodycote	 is	 fortunate	 to	 have	 a	 competent	 and	 committed	
international	 team	 that	 is	 well	 respected	 in	 technical	 and	 business	
circles.	 Most	 acquisitions	 have	 been	 based	 on	 historical	 relationships	
with	bodycote	 personnel	 which	 is	 a	 testament	 to	 the	 integrity	
of	 the	 Group’s	 people.	
the	board	 has	 established	 a	 remuneration	 policy	 that	 rewards	
performance	 while	 offering	 competitive	 base	 packages.	i n	 line	 with	
the	 policy	 of	 continuous	 improvement,	 the	 Group	 has	 added	 further	
resources	 in	 this	 area	 to	 assess	 management	 performance	 and	 to	
improve	 the	 succession	 pipeline	 for	 future	 business	 leadership.
bodycote’s	employment	 policies	 are	 non-discriminatory,	 complying	
with	 all	 current	 legislation	 to	 engender	 equal	 opportunity	 irrespective	
of	 race,	 gender,	 religion,	 disability,	 sexual	 orientation	 or	 nationality.	
Harassment	 is	 not	 tolerated.
Corporate	responsibility	and	sustainability
bodycote	is	 dedicated	 to	
improving	 management	
of	 corporate	 responsibility	
issues	 and	 is	 implementing	
policies	 and	 initiatives	
to	 achieve	 this	 goal. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 29
responsiBle	 Business	ethiCs
a ll	b odycote	 personnel	 are	 expected	 to	 apply	 a	 high	 ethical	 standard,	
consistent	 with	 an	 international	uK-listed	 company.	directors	 and	
employees	 are	 expected	 to	 ensure	 that	 their	 personal	 interests	
do	 not	 at	 any	 time	 conflict	 with	 those	 of	bodycote.	shareholder	
employees	 are	 advised	 of	 and	 comply	 with	 share	 trading	 codes.
bodycote	has	 systems	 in	 place	 designed	 to	 ensure	 compliance	
with	 all	 applicable	 laws	 and	 regulations	 and	 conformity	 with	 all	
relevant	 codes	 of	 business	 practice.	 Further,	bodycote	 does	 not	
make	 political	 donations.
with	regard	 to	 competition,	bodycote	 aims	 to	 win	 business	 in	 a	
differentiated	 high-value	 manner.	the	 Group	 does	 not	 employ	 unfair	
trading	 methods	 and	 it	 competes	 vigorously	 but	 fairly	 within	 the	
requirements	 of	 the	 applicable	 laws.	e mployees	 are	 prohibited	 from	
either	 giving	 or	 receiving	 any	 inducements.
Communities
whilst	bodycote	 has	 no	 centralised	 community	 initiatives	 in	 place,	
our	 global	 teams	 frequently	 take	 part	 in	 charity	 events	 and	 groups	
that	 help	 to	 foster	 good	 community	 relationships.
improving	safety	 Culture
the	nature	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations	 is	 that	 employees	 are	 regularly	
exposed	 to	 potentially	 dangerous	 situations.	it	 is	 standard	bodycote	
practice	 to	 ensure	 that	 appropriate	 safety	 and	 health	 policies	 and	
procedures	 are	 in	 force	 around	 the	 Group	 and	 that	 employees	 are	
given	 suitable	 training	 appropriate	 to	 their	 working	 environment.	
in	 2004	 the	 Group	 commenced	 reporting	 in	 a	 uniform	 manner	 its	
performance	 internally	 in	 terms	 of	 both	 the	 frequency	 and	 severity	
of	 lost-time	 accidents.	as	 a	 result,	 each	 facility	 is	 now	 able	 to	 benchmark	
its	 safety	 and	 health	 performance	 and	 formulate	 strategies	 for	
improvements.	bodycote	 is	 committed	 to	 the	 highest	 practicable	
standards	 of	 safety	 and	 health	 management	 and	 takes	 a	 zero	 tolerance	
approach	 to	 safety	 violations.	
underpinning	the	 vital	 importance	 of	 workplace	 safety,	 bonus	
payments	 to	directors	 and	senior	executives	 are,	 in	 part,	 dependent	
on	 achievement	 of	 safety	 targets,	 which	 are	 key	 performance	 indicators.
kpi	 –	 accident	 frequency	 (number)
bodycote	works	 tirelessly	 to	 reduce	 workplace	 accidents	 and	 is	
committed	 to	 providing	 a	 safe	 environment	 for	 anyone	 who	 works	
at	 or	 visits	 our	 locations.	the	 major	 restructuring	 programme	 has	
not	 made	 this	 an	 easy	 task	 in	 2010.	nevertheless,	 the	accident	
Frequency	 rate	 was	 reduced	 to	 1.8	 (2009:	 1.9).
3.1 2.4 2.0	 1.9 1.8
06 07 08 09 10
accident	Frequency	 is	 defined	 as	 the	 number	 of	 lost	 time	 accidents	 x	 200,000	 hours	
(approximately	 100	 man	 years),	 divided	 by	 the	 total	 hours	 worked. 	 30	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
proteCting	the	environment
bodycote	operates	 modern,	 efficient	 equipment	 around	 the	 clock.	
the	Group	 aggregates	 demand	 from	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 customers	
to	 maximise	 efficiency	 and	 minimise	 energy	 costs.	by	 replacing	
under-utilised	 in-house	 thermal	 processing	 operations	 with	b odycote’s	
state-of-the-art	 equipment,	 the	 overall	 amount	 of	 energy	 used	 by	
industry	 can	 be	 dramatically	 reduced,	 as	 is	 explained	 further	 in	
the	 following	 pages.	the	 success	 of	bodycote’s	 processes	 in	
addressing	 these	 issues	 is	 key	 to	 its	 environmental	 credentials.	
the	Group	 does	 not	 simply	 aim	 to	 minimise	 its	 own	 energy	
consumption,	 but	 also	 to	 effect	 substantial	 reductions	 in	 its	
customers’	 energy	 use.
t he	 replacement,	 where	 possible,	 of	 harmful	 materials	 has	 reduced	
the	 need	 for	 disposal	 of	 waste	 products.	by	 acting	 responsibly	
the	 Group	 has	 been	 able	 to	 substantially	 reduce	 its	 chlorinated	
solvent	 usage	 and	 is	 investing	 in	 closed	 solvent	 washing	 systems	
to	 recuperate	 solvent	 effluent	 and	 reduce	 evaporation	 emissions.
kpi	 –	iso	 14001	 accredited	 facilities	 (%)
reducing	the	 environmental	 impact	 of	 the	 Group’s	 activities	 is	
taken	 very	 seriously.	 Compliance	 with	 the	 requirements	 of	iso	
14001	 helps	 to	 minimise	 the	 risk	 of	 adverse	 environmental	 effects	
at	bodycote’s	 locations.	at	 the	 end	 of	 2010,	 81%	 of	 our	 plants	 had	
achieved	iso	14001	 accreditation	 –	 140	 plants	 out	 of	 a	 total	 of	 173	
(2009:	 137	 out	 of	 178).
47 68 71 77 81
06 07 08 09 10
Carbon	 footprint	 and	 water	 consumption
the	reduction	 of	 Co
2
e	 (carbon	 dioxide	 equivalent)	 and	 water	
consumption	 is	 a	 high	 priority	 for	 the	 Group.	
total	Co
2
e	 emissions	 per	 £m	 sales	 decreased	 by	 5%	 in	 2010	 and	
water	 usage	 per	 £m	 sales	 decreased	 by	 8%.	the	 Group’s	 total	 Co
2
emission	 data	 is	 based	 on	s cope	 1	 and	s cope	 2	 emissions,	 as	 defined	
by	 the	uK	 Government’s	department	 for	environment,	 Food	 and	
r ural	affairs,	 and	 data	 relating	 to	 this	 has	 been	 calculated	 to	 include	
country-specific	 electricity	 conversion	 factors.
Carbon	 footprint	 water	 consumption	
(tonne	 Co
2
e/£m	 sales)	 (thousand	m
3
/£m	 sales)
698.5 665.5
09 10
1.85 1.70
09 10
bodycote	is	 making	 a	 commitment	 to	 reducing	 energy	 and	 water	
consumption	 and	 specific	 methods	 for	 achieving	 this	 will	 be	 explored	
further	 in	 2011.
Corporate	responsibility	and	sustainability
Continued 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 31
a	greener,	 Cleaner	environment
reducing	any	 detrimental	 impact	 on	 the	 environment	 has	 become	
a	 growing	 focus	 of	 industry	 worldwide	 and	bodycote	 can	 assist	
in	 the	 drive	 towards	 carbon	 reduction	 and	 environmentally	 friendly	
approaches	 in	 a	 number	 of	 ways.
For	 example,	 certain	 heat	 treatment	 and	 thermally	 sprayed	 surface	
treatments	 are	 leading	 the	 way	 in	 the	 replacement	 of	 older,	 less	
environmentally	 friendly	 processes	 such	 as	 hard	 chrome	 plating.
Future	 restrictions	 that	 will	 be	 placed	 on	 chrome	 plating	 due	 to	 health	
and	 environmental	 issues	 have	 led	 many	 businesses	 including	 the	
major	 aerospace	 companies	 to	 embark	 on	 initiatives	 to	 replace	 it.	
these	companies	 have	 highlighted	 thermal	 spray	 coatings	 as	 the	
preferred	 replacement	 for	 chrome	 plating.
bodycote	 has	 been	 involved	 in	 a	 number	 of	 initiatives	 to	 replace	 chrome	
plate	 and	 results	 have	 shown	 that,	 in	 addition	 to	 the	 environmental	
benefits,	 thermally	 sprayed	 tungsten	 carbide	 outperforms	 hard	 chrome	
plate	 for	 both	 wear	 and	 corrosion	 protection.
Modern	 thermal	 processing	 techniques	 have	 allowed	 design	
engineers	 and	 manufacturers	 to	 use	 much	 lighter	 materials,	 such	 as	
aluminium	 for	 example,	 and	 have	 significantly	 prolonged	 component	
lifetimes.	through	 the	 effective	 use	 of	 thermal	 processing,	 parts	 can	
now	 be	 lighter	 and	 overall	 component	 weight	 reduced,	 leading	 to	
improved	 efficiency	 and	 reduced	 fuel	 consumption. 	 32	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
the	directors	are	 pleased	 to	 submit	 their	 report	 and	 the	 audited	
financial	 statements	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010.
the	Chairman’s	statement,	 the	 Chief	executive’s	review,	 the	
Finance	director’s	report,	 and	 all	 the	 information	 contained	 on	 pages	
8	 to	 45	 together	 comprise	 the	directors’	report	 for	 the	 year	 ended	
31	december	 2010.
prinCipal	aCtivities
the	Company	 is	 a	 holding	 company	 with	 subsidiaries	 carrying	 on	
business	 in	 the	 provision	 of	 thermal	 processing	 services.	the	 activities	
and	 locations	 of	 the	 principal	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 are	 set	 out	 on	
pages	 99	 and	 100.
group	review
the	Group	review,	 which	 encompasses:	
	 	strategy	 and	objectives;	
	 	 Key	performance	indicators;
	 	 Chairman’s	statement;
	 	 Chief	executive’s	review;	
	 	business	performance;
	 	business	overview;
	 	business	review;
	 	 Finance	director’s	report;	 and
	 	 Corporate	responsibility	 and	sustainability
is	 provided	 on	 pages	 8	 to	 31	 of	 this	 annual	 report.	this	 is	 a	 review	
of	 the	 development	 of	 the	 businesses	 of	 the	 Group,	 the	 financial	
performance	 during	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010,	 key	
performance	 indicators,	 a	 description	 of	 the	 principal	 risks	 and	
uncertainties	 facing	 the	 Group	 and	 information	 about	 the	 use	 of	
financial	 instruments.	the	 Group	 review	 has	 been	 prepared	 solely	
to	 assist	 the	 shareholders	 in	 assessing	 the	 Group’s	 strategies	 and	
the	 potential	 of	 those	 strategies.	it	 should	 not	 be	 relied	 on	 by	 any	
other	 party	 for	 any	 other	 purpose.	 Forward-looking	 statements	 have	
been	 made	 by	 the	directors	 in	 good	 faith	 using	 information	 available	
up	 to	 the	 date	 of	 this	 report	 and	 such	 statements	 should	 be	 regarded	
with	 caution	 because	 of	 the	 inherent	 uncertainties	 in	 economic	
trends	 and	 business	 risks.	since	 the	 end	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 no	
important	 events	 affecting	 the	 business	 of	 the	 Group	 have	 occurred.
DiviDenDs
the	board	 is	 recommending	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 5.75p	 per	 ordinary	
share	 making	 a	 total	 for	 the	 year	 of	 8.7p	 per	 share	 (2009:	 8.3p).	
the	final	 dividend,	 if	 approved,	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 6	 May	 2011	 to	
shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	 on	 8	april	 2011.
share	 Capital
t he	 Company’s	 issued	 ordinary	 share	 capital	 as	 at	 31	december	 2010	
was	 £32.8m	 and	 during	 the	 year	 was	 increased	 by	 the	 issue	 of	
1,714,205	 ordinary	 shares	 between	 12	 March		 and	 22	december	
2010	 for	 a	 total	 consideration	 of	 £618,471	 in	 connection	 with	 the	
Company’s	 executive	 share	 incentive	 schemes.	at	 the	annual	
General	 Meeting	 on	 28	april	 2010	 the	 shareholders	 authorised	
the	 Company	 to	 purchase	 up	 to	 18,816,771	 of	 its	 own	 shares.	
this	authority	 expires	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 forthcoming	annual	
General	 Meeting	 to	 be	 held	 on	 27	april	 2011,	 at	 which	 time	 a	 further	
authority	 will	 be	 sought	 from	 shareholders.	
Capital	struCture
d etails	 of	 the	 authorised	 and	 issued	 share	 capital	 are	 shown	 in	 note	 25.	
the	Company	 has	 one	 class	 of	 ordinary	 shares,	 which	 carry	 no	 right	
to	 fixed	 income.	each	 share	 carries	 the	 right	 to	 one	 vote	 at	 general	
meetings	 of	 the	 Company.	there	 are	 no	 specific	 restrictions	 on	 the	
size	 of	 a	 holding	 nor	 on	 the	 transfer	 of	 shares,	 both	 of	 which	 are	
governed	 by	 the	 general	 provisions	 of	 the	articles	 of	association	
and	 prevailing	 legislation.	the	directors	 are	 not	 aware	 of	 any	
agreements	 between	 holders	 of	 the	 Company’s	 shares	 that	 may	
result	 in	 restrictions	 on	 the	 transfer	 of	 securities	 or	 on	 voting	 rights.	
details	of	 employee	 share	 schemes	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	 28	 and	
shares	 held	 by	 the	bodycote	employee	benefit	trust	 abstain	 from	
voting	 and	 waive	 dividend.	no	 person	 has	 any	 special	 rights	 of	
control	 over	 the	 Company’s	 share	 capital	 and	 all	 issued	 shares	
are	 fully	 paid.	the	 appointment	 and	 replacement	 of	directors	
is	 governed	 by	 the	 Company’s	articles	 of	association,	 the	uK	
Corporate	 Governance	 Code,	 the	 Companies	act	 and	 related	
legislation.	the	articles	 of	association	 may	 be	 amended	 by	
a	 special	 resolution	 of	 shareholders.	the	 powers	 of	 the	directors	
are	 described	 in	 the	 Corporate	 Governance	 statement	 on	 page	 34.	
under	the	articles	 of	association	 the	 Company	 has	 authority	 to	
issue	 ordinary	 shares	 with	 a	 nominal	 value	 of	 £3,250,168.	there	 are	
also	 a	 number	 of	 other	 agreements	 that	 take	 effect,	 alter,	 crystallise	
or	 terminate	 upon	 a	 change	 of	 control	 of	 the	 Company	 following	 a	
takeover	 bid	 such	 as	 commercial	 contracts,	 bank	 loan	 agreements,	
property	 lease	 agreements,	 employment	 contracts	 and	 employee	
share	 plans.	none	 of	 these	 are	 considered	 to	 be	 significant	 in	 terms	
of	 their	 likely	 impact	 on	 the	 business	 of	 the	 Group	 as	 a	 whole,	 and	
the	directors	 are	 not	 aware	 of	 any	 agreements	 between	 the	 Company	
and	 themselves	 or	 employees	 that	 provide	 for	 compensation	 for	 loss	
of	 office	 or	 employment	 that	 occurs	 because	 of	 a	 takeover	 bid.	
DireCtors
the	current	directors	 and	 their	 biographical	 details	 are	 listed	 on	
page	 45	 and	 all	 served	 throughout	 the	 year.	under	 the	articles	 of	
association	of	 the	 Company	 each	director	 must	 retire	 from	 office	
and	 stand	 for	 re-election	 by	 shareholders	 as	 a	 minimum	 at	 every	
third	 annual	 general	 meeting	 in	 order	 to	 continue	 to	 serve	 as	 a	
director.	However	 in	 view	 of	 the	 newly	 introduced	uK	 Corporate	
Governance	 Code	 and	 to	 further	 increase	 accountability,	 this	 year	
all	directors	 will	 retire	 at	 the	annual	 General	 Meeting	 and	 stand	 for	
re-election	 by	 the	 shareholders	 if	 they	 wish	 to	 continue	 to	 serve	
as	directors	 of	 the	 Company.	accordingly,	 those	directors	 retiring	
and	 offering	 themselves	 for	 re-election	 at	 the	 2011	annual	 General	
Meeting	 are	 Messrs	a.M.	thomson,	s.C.	 Harris,	d.F.	landless,	
j.	vogelsang,	j.a.	biles	 and	dr	 K.	rajagopal.	the	 re-elections	
of	 Messrs	thomson	 and	vogelsang	 are	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	
retirement	 provisions	 of	 the	articles	 of	association.	the	 service	
agreements	 for	 Messrs	 Harris	 and	landless	 are	 terminable	 by	 12	
months’	 notice.	the	 remaining	directors	 do	 not	 have	 a	 service	
agreement	 with	 the	 Company	 and	 their	 appointments	 are	 terminable	
by	 six	 months’	 notice	 (or	 in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 Chairman,	 Mr	thomson	
by	 12	 months’	 notice).
direCtors’	 report 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 33
DireCtors’	interests	in	 ContraCts	 &	shares
details	of	 the	executive	directors’	 service	 contracts	 and	 details	 of	
the	directors’	 interests	 in	 the	 Company’s	 shares	 and	 share	 incentive	
plans	 are	 shown	 in	 the	board	report	 on	remuneration	 on	 pages	
39	 to	 43.	no	director	 has	 had	 any	 dealings	 in	 any	 shares	 or	 options	
in	 the	 Company	 since	 31	december	 2010.	qualifying	 third	 party	
indemnity	 provision	 (as	 defined	 by	 section	 234	 of	 the	 Companies	act	
2006)	 has	 remained	 in	 force	 for	 the	directors	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	
december	2010	 and,	 as	 at	 the	 date	 of	 this	 report,	 remains	 in	 force	 for	
the	 benefit	 of	 the	 current	directors	 in	 relation	 to	 certain	 losses	 and	
liabilities	 which	 they	 may	 incur	 (or	 have	 incurred)	 to	 third	 parties	 in	 the	
course	 of	 their	 duties.	apart	 from	 these	 exceptions,	 none	 of	 the	
directors	had	 a	 material	 interest	 in	 any	 contract	 of	 significance	 in	
relation	 to	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 at	 any	 time	 during	 the	
financial	 year.
potential	 ConfliCts	of	interest
d uring	 2008	 the	 duties	 owed	 by	 directors	 to	 a	 company	 were	 codified	
and	 extended	 by	 the	 Companies	act	 2006	 so	 that	 directors	 not	 only	
had	 to	 declare	 actual	 conflicts	 of	 interests	 in	 transactions	 as	 they	
arose	 but	 also	 had	 a	 duty	 to	 avoid	 such	 conflicts	 whether	 real	 or	
potential.	potential	 conflicts	 of	 interest	 could	 arise	 where	 a	 single	
director	 owes	 a	 fiduciary	 duty	 to	 more	 than	 one	 organisation	
(a	 ‘situational	Conflict’)	 which	 typically	 will	 be	 the	 case	 where	 a	
director	 holds	 directorships	 in	 more	 than	 one	 company.	in	 order	 to	
ensure	 that	 each	director	 was	 complying	 with	 the	 new	 duties,	 each	
director	provided	 the	 Company	 with	 a	 formal	 declaration	 to	 disclose	
what	situational	 Conflicts	 affected	 him.	the	board	 reviewed	 the	
declarations	 and	 approved	 the	 existence	 of	 each	 declared	situational	
Conflict	 until	october	 2011	 and	 permitted	 each	 affected	director	 to	
attend	 and	 vote	 at	b odycote	directors’	 meetings,	 on	 the	 basis	 that	 each	
such	director	 continued	 to	 keep	bodycote’s	 information	 confidential,	
and	 provided	 overall	 that	 such	 authorisation	 remained	 appropriate	
and	 in	 the	 interests	 of	 shareholders.	where	 such	 authorisation	
becomes	 inappropriate	 or	 not	 in	 the	 interests	 of	b odycote	 shareholders,	
the	 Chairman	 or	 the	n omination	 Committee,	 can	 revoke	 an	 authorisation.	
n o	 such	 revocations	 have	 been	 made.
employment
the	Group	 recognises	 the	 value	 that	 can	 be	 added	 to	 its	 future	
profitability	 and	 strength	 by	 the	 efforts	 of	 employees.	the	 commitment	
of	 employees	 to	 excel	 is	 key	 to	 the	 Group’s	 continued	 success.	
through	their	 attendance	 at,	 or	 participation	 in	 strategy,	 production,	
safety	 and	 health	 meetings	 at	 site	 level,	 employees	 are	 kept	 up	 to	 date	
with	 the	 performance	 and	 progress	 of	 the	 Group,	 the	 contribution	 to	
the	 Group	 made	 by	 their	 site	 and	 are	 advised	 of	 safety	 and	 health	
issues.	the	 Group	 publishes	 in	 11	 languages,	 via	 the	 Group	 intranet,	
an	 electronic	 magazine	 for	 all	 staff	 detailing	 the	 Group’s	 activities,	
performance	 and	 some	 of	 its	 personalities	 and	 has	 also	 featured	
the	 Group’s	 open	 door	 policy	 under	 which	 employee	 concerns	 can	
be	 voiced	 on	 a	 confidential	 basis.	approximately	 1,600	bodycote	
employees	 are	 connected	 to	 the	bodycote	 intranet,	 which	 improves	
knowledge	 of	 Group	 activities,	 and	 assists	 greatly	 with	 technology	
exchange	 and	 co-ordination.	it	 is	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 to	 give	 full	 and	
fair	 consideration	 to	 applications	 for	 employment	 from	 disabled	
persons,	 having	 regard	 to	 their	 particular	 aptitudes	 and	 abilities,	
and	 to	 encourage	 the	 training	 and	 career	 development	 of	 all	 personnel	
employed	 by	 the	 Group,	 including	 disabled	 persons.	s hould	 an	 employee	
become	 disabled	 the	 Group,	 where	 practicable,	 will	 seek	 to	 continue	
the	 employment	 and	 arrange	 appropriate	 training.	a n	 equal	 opportunities	
policy	 is	 in	 operation	 in	 the	 Group.
researCh	anD	 Development
product	 development	 and	 quality	 improvement	 at	 all	 Group	 companies	
is	 a	 continuous	 process.	the	 Group	 has	 a	 policy	 of	 deploying	 the	
best	 technology	 available	 and	 actively	 seeking	 improvements.	i t	 also	
conducts	 research	 programmes	 with	 its	 customers.
Donations
Charitable	 donations	 during	 the	 year	 net	 of	 income	 tax	 amounted	
to	 £6,000	 (2009:	 £2,750).	there	 were	 no	 political	 contributions	 in	
2009	 or	 2010.
CreDitors	poliCy
Group	 operating	 companies	 are	 responsible	 for	 agreeing	 the	 terms	
and	 conditions	 under	 which	 business	 transactions	 are	 conducted.	
it	 is	 Group	 policy	 that	 payments	 to	 suppliers	 are	 made	 in	 accordance	
with	 the	 terms	 agreed,	 provided	 that	 these	 suppliers	 have	 also	
complied	 with	 applicable	 terms	 and	 conditions.	 Creditor	 days	 at	
the	 year	 end	 for	 the	 Group	 were	 46	 days	 (2009:	 46	 days).	
shareholDers
a n	 analysis	 of	 the	 Company’s	 shareholders	 and	 the	 shares	 in	 issue	 at	
18	 February	 2011	 and	 details	 of	 the	 interests	 of	 major	 shareholders	
in	 voting	 shares	 notified	 to	 the	 Company	 pursuant	 to	 chapter	 5	 of	 the	
disclosure	and	transparency	rules	 are	 given	 on	 page	 101.
auDitors
in	 accordance	 with	 the	 provisions	 of	 section	 489	 of	 the	 Companies	
act	2006,	 a	 resolution	 for	 the	 reappointment	 of	deloitte	llp	as	
auditors	is	 to	 be	 proposed	 at	 the	 forthcoming	annual	 General	
Meeting.	each	 person	 who	 is	 a	director	 at	 the	 date	 of	 approval	
of	 this	annual	report	 confirms	 that:-
	 		 so	 far	 as	 each	director	 is	 aware,	 there	 is	 no	 relevant	 audit	
information	 of	 which	 the	 Company’s	auditors	 are	 unaware;	 and	
	 		 each	director	 has	 taken	 all	 the	 steps	 that	 he	 ought	 to	 have
taken	 as	 a	director	 to	 make	 himself	 aware	 of	 any	 relevant	 audit	
information	 and	 to	 establish	 that	 the	 Company’s	auditors	 are	
aware	 of	 that	 information.
this	statement	 is	 given	 and	 should	 be	 interpreted	 in	 accordance	
with	 the	 provisions	 of	 section	 418	 of	 the	 Companies	act	 2006.
annual	general	meeting
the	2011	annual	 General	 Meeting	 will	 be	 held	 on	 27	april	 2011	 in	
accordance	 with	 the	 notice	 being	 sent	 to	s hareholders	 with	 this	 report.	
by	order	 of	 the	board
J.	r.	grime
secretary	
24	 February	 2011
springwood	Court	
springwood	Close	
tytherington	business	park	
Macclesfield	
Cheshire	
sK10	2xF 	 34	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
Corporate	 GovernanCe	stateMent
ComplianCe	with	 2008	 ComBineD	CoDe
in	 respect	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 2010	b odycote’s	 obligation	 under	 the	
d isclosure	 and	transparency	rules	 is	 to	 prepare	 a	 corporate	 governance	
statement	 with	 reference	 to	the	 Combined	 Code	 on	 Corporate	
Governance	 published	 by	 the	uK	 Financial	reporting	 Council	 (FrC)	
in	june	 2008	 (the	 ‘2008	 Code’).
in	 respect	 of	 each	 subsequent	 financial	 year	 such	 statement	 will	 need	
to	 reference	 the	uK	 Corporate	 Governance	 Code	 issued	 by	 the	 FrC	
in	june	 2010	 (the	 ‘new	Code’).
in	 respect	 of	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	b odycote	 has	 complied	
with	 the	 provisions	 of	 the	 2008	 Code,	 save	 that	 the	board	 has	 taken	
the	 view	 that	 generally	 it	 is	 the	 responsibility	 of	 the	 Chief	e xecutive	 and	
the	 Finance	director	 to	 manage	 relationships	 with	 institutional	 investors.	
the	Chairman	 also	 meets	 institutional	 investors	 to	 discuss	 overall	
strategy,	 governance	 and	 any	 concerns	 that	 shareholders	 may	 have.	
o nly	 where	 these	 more	 usual	 channels	 of	 communication	 have	 failed	
would	 the	b oard	 expect	 the	s enior	i ndependent	 or	 other	non-executive	
directors	to	 become	 involved,	 notwithstanding	 that	 both	 the	 2008	
Code	 and	 the	new	 Code	 specify	 attendance	 of	 the	s enior	i ndependent	
n on-executive	director	 at	 meetings	 with	 major	 shareholders.	regular	
feedback	 by	 the	 Company’s	 advisers	 on	 investor	 meetings	 and	
results	 presentations	 is	 circulated	 to	 all	directors.	
apart	from	 this	 distinct	 area,	bodycote	 was	 in	 compliance	 with	 the	
provisions	 of	 the	 2008	 Code	 throughout	 2010.
operation	of	the	 CoDe
taken	together	 with	 the	audit	 Committee	report,	 the	nomination	
Committee	report	 and	 the	b oard	report	 on	remuneration	 presented	
on	 pages	 36	 to	 43,	 this	 statement	 explains	 how	b odycote	 has	 applied	
the	 principles	 of	 good	 corporate	 governance	 set	 out	 in	 the	 2008	 Code.
leaDership
t he	b oard	 is	 responsible	 to	 shareholders	 for	 good	 corporate	 governance,	
setting	 the	 Company’s	 strategic	 objectives,	 values	 and	 standards	 and	
ensuring	 the	 necessary	 resources	 are	 in	 place	 to	 achieve	 the	 objectives.
t he	b oard	 met	 on	 eleven	 occasions	 during	 2010,	 including	 a	 specific	
meeting	 to	 review	 and	 update	 the	 Company’s	 long-term	 strategy.	
the	board	 of	directors	 comprises	 six	 members,	 of	 whom	 four	 are	
non-executive	directors	 and	 two	 are	executive	directors	 led	 by	 the	
Company’s	 part-time	non-executive	 Chairman,	 Mr	a.M.	thomson,	
who	 also	 chairs	 the	nomination	 Committee.	the	 Chief	executive	 is	
Mr	s.C.	 Harris	 and	 the	senior	independent	non-executive	director	
is	 Mr	j.	vogelsang,	 who	 also	 chairs	 the	remuneration	 Committee.	
the	audit	Committee	 is	 chaired	 by	 Mr	j.a.	biles.	brief	 biographical	
details	 of	 all	directors	 are	 given	 on	 page	 45.
the	board	 makes	 visits	 to	uK	 and	 overseas	 facilities.	 Certain	 defined	
powers	 and	 issues	 are	 reserved	 for	 the	board	 to	 decide,	 inter	 alia:	
	 	strategy;
	 	approval	 of	 financial	 statements	 and	 circulars;
	 	 Capital	 projects,	 acquisitions	 and	 disposals;
	 	annual	 budgets;
	 		 directors’	 appointments,	 service	 agreements,	 remuneration	 and	
succession	 planning;
	 		 policies	 for	 financial	 statements,	 treasury,	 safety,	 health	 and	
environment,	 donations;
	 	 Committees’	 terms	 of	 reference;
	 	board	 and	 committee	 chairmen	 and	 membership;
	 	investments;
	 	equity	 and	 bank	 financing;
	 	internal	 control	 and	 risk	 management;
	 	 Corporate	 governance;
	 	 Key	 external	 and	 internal	 appointments;	 and
	 	employee	 share	 incentives	 and	 the	uK	pension	scheme.
in	 advance	 of	b oard	 meetings	directors	 are	 supplied	 with	 up-to-date	
information	 about	 the	 trading	 performance	 of	 each	 operating	
division	 and	 sub-division,	 the	 Group’s	 overall	 financial	 position	 and	
its	 achievement	 against	 prior	 year,	 budgets	 and	 forecasts.	they	 are	
also	 supplied	 with	 the	 latest	 available	 information	 on	 safety,	 health	
and	 environmental	 and	 risk	 management	 issues	 and	 details	 of	 the	
safety	 and	 health	 performance	 of	 the	 Group,	 and	 each	 division,	
in	 terms	 of	 severity	 and	 frequency	 rates	 for	 accidents	 at	 work.		
w here	 required,	 a	director	 may	 seek	 independent	 professional	 advice	
the	 cost	 of	 which	 is	 reimbursed	 by	 the	 Company.	all	directors	 have	
access	 to	 the	 Company	s ecretary	 and	 they	 may	 also	 address	 specific	
issues	 to	 the	s enior	i ndependent	non-executive	director.	i n	 accordance	
with	 the	articles	 of	association,	 all	 newly	 appointed	directors	 and	
any	 who	 have	 not	 stood	 for	 re-election	 at	 the	 two	 previous	annual	
General	 Meetings,	 if	 eligible,	 must	 submit	 themselves	 for	 re-election.	
n on-executive	directors,	 including	 the	 Chairman,	 are	 appointed	 for	 fixed	
terms	 not	 exceeding	 three	 years	 from	 the	 date	 of	 first	 election	 by	
shareholders,	 after	 which	 the	 appointment	 may	 be	 extended	 by	 mutual	
agreement.	a	 statement	 of	 the	directors’	 responsibilities	 is	 set	 out	
on	 page	 44.	the	board	 also	 operates	 three	 committees.	these	 are	
the	nomination	 Committee,	 the	remuneration	 Committee	 and	 the	
audit	Committee.
so	that	 the	 necessary	 actions	 can	 be	 taken	 promptly,	 a	 finance	
committee,	 comprising	 the	 Chairman	 (or	 failing	 him	 any	 other	 non-
executive	 director),	 the	 Chief	executive	 and	 the	 Finance	director	
operates	 between	 the	 dates	 of	 scheduled	board	 meetings	 and	 is	
authorised	 to	 make	 decisions,	 within	 limits	 defined	 by	 the	board,	 in	
respect	 of	 certain	 finance,	 treasury,	 tax	 or	 investment	 matters.
inDepenDenCe	of	non-eXeCutive	 DireCtors
the	board	 considers	 that	 Messrs	j.a.	biles,	j.	vogelsang	 and	
dr	K.	rajagopal	 are	 all	 independent	 for	 the	 purposes	 of	 the	 Code.
Commitment
attendance	of	directors	 at	 regular	 scheduled	 meetings	 of	 the	
board	and	 its	 Committees	 is	 shown	 in	 the	 table	 below:
	 	 Full 	 board
	 audit	
	 Committee
	 r emuneration	
	 Committee
	nomination	
	 Committee
director –––––––	eligible	 to	 attend	 &	 attended	 –––––––
a.M.	thomson 	 11 	 – 	 7 	 1
s.C.	Harris 	 11 	 – 	 – 	 1
j.	vogelsang 	 11 	 4 	 7 	 1
j.a.	biles 	 11 	 4 	 7 	 1
K.	rajagopal 	 11 	 4 	 7 	 1
d.F.	landless 	 11 	 – 	 – 	 –
all	directors	 attended	 the	 maximum	 number	 of	 scheduled	board,	
audit,	remuneration	and	nomination	 Committee	 meetings	 that	 they	
were	 scheduled	 to	 attend.	in	 addition	 by	 invitation	 Messrs	thomson,	
Harris	 and	landless	 attended	 the	 whole	 or	 part	 of	 the	 meetings	 of	
the	audit,	nomination	 and	remuneration	 Committees.
** 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 35
performanCe	evaluation
during	the	 year,	 the	board	 conducted	 an	 evaluation	 of	 its	 own	
performance	 and	 that	 of	 its	 committees	 and	 individual	directors.	
t he	 process	 involved	 the	 completion	 by	 each	director	 of	 a	 confidential	
questionnaire	 in	 a	 form	 consistent	 with	 previous	 years,	 and	 including	
amongst	 other	 areas:	 remit	 and	 objectives,	board	 composition,	
training	 and	 resources,	 governance,	 stakeholder	 engagement,	
board	procedures	 and	 overall	 effectiveness.
t he	 Company	s ecretary	 analysed	 the	 completed	 questionnaires	 and	
summarised	 the	 findings	 in	 a	 report	 for	 the	 Chairman.	the	 Chairman	
subsequently	 conducted	 one-to-one	 discussions	 with	 each	 of	 the	b oard	
members	 after	 which	 he	 reported	 back	 to	 the	 whole	board	 on	 the	
evaluation	 process.	the	 responses	 to	 the	 questionnaires	 demonstrated	
a	 high	 degree	 of	 consistency	 and	 the	 evaluation	 process	 affirmed	 the	
board’s	confidence	 in	 the	 Group’s	 system	 of	 corporate	 governance.	
a rising	 from	 the	 exercise,	 the	b oard	 has	 concluded	 that	 an	 enhanced	
focus	 should	 be	 placed	 on	 divisional	 strategies,	 overall	 performance	
evaluation,	 sustainability	 and	 risk	 management.	
Messrs	s.C.	 Harris	 and	d.	 F.	landless	 were	 appraised	 internally	 in	
j anuary	 and	 February	 2011.	the	remuneration	 and	audit	 Committees	
reviewed	 their	 own	 performance	 in	december	 2010	 and	 the	nomination	
Committee	 reviewed	 its	 performance	 in	november	 2010.
l ed	 by	 the	s enior	i ndependent	non-executive	director,	 the	directors	
have	 carried	 out	 an	 evaluation	 of	 the	 Chairman’s	 performance	 in	
november	2010.
proposals	for	re-eleCtion
the	board	 has	 decided,	 in	 line	 with	 the	new	 Code,	 that	 all	directors	
will	 retire	 annually	 and,	 other	 than	 in	 the	 case	 of	 any	director	 who	 has	
decided	 to	 stand	 down	 from	 the	board,	 will	 offer	 themselves	 for	
re-election	 at	 the	annual	 General	 Meeting.	accordingly	 Messrs	
a .M.	thomson,	s .C.	 Harris,	d.F.	landless,	j.	v ogelsang,	j.a .	b iles	
and	dr	 K.	rajagopal	 will	 stand	 for	 re-election	 and	 the	board	
recommends	 to	 shareholders	 that	 they	 re-elect	 all	 the	directors.
the	performance	 of	 each	director	 was	 evaluated	 as	 indicated	 above	
and	 the	board	 confirms	 in	 respect	 of	 each	 that	 their	 performance	
continues	 to	 be	 effective	 and	 that	 each	 continues	 to	 demonstrate	
commitment	 to	 his	 respective	 role.
internal	 Control	 &	risk	management
the	board	 is	 responsible	 for	 the	 Group’s	 system	 of	 internal	 control	
and	 for	 reviewing	 its	 effectiveness.	such	 a	 system	 is	 designed	 to	
manage	 rather	 than	 eliminate	 the	 risk	 of	 failure	 to	 achieve	 business	
objectives,	 and	 can	 only	 provide	 reasonable	 and	 not	 absolute	 assurance	
against	 material	 misstatement	 or	 loss.	the	b oard	 has	 applied	p rinciple	
C.2	 of	 the	 Code	 by	 establishing	 a	 continuous	 process	 for	 identifying,	
evaluating	 and	 managing	 the	 Group’s	 significant	 risks,	 including	 risks	
arising	 out	 of	b odycote’s	 corporate	 and	 social	 engagement.	the	b oard	
continuously	 and	 regularly	 reviews	 the	 process,	 which	 has	 been	 in	
place	 from	 the	 start	 of	 2000	 to	 the	 date	 of	 approval	 of	 this	 report	 and	
which	 is	 in	 accordance	 with	internal	 Control:	 Guidance	 for	directors	
on	 the	 Combined	 Code	 published	 in	s eptember	 1999	 and	 with	 revised	
guidance	 on	 internal	 control	 published	october	 2005.	the	board’s	
monitoring	 covers	 all	 controls,	 including	 financial,	 operational	 and	
compliance	 controls	 and	 risk	 management	 systems.	it	 is	 based	
principally	 on	 reviewing	 reports	 from	 management	 and	 from	 internal	
audit	 to	 consider	 whether	 any	 significant	 weaknesses	 are	 promptly	
remedied	 and	 indicate	 a	 need	 for	 more	 extensive	 monitoring.	the	audit	
Committee	 assists	 the	b oard	 in	 discharging	 these	 review	 responsibilities.
t he	 Group	 prepares	 a	 comprehensive	 annual	 budget	 which	 is	 closely	
monitored	 and	 updated	 quarterly.	the	 Group’s	 authority	 matrix	 clearly	
sets	 out	 authority	 limits	 for	 those	 with	 delegated	 responsibility	 and	
specifies	 what	 can	 only	 be	 decided	 with	 central	 approval.
t he	i nternal	audit	 department	 monitors	 the	 Group’s	 internal	 financial	
control	 system	 and	 its	 reviews	 are	 conducted	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 plans	
approved	 by	 the	audit	 Committee,	 to	 which	internal	audit	 reports	
are	 submitted	 on	 a	 regular	 basis.
each	d ivision	 provides	 assurance	 on	 specified	 financial	 and	 non-financial	
controls	 and	 these	 are	 reported	 twice-yearly	 to	 the	audit	 Committee.
during	2010,	 in	 compliance	 with	 provision	 C.2.1,	 management	
performed	 a	 specific	 assessment	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 this	 annual	
report.	 Management’s	 assessment,	 which	 has	 been	 reviewed	 by	
the	audit	 Committee	 and	 the	board,	 included	 a	 review	 of	 all	 Group	
and	 operational	 risks	 (by	 means	 of	 workshops	 and	 interviews)	 and	
the	 risks	 identified	 (both	 before	 and	 after	 mitigating	 actions)	 were	
assessed	 using	 conventional	 impact	 and	 likelihood	 scoring,	 and	 further	
assessment,	 monitoring	 and	 review	 work	 was	 scheduled	 for	 2011.	
the	Group’s	 risk	 management	 framework	 is	 progressively	 being	
embedded	 throughout	 the	 Group.	the	 principal	 risks	 and	 uncertainties	
affecting	 the	 Group	 are	 shown	 in	 the	 Finance	director’s	report	 on	
page	 26.	no	 significant	 previously	 unidentified	 risks	 were	 uncovered	
as	 part	 of	 this	 process,	 and	 the	 necessary	 actions	 have	 been	 or	 are	
being	 taken	 to	 remedy	 any	 significant	 failings	 or	 weaknesses	 identified	
as	 part	 of	 the	 reviews.
investor	relations
t he	 Chief	e xecutive	 and	 Finance	director	 regularly	 talk	 with	 and	 meet	
institutional	 investors,	 both	 individually	 and	 collectively,	 and	 this	 has	
enabled	 institutional	 investors	 to	 increase	 their	 understanding	 of	 the	
Group’s	 strategy.	the	 business	 of	 the	a nnual	 General	 Meeting	 comprises	
a	 review	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations	 for	 the	 benefit	 of	 shareholders	
attending.	in	 addition,	 since	 1998,	 internet	 users	 have	 been	 able	 to	
view	 up-to-date	 news	 on	 the	 Group	 and	 its	 share	 price	 via	 the	b odycote	
website	 at	 www.bodycote.com.	users	 of	 the	 website	 can	 access	
news	 of	 all	 recent	 announcements	 and	 copies	 of	 results	 presentations	
and	 can	 enrol	 to	 hear	 live	 presentations.	on	 a	 regular	 basis,	b odycote’s	
financial	 advisers,	 corporate	 brokers	 and	 financial	 public	 relations	
consultants	 provide	 the	directors	 with	 opinion	 surveys	 from	 analysts	
and	 investing	 institutions	 following	 visits	 and	 meetings	 with	 the	 Chief	
executive	 and	 Finance	director.	as	 stated	 on	 page	 34	 the	 Chairman	 and	
senior	independent	non-executive	director	 are	 available	 to	 discuss	
any	 issues	 not	 resolved	 by	 the	 Chief	executive	 and	 Finance	director.	
o n	 specific	 issues,	 such	 as	 the	 introduction	 of	 long	 term	 incentive	 and	
share	 matching	 schemes	 in	 2006	 and	 changes	 thereto	 in	 2009	 and	
2010,	 and	 in	 2008	 with	 the	 return	 of	 cash,	 the	 Company	 will	 seek	 the	
views	 of	 leading	 investors.
by	order	 of	 the	board
J.	r.	grime
secretary	
24	 February	 2011
springwood	Court	
springwood	Close	
tytherington	business	park	
Macclesfield	
Cheshire	
sK10	2xF 	 36	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
report	 oF	tHe	audit	CoMMittee
the	audit	Committee	 is	 a	 sub-committee	 of	 the	board	 whose	 main	
role	 is	 to	 encourage	 and	 safeguard	 the	 highest	 standards	 of	 integrity,	
financial	 reporting,	 risk	 management	 and	 internal	 controls.	
the	Committee’s	 responsibilities	 are	 set	 out	 in	 written	 terms	 of	
reference	 which	 include	 all	 matters	 indicated	 by	 the	disclosure	 and	
transparency	rules	and	 the	 Code,	 which	 are	 available	 for	 inspection	
on	 the	 Company’s	 website	 and	 include:
	 		 reviewing	 the	 form	 and	 content	 of	 interim	 and	 full	 year	 accounts	
and	 results	 announcements	 of	 the	 Company,	 interim	 management	
statements	 and	 any	 other	 formal	 announcements	 relating	 to	 the	
Company’s	 financial	 performance,	 including	 monitoring	 their	 integrity	
and	 reviewing	 significant	 reporting	 issues	 and	 judgements	 contained	
therein,	 and	 recommending	 them	 to	 the	b oard	 for	 approval;
	 		 reviewing	 the	 Group’s	 systems	 of	 risk	 management	 and	 internal	
financial	 control;
	 		 monitoring	 and	 reviewing	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 Company’s	
internal	 audit	 function	 and	 considering	 regular	 reports	 from	i nternal	
audit	on	 internal	 financial	 controls	 and	 risk	 management;
	 		 considering	 the	 appointment,	 re-appointment	 or	 changing	 of	
external	 auditors,	 overseeing	 the	 process	 for	 their	 selection	 and	
making	 recommendations	 to	 the	b oard	 on	 their	 appointment	 which	
will	 be	 put	 to	 the	 shareholders	 for	 their	 approval	 at	 a	 General	 Meeting	
and	 to	 approve	 their	 remuneration	 and	 terms	 of	 engagement;
	 		 agreeing	 the	 nature	 and	 scope	 of	 the	 external	 auditor’s	 work	 and	
considering	 their	 reports	 on	 the	 Company’s	 accounts,	 reports	 to	
shareholders	 and	 their	 evaluation	 of	 the	 systems	 of	 internal	
financial	 control	 and	 risk	 management;	 and
	 		 monitoring	 and	 reviewing	 the	 external	 auditors’	 independence,	
objectivity	 and	 effectiveness,	 taking	 into	 account	 professional	
and	 regulatory	 requirements.
Composition	of	the	auDit	 Committee
the	audit	Committee	 comprises	 Messrs	j.a.	biles,	j.	vogelsang	
and	dr	 K.	rajagopal	 who	 are	 all	 independent	non-executive	directors.	
t heir	 biographical	 details	 are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 45	 and	 their	 remuneration	
is	 shown	 on	 page	 42.	the	 Chairman	 of	 the	audit	 Committee	 since	
16	august	 2007	 has	 been	 Mr	j.a .	b iles,	 who	 was	 appointed	 a	director	
on	 that	 date,	 following	 a	 recommendation	 from	 the	nomination	
Committee.	the	audit	 Committee	 Chairman	 is	 considered	 to	 have	
recent	 and	 relevant	 financial	 experience.	 Mr	biles	 is	 a	 chartered	
accountant,	 who	 served	 as	 a	 plc	 finance	 director	 (FKi	 plc	 from	 1998	
to	 2004	 and	 Chubb	security	 plc	 from	 1991	 to	 1997)	 and	 is	 currently	
also	 the	 Chairman	 of	 the	audit	 Committees	 of	 Charter	i nternational	 plc	
(2005)	 and	 Hermes	 Fund	 Managers	limited	 (2005).	the	 Company	
secretary	is	 secretary	 to	 the	audit	 Committee.	the	 Chairman,	 Chief	
executive,	 Finance	director,	senior	internal	auditor,	 Group	 Financial	
Controller,	vice-president	 (risk	and	business	processes),	 Group	
treasurer,	Head	 of	tax,	 other	 senior	 finance	 personnel	 and	 external	
auditors	 attend	audit	 Committee	 meetings	 as	 appropriate	 by	 invitation.
main	aCtivities	of	the	auDit	 Committee
t he	audit	 Committee	 met	 four	 times	 during	 2010,	 and	 in	 February	 2011	
to	 consider	 this	 financial	 report	 and	 all	 Committee	 members	 attended	
the	 maximum	 number	 of	 meetings	 they	 were	 scheduled	 to	 attend.
t he	 Committee	 also	 meets	 separately	 with	 the	v ice-president	 (r isk	
and	business	processes)	 and	 with	 the	 external	 auditors,	 without	
management	 being	 present,	 after	 the	 end	 of	 most	 formal	 meetings.
in	 addition,	 the	 Committee	 Chairman	 has	 preparatory	 meetings	
with	 the	 external	 auditors	 and,	 where	 necessary,	 with	 Group	 senior	
management,	 prior	 to	 committee	 meetings.
at	their	 meetings,	 the	audit	 Committee	 considers	 an	 agenda	 of	
items	 including	 the	 minutes	 of	 the	 last	 meeting	 and	 a	 list	 of	 action	
points	 from	 previous	 meetings,	 to	 ensure	 that	 these	 are	 progressed.	
in	 addition,	 a	 number	 of	 specific	 items	 were	 reviewed:
	 		 at	 their	 February	 and	july	 meetings,	 the	audit	 Committee	
reviewed	 respectively	 the	 preliminary	 and	 interim	 announcements	
of	 results	 and	 the	 draft	 reports	 and	 accounts	 for	 the	 financial	
year	 and	 the	 half	 year.	on	 these	 occasions	 the	 Committee	
reviewed	 reports	 from	 the	 external	 auditors,	 identifying	 any	
accounting	 or	 judgemental	 items	 requiring	 its	 attention	 (including	
approval	 of	 the	 processes,	 assumptions	 and	 outcomes	 to	 assess	
fair	 values	 and	 impairments)	 and	 commenting	 on	 risk	 management	
and	 control	 matters.
	 		 a	 quarterly	 report	 on	 internal	 audit	 from	 the	vice-president
(risk	and	business	processes)	 was	 presented	 at	 each	 meeting	
and	 the	 findings	 discussed.	during	 the	 year	 the	 plan	 for	 the	
ensuing	 year’s	 work	 was	 considered.
	 		 the	 external	 auditors	 also	 presented	 their	 audit	 plans	 at	 the	
d ecember	 and	april	 meetings	 covering	 scope	 of	 work	 to	 be	 done	
and	 during	 the	 year	 there	 was	 a	 detailed	 review	 of	 their	 management	
letter	 covering	 the	 auditors’	 findings	 in	 respect	 of	 2009.
	 		 t he	audit	 Committee	 is	 also	 presented	 with	 an	 update	 on	 any	
material	 litigation	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 may	 be	 involved.
	 		 at	 each	 meeting	 an	 update	 is	 presented	 of	 any	 new	 accounting	
developments	 and	 requirements	 and	 any	 changes	 in	 corporate	
governance	 arrangements	 that	 may	 affect	 the	 Group.
	 		 o n	 a	 regular	 basis,	 the	 Committee	 reviewed	 papers	 on	 liquidity,	
banking	 arrangements	 and	 the	 appropriateness	 of	 the	 going	
concern	 assumption	 for	 preparation	 of	 the	 financial	 statements.	
the	Committee’s	 activities	 supported	 the	directors	 in	 their	
assessment	 of	 the	 going	 concern	 position	 of	 the	 Group,	 which	
is	 set	 out	 on	 page	 25.
	 		 d uring	 2010	 a	 new	 position	 of	v ice-president	 (r isk	 and	b usiness	
processes)	 was	 created	 with	 responsibility	 for	 developing	 the	
Group’s	 risk	 management	 framework	 and	 enhancing	 the	 Group’s	
risk	 assessment	 and	 mitigation	 activities.	this	 action	 demonstrates	
the	board’s	 continued	 commitment	 to	 maintain	 sound	 risk	
management	 and	 internal	 control	 systems. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 37
during	2010	 the	audit	 Committee	 also:
	 		 assessed	 and	 confirmed	 the	 independence	 of	 the	 external	 auditors;
	 		 having	 reviewed	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 audit,	 the	 performance	
and	 capabilities	 of	 the	 external	 auditors	 and	 having	 taken	 into	
account	 their	 tenure	 of	 office	 from	 2002	 and	 whether	 the	
position	 should	 be	 formally	 tendered,	 recommended	 to	 the	
board	that	 the	auditors	 be	 re-appointed	 and	 agreed	 their	 fees;
	 		 approved	 the	 Group’s	 accounting	 policies;
	 		 approved	 the	 management	 representations	 to	 the	 external	 auditors;
	 		 reviewed	 arrangements	 for	 reporting	 and	 investigating	 fraud	 and	
employee	 concerns;	 normal	 internal	 audit	 activity	 and	 operation	
of	 the	 Group’s	 ‘open	door’	 policy	 uncovered	 a	 small	 number	 of	
potentially	 fraudulent	 incidents	 which	 were	 all	 fully	 investigated.	
none	had	 any	 material	 financial	 impact	 on	 the	 Group	 and,	 where	
necessary,	 systems	 and	 procedures	 were	 amended	 to	 minimise	
the	 risk	 of	 recurrence;
	 		 reviewed	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 internal	 controls	 and	 risk	
management	 processes	 and	 recommended	 certain	 changes;	
	 		 reviewed	 the	 terms	 of	 reference	 for	 the	audit	 Committee;	 and
	 		 assessed	 the	 Committee’s	 own	 effectiveness.
inDepenDenCe	of	eXternal	auDitors
the	audit	Committee	 has	 put	 in	 place	 safeguards	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	
independence	 of	 the	 audit	 is	 not	 compromised.	in	 this	 respect,	 the	
audit	Committee	 reviewed:
	 		 the	 external	 auditors’	 plan	 for	 the	 current	 year,	 noting	 the	 role	 of	
the	 senior	 statutory	 auditor,	 who	 signs	 the	 audit	 report	 and	 who,	
in	 accordance	 with	 the	 professional	 rules,	 has	 not	 held	 office	 for	
more	 than	 five	 years,	 and	 any	 changes	 in	 the	 key	 audit	 staff;
	 		 the	 arrangements	 for	 day-to-day	 management	 of	 the	 audit	
relationship;	 and
	 		 the	 overall	 extent	 of	 non-audit	 services	 provided	 by	 the	 external	
auditors	 as	 specified	 below.
the	policy	 in	 respect	 of	 services	 provided	 by	 the	 external	 auditors	
is	 as	 follows:
	 		 audit-related	 services.	the	 external	 auditors	 are	 invited	 to	 provide	
services	 where	 their	 position	 as	 auditors	 renders	 them	 best	 placed	
to	 undertake	 the	 work.	this	 includes	 reporting	 and	 certification	
connected	 with	 borrowings,	 shareholders	 and	 circulars,	 regulatory	
requirements	 and	 work	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions	 and	 disposals.
	 		 in	 the	 case	 of	 other	 services	 no	 contracts	 in	 excess	 of	 £20,000
in	 value	 can	 be	 awarded	 to	 the	 external	 auditors	 without	 prior	
approval	 from	 the	 Chairman	 of	 the	audit	 Committee.
	 		 tax	 and	 general	 consulting	 work.	in	 general	 and	 where	 conflicts	
arise,	 the	 work	 is	 not	 awarded	 to	 the	 external	 auditors	 and	 is	 put	
out	 to	 tender.
	 		 there	 are	 no	 contractual	 restrictions	 on	 who	 the	audit	 Committee	
can	 choose	 as	 external	 auditors.
internal	auDit
internal	audit	 independently	 reviews	 the	 risk	 and	 control	 processes	
operated	 by	 management.	it	 carries	 out	 independent	 audits	 in	
accordance	 with	 an	 internal	 audit	 plan	 which	 is	 agreed	 with	 the	
audit	Committee	 before	 the	 start	 of	 the	 financial	 year.	this	 plan	
takes	 account	 of	 the	 risk	 management	 framework	 surrounding	
major	 business	 risks	 in	 each	 operation	 and	 provides	 a	 high	 degree	
of	 financial	 and	 geographical	 coverage.	where	 appropriate,	 either	
because	 of	 language,	 geographical	 remoteness	 or	 where	 technical	
expertise	 is	 required,	 the	internal	audit	department	 engages	 third	
party	 specialists	 to	 conduct	internal	audits.	internal	audit	 reports	
include	 recommendations	 to	 improve	 internal	 controls	 together	 with	
agreed	 managerial	 action	 plans	 to	 resolve	 issues	 raised.	internal	
audit	 follows	 up	 the	 implementation	 of	 recommendations	 and	
reports	 progress	 to	 senior	 management	 and	 the	audit	 Committee.	
the	Committee	 noted	 that	 the	 2010	internal	audit	 programme	
was	 successfully	 completed	 with	 sites	 representing	 approximately	
70%	 of	 Group	 revenue	 being	 the	 subject	 of	 internal	 audit	 reports.	
at	the	 same	 time	 there	 was	 a	 declining	 trend	 in	 the	 requirement	
for	 corrective	 actions.	the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	i nternal	audit	 function	
is	 reviewed	 and	 discussed	 on	 an	 annual	 basis	 with	 the	v ice	p resident	
(risk	and	business	processes)	 and	senior	internal	auditor.
overview
as	a	 result	 of	 its	 work	 during	 the	 year,	 the	audit	 Committee	 has	
concluded	 that	 it	 has	 acted	 in	 accordance	 with	 its	 terms	 of	 reference	
and	 has	 ensured	 the	 independence	 and	 objectivity	 of	 the	 external	 auditors.
on	behalf	 of	 the	audit	 Committee:
J.a.	 Biles
audit	Committee	 Chairman	
24	 February	 2011 	 38	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
report 	 o F	 t He	 no Mination 	C o MMittee
role	of	the	nomination	 Committee
t he	nomination	 Committee	 is	 a	 sub-committee	 of	 the	b oard	 whose	
purpose	 is	 to	 advise	 the	b oard	 on	 the	 appointment	 and,	 if	 necessary,	
dismissal	 of	executive	 and	non-executive	directors.	the	 full	 terms	
of	 reference	 of	 the	nomination	 Committee	 are	 provided	 on	 the	
Company’s	 website.
Composition	of	the	nomination	 Committee
t he	n omination	 Committee	 comprises	 all	 the	 independent	n on-executive	
d irectors	 together	 with	 the	 Chairman	 and	 Chief	e xecutive.	the	 quorum	
necessary	 for	 the	 transaction	 of	 business	 is	 two,	 each	 of	 whom	 must	
be	 an	 independent	non-executive	director.
t he	 Chairman	 acts	 as	 the	 Chairman	 of	 the	 Committee,	 although	 the	
Chairman	 may	 not	 chair	 the	 Committee	 when	 it	 is	 dealing	 with	 the	
matter	 of	 succession	 to	 the	 Chairmanship	 of	 the	 Company.	only	 members	
of	 the	 Committee	 have	 the	 right	 to	 attend	 the	 Committee	 meetings.	
However,	 other	 individuals	 and	 external	 advisers	 may	 be	 invited	 to	
attend	 for	 all	 or	 part	 of	 any	 meeting	 as	 and	 when	 appropriate.
the	Company	secretary	 is	 secretary	 to	 the	 Committee.
the	Committee	 has	 the	 authority	 to	 seek	 any	 information	 that	 is	
required	 from	 any	 officer	 or	 employee	 of	 the	 Company	 or	 its	 subsidiaries.	
in	 connection	 with	 its	 duties,	 the	 Committee	 is	 authorised	 by	 the	b oard	
to	 take	 such	 independent	 advice	 (including	 legal	 or	 other	 professional	
advice,	 at	 the	 Company’s	 expense)	 as	 it	 considers	 necessary,	 including	
requests	 for	 information	 from,	 or	 commissioning	 investigations	 by	
external	 advisers.
main	aCtivities	of	the	nomination	 Committee
Mr	a .M.	thomson	 chairs	 the	n omination	 Committee	 which	 also	 comprises	
Messrs	j.a.	biles,	j.	vogelsang,	s.C.	 Harris	 and	dr	 K.	rajagopal.	
in	 2010	 the	 Committee	 discussed	 performance	 management	 and	
assessment	 for	 the	 Chief	e xecutive	 and	 other	 senior	 executives	 and	
considered	 and	 authorised	 the	 potential	 conflicts	 of	 interest	 which	
might	 arise	 where	 a	 director	 has	 fiduciary	 responsibilities	 in	 respect	
of	 other	 organisations.	no	 inappropriate	 conflicts	 of	 interests	 exist.	
t he	 Committee	 also	 assigned	 the	 Chairman	 to	 review	 and	 agree	 with	
the	 Chief	executive	 the	 Group’s	 objectives	 for	 the	 forthcoming	 year.	
in	november	 2010	 the	nomination	 Committee,	 with	 both	executive	
d irectors	 in	 attendance,	 carried	 out	 a	 formal	 evaluation	 of	 the	b oard’s	
performance,	 and	 reviewed	 the	board’s	 size	 and	 composition,	 the	
frequency	 of	 and	 process	 for	b oard	 and	 committee	 meetings,	 and	 best	
practice	 for	 the	 handling	 of	 a	 number	 of	board	 issues	 including	 the	
review	 of	 strategy,	 succession	 planning,	 sustainability,	 the	 implications	
for	bodycote	 of	 the	uK	bribery	act	 and	 risk	 management.
on	behalf	 of	 the	 Committee:
a.m.	thomson
Chairman	 of	 the	nomination	 Committee	
24	 February	 2011 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 39
board	 report	 on	reMuneration
the	remuneration	Committee	 is	 responsible	 for	 remuneration	
policies	 that	 aim	 to	 create	 value	 for	 shareholders.	
r emuneration	 structures	 and	 packages	 therefore	 include	 competitive	
basic	 salaries,	 a	 high	 potential	 for	 variable	 pay	 that	 is	 clearly	 linked	
with	 superior	 performance	 and	 absolute	 value	 delivered	 in	 the	
business,	 with	 key	 business	 value	 drivers	 used	 as	 a	 basis	 for	
measuring	 performance	 and	 a	 significant	 proportion	 of	 variable	
pay	 in	 conditional	 shares.
this	report	 sets	 out	 the	 policy	 and	 disclosures	 on	directors’	
remuneration	 as	 required	 by	 the	large	 and	 Medium-sized	 Companies	
and	 Groups	 (accounts	and	reports)	regulations	2008	 issued	 under	
the	 Companies	act	 2006	 (the	 ‘act’).	in	 accordance	 with	 the	act,	 a	
resolution	 to	 approve	 this	 report	 will	 be	 proposed	 at	 the	 forthcoming	
annual	General	 Meeting	 of	 the	 Company.	the	 vote	 will	 have	 advisory	
status	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 remuneration	 policy	 and	 overall	 remuneration	
packages	 and	 will	 not	 be	 specific	 to	 individual	 levels	 of	 remuneration.	
the	Chairman	 of	 the	remuneration	 Committee	 will	 be	 available	 at	
the	annual	 General	 Meeting	 to	 answer	 questions	 about	directors’	
remuneration.	
the	sections	 of	 this	 report	 dealing	 with	directors’	 emoluments	
paid,	 pensions	 and	 share	 options	 and	 incentives	 have	 been	 audited.	
the	remaining	 sections	 are	 not	 subject	 to	 audit.
the	remuneration	 Committee
t he	 Committee	 determines	 the	 remuneration	 of	e xecutive	directors	
and	 senior	 executives,	 and	 the	 terms	 of	 the	 service	 contracts	 and	 all	
other	 terms	 and	 conditions	 of	 employment	 of	 the	e xecutive	directors.	
t he	 Committee’s	 full	 terms	 of	 reference	 are	 available	 on	 the	 Group’s	
website.	the	 members	 of	 the	remuneration	 Committee	 during	
2010	 were	j.	vogelsang	 (Chairman),	j.a.	biles,	a.M.	thomson	 and	
d r	 K.	rajagopal.	during	 the	 year,	 the	 Committee	 has	 taken	 advice	
from	e rnst	 &	y oung	llp	 to	 provide	 independent	 advice	 on	 remuneration.	
in	 addition,	 the	 Company	 received	 actuarial	 and	 other	 pensions	 advice	
from	deloitte	llp	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 management	 of	 risk	 arising	 from	
the	uK	 final	 salary	 pension	 scheme.
n one	 of	 the	 Committee	 members	 has	 any	 personal	 financial	 interest	
(other	 than	 as	 a	 shareholder),	 conflict	 of	 interest,	 cross-directorships	
or	 day-to-day	 involvement	 in	 the	 running	 of	 the	business.
remuneration	poliCy
the	Committee	 aims	 to	 provide	 a	 remuneration	 policy	 consistent	
with	 the	 Group’s	 overall	 business	 strategy	 and	 thereby	 attract	 and	
retain	 high	 calibre	 executives,	 align	 executives’	 rewards	 with	 the	
creation	 of	 shareholder	 value	 and	 motivate	 executives	 to	 achieve	 and	
maintain	 challenging	 levels	 of	 company	 and	 individual	 performance.	
Market	 rates	 are	 determined	 by	 reference	 to	 other	 companies	 of	
similar	 size,	 activities	 and	 complexity.	at	 the	 same	 time,	 policy	 in	 this	
area	 is	 sensitive	 to	 the	 remuneration	 structure	 within	 the	 Group.
the	Committee	 keeps	 both	 the	 fixed	 and	 variable	 elements	 of	 each	
executive	director’s	 and	 senior	 executive’s	 overall	 package	 under	
review.	in	 recent	 years,	 the	 Committee	 has	 progressively	 increased	
the	 proportion	 of	 variable	 as	 opposed	 to	 fixed	 element	 of	 pay,	 so	 that	
currently	 the	 total	 potential	 from	 variable	 performance	 related	 pay	
is	 now	 substantially	 in	 excess	 of	 basic	 pay.
t he	 Committee	 also	 considers	 the	 targets	 set	 for	 the	 variable	 elements	
of	e xecutive	directors’	 and	 senior	 executives’	 remuneration	 which	
at	 all	 times	 aim	 to	 encourage	 appropriate	 behaviours	 and	 deliver	
exceptional	 and	 sustainable	 financial	 performance	 measured	 against	
the	 Group’s	 strategic	 plans.	
during	the	 year	 the	 Committee	 met	 seven	 times	 to	 consider	
amongst	 other	 matters:
	 		 the	 annual	 bonus	 and	 payments	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 ended
31	december	 2009;
	 		 the	 annual	 bonus	 structure	 and	 performance	 targets	 for	 the
financial	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010;
	 		 basic	 salaries	 payable	 to	 each	 of	 the	e xecutive	directors	 to	 ensure	
they	 remain	 both	 competitive	 and	 aligned	 with	 remuneration	 policy;
	 		 the	 conditional	 awards	 made	 under	 the	bodycote	incentive	plan	
and,	 following	 shareholder	 approval	 at	 the	 2010	aGM	 of	 changes	
to	 the	bodycote	share	 Match	plan,	 the	 first	 round	 of	 awards	
under	 the	 new	bodycote	 Co-investment	plan;
	 		 the	 disclosure	 policy	 in	 relation	 to	 performance	 targets	 attaching	
to	 awards	 made	 under	 both	 its	 short	 and	 long	 term	 incentive	
plans	 as	 compared	 to	 its	 peers	 and	 general	 market	 practice;	 and
	 		 the	 company’s	 remuneration	 policy	 in	 light	 of	 the	 revised	
recommendations	 in	 the	uK	 Corporate	 Governance	 Code	 (formerly	
the	 Combined	 Code)	 and	 the	 revised	abi	 guidelines	 on	e xecutive	
remuneration	published	 in	december	 2009.	
fiXeD	elements	of	pay
the	fixed	 elements	 of	 remuneration	 are	 salaries,	 pensions	
and	 other	 benefits.
Basic	salary
a s	 part	 of	 the	 Committee’s	 annual	 review	 process	 the	 basic	 salaries	
for	 each	e xecutive	director	 and	 the	 senior	 executives	 were	 reviewed	
by	 the	 Committee	 during	 the	 year.	the	 review	 took	 into	 account	 the	
responsibilities	 and	 performance	 of	 the	 individual,	 current	 market	
practice	 and	 pay	 in	 similar	uK	 engineering	 businesses,	 companies	
who	 operate	 in	 the	 same	 sector	 as	bodycote	 and	 companies	 of	 a	
comparable	 size	 and	 scale	 of	 operations.	the	 Committee	 was	 also	
mindful	 of	 pay	 levels	 amongst	 the	 employee	 population.
pension	
t he	 Committee	 reviews	 the	 pension	 arrangements	 for	 the	e xecutive	
directors	to	 ensure	 that	 the	 benefits	 provided	 are	 consistent	 with	
those	 provided	 by	 other	 similar	 companies.
Mr	 Harris	 is	 a	 member	 of	 the	 Group’s	 defined	 contribution	
arrangement	 and	 receives	 contributions	 from	 the	 Group	 at	 a	 rate	
of	 22%	 of	 basic	 salary.	in	 addition,	 in	 the	 event	 of	 death,	 a	 death	
in	 service	 benefit	 of	 eight	 times	 basic	 salary	 will	 become	 payable.
the	pension	 for	 Mr	landless	 is	 provided	 partly	 under	 the	 Group’s	
uK	contributory	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 scheme,	 which	 has	 a	
normal	 retirement	 age	 of	 65	 and	 which	 is	 closed	 to	 new	 members	
with	 increases	 in	 pensionable	 salary	 capped	 at	 3%	 per	 annum,	 and	
partly	 through	 a	 defined	 contribution	 arrangement.	the	 Group’s	
contributions	 to	 Mr	landless’	 defined	 contribution	 arrangement	 are	
16%	 of	 basic	 salary	 above	 the	 defined	 benefit	 scheme	 cap. 	 40	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
board	 report	 on	reMuneration
Continued
the	defined	 benefit	 scheme	 also	 provides	 lump	 sum	 death-in-service	
benefits	 and	 pension	 benefits	 based	 on	 final	 pensionable	 salary.
a n	 analysis	 of	 the	 accrued	 pension	 entitlements	 for	 Mr	landless	 under	
the	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 scheme	 during	 2010	 is	 given	 on	 page	 42.
other	fixed	elements
the	Company	 provides	 other	 benefits	 in	 line	 with	 market	 practices.	
these	include	 the	 provision	 of	 a	 company	 car	 (or	 an	 allowance	 in	
lieu),	 private	 medical	 insurance	 for	 the	executive	directors	 and	 their	
families,	 and	 long-term	 disability	 insurance.
variaBle	elements	of	pay
there	are	 three	 variable	 elements	 of	 pay.
annual	 Bonuses
the	Committee	 provided	executive	directors	 and	 other	 senior	
executives	 with	 the	 opportunity	 to	 receive	 an	 annual	 bonus	 in	 2010	
of	 up	 to	 100%	 of	 basic	 salary,	 subject	 to	 meeting	 targets	 based	 upon	
Group,	 individual	 performance	 and	 the	 achievement	 of	 personal	
objectives.	 For	 those	 senior	 executives	 with	 divisional	 responsibilities,	
part	 of	 the	 performance-related	 bonus	 is	 also	 based	 on	 their	 relevant	
sphere	 of	 responsibility.	the	 Committee	 adopt	 a	 weighted	 basket	
of	 measures	 approach	 to	 target	 setting	 for	 annual	 bonuses	 that	
includes	 a	 range	 of	 key	 financial	 and	 individual	 performance	 metrics.	
t he	 Committee	 consider	 this	 approach	 the	 most	 appropriate	 in	 order	
to	 ensure	 behaviours	 are	 appropriately	 balanced.	
the	measures	 used	 for	 annual	 bonus	 payments	 in	 respect	 of	 2010,	
the	 maximum	 potential	 and	 the	 level	 of	 performance	 achieved	 are	
set	 out	 as	 follows:
Measure Maximum	 achievement
Group	 Management	operating	profit 50% 50%
Group	 Cash	 Management 30% 30%
Finally,	 up	 to	 20%	 of	 the	 annual	 bonus	 was	 subject	 to	 individual	
performance	 objectives.	several	 performance	 objectives	 are	 set	 for	
executive	directors	 and	 all	 senior	 executives	 and	 these	 are	 designed	 to	
achieve	 delivery	 of	 key	 financial	 and	 or	 strategic	 objectives	 for	 the	 Group.
in	 addition	 to	 the	 measures	 set	 out	 above,	 the	 Committee	 also	 has	
discretion	 to	 reduce	 the	 awards	 otherwise	 earned	 by	 up	 to	 10%	 to	
take	 into	 account	 the	 safety	 performance	 of	 the	 Group.
as	a	 result,	 the	 bonus	 payable	 was	 98%	 of	 basic	 salary	 for	 both	 the	
Chief	executive	 and	 the	 Finance	director	 in	 respect	 of	 performance	
in	 2010.
For	 2011	 the	 Committee	 has	 determined	 that	 the	 bonus	 opportunity	
for	e xecutive	directors	 and	 senior	 executives	 will	 again	 be	 contingent	
on	 meeting	 targets	 relating	 to	 safety,	 operating	 profit,	 cash	 management	
and	 personal	 objectives.	n o	 bonus	 will	 be	 paid	 for	 the	 cash	 management	
element	 unless	 the	 level	 of	 operating	 profit	 achieved	 is	 at	 least	 95%	
of	 target.
share	awards
bodycote	incentive	plan	 (bip)
t he	 Company	 operates	 the	bip	 under	 which	e xecutive	directors	 and	
senior	 executives	 are	 rewarded	 for	 the	 delivery	 of	 the	 Company’s	
strategic	 plan.	 Final	 awards	 are	 based	 upon	 two	 performance	
measures,	 over	 a	 three	 year	 period:
	 		 50%	 of	 the	 award	 is	 subject	 to	 a	 return	 on	 capital	 employed	
(roCe)	 performance	 condition;	 and
	 		 50%	 of	 the	 award	 is	 subject	 to	 an	 earnings	 per	 share	 (eps)	
performance	 condition.
For	bip	 conditional	 awards	 made	 in	 2009,	 the	 Committee	 determined	
that	 the	 entry	 threshold	 targets	 require	roCe	equal	 to	 10%	 and	eps	
equal	 to	 16	 pence	 for	 the	 performance	 period	 ending	 31	december	
2011.	 For	bip	 conditional	 awards	 made	 in	 2010,	 the	 entry	 threshold	
targets	 require	roCe	and	eps	 of	 11.1%	 and	 19.8	 pence	 respectively	
for	 the	 performance	 period	 ending	 31	december	 2012.	
in	 the	 event	 that	 the	 entry	 threshold	 target	 for	 both	eps	 and	roCe	
are	 not	 achieved	 none	 of	 the	 conditional	 awards	 will	 vest.	regardless	
of	roCe	performance,	 should	eps	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 performance	
period	 be	 below	 16	 pence	 for	 awards	 made	 in	 2009	 and	 2010	 then	
no	 award	 shall	 vest.	
the	Committee	 intends	 to	 use	 the	roCe	and	eps	 measures	 in	
combination	 for	bip	awards	 made	 in	 2011.
details	of	 the	 awards	 made	 under	 the	bip	 are	 provided	 on	 page	 43.
Following	 completion	 of	 the	 performance	 period	 on	 31	december	 2010,	
the	remuneration	 Committee	 has	 determined	 that	 none	 of	 the	bip	
awards	 made	 in	 2008	 shall	 vest	 (2007:	nil).	
Deferred	share	awards
bodycote	Co-investment	plan	 (Cip)
a s	 noted	 above,	 certain	 changes	 made	 to	 the	b odycote	s hare	 Match	
plan	 (bsMp)	were	 approved	 by	 shareholders,	 now	 renamed	 as	 the	
bodycote	Co-investment	plan.	the	 Cip	continues	 to	 provide	 a	 link	
between	 the	 Company’s	 short	 and	 long-term	 incentive	 arrangements	
and	 the	 key	 changes	 were:
	 		 executives	 are	 able	 to	 invest	 in	 shares	 up	 to	 a	 value	 equivalent
to	 40%	 of	 net	 basic	 salary	 regardless	 of	 whether	 a	 cash	 bonus	
has	 been	 paid;	 and
	 		 the	 performance	 criterion	 for	 awards	 is	 an	 absolute	total	
shareholder	return	(tsr)	 target.
the	Cip	will	 continue	 to	 provide	 the	 grant	 of	 awards	 of	 matching	
shares	 to	 participants	 on	 an	 annual	 basis	 in	 a	 maximum	 ratio	 of	 1:1	
to	 the	 gross	 investment	 made	 in	 deferred	 shares.	deferred	 shares	
must	 be	 held	 for	 three	 years	 and	 the	 threshold	 target	 for	 vesting	 of	
the	 matching	 shares	 awarded	 in	 2010	 and	 2011	 is	tsr	 growth	 of	
not	 less	 than	 4%	 per	 annum	 compound	 in	 excess	 of	 growth	 in	 the	
Consumer	prices	index	 (Cpi).	10%	 per	 annum	 compound	 growth	
in	 excess	 of	 growth	 in	 the	 Cpi	will	 be	 required	 for	 full	 vesting. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 41
details	of	 the	 awards	 under	 the	 Cip	together	 with	 previous	 awards	
under	 the	bsMp	 and	 the	 joining	 award	 made	 to	 Mr	 Harris	 in	october	
2008	 are	 noted	 on	 page	 43.
Following	 completion	 of	 the	 performance	 period	 on	 31	december	 2010,	
the	remuneration	 Committee	 has	 determined	 that	 none	 of	 the	 share	
match	 awards	 made	 in	 2008	 under	 the	bsMp	 shall	 vest	 (2007:	nil).
total	shareholDer	return	 (tsr)
the	graph	 on	 page	 43	 illustrates	 the	 Company’s	tsr	 performance	
since	 2005	 relative	 to	 the	 Ftse	all	share	industrial	index	 of	 which	
the	 Company	 is	 a	 component	 part.	this	 sector	 is	 considered	 the	
most	 appropriate	 comparator	 group	 over	 the	 five-year	 period	 to	
december	2010.	in	 line	 with	 market	 practice	 the	 calculation	 for	
tsr	 assumes	 reinvestment	 of	 dividends	 and	 is	 based	 on	 data	
provided	 by	datastream.
serviCe	 ContraCts
it	 is	 the	 Company’s	 policy	 that	executive	directors	 have	 service	
contracts	 with	 a	 one-year	 notice	 period.	all	 the	e xecutive	directors	
have	 service	 agreements	 which	 are	 terminable	 by	 one	 year’s	
notice	 by	 the	 employer	 at	 any	 time,	 and	 by	 payment	 of	 one	 year’s	
remuneration	 in	 lieu	 of	 notice	 by	 the	 employer,	 and	 by	 one	 year’s	
remuneration	 in	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 in	 control	 of	 the	 Company	
(save	 for	 Mr	 Harris	 where	 the	 change	 of	 control	 provision	 does	 not	
apply).	legally	 appropriate	 factors	 would	 be	 taken	 into	 account	 to	
mitigate	 any	 compensation	 payment,	 covering	 basic	 salary,	 annual	
incentives	 and	 benefits,	 which	 may	 arise	 on	 the	 termination	 of	
employment	 of	 any	executive	director,	 other	 than	 payments	 made	
on	 a	 change	 in	 control	 or	 for	 payments	 in	 lieu	 of	 notice.	 Mr	 Harris’	
service	 agreement	 is	 dated	 6	october	 2008	 and	 Mr	landless’	
contract	 is	 dated	 26	september	 2001.	
eXeCutive	 DireCtors’	shareholDing	retention	poliCy
in	 2005	 the	 Committee	 introduced	 a	 shareholding	 retention	 policy	
under	 which	executive	directors	 and	 other	 senior	 executives	 are	
expected,	 within	 five	 years	 of	 that	 date	 or	 commencement	 of	
employment	 if	 later,	 to	 build	 up	 a	 shareholding	 in	 the	 Company.	
in	 respect	 of	e xecutive	directors	 the	 expectation	 is	 to	 hold	 at	 least	
100%	 of	 basic	 salary.	as	 at	 31	december	 2010,	 the	 Committee	 is	
satisfied	 that	 the	e xecutive	directors	 have	 fulfilled	 this	 requirement.
non-eXeCutive	 DireCtors
the	remuneration	 of	non-executive	directors	 is	 determined	 by	
the	 Chairman	 and	 the	executive	directors.	remuneration	 for	
the	 Chairman	 is	 determined	 by	 the	 whole	board	 (excluding	 the	
Chairman).	remuneration	 for	 the	 Chairman	 and	non-executive	
directors	takes	 into	 account	 the	 time	 commitments	 and	 duties	
and	 responsibilities	 involved.	the	 Chairman	 and	 each	non-executive	
director	hold	 letters	 of	 appointment	 for	 terms	 of	 three	 years	 (or	 41	
months	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 Chairman).
each	 is	 terminable	 under	 the	 Company’s	articles	 of	association,	
the	act,	 by	 the	director’s	 resignation	 or	 otherwise	 on	 six	 months’	
notice	 (twelve	 months	 in	 the	 case	 of	 the	 Chairman)	 if	 termination	
occurs	 before	 expiry	 of	 the	 term.	
t o	 determine	 the	 fees	 it	 pays	 to	non-executive	directors,	 the	b oard	
takes	 into	 account	 the	 need	 to	 attract	 individuals	 of	 appropriate	
calibre	 and	 expertise,	 the	 fees	 paid	 to	non-executive	directors	 by	
other	 companies	 of	 a	 similar	 size	 and	 scale	 of	 operations	 and	 the	
time	 commitment	 attached	 to	 each	 appointment.	the	board	 keeps	
fees	 under	 review.	the	 Chairman	 and	non-executive	directors	 are	
not	 entitled	 to	 any	 pension	 or	 other	 employment	 benefits	 or	 to	
participate	 in	 any	 incentive	 scheme.
approved	by	 the	board:
J.	vogelsang
Chairman	 of	 the	remuneration	 Committee	
24	 February	 2011 	 42	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
board	 report	 on	reMuneration
Continued
emoluments	During	 the	year	 –	 auDiteD
	 Basic 	 salary	
	 and 	 fees 	 Benefits
	 annual	
	 Bonus
	 t otal
	 2010
	 t otal
	 2009
	 £000 	 £000 	 £000 	 £000 	 £000
executive	 Directors
s.C.	Harris	 	 400 	 26 	 392 	 *818 	 443
d.F.	landless	 	 268 	 27 	 262 	 557 	 308
	 668 	 53 	 654 	 1,375 	 751
non-executive	 Directors
a.M.	thomson	 	 130 	 – 	 – 	 130 	 130
j.	vogelsang 	 46 	 – 	 – 	 46 	 46
j.a.	biles	 	 47 	 – 	 – 	 47 	 47
K.	rajagopal	 	 40 	 – 	 – 	 40 	 40
	 931 	 53 	 654 	 1,638 	 1,014
*s.C.	Harris	 waived	 his	 right	 to	 the	 performance-related	 bonus	 prior	 to	 its	 determination.	the	 amount	 of	 £818,000	 shown	 as	 emoluments	 for	s.C.	 Harris	 includes	 an	 amount	 of	 £392,000	 which	
has	 been	 appointed	 to	 an	 employee	 benefit	 trust.
DireCtors’	 interests	 –	 auDiteD
the	beneficial	 interest	 of	 the	directors	 and	 their	 families	 in	 the	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 the	 Company	 are	 detailed	 below.	
ordinary	shareholdings
	
	
	 31 	 December	 2010
	 number	 of	
	 ordinary	s hares
	 31 	 December	 2009
	 number	 of	
	 ordinary	s hares
executive	 Directors
s.C.	Harris	 	 138,690 	 98,048
d.F.	landless	 	 134,948 	 156,024
non-executive	 Directors
a.M.	thomson	 	 41,841 	 41,841
j.	vogelsang 	 – 	 –
j.a.	biles	 	 23,157 	 23,157
K.	rajagopal	 	 17,368 	 17,368
none	of	 the	directors	 has	 a	 beneficial	 interest	 in	 the	 shares	 of	 any	 other	 Group	 Company,	 or	 non-beneficial	 interest	 in	 the	 Company	 or	 any	
other	 Group	 Company.
DireCtors’	pensions	 –	 auDiteD
*
Director
accrued	
annual	
pension	 at	
01/01/10
t ransfer	
value	 at	
01/01/10
r eal	
increase	
in	a ccrued	
annual	
pension inflation
increase	
in	a ccrued	
annual	
pension
t ransfer	
value
of	 real
increase
	 in	a ccrued	
annual	
pension	
(less	
members’
Contributions)
r eal
increase	
in	t ransfer	
value	l ess	
members’	
Contributions
member’s	
Contributions
accrued	
annual	
pension	 at	
31/12/10
**t ransfer	
value	 at	
31/12/10
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
d.F.	landless 37 561 2.5 1.7 4.2 19 82 17 41 686
*	
		
derek	sleight	 retired	 as	 a	director	 on	 27	april	 2009	 but	 continued	 as	 an	 employee	 until	 his	 retirement	 on	 6	april	 2010.	 He	 started	 to	 draw	 his	 pension	 with	 effect	 from	 1	 May	 2010.	on	 1	
april	2010	 his	 pension	 was	 increased	 by	 way	 of	 a	 Company	 augmentation	 of	 £175,000	 which	 was	 contributed	 to	 the	 defined	 benefit	 scheme	 in	 lieu	 of	 pay	 that	 he	 would	 have	 earned	 during	
a	 period	 of	 notice.
**
		
the	trustee	of	 the	bodycote	uK	pension	scheme	 has	 not	 reviewed	 the	 basis	 on	 which	 transfer	 values	 are	 calculated	 in	 order	 to	 allow	 for	 the	 change	 of	 statutory	 indexation	 from	rpi	to	 Cpi.	
therefore,	the	 above	 figures	 continue	 to	 assume	rpi	increases	 in	 deferment	 and	 payment.	 However,	 when	 the	trustee	 reviews	 transfer	 value	 assumptions,	 this	 is	 likely	 to	 lead	 to	 a	 change	
in	 actuarial	 assumptions	 that	 would	 reduce	 the	 transfer	 value	 entitlement	 at	 the	 year	 end	 to	 £627,000. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 43
DireCtors’	 interests	 unDer	 the	BoDyCote	inCentive	plan	 –	 auDiteD
interests	 as	 at	
1	 January	 2010
awarded	
in	 year
l apsed	 	
in	 year
interests	 as	 at	
31	 December	 2010
market	 price	
at	 award	 date vesting	 date
s.C.	Harris	 514,138
–
–
391,345
–
–
514,138
391,345
£1.56
£1.79
February	 2012
February	 2013
d.F.	landless	
	
	
76,784
132,275
344,215
–
–
–
–
262,004
(76,784)
–
–
–
–
132,275
344,215
262,004
£2.94
£1.89
£1.56
£1.79
May	 2010
May	 2011
February	 2012
February	 2013
DireCtors’	 interests	 unDer	 the	BoDyCote	 Co-investment	plan	 (formerly	 BoDyCote	share	matCh	plan)	 –	 auDiteD
interests	 as	 at	
1	 January	 2010
*awarded/(lapsed)	
in	 year
as	 at	
31	 December	 2010
market	 price	
at	 award	 date
earliest	
vesting	 date
s.C.	Harris	
	
**145,474
23,437
–
–
–
82,942
145,474
23,437
82,942
£1.40
£1.87
£1.93
March	 2012
March	 2012
May	 2013
d.F.	landless	
	
	
3,380
8,252
4,480
–
(3,380)
–
–
8,010
–
8,252
4,480
8,010
£2.93
£1.79
£1.87
£1.89
May	 2010
March	 2011
March	 2012
May	 2013
*	 shares	 acquired	 via	 investment	 of	 the	 net	 of	 tax	 annual	 bonus	 under	 the	 Co-investment	plan	 are	 eligible	 for	 a	 matching	 award	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 gross	 amount	 invested.
**	this	 award	 relates	 to	 the	 joining	 award	 made	 in	november	 2008	 following	s.C.	 Harris’	 appointment	 as	 Chief	executive	designate.
total	shareholDer	return	 (tsr)
Source: Datastream 
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
31-Dec-05 31-Dec-06 31-Dec-07 31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10
This graph looks at the value, by 31/12/10, of £100 invested in Bodycote plc on 31/12/05 compared with that
of £100 invested in the FTSE All Share Industrials. The points plotted are the values at financial year-ends.
Value 
(£) 
FTSE All Share Industrials Bodycote plc  	 44	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
direCtors’	responsibilities	stateMent
responsiBility	of	 DireCtors	for	the	preparation	
of	the	annual	report	anD	finanCial	statements
the	directors	are	 responsible	 for	 preparing	 the	annual	report,	
the	board	report	 on	remuneration	 and	 the	 financial	 statements	
in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	 regulations.
Company	 law	 requires	 the	directors	 to	 prepare	 financial	 statements	
for	 each	 financial	 year.	under	 that	 law	 the	directors	 are	 required	 to	
prepare	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	i nternational	
Financial	reporting	standards	 (iFrss)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	european	
u nion	 and	article	 4	 of	 the	ias	regulation	 and	 have	 elected	 to	 prepare	
the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	united	
Kingdom	 Generally	accepted	accounting	practice	 (united	Kingdom	
accounting	standards	 and	 applicable	 law).	under	 company	 law	 the	
d irectors	 must	 not	 approve	 the	 accounts	 unless	 they	 are	 satisfied	
that	 they	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 affairs	 of	 the	
Company	 and	 of	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 of	 the	 Company	 for	 that	 period.
in	 preparing	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements,	 the	directors	
are	 required	 to:
	 		 select	 suitable	 accounting	 policies	 and	 then	 apply	 them	 consistently;
	 		 make	 judgements	 and	 accounting	 estimates	 that	 are	 reasonable	
and	 prudent;
	 		 state	 whether	 applicable	uK	accounting	standards	 have	 been	
followed,	 subject	 to	 any	 material	 departures	 disclosed	 and	
explained	 in	 the	 financial	 statements;	 and
	 		 prepare	 the	 financial	 statements	 on	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	
unless	 it	 is	 inappropriate	 to	 presume	 that	 the	 Company	 will	
continue	 in	 business.
in	 preparing	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements,	international	accounting	
standard	1	 requires	 that	directors:
	 		 properly	 select	 and	 apply	 accounting	 policies;
	 		 present	 information,	 including	 accounting	 policies,	 in	 a	 manner	
that	 provides	 relevant,	 reliable,	 comparable	 and	 understandable	
information;	
	 		 provide	 additional	 disclosures	 when	 compliance	 with	 the
specific	 requirements	 in	iFrss	are	 insufficient	 to	 enable	 users	
to	 understand	 the	 impact	 of	 particular	 transactions,	 other	 events	
and	 conditions	 on	 the	 entity’s	 financial	 position	 and	 financial	
performance;	 and
	 		 make	 an	 assessment	 of	 the	 Company’s	 ability	 to	 continue
as	 a	 going	 concern.
t he	directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 keeping	 adequate	 accounting	 records	
that	 are	 sufficient	 to	 show	 and	 explain	 the	 Company’s	 transactions	
and	 disclose	 with	 reasonable	 accuracy	 at	 any	 time	 the	 financial	 position	
of	 the	 Company	 and	 enable	 them	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 financial	
statements	 comply	 with	 the	 Companies	act	 2006.	they	 are	 also	
responsible	 for	 safeguarding	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 hence	
for	 taking	 reasonable	 steps	 for	 the	 prevention	 and	 detection	 of	 fraud	
and	 other	 irregularities.
the	directors	are	 responsible	 for	 the	 maintenance	 and	 integrity	 of	
the	 corporate	 and	 financial	 information	 included	 on	 the	 Company’s	
website.	legislation	 in	 the	united	 Kingdom	 governing	 the	 preparation	
and	 dissemination	 of	 financial	 statements	 may	 differ	 from	 legislation	
in	 other	 jurisdictions.
responsiBility	statement	of	the	 DireCtors	in	respeCt	
of	the	annual	report	anD	the	finanCial	statements
we	confirm	 that	 to	 the	 best	 of	 our	 knowledge:
	 		 the	 financial	 statements,	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	
relevant	 financial	 reporting	 framework,	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	
view	 of	 the	 assets,	 liabilities,	 financial	 position	 and	 profit	
or	 loss	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 undertakings	 included	 in	
the	 consolidation	 taken	 as	 a	 whole;	 and
	 		 the	 Chairman’s	statement,	 the	 Chief	executive’s	report,
the	 Finance	director’s	report,	 all	 the	 information	 contained	
on	 pages	 8	 to	 43	 together	 comprise	 the	directors’	report	 for	
the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010.	it	 includes	 a	 fair	 review	
of	 the	 development	 and	 performance	 of	 the	 business	 and	 the	
position	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 undertakings	 included	 in	 the	
consolidation	 taken	 as	 a	 whole,	 together	 with	 a	 description	 of	
the	 principal	 risks	 and	 uncertainties	 that	 they	 face.
this	responsibility	 statement	 was	 approved	 by	 the	board	 of	directors	
on	 24	 February	 2011	 and	 is	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by:
s.C.	harris
Chief	executive	
24	 February	 2011	
D.f.	landless
Finance	director	
24	 February	 2011 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 45
board	 oF	direCtors	 and	 advisers
BoarD	of	 DireCtors
executive	 Directors
s.	 C.	harris	 -	 Chief	executive
appointed	a	 director	 on	 1	november	 2008	 and	 Chief	executive	 from	
12	january	 2009.	non-executive	director	 of	brixton	 plc	 from	 2006	
to	 2009.	e xecutive	director	 at	s pectris	 plc	 from	 2003	 to	 2008	 and	 at	
powell	duffryn	 plc	 from	 1995	 to	 2003.	prior	 to	 this	 he	 held	 several	
senior	 positions	 in	apv	inc.	 in	 the	united	states	 from	 1984	 to	 1995.	
Member	 of	 the	nomination	 Committee.	a	 Chartered	engineer.
D.	f.	landless	 -	finance	 Director
appointed	Finance	director	 and	 joined	 the	 Group	 in	 1999.	 From	
1989	 to	 1997	 served	 as	 Finance	director	 in	uK	 and	us	 divisions	 of	
Courtaulds	plc.	 Finance	director	 of	 Courtaulds	 Coatings	 (Holdings)	
limited	from	 1997	 to	 1999.	a	 Chartered	 Management	accountant.
non-executive	 Directors
a.	m.	thomson	 -	 Chairman
appointed	a	director	 in	 2007.	 Chairman	 of	 Hays	plC	(2010)	 and	
Hamsard	 3054	ltd	 (polypipe),	 and	s enior	i ndependent	non-executive	
director	 of	johnson	 Matthey	 plc	 and	non-executive	director	 of	
alstom	sa.	president	 of	 the	institute	 of	 Chartered	accountants	
of	scotland.	served	 as	 Finance	director	 of	smiths	 Group	 plc	 from	
1995	 to	 2006	 and	 of	rugby	 Group	 plc	 from	 1992	 to	 1995.	 Member	
of	 the	remuneration	 Committee	 and	 Chairman	 of	 the	nomination	
Committee.	a	 Chartered	accountant.
J.	vogelsang	 -	senior	independent	
non-executive	 Director	 –	netherlands
appointed	a	director	 in	 2003.	non-executive	director	 of	 Metex	sa	
(2007).	p resident	 of	technology	 at	b asell	p olyolefins	 (2001	 to	 2002),	
president	 of	 Montell	p olyolefins	e urope	 (1999	 to	 2001),	v ice-president	
shell	Chemical	europe	 and	africa	 (1994	 to	 1999)	 and	 Chief	executive	
of	 the	shell	 Companies	 in	sweden	 (1992	 to	 1994).	 Chairman	 of	 the	
remuneration	Committee	 and	 member	 of	 the	audit	 and	nomination	
Committees.	a	 Chemical	engineer.
J.	a.	 Biles
appointed	a	director	 in	 2007.	non-executive	director	 of	 Charter	
international	 plc	 (2005),	 Hermes	 Fund	 Managers	limited	 (2005),	
a rmorGroup	i nternational	 plc	 (2004	 to	 2008),	 and	 of	northern	i reland	
electricity	 plc	 (previously	viridian	 Group	 plc)	 (2005	 to	 2011).	 Finance	
director	of	 FKi	 plc	 from	 1998	 to	 2004	 and	 Group	 Finance	director	
of	 Chubb	security	plC	 (1991	 to	 1997).	 Chairman	 of	 the	audit	
Committee	 and	 member	 of	 the	remuneration	 and	nomination	
Committees.	a	 Chartered	accountant.
k.	rajagopal
a ppointed	 a	director	 on	 24	s eptember	 2008.	non-executive	director	
of	w.s.	atkins	 plc	 (2008),	spirax-sarco	engineering	 plc	 (2009)	 and	
e2v	technologies	plC	 (2010)	 and	 member	 of	uK	 Council	 for	s cience	
and	technology.	e xecutive	director	 of	boC	 Group	 plc	 (2000	 to	 2006)	
and	 Chief	e xecutive	 of	boC	e dwards	 (1998	 to	 2006)	 and	non-executive	
director	of	 Foseco	 plc	 (2005	 to	 2008).	 Member	 of	 the	audit,	
r emuneration	 and	nomination	 Committees.	a	 Mechanical	e ngineer.
seCretary	anD	registereD	offiCe
J.	r.	grime	 –	solicitor
springwood	Court	
springwood	Close	
tytherington	business	park	
Macclesfield	
Cheshire	
sK10	2xF
tel:	+44(0)1625	 505300	
Fax:	 +44(0)1625	 505313	
registered	number	519057	england	 and	wales
aDvisers
auditors
deloitte	llp
principal	 Bankers
HsbC	bank	 plc,	barclays	bank	plC,	the	royal	bank	 of	scotland	 plc,	
svenska	Handelsbanken	ab,	lloyds	tsb	bank	 plc,	uniCredit	bank	
aG,	inG	bank	nv,	scotiabank	europe	 plc	 and	wells	 Fargo	bank,	na
solicitors
eversheds	llp	 and	 Herbert	smith	llp
financial	advisers
lazard	&	 Co.	limited
Brokers
Credit	s uisse	s ecurities	 (europe)	limited	 and	e volution	s ecurities	limited
registrars
Capita	registrars	limited,	Huddersfield 	 46	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
independent	 auditors’	 report
to	 tHe	MeMbers	 oF	bodyCote	 plC
we	have	 audited	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	 of	bodycote	
plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010,	 which	 comprise	 the	
Consolidated	income	statement,	 the	 Consolidated	balance	sheet,	
the	 Consolidated	 Cash	 Flow	s tatement,	 the	 Consolidated	s tatement	
of	 Comprehensive	i ncome,	 the	 Consolidated	s tatement	 of	 Changes	
in	equity,	 the	statement	 of	 Group	accounting	policies	 and	 the	
related	 notes	 1	 to	 30.	the	 financial	 reporting	 framework	 that	 has	
been	 applied	 in	 their	 preparation	 is	 applicable	 law	 and	international	
Financial	reporting	standards	 (iFrss)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	european	
union.	we	 have	 also	 audited	 the	 information	 in	 the	board	report	
on	remuneration	 that	 is	 described	 as	 having	 been	 audited.
this	report	 is	 made	 solely	 to	 the	 company’s	 members,	 as	 a	 body,	
in	 accordance	 with	 Chapter	 3	 of	p art	 16	 of	 the	 Companies	act	 2006.	
our	audit	 work	 has	 been	 undertaken	 so	 that	 we	 might	 state	 to	 the	
company’s	 members	 those	 matters	 we	 are	 required	 to	 state	 to	 them	
in	 an	 auditors’	 report	 and	 for	 no	 other	 purpose.	to	 the	 fullest	 extent	
permitted	 by	 law,	 we	 do	 not	 accept	 or	 assume	 responsibility	 to	 anyone	
other	 than	 the	 company	 and	 the	 company’s	 members	 as	 a	 body,	 for	
our	 audit	 work,	 for	 this	 report,	 or	 for	 the	 opinions	 we	 have	 formed.
respeCtive	 responsiBilities	 of	DireCtors	 anD	auDitors
as	explained	 more	 fully	 in	 the	directors’	responsibilities	statement,	
the	 directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	 group	 financial	
statements	 and	 for	 being	 satisfied	 that	 they	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view.	
our	responsibility	 is	 to	 audit	 and	 express	 an	 opinion	 on	 the	 group	
financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	i nternational	
standards	on	auditing	 (uK	and	ireland).	those	 standards	 require	
us	 to	 comply	 with	 the	auditing	practices	board’s	 (apb’s)	ethical	
standards	for	auditors.
sCope	of	the	auDit	 of	the	finanCial	 statements
an	audit	 involves	 obtaining	 evidence	 about	 the	 amounts	 and	
disclosures	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 sufficient	 to	 give	 reasonable	
assurance	 that	 the	 financial	 statements	 are	 free	 from	 material	
misstatement,	 whether	 caused	 by	 fraud	 or	 error.	this	 includes	 an	
assessment	 of:	 whether	 the	 accounting	 policies	 are	 appropriate	 to	
the	 group’s	 circumstances	 and	 have	 been	 consistently	 applied	 and	
adequately	 disclosed;	 the	 reasonableness	 of	 significant	 accounting	
estimates	 made	 by	 the	 directors;	 and	 the	 overall	 presentation	
of	 the	 financial	 statements.
opinion	 on	finanCial	 statements
in	 our	 opinion	 the	 group	 financial	 statements:
	 		 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	 group’s	 affairs	 as
at	 31	december	 2010	 and	 of	 its	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 then	 ended;
	 		 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	iFrss	as	
adopted	 by	 the	european	union;	 and
	 		 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 requirements	 of
the	 Companies	act	 2006	 and	article	 4	 of	 the	ias	regulation.
opinion	 on	other	 matter	 presCriBeD	
By	 the	Companies	aCt	 2006
in	 our	 opinion:
	 		 the	 part	 of	 the	board	report	 on	remuneration	 to	 be	 audited
has	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	
act	2006;	 and
	 		 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	directors’	report	 for	 the	 financial	
year	 for	 which	 the	 financial	 statements	 are	 prepared	 is	
consistent	 with	 the	 group	 financial	 statements.
matters	 on	whiCh	we	 are	requireD	
to	report	By	 eXCeption
we	have	 nothing	 to	 report	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 following:
under	the	 Companies	act	 2006	 we	 are	 required	 to	 report	 to	 you	 if,	
in	 our	 opinion:
	 		 certain	 disclosures	 of	 directors’	 remuneration	 specified	 by	 law	
are	 not	 made;	 or
	 		 we	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 we	
require	 for	 our	 audit.
under	the	listing	rules	we	 are	 required	 to	 review:
	 		 the	directors’	 statement	 contained	 within	 the	 Group	review
in	 relation	 to	 going	 concern;
	 		 the	 part	 of	 the	 Corporate	 Governance	statement	 relating
to	 the	 company’s	 compliance	 with	 the	 nine	 provisions	 of	 the	
june	2008	 Combined	 Code	 specified	 for	 our	 review;	 and
	 		 certain	 elements	 of	 the	 report	 to	 shareholders	 by	 the	 board
on	 directors	 remuneration.
other	 matter
we	have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	
statements	 of	bodycote	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010.
nicola	mitchell	 (senior	statutory	auditor)
for	 and	 on	 behalf	 of	deloitte	llp	
Chartered	accountants	 and	statutory	auditors	 	
Manchester,	uK	
24	 February	 2011 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 47
Consolidated	 inCoMe	 stateMent
For	 tHe	year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
	 2010 	 2009 note
	 £m 	 £m
revenue	-	 continuing	 operations 499.8	 435.4	 1
operating	 profit/(loss)	 -	 continuing	 operations 51.2	 (50.2) 3
operating	profit	 prior	 to	 exceptional	 items 52.1	 8.0	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.9) (1.3)
impairment	 charge .–	 (31.5)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs .–	 (25.4)
operating	 profit/(loss)	 -	 continuing	 operations 51.2	 (50.2)
investment	 revenue 0.3	 1.5	 5
Finance	 costs (6.3) (5.8) 6
profit/(loss)	 before	 taxation	 -	 continuing	 operations 45.2	 (54.5)
taxation (11.7) 3.4	 7
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 -	 continuing	 operations 33.5	 (51.1)
Discontinued	 operations
loss	for	 the	 year	 -	 discontinued	 operations (5.8) .–	 8
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year 27.7	 (51.1)
attributable	to:
equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 27.6	 (50.1)
non-controlling	interests 0.1	 (1.0)
27.7	 (51.1)
earnings/(loss)	 per	 share 10
	 pence 	 pence
From	 continuing	 operations:
basic 18.0	 (27.0)
diluted 18.0	 (27.0)
From	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations:
basic 14.9	 (27.0)
diluted 14.9	 (27.0)
Consolidated	stateMent	 oF	CoMpreHensive	inCoMe	
For	 tHe	year	 ended	 31	deCeMber	 2010
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year 27.7	 (51.1)
reduction	of	 revaluation	 surplus (0.1) .–	
exchange	 gains/(losses)	 on	 translation	 of	 foreign	 operations 9.7	 (4.8)
actuarial	gains/(losses)	 on	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes 3.7	 (3.3)
tax	on	 items	 taken	 directly	 to	 equity (0.9) 0.9	
other	 comprehensive	 income/(expense)	 for	 the	 year 12.4	 (7.2)
total	 comprehensive	 income/(expense)	 for	 the	 year 40.1	 (58.3)
attributable	to:
equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 40.0	 (57.3)
non-controlling	interests 0.1	 (1.0)
40.1	 (58.3) 	 48	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
Consolidated	 balanCe	 sHeet
at	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
	 2010 	 2009 	 note
	 £m 	 £m
non-current	 assets
Goodwill 107.7 107.9	 11
other	intangible	 assets 10.4 10.9	 12
property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 458.0	 461.8	 13
other	investments 0.5	 0.5	 14
Finance	 lease	 receivables .–	 0.5	 16
deferred	tax	 assets 48.3	 56.9	 21
derivative	financial	 instruments .–	 0.1	 20
trade	and	 other	 receivables 2.6	 3.0	 17
627.5	 641.6	
Current	 assets
inventories 14.4	 11.6	 15
Finance	 lease	 receivables 0.4	 0.4	 16
derivative	financial	 instruments .–	 0.6	 20
trade	and	 other	 receivables 99.2	 91.1	 17
Cash	 and	 bank	 balances 23.5	 19.6	 17
assets	held	 for	 sale 6.2	 6.2	 18
143.7	 129.5	
total	assets 771.2	 771.1	
Current	 liabilities
trade	and	 other	 payables 120.4	 93.2	 23
dividends	payable .–	 5.5	 9
Current	 tax	 liabilities 9.6	 11.4	
obligations	under	 finance	 leases 0.4	 0.7	 22
borrowings 8.9	 6.0	 19
derivative	financial	 instruments .–	 4.0	 20
provisions 14.0	 21.3	 24
153.3	 142.1	
net	 current	 liabilities (9.6) (12.6)
non-current	 liabilities
borrowings 64.8	 96.8	 19
retirement	benefit	 obligations 11.6	 15.0	 30
deferred	tax	 liabilities 73.1	 73.4	 21
obligations	under	 finance	 leases 0.7	 1.6	 22
derivative	financial	 instruments .–	 0.4	 20
provisions 12.8	 11.7	 24
other	payables 4.1	 7.5	 23
167.1	 206.4	
total	liabilities 320.4	 348.5	
net	 assets 450.8	 422.6	
equity
share	capital 32.8	 32.5	 25
share	premium	 account 176.3	 176.0	
own	shares (8.0) (7.3)
other	reserves 138.1	 134.1	
Hedging	 and	 translation	 reserves 36.0	 26.3	
retained	earnings 73.9	 58.7	
equity	 attributable	 to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 449.1	 420.3	
non-controlling	 interests 1.7	 2.3	
total	equity 450.8	 422.6	
t he	 financial	 statements	 of	b odycote	 plc,	 registered	 number	 519057,	 were	 approved	 by	 the	b oard	 of	d irectors	 and	 authorised	 for	 issue	 on	 24	 February	 2011.	
t hey	 were	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by:	
	
s.	C.	 Harris							
}
		
directors
d.	F.	landless 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 49
Consolidated	CasH	Flow	 stateMent
For	 tHe	year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
	 2010 	 2009 note
	 £m 	 £m
net	 cash	 from	 operating	 activities 95.6	 11.0	 26
investing	 activities
purchases	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment (35.2) (35.3)
proceeds	 on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 intangible	 assets 1.4	 4.3	
purchases	 of	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (2.0) (1.2)
purchase	 of	 non-controlling	 interest (0.8) (0.5)
disposal	of	 subsidiaries/associates .–	 6.9	
lump	sum	 contribution	 to	 pension	 scheme .–	 (1.5)
net	 cash	 used	 in	 investing	 activities (36.6) (27.3)
financing	activities
interest	 received 0.3	 2.1	
interest	 paid (5.8) (6.5)
dividends	paid (20.9) (20.0)
dividends	paid	 to	 a	 non-controlling	 shareholder (0.1) (0.1)
repayments	of	 bank	 loans (34.0) (231.9)
payments	 of	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases (1.3) (1.5)
new	bank	 loans	 raised 3.2	 41.1	
new	obligations	 under	 finance	 leases 0.2	 0.2	
proceeds	 on	 issue	 of	 ordinary	 share	 capital 0.6	 0.4	
own	shares	 purchased/settlement	 of	 share	 options (0.7) 0.9	
net	 cash	 used	 in	 financing	 activities (58.5) (215.3)
net	 increase/(decrease)	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents 0.5	 (231.6)
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 beginning	 of	 year 16.3	 249.5	
effect	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 rate	 changes 0.8	 (1.6)
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 end	 of	 year 17.6	 16.3	 	 50	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
Consolidated	stateMent	 oF	CHanGes	 in	equity
For	 tHe	year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
	 share	
	 capital
	 share	
	 premium	
	 account
	 own	
	 shares
	 other	
	 reserves
	 hedging	
	 and
	translation
	 reserves
	 r etained	
	 earnings
	 equity
	 attributable
	 to 	 equity
	 holders 	 of
	 the 	 parent
	 non-
	controlling
	 interests
	 t otal
	 equity
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
1	january	 2009 32.4	 175.7	 (10.9) 137.3	 31.1	 126.4	 492.0	 4.9	 496.9	
net	loss	 for	 the	 year .–	 .– .– .– .– (50.1) (50.1) (1.0) (51.1)
exchange	 differences	 on	
translation	 of	 overseas	 operations .– .– .– .–	 (63.1) .– (63.1) (0.2) (63.3)
Movement	 on	 hedges	
of	 net	 investments .–	 .–	 .– .–	 58.3	 .–	 58.3	 .–	 58.3	
a ctuarial	 losses	 on	 defined	 benefit	
pension	 schemes	 net	 of	 deferred	 tax .– .–	 .– .–	 .– (2.4) (2.4) .– (2.4)
total	comprehensive	
expense	 for	 the	 year .– .–	 .– .– (4.8) (52.5) (57.3) (1.2) (58.5)
issue	 of	 share	 capital 0.1	 0.3	 .–	 .–	 .–	 .– 0.4	 .– 0.4	
return	of	 capital	 to	 shareholders	
and	 redemption	 of	b	 shares .– .–	 .–	 0.7	 .– (0.7) .– .– .–	
acquired	in	 the	 year/settlement	
of	 share	 options .– .–	 0.9	 .–	 .– .– 0.9	 .– 0.9	
share-based	payments .–	 .–	 2.7	 (3.9) .– 0.9	 (0.3) .– (0.3)
dividends	paid .– .– .–	 .–	 .– (15.4) (15.4) (0.1) (15.5)
purchase	 of	 non-controlling	 interest .–	 .– .–	 .– .– .–	 .– (1.3) (1.3)
31	 December	 2009 32.5	 176.0	 (7.3) 134.1	 26.3	 58.7	 420.3	 2.3	 422.6	
net	profit	 for	 the	 year .–	 .– .– .– .– 27.6	 27.6	 0.1	 27.7	
exchange	 differences	 on	
translation	 of	 overseas	 operations .– .– .– .– 10.7	 .– 10.7	 .– 10.7	
Movement	 on	 hedges	 of	
net	 investments .– .–	 .– .– (1.0) .– (1.0) .– (1.0)
reduction	of	 revaluation	 surplus .– .– .– (0.1) .– .– (0.1) .– (0.1)
actuarial	gains	 on	 defined	 benefit	
pension	 schemes	 net	 of	 deferred	 tax .– .– .– .– .– 2.8	 2.8	 .– 2.8	
total	comprehensive	
income	 for	 the	 year .– .–	 .– (0.1) 9.7	 30.4	 40.0	 0.1	 40.1	
issue	 of	 share	 capital 0.3	 0.3	 .– .– .– .– 0.6	 .– 0.6	
acquired	in	 the	 year/settlement	
of	 share	 options .– .– (0.7) .– .– .– (0.7) .– (0.7)
share-based	payments .– .– .– 4.1	 .– 0.2	 4.3	 .– 4.3	
dividends	paid .– .– .– .– .– (15.4) (15.4) (0.1) (15.5)
purchase	 of	 non-controlling	 interest .– .– .– .– .– .– .– (0.6) (0.6)
31	 December	 2010 32.8	 176.3	 (8.0) 138.1	 36.0	 73.9	 449.1	 1.7	 450.8	
the	remaining	 1.7	 million	b	 shares	 were	 redeemed	 in	 2009.
included	 in	 other	 reserves	 is	 the	 capital	 redemption	 reserve	 arising	 on	 redemption	 of	 the	 Group’s	b	 shares	 of	 £129.4m	 (2009:	 £129.4m).
the	own	 shares	 reserve	 represents	 the	 cost	 of	 shares	 in	bodycote	 plc	 purchased	 in	 the	 market.	at	 31	december	 2010	 3,837,581	 (2009:	
2,100,427)	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 17	 3/11p	 each	 were	 held	 by	 the	bodycote	international	employee	benefit	trust	 to	 satisfy	 share-based	 payments	
under	 the	 Group’s	 incentive	 schemes	 (see	 note	 28). 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 51
Group	aCCountinG	poliCies
Basis	of	aCCounting
the	financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Group	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	
accordance	 with	international	 Financial	reporting	standards	 (iFrs).	
the	financial	 statements	 have	 also	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	
with	iFrs	adopted	 by	 the	european	union	 and	 therefore	 the	 group	
financial	 statements	 comply	 with	 article	 4	 of	eu	ias	regulation	 as	
adopted	 for	 use	 in	 the	eu.
the	Group	 has	 adopted	standards	 and	interpretations	 issued	
by	 the	international	accounting	standards	board	 (iasb)	 and	 the	
international	 Financial	reporting	interpretations	 Committee	 of	 the	
iasb	 (iFriC).	individual	standards	 and	 interpretations	 have	 to	 be	
adopted	 by	 the	european	 Commission	 (eC)	 and	 the	 process	 leads	
to	 a	 delay	 between	 the	 issue	 and	 adoption	 of	 new	 standards	 and	
in	 some	 cases	 amendment	 by	 the	eC.	
international	 Financial	reporting	standards	 are	 subject	 to	 ongoing	
amendment	 by	 the	iasb	and	 subsequent	 endorsement	 by	 the	eC	
and	 are	 therefore	 subject	 to	 change.
the	financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 on	 the	 historical	 cost	
basis,	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 accounting	 for	 share-based	 payments	
and	 certain	 financial	 instruments.	the	 principal	 accounting	 policies	
adopted	 are	 set	 out	 below.
aDoption	of	new	anD	reviseD	stanDarDs
the	following	 new	 and	 revised	standards	 and	interpretations	
have	 been	 adopted	 in	 the	 current	 year.	their	 adoption	 has	 not	 had	
any	 significant	 impact	 on	 the	 amounts	 reported	 in	 these	 financial	
statements	 but	 may	 impact	 the	 accounting	 for	 future	 transactions	
and	 arrangements.
ifrs	 3	 (revised	 Jan	 2008)	 ‘Business	 Combinations’,	ias	 27	
(amended	 2008)	 ‘Consolidated	 and	s eparate	f inancial	s tatements’	
and	ias	 28	 (amended	 2008)	 ‘investments	 in	associates’
these	standards	 have	 introduced	 a	 number	 of	 changes	 in	 the	
accounting	 for	 business	 combinations	 when	 acquiring	 a	 subsidiary	 or	
an	 associate.	iFrs	3	 (2008)	 has	 also	 introduced	 additional	 disclosure	
requirements	 for	 acquisitions.	
ifriC	 17	 ‘Distributions	 of	non-cash	assets	 to	owners’
the	interpretation	 provides	 guidance	 on	 when	 an	 entity	 should	
recognise	 a	 non-cash	 dividend	 payable,	 how	 to	 measure	 the	 dividend	
payable	 and	 how	 to	 account	 for	 any	 difference	 between	 the	 carrying	
amount	 of	 the	 assets	 distributed	 and	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	
dividend	 payable	 when	 the	 payable	 is	 settled.
the	following	 amendments	 were	 made	 as	 part	 of	improvements	 to	
iFrss	 (2009):
amendments	 to	ifrs	2	 ‘share-based	payment’
iFrs	 2	 has	 been	 amended	 following	 the	 issue	 of	iFrs	3	 (2008),	 to	
confirm	 that	 the	 contribution	 of	 a	 business	 on	 the	 formation	 of	 a	 joint	
venture	 and	 common	 control	 transactions	 are	 not	 within	 the	 scope	 of	
iFrs	 2.	in	 addition,	 the	 amendments	 to	iFrs	2	 clarify	 the	 accounting	
for	 share-based	 payment	 transactions	 between	 group	 entities.
amendments	 to	ias	 17	 ‘leases’
ias	17	 has	 been	 amended	 such	 that	 it	 may	 be	 possible	 to	 classify	
a	 lease	 of	 land	 as	 a	 finance	 lease	 if	 it	 meets	 the	 criteria	 for	 that	
classification	 under	ias	 17.	
amendments	 to	ias	 39	 ‘financial	instruments:	recognition	
and	measurement’
ias	39	 has	 been	 amended	 to	 state	 that	 options	 contracts	 between	
an	 acquirer	 and	 a	 selling	 shareholder	 to	 buy	 or	 sell	 an	 acquiree	 that	
will	 result	 in	 a	 business	 combination	 at	 a	 future	 acquisition	 date	 are	
not	 excluded	 from	 the	 scope	 of	 the	 standard.
going	 ConCern
t he	directors	 have	 at	 the	 time	 of	 approving	 the	 financial	 statements	
a	 reasonable	 expectation	 that	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 Group	 have	
adequate	 resources	 to	 continue	 in	 operational	 existence	 for	 the	
foreseeable	 future.	thus	 they	 continue	 to	 adopt	 the	 going	 concern	
basis	 of	 accounting	 in	 preparing	 the	 financial	 statements.	 Further	
detail	 is	 contained	 in	 the	 Finance	director’s	report	 on	 page	 25.
Basis	of	 ConsoliDation
the	consolidated	 financial	 statements	 incorporate	 the	 financial	
statements	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 entities	 controlled	 by	 the	 Company	
(its	 subsidiaries)	 made	 up	 to	 31	d ecember	 each	 year.	 Control	 is	 achieved	
where	 the	 Company	 has	 the	 power	 to	 govern	 the	 financial	 and	 operating	
policies	 of	 an	 investee	 entity	 so	 as	 to	 obtain	 benefits	 from	 its	 activities	
except	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 the	 minority	 has	 a	 binding	 obligation	 and	 is	
able	 to	 make	 an	 additional	 investment	 to	 cover	 the	 losses.
on	acquisition,	 the	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 and	 contingent	 liabilities	
of	 a	 subsidiary	 are	 measured	 at	 their	 fair	 values	 at	 the	 date	 of	
acquisition.	any	 excess	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisition	 over	 the	 fair	 values	
of	 the	 identifiable	 net	 assets	 acquired	 is	 recognised	 as	 goodwill.	
any	deficiency	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisition	 below	 the	 fair	 values	 of	
the	 identifiable	 net	 assets	 acquired	 (i.e.	 discount	 on	 acquisition)	
is	 credited	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 the	 period	 of	 acquisition.	
the	interest	 of	 minority	 shareholders	 is	 stated	 at	 the	 minority’s	
proportion	 of	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 recognised.	
subsequently,	 any	 losses	 applicable	 to	 the	 minority	 interest	 in	 excess	
of	 the	 minority	 interest	 are	 allocated	 against	 the	 interests	 of	 the	 parent.	
the	results	 of	 subsidiaries	 acquired	 or	 disposed	 of	 during	 the	 year	
are	 included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 income	 statement	 from	 the	 effective	
date	 of	 acquisition	 or	 up	 to	 the	 effective	 date	 of	 disposal,	 as	 appropriate.	
where	necessary,	 adjustments	 are	 made	 to	 the	 financial	 statements	
of	 subsidiaries	 to	 bring	 the	 accounting	 policies	 used	 into	 line	 with	
those	 used	 by	 the	 Group.	
all	intra-group	 transactions,	 balances,	 income	 and	 expenses	 are	
eliminated	 on	 consolidation.
investments	in	assoCiates
an	 associate	 is	 an	 entity	 over	 which	 the	 Group	 is	 in	 a	 position	 to	 exercise	
significant	 influence,	 but	 not	 control	 or	 joint	 control,	 through	 participation	
in	 the	 financial	 and	 operating	 policy	 decisions	 of	 the	 investee.	
the	results	 and	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 associates	 are	 incorporated	
in	 these	 financial	 statements	 using	 the	 equity	 method	 of	 accounting.	
investments	 in	 associates	 are	 carried	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 at	 cost	 as	
adjusted	 by	 post-acquisition	 changes	 in	 the	 Group’s	 share	 of	 the	 net	
assets	 of	 the	 associate,	 less	 any	 impairment	 in	 the	 value	 of	 individual	
investments.	losses	 of	 the	 associates	 in	 excess	 of	 the	 Group’s	
interest	 in	 those	 associates	 are	 not	 recognised.	
any	excess	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisition	 over	 the	 Group’s	 share	 of	
the	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 contingent	
liabilities	 of	 the	 associate	 at	 the	 date	 of	 acquisition	 is	 recognised	
as	 goodwill.	the	 goodwill	 is	 included	 within	 the	 carrying	 amount	
of	 the	 investment.	any	 deficiency	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisition	 below	
the	 Group’s	 share	 of	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets,	
liabilities	 and	 contingent	 liabilities	 of	 the	 associate	 at	 the	 date	
of	 acquisition	 (i.e.	 discount	 on	 acquisition)	 is	 credited	 in	 profit	
and	 loss	 in	 the	 period	 of	 acquisition.
w here	 a	 group	 company	 transacts	 with	 an	 associate	 of	 the	 Group,	
profits	 and	 losses	 are	 eliminated	 to	 the	 extent	 of	 the	 Group’s	
interest	 in	 the	 relevant	 associate.	losses	 may	 provide	 evidence	 of	
an	 impairment	 of	 the	 asset	 transferred,	 in	 which	 case	 appropriate	
provision	 is	 made	 for	 impairment. 	 52	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
Group	aCCountinG	poliCies
Continued
non-Current	assets	helD	for	sale
non-current	assets	 (and	 disposal	 groups)	 classified	 as	 held	 for	 sale	
are	 measured	 at	 the	 lower	 of	 carrying	 amount	 and	 fair	 value	 less	
costs	 to	 sell.	
n on-current	 assets	 and	 disposal	 groups	 are	 classified	 as	 held	 for	 sale	
if	 their	 carrying	 amount	 will	 be	 recovered	 through	 a	 sale	 transaction	
rather	 than	 through	 continuing	 use.	this	 condition	 is	 regarded	 as	 met	
only	 when	 the	 sale	 is	 highly	 probable	 and	 the	 asset	 (or	 disposal	 group)	
is	 available	 for	 immediate	 sale	 in	 its	 present	 condition.	 Management	
must	 be	 committed	 to	 the	 sale	 which	 should	 be	 expected	 to	 qualify	
for	 recognition	 as	 a	 completed	 sale	 within	 one	 year	 from	 the	 date	
of	 classification.	
gooDwill
Goodwill	 arising	 in	 a	 business	 combination	 is	 recognised	 as	 an	 asset	
at	 the	 date	 that	 control	 is	 acquired	 (the	 acquisition	 date).	 Goodwill	
is	 measured	 as	 the	 excess	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisition	 over	 the	
Group’s	 interest	 in	 the	 net	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets,	
liabilities	 and	 contingent	 liabilities	 of	 a	 subsidiary	 or	 associate	 at	
the	 date	 of	 acquisition.	if	 after	 restatement,	 the	 Group’s	 interest	 in	
the	 net	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 acquiree’s	 identifiable	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	
contingent	 liabilities	 exceeds	 the	 cost	 of	 the	 business	 combination,	
the	 excess	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 profit	 or	 loss.
Goodwill	 is	 not	 amortised	 but	 is	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 at	 least	
annually.	 For	 the	 purpose	 of	 impairment	 testing,	 goodwill	 is	 allocated	
to	 each	 of	 the	 Group’s	 cash-generating	 units	 expected	 to	 benefit	
from	 the	 synergies	 of	 the	 combination.	 Cash-generating	 units	
to	 which	 goodwill	 has	 been	 allocated	 are	 tested	 for	 impairment	
bi-annually,	 or	 more	 frequently	 when	 there	 is	 an	 indication	 that	
the	 unit	 may	 be	 impaired.	if	 the	 recoverable	 amount	 of	 the	 cash-
generating	 unit	 is	 less	 than	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 unit,	 the	
impairment	 loss	 is	 allocated	 first	 to	 reduce	 the	 carrying	 amount	
of	 any	 goodwill	 allocated	 to	 the	 unit	 and	 then	 to	 acquired	 intangibles,	
followed	 by	 the	 other	 tangible	 assets	 of	 the	 unit.	an	 impairment	 loss	
recognised	 for	 goodwill	 is	 not	 reversed	 in	 a	 subsequent	 period.
on	disposal	 of	 a	 subsidiary	 or	 associate,	 the	 attributable	 amount	 of	
goodwill	 is	 included	 in	 the	 determination	 of	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 on	 disposal.
Goodwill	 arising	 on	 acquisitions	 before	 the	 date	 of	 transition	 to	i Frs	
has	 been	 retained	 at	 the	 previous	uK	 Gaap	amounts,	 subject	 to	
being	 tested	 for	 impairment	 at	 that	 date.	 Goodwill	 written	 off	 to	
reserves	 under	uK	 Gaap	prior	 to	 1998	 has	 not	 been	 reinstated	 and	 is	
not	 included	 in	 determining	 any	 subsequent	 profit	 or	 loss	 on	 disposal.
revenue	reCognition
revenue	is	 measured	 at	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 consideration	 received	
or	 receivable	 and	 represents	 amounts	 receivable	 for	 goods	 and	
services	 provided	 in	 the	 normal	 course	 of	 business,	 net	 of	 discounts,	
vat	 and	 other	 sales-related	 taxes.	revenue	 is	 recognised	 on	 the	
completion	 of	 services	 rendered.
interest	 income	 is	 accrued	 on	 a	 time	 basis,	 by	 reference	 to	 the	
principal	 outstanding	 and	 at	 the	 effective	 interest	 rate	 applicable,	
which	 is	 the	 rate	 that	 exactly	 discounts	 estimated	 future	 cash	
receipts	 through	 the	 expected	 life	 of	 the	 financial	 asset	 to	 that	
asset’s	 net	 carrying	 amount.	
dividend	income	 from	 investments	 is	 recognised	 when	 the	
shareholder’s	 rights	 to	 receive	 payment	 have	 been	 established.
the	group	as	lessee
l eases	 are	 classified	 as	 finance	 leases	 whenever	 the	 terms	 of	 the	
lease	 transfer	 substantially	 all	 the	 risks	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership	
to	 the	 lessee.	all	 other	 leases	 are	 classified	 as	 operating	 leases.	
assets	held	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 recognised	 as	 assets	 of	
the	 Group	 at	 their	 fair	 value	 or,	 if	 lower,	 at	 the	 present	 value	 of	
the	 minimum	 lease	 payments,	 each	 determined	 at	 the	 inception	
of	 the	 lease.	the	 corresponding	 liability	 to	 the	 lessor	 is	 included	
in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 as	 a	 finance	 lease	 obligation.	lease	 payments	
are	 apportioned	 between	 finance	 charges	 and	 reduction	 of	 the	
lease	 obligation	 so	 as	 to	 achieve	 a	 constant	 rate	 of	 interest	 on	
the	 remaining	 balance	 of	 the	 liability.	 Finance	 charges	 are	 charged	
directly	 against	 income.	
rentals	payable	 under	 operating	 leases	 are	 charged	 to	 income	
on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 term	 of	 the	 relevant	 lease.
benefits	 received	 and	 receivable	 as	 an	 incentive	 to	 enter	 into	 an	 operating	
lease	 are	 also	 spread	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 lease	 term.
the	group	as	lessor
amounts	due	 from	 lessees	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 recorded	 as	
receivables	 at	 the	 amount	 of	 the	 Group’s	 net	 investment	 in	 the	
leases.	 Finance	 lease	 income	 is	 allocated	 to	 accounting	 periods	 so	
as	 to	 reflect	 a	 constant	 periodic	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 the	 Group’s	 net	
investment	 outstanding	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 leases.	
foreign	 CurrenCies
transactions	in	 currencies	 other	 than	 pounds	 sterling	 are	 recorded	
at	 the	 rates	 of	 exchange	 prevailing	 on	 the	 dates	 of	 the	 transactions.	
at	each	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 that	
are	 denominated	 in	 foreign	 currencies	 are	 retranslated	 at	 the	 rates	
prevailing	 on	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	non-monetary	 items	 that	 are	
measured	 in	 terms	 of	 historical	 cost	 in	 a	 foreign	 currency	 are	 not	
retranslated.	 Gains	 and	 losses	 arising	 on	 retranslation	 are	 included	
in	 net	 profit	 or	 loss	 for	 the	 period.
exchange	 differences	 are	 recognised	 in	 profit	 or	 loss	 in	 the	 period	
in	 which	 they	 arise	 except	 for:
	 		 exchange	 differences	 on	 transactions	 entered	 into	 to	 hedge	
certain	 foreign	 currency	 risks	 (see	 below	 under	 financial	
instruments/hedge	 accounting);	 and
	 		 exchange	 differences	 on	 monetary	 items	 receivable	 from	 or	
payable	 to	 a	 foreign	 operation	 for	 which	 settlement	 is	 neither	
planned	 nor	 likely	 to	 occur	 (therefore	 forming	 part	 of	 the	 net	
investment	 in	 the	 foreign	 operation)	 which	 are	 recognised	 initially	
in	 the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	 income	 and	
reclassified	 from	 equity	 to	 profit	 or	 loss	 on	 disposal	 or	 partial	
disposal	 of	 the	 net	 investment.
on	consolidation,	 the	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 the	 Group’s	 overseas	
operations	 are	 translated	 at	 exchange	 rates	 prevailing	 on	 the	 balance	
sheet	 date.	income	 and	 expense	 items	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 average	
exchange	 rates	 for	 the	 period	 unless	 exchange	 rates	 fluctuate	
significantly.	exchange	 differences	 arising,	 if	 any,	 are	 classified	
as	 equity	 and	 transferred	 to	 the	 Group’s	 translation	 reserve.	such	
translation	 differences	 are	 recognised	 as	 income	 or	 as	 expenses	 in	
the	 period	 in	 which	 the	 operation	 is	 disposed	 of.
Goodwill	 and	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 arising	 on	 the	 acquisition	 of	 a	
foreign	 entity	 are	 treated	 as	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 the	 foreign	 entity	
and	 translated	 at	 the	 closing	 rate.	the	 Group	 has	 elected	 to	 treat	
goodwill	 and	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 arising	 on	 acquisitions	 before	 the	
date	 of	 transition	 to	i Frs	 as	 sterling-denominated	 assets	 and	 liabilities.
Borrowing	 Costs
borrowing	costs	 are	 recognised	 in	 profit	 or	 loss	 in	 the	 period	 in	
which	 they	 are	 incurred.	borrowing	 costs	 directly	 attributable	 to	 the	
acquisition,	 construction	 or	 production	 of	 qualifying	 assets,	 which	
are	 assets	 that	 take	 a	 substantial	 period	 of	 time	 to	 get	 ready	 for	 their	
intended	 use,	 are	 added	 to	 the	 cost	 of	 those	 assets,	 until	 such	 time	
as	 the	 assets	 are	 substantially	 ready	 for	 their	 intended	 use. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 53
government	grants
Government	 grants	 relating	 to	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 are	
treated	 as	 deferred	 income	 and	 released	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 over	 the	
expected	 useful	 lives	 of	 the	 assets	 concerned.	
operating	profit
operating	profit	 is	 stated	 after	 charging	 restructuring	 costs,	 goodwill	
impairment,	 amortisation	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 assets	 and	 after	 the	
post-tax	 share	 of	 results	 of	 associates	 but	 before	 investment	 income	
and	 finance	 costs.
DisContinueD	operations
in	 accordance	 with	iFrs	5	 ‘non-current	assets	 Held	 for	sale	 and	
discontinued	operations’,	 the	 Group	 has	 separately	 disclosed	
the	 results	 of	 the	testing	 division	 as	 discontinued	 following	 the	
disposal	 of	 the	 business	 in	october	 2008,	 and	 subsequent	 provision	
adjustment	 during	 2010.
retirement	 Benefit	 Costs
payments	 to	 defined	 contribution	 retirement	 benefit	 schemes	 are	
charged	 as	 an	 expense	 as	 they	 fall	 due.	payments	 made	 to	 state-
managed	 retirement	 benefit	 schemes	 are	 dealt	 with	 as	 payments	 to	
defined	 contribution	 schemes	 where	 the	 Group’s	 obligations	 under	
the	 schemes	 are	 equivalent	 to	 those	 arising	 in	 a	 defined	 contribution	
retirement	 benefit	 scheme.	
For	 defined	 benefit	 schemes,	 the	 cost	 of	 providing	 benefits	 is	
determined	 using	 the	projected	unit	 Credit	 Method,	 with	 actuarial	
valuations	 being	 carried	 out	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date.	actuarial	
gains	 and	 losses	 are	 recognised	 in	 full	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 they	
occur.	they	 are	 recognised	 outside	 profit	 or	 loss	 and	 presented	 in	
the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	 income.	
past	 service	 cost	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 the	
benefits	 are	 already	 vested,	 and	 otherwise	 is	 amortised	 on	 a	 straight-
line	 basis	 over	 the	 average	 period	 until	 the	 benefits	 become	 vested.		
the	retirement	 benefit	 obligation	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	
represents	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 obligation	 as	
adjusted	 for	 unrecognised	 past	 service	 cost,	 and	 as	 reduced	 by	
the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 scheme	 assets.	any	 asset	 resulting	 from	 this	
calculation	 is	 limited	 to	 past	 service	 cost,	 plus	 the	 present	 value	 of	
available	 refunds	 and	 reductions	 in	 future	 contributions	 to	 the	 scheme.
taXation
the	tax	 expense	 represents	 the	 sum	 of	 the	 tax	 currently	 payable	
and	 deferred	 tax.	
the	tax	 currently	 payable	 is	 based	 on	 taxable	 profit	 for	 the	 year.	
taxable	profit	 differs	 from	 net	 profit	 as	 reported	 in	 the	 income	
statement	 because	 it	 excludes	 items	 of	 income	 or	 expense	 that	 are	
taxable	 or	 deductible	 in	 other	 years	 and	 it	 further	 excludes	 items	 that	
are	 never	 taxable	 or	 deductible.	the	 Group’s	 liability	 for	 current	 tax	
is	 calculated	 using	 tax	 rates	 that	 have	 been	 enacted	 or	 substantively	
enacted	 by	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	
deferred	tax	 is	 the	 tax	 expected	 to	 be	 payable	 or	 recoverable	 on	
differences	 between	 the	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 in	
the	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 corresponding	 tax	 bases	 used	 in	 the	
computation	 of	 taxable	 profit,	 and	 is	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 balance	
sheet	 liability	 method.	deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 are	 generally	 recognised	
for	 all	 taxable	 temporary	 differences	 and	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	
recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 taxable	 profits	
will	 be	 available	 against	 which	 deductible	 temporary	 differences	
can	 be	 utilised.	such	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 not	 recognised	 if	
the	 temporary	 difference	 arises	 from	 goodwill	 or	 from	 the	 initial	
recognition	 (other	 than	 in	 a	 business	 combination)	 of	 other	 assets	
and	 liabilities	 in	 a	 transaction	 that	 affects	 neither	 the	 tax	 profit	 nor	
the	 accounting	 profit.	
deferred	tax	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 for	 taxable	 temporary	
differences	 arising	 on	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 and	 associates,	
and	 interests	 in	 joint	 ventures,	 except	 where	 the	 Group	 is	 able	 to	
control	 the	 reversal	 of	 the	 temporary	 difference	 and	 it	 is	 probable	 that	
the	 temporary	 difference	 will	 not	 reverse	 in	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	
d eferred	 tax	 is	 calculated	 at	 the	 tax	 rates	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 apply	
in	 the	 period	 when	 the	 liability	 is	 settled	 or	 the	 asset	 is	 realised.	
d eferred	 tax	 is	 charged	 or	 credited	 in	 the	 income	 statement,	 except	
when	 it	 relates	 to	 items	 charged	 or	 credited	 directly	 to	 equity,	
in	 which	 case	 the	 deferred	 tax	 is	 also	 dealt	 with	 in	 equity.	
the	carrying	 amount	 of	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 is	 reviewed	 at	 each	
balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 reduced	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 no	 longer	
probable	 that	 sufficient	 taxable	 profits	 will	 be	 available	 to	 allow	
all	 or	 part	 of	 the	 asset	 to	 be	 recovered.
deferred	tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 offset	 when	 there	 is	 a	 legally	
enforceable	 right	 to	 set-off	 current	 tax	 assets	 against	 current	 tax	
liabilities	 and	 when	 they	 relate	 to	 income	 taxes	 levied	 by	 the	 same	
taxation	 authority	 and	 the	 Group	 intends	 to	 settle	 its	 current	 tax	
assets	 and	 liabilities	 on	 a	 net	 basis.
property,	plant	anD	equipment
property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 accumulated	
depreciation	 and	 any	 recognised	 impairment	 loss.	
depreciation	is	 charged	 so	 as	 to	 write	 off	 the	 cost	 of	 assets,	 other	
than	 land	 and	 properties	 under	 construction,	 less	 their	 residual	
values,	 over	 their	 estimated	 useful	 lives,	 using	 the	 straight-line	
method,	 on	 the	 following	 bases:
Freehold	 buildings	 	 2%	
leasehold	property	 	 over	 the	 period	 of	 the	 lease	
Fixtures	 and	 fittings	 	 10%	 -	 20%	
plant	 and	 machinery	 	 5%	 -	 20%	
Motor	 vehicles	 	 20%	 -	 33%
a ssets	 held	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 depreciated	 over	 their	 expected	
useful	 lives	 on	 the	 same	 basis	 as	 owned	 assets	 or,	 where	 shorter,	
over	 the	 term	 of	 the	 relevant	 lease.	the	 gain	 or	 loss	 arising	 on	 the	
disposal	 or	 retirement	 of	 an	 asset	 is	 determined	 as	 the	 difference	
between	 the	 sales	 proceeds	 and	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 asset	
and	 is	 recognised	 in	 income.
assets	 in	 the	 course	 of	 construction	 are	 carried	 at	 cost,	 plus	 appropriate	
borrowing	 costs,	 less	 any	 recognised	 impairment	 loss.	depreciation	
commences	 when	 the	 assets	 are	 ready	 for	 their	 intended	 use.
impairment	of	tangiBle	anD	intangiBle	assets	
eXCluDing	gooDwill
a t	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 Group	 reviews	 the	 carrying	 amounts	
of	 its	 tangible	 and	 intangible	 assets	 to	 determine	 whether	 there	 is	
any	 indication	 that	 those	 assets	 have	 suffered	 an	 impairment	 loss.	
if	 any	 such	 indication	 exists,	 the	 recoverable	 amount	 of	 the	 asset	 is	
estimated	 in	 order	 to	 determine	 the	 extent	 of	 the	 impairment	 loss	
(if	 any).	where	 the	 asset	 does	 not	 generate	 cash	 flows	 that	 are	
independent	 from	 other	 assets,	 the	 Group	 estimates	 the	 recoverable	
amount	 of	 the	 cash-generating	 unit	 to	 which	 the	 asset	 belongs.	
r ecoverable	 amount	 is	 the	 higher	 of	 fair	 value	 less	 costs	 to	 sell	 and	
value	 in	 use.	in	 assessing	 value	 in	 use,	 the	 estimated	 future	 cash	
flows	 are	 discounted	 to	 their	 present	 value	 using	 a	 discount	 rate	 that	
reflects	 current	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 and	
the	 risks	 specific	 to	 the	 asset	 for	 which	 the	 estimates	 of	 future	 cash	
flows	 have	 not	 been	 adjusted.	
if	 the	 recoverable	 amount	 of	 an	 asset	 (or	 cash-generating	 unit)	 is	
estimated	 to	 be	 less	 than	 its	 carrying	 amount,	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	
the	 asset	 (cash-generating	 unit)	 is	 reduced	 to	 its	 recoverable	 amount.	
an	impairment	 loss	 is	 recognised	 as	 an	 expense	 immediately. 	 54	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
Group	aCCountinG	poliCies
Continued
where	an	 impairment	 loss	 subsequently	 reverses,	 the	 carrying	
amount	 of	 the	 asset	 (cash-generating	 unit)	 is	 increased	 to	 the	
revised	 estimate	 of	 its	 recoverable	 amount,	 but	 so	 that	 the	 increased	
carrying	 amount	 does	 not	 exceed	 the	 carrying	 amount	 that	 would	
have	 been	 determined	 had	 no	 impairment	 loss	 been	 recognised	
for	 the	 asset	 (cash-generating	 unit)	 in	 prior	 years.	a	 reversal	 of	 an	
impairment	 loss	 is	 recognised	 as	 income	 immediately.
inventories
inventories	 are	 stated	 at	 the	 lower	 of	 cost	 and	 net	 realisable	 value.	
Cost	 comprises	 direct	 materials	 and,	 where	 applicable,	 direct	 labour	
costs	 and	 those	 overheads	 that	 have	 been	 incurred	 in	 bringing	 the	
inventories	 to	 their	 present	 location	 and	 condition.	net	 realisable	 value	
represents	 the	 estimated	 selling	 price	 less	 all	 estimated	 costs	 of	
completion	 and	 costs	 to	 be	 incurred	 in	 marketing,	 selling	 and	 distribution.
finanCial	instruments
Financial	 assets	 and	 financial	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 on	 the	 Group’s	
balance	 sheet	 when	 the	 Group	 becomes	 a	 party	 to	 the	 contractual	
provisions	 of	 the	 instrument.	
loans	and	receivables
t rade	 receivables,	 loans,	 and	 other	 receivables	 that	 have	 fixed	 or	
determinable	 payments	 that	 are	 not	 quoted	 in	 an	 active	 market	
are	 classified	 as	 ‘loans	 and	 receivables’.	loans	 and	 receivables	 are	
measured	 at	 amortised	 cost	 using	 the	 effective	 interest	 method,	
less	 any	 impairment.	i nterest	 income	 is	 recognised	 by	 applying	 the	
effective	 interest	 rate,	 except	 for	 trade	 receivables,	 which	 do	 not	
carry	 any	 interest	 and	 are	 stated	 at	 their	 nominal	 value	 as	 reduced	
by	 appropriate	 allowances	 for	 estimated	 irrecoverable	 amounts.	
Cash	 and	 Cash	equivalents
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 comprise	 cash	 in	 hand	 and	 demand	 deposits	
and	 other	 short-term	 highly	 liquid	 investments	 that	 are	 readily	 convertible	
to	 a	 known	 amount	 of	 cash	 and	 are	 subject	 to	 an	 insignificant	 risk	 of	
changes	 in	 value.
financial	liabilities	 and	equity
Financial	 liabilities	 and	 equity	 instruments	 are	 classified	 according	 to	
the	 substance	 of	 the	 contractual	 arrangements	 entered	 into.	an	 equity	
instrument	 is	 any	 contract	 that	 evidences	 a	 residual	 interest	 in	 the	
assets	 of	 the	 Group	 after	 deducting	 all	 of	 its	 liabilities.
Bank	 Borrowings
interest-bearing	 bank	 loans	 and	 overdrafts	 are	 recorded	 at	 the	 proceeds	
received,	 net	 of	 transaction	 costs.	 Finance	 charges,	 including	 premiums	
payable	 on	 settlement	 or	 redemption	 and	 direct	 issue	 costs,	 are	 accounted	
for	 on	 an	 accruals	 basis	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 using	 the	 effective	
interest	 method	 and	 are	 added	 to	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 instrument	
to	 the	 extent	 that	 they	 are	 not	 settled	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 they	 arise.
trade	payables
trade	payables	 are	 not	 interest-bearing	 and	 are	 stated	 at	 their	
nominal	 value.
equity	instruments
equity	 instruments	 issued	 by	 the	 Company	 are	 recorded	 at	 the	
proceeds	 received,	 net	 of	 direct	 issue	 costs.
impairment	 of	 financial	 assets
Financial	 assets	 are	 assessed	 for	 indicators	 of	 impairment	 at	 each	
balance	 sheet	 date.	 Financial	 assets	 are	 impaired	 where	 there	 is	 objective	
evidence	 that,	 as	 a	 result	 of	 one	 or	 more	 events	 that	 occurred	 after	 the	
initial	 recognition	 of	 the	 financial	 asset,	 the	 estimated	 future	 cash	 flows	
of	 the	 investment	 have	 been	 impacted.
objective	evidence	 of	 impairment	 could	 include:
	 		 significant	 financial	 difficulty	 of	 the	 customer	 or	 counterparty;	 or
	 		 default	 or	 delinquency	 in	 payments.
For	 certain	 categories	 of	 financial	 asset,	 such	 as	 trade	 receivables,	
assets	 that	 are	 assessed	 not	 to	 be	 impaired	 individually	 are	 subsequently	
assessed	 for	 impairment	 on	 a	 collective	 basis.	objective	 evidence	 of	
impairment	 for	 a	 portfolio	 of	 receivables	 could	 include	 the	 Group’s	 past	
experience	 of	 collecting	 payments,	 an	 increase	 in	 the	 number	 of	
delayed	 payments	 in	 the	 portfolio	 past	 the	 average	 credit	 period,	 as	
well	 as	 observable	 changes	 in	 national	 or	 local	 economic	 conditions	
that	 correlate	 with	 default	 on	 receivables.	
the	carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 financial	 asset	 is	 reduced	 by	 the	
impairment	 loss	 directly	 for	 all	 financial	 assets	 with	 the	 exception	
of	 trade	 receivables,	 where	 the	 carrying	 amount	 is	 reduced	 through	
the	 use	 of	 an	 allowance	 account.	when	 a	 trade	 receivable	 is	
considered	 uncollectable,	 it	 is	 written	 off	 against	 the	 allowance	
account.	subsequent	 recoveries	 of	 amounts	 previously	 written	 off	
are	 credited	 against	 the	 allowance	 account.	 Changes	 in	 the	 carrying	
amount	 of	 the	 allowance	 account	 are	 recognised	 in	 profit	 or	 loss.
Derivative	finanCial	instruments
t he	 Group	 uses	 derivative	 financial	 instruments,	 in	 particular	 interest	
rate	 swaps,	 foreign	 currency	 swaps	 and	 forward	 exchange	 contracts,	
to	 manage	 the	 financial	 risks	 arising	 from	 the	 business	 activities	 and	
the	 financing	 of	 those	 activities.	the	 Group	 does	 not	 use	 derivative	
financial	 instruments	 for	 speculative	 purposes.
the	use	 of	 financial	 derivatives	 is	 governed	 by	 the	 Group’s	 policies	
approved	 by	 the	board	 of	directors,	 which	 provide	 written	 principles	
on	 the	 use	 of	 financial	 derivatives.	
derivative	financial	 instruments	 are	 recognised	 as	 assets	 and	
liabilities	 measured	 at	 their	 fair	 value	 on	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	
Changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 any	 derivative	 instruments	 that	 do	
not	 fulfil	 the	 criteria	 for	 hedge	 accounting	 contained	 in	ias	 39	 are	
recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	a	 derivative	 is	
presented	 as	 a	 non-current	 asset	 or	 a	 non-current	 liability	 if	 the	
remaining	 maturity	 of	 the	 instrument	 is	 more	 than	 12	 months	 and	 it	
is	 not	 expected	 to	 be	 realised	 or	 settled	 within	 12	 months.
heDge	aCCounting
the	Group	 uses	 foreign	 currency	 debt	 and	 cross	 currency	 swaps	
to	 hedge	 its	 exposure	 to	 changes	 in	 the	 underlying	 net	 assets	 of	
overseas	 operations	 arising	 from	 foreign	 exchange	 rate	 movements.	
the	Group	 maintains	 documentation	 of	 the	 relationship	 between	
the	 hedged	 item	 and	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 at	 the	 inception	 of	 a	
hedging	 transaction	 together	 with	 the	 risk	 management	 objective	
and	 the	 strategy	 underlying	 the	 designated	 hedge.	the	 Group	
also	 documents	 its	 assessment,	 both	 at	 the	 inception	 of	 the	
hedging	 relationship	 and	 subsequently	 on	 an	 ongoing	 basis,	 of	 the	
effectiveness	 of	 the	 hedge	 in	 offsetting	 movements	 in	 the	 fair	 values	
or	 cash	 flows	 of	 the	 hedged	 items.
w hen	 hedge	 accounting	 is	 used,	 the	 relevant	 hedging	 relationships	 are	
classified	 as	 fair	 value	 hedges,	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 or	 net	 investment	 hedges.
note	20	 sets	 out	 the	 details	 of	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 derivative	
instruments	 used	 for	 hedging	 purposes.
fair	value	hedge
Changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 derivatives	 that	 are	 designated	 and	
qualify	 as	 fair	 value	 hedges	 are	 recorded	 in	 the	 income	 statement,	
together	 with	 any	 changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 hedged	 asset	 or	
liability	 that	 are	 attributable	 to	 the	 hedged	 risk.
Cash	flow	hedge
Cash	 flow	 hedging	 matches	 the	 cash	 flows	 of	 hedged	 items	 against	
the	 corresponding	 cash	 flow	 of	 the	 derivative.	the	 effective	 part	 of	
any	 gain	 or	 loss	 on	 the	 derivative	 is	 recognised	 directly	 in	 equity	 and	
the	 hedged	 item	 is	 accounted	 for	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 policy	 for	
that	 financial	 instrument.	any	 ineffective	 part	 of	 any	 gain	 or	 loss	 is	
recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 55
Hedge	 accounting	 is	 discontinued	 when	 the	 hedging	 instrument	
expires	 or	 is	 sold,	 terminated,	 or	 exercised,	 or	 no	 longer	 qualifies	 for	
hedge	 accounting.	at	 that	 time,	 any	 cumulative	 gain	 or	 loss	 on	 the	
hedging	 instrument	 recognised	 in	 equity	 is	 retained	 in	 equity	 until	
the	 forecast	 transaction	 occurs.	if	 a	 hedged	 transaction	 is	 no	 longer	
expected	 to	 occur,	 the	 net	 cumulative	 gain	 or	 loss	 recognised	 in	
equity	 is	 transferred	 to	 net	 profit	 or	 loss	 for	 the	 period.
net	investment	hedge
Hedges	 of	 net	 investments	 in	 foreign	 operations	 are	 accounted	 for	
similarly	 to	 cash	 flow	 hedges.	to	 the	 extent	 the	 hedge	 is	 effective,	
changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 arising	 from	
the	 hedged	 risk	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	
comprehensive	 income	 and	 accumulated	 in	 the	 hedging	 and	 translation	
reserve.	the	 gain	 or	 loss	 relating	 to	 the	 ineffective	 portion	 is	
recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
Gains	 and	 losses	 accumulated	 in	 equity	 are	 included	 in	 the	 income	
statement	 in	 the	 event	 that	 the	 foreign	 operation	 is	 disposed	 of.	
provisions
provisions	 are	 recognised	 when	 the	 Group	 has	 a	 present	 obligation	
(legal	 or	 constructive)	 as	 a	 result	 of	 a	 past	 event,	 when	 it	 is	 probable	
that	 the	 Group	 will	 be	 required	 to	 settle	 that	 obligation	 and	 when	 a	
reliable	 estimate	 can	 be	 made	 of	 the	 amount	 of	 the	 obligation.
the	amount	 recognised	 as	 a	 provision	 is	 the	 best	 estimate	 of	
the	 consideration	 required	 to	 settle	 the	 present	 obligation	 at	 the	
balance	 sheet	 date,	 taking	 into	 account	 the	 risks	 and	 uncertainties	
surrounding	 the	 obligation.	where	 a	 provision	 is	 measured	 using	 the	
cash	 flows	 estimated	 to	 settle	 the	 present	 obligation,	 its	 carrying	
amount	 is	 the	 present	 value	 of	 those	 cash	 flows.
provisions	 for	 restructuring	 costs	 are	 recognised	 when	 the	 Group	
has	 a	 detailed	 formal	 plan	 for	 the	 restructuring	 and	 has	 raised	 a	 valid	
expectation	 in	 those	 affected	 that	 it	 will	 carry	 out	 the	 restructuring	
by	 starting	 to	 implement	 the	 plan	 or	 announcing	 its	 main	 features	 to	
those	 affected	 by	 it.
the	measurement	 of	 a	 restructuring	 provision	 includes	 only	 the	
direct	 expenditures	 arising	 from	 the	 restructuring	 which	 are	 those	
amounts	 that	 are	 both	 necessarily	 entailed	 by	 the	 restructuring	 and	
not	 associated	 with	 the	 ongoing	 activities	 of	 the	 entity.
share-BaseD	payments
t he	 Group	 has	 applied	 the	 requirements	 of	i Frs	 2	 ‘share-based	p ayment’.
the	Group	 issues	 equity-settled	 share-based	 payments	 to	 certain	
employees.	e quity-settled	 share-based	 payments	 are	 measured	 at	 fair	
value	 at	 the	 date	 of	 grant.	the	 fair	 value	 determined	 at	 the	 grant	 date	 of	
the	 equity-settled	 share-based	 payments	 is	 expensed	 on	 a	 straight-line	
basis	 over	 the	 vesting	 period.	at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 Group	
revises	 its	 estimate	 of	 the	 number	 of	 equity	 instruments	 expected	 to	
vest	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 effect	 of	 non-market	 based	 vesting	 conditions.	
t he	 impact	 of	 the	 revision	 of	 the	 original	 estimates,	 if	 any,	 is	 recognised	
in	 profit	 or	 loss	 such	 that	 the	 cumulative	 expense	 reflects	 the	 revised	
estimates	 with	 a	 corresponding	 adjustment	 to	 the	 equity-settled	 employee	
benefits	 reserve.	 Fair	 value	 is	 measured	 by	 use	 of	 a	b lack-scholes	 model.
CritiCal	 JuDgements	in	applying	the	group’s	
aCCounting	poliCies
in	 the	 process	 of	 applying	 the	 Group’s	 accounting	 policies,	 which	 are	
described	 above,	 management	 has	 made	 the	 following	 judgements	
that	 have	 the	 most	 significant	 effect	 on	 the	 amounts	 recognised	
in	 the	 financial	 statements	 (apart	 from	 those	 involving	 estimations,	
which	 are	 dealt	 with	 below).
provisions	 for	 environmental	 liabilities
the	Group	 provides	 for	 the	 costs	 of	 environmental	 remediation	
that	 have	 been	 identified,	 either	 as	 part	 of	 acquisition	 due	 diligence,	
or	 in	 other	 circumstances	 where	 remediation	 by	 the	 Group	 is	
required.	the	 provision	 is	 reviewed	 annually.
key	sourCes	of	estimation	unCertainty
t he	 key	 assumptions	 concerning	 the	 future,	 and	 other	 key	 sources	 of	
estimation	 uncertainty	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 that	 have	 a	 significant	
risk	 of	 causing	 a	 material	 adjustment	 to	 the	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 assets	
and	 liabilities	 within	 the	 next	 financial	 year,	 are	 discussed	 below.
impairment	 of	goodwill	 and	fixed	assets
determining	whether	 goodwill	 and	 fixed	 assets	 are	 impaired	 requires	
an	 estimation	 of	 the	 value	 in	 use	 of	 the	 cash-generating	 units	 to	
which	 the	 assets	 have	 been	 allocated.	the	 value	 in	 use	 calculation	
requires	 the	 entity	 to	 estimate	 the	 future	 cash	 flows	 expected	 to	
arise	 from	 the	 cash-generating	 unit	 and	 a	 suitable	 discount	 rate	 in	
order	 to	 calculate	 present	 value.	
retirement	Benefit	schemes
accounting	for	 retirement	 benefit	 schemes	 under	ias	 19	 requires	
an	 assessment	 of	 the	 future	 benefits	 payable	 in	 accordance	 with	
actuarial	 assumptions,	 which	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	 30.
taxation
the	Group	 is	 subject	 to	 taxes	 in	 numerous	 jurisdictions.	significant	
judgement	 is	 required	 in	 determining	 the	 worldwide	 provision	 for	 tax.	
there	are	 many	 transactions	 and	 calculations	 for	 which	 the	 ultimate	
tax	 determination	 is	 uncertain	 during	 the	 ordinary	 course	 of	 business.	
the	Group	 recognises	 liabilities	 for	 anticipated	 tax	 audit	 issues	 based	
on	 estimates	 of	 whether	 additional	 taxes	 will	 be	 due.	where	 the	
final	 tax	 outcome	 of	 these	 matters	 is	 different	 from	 the	 amounts	
that	 were	 initially	 recorded,	 such	 differences	 will	 impact	 the	 current	
tax	 provision,	 deferred	 tax	 provisions	 and	 income	 statement	 in	 the	
period	 in	 which	 such	 determination	 is	 made.
general	information
bodycote	 plc	 is	 a	 company	 incorporated	 in	 the	united	 Kingdom	 under	
the	 Companies	acts	 1948	 to	 1980.	the	 address	 of	 the	 registered	
office	 is	 given	 on	 page	 45.	the	 nature	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations	 and	
its	 principal	 activities	 are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 32	 in	 the	directors’	report.	
t hese	 financial	 statements	 are	 presented	 in	 pounds	 sterling	 because	
that	 is	 the	 currency	 of	 the	 primary	 economic	 environment	 in	 which	 the	
Group	 operates.	 Foreign	 operations	 are	 included	 in	 accordance	 with	
the	 policies	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Foreign	 Currencies	 accounting	 policy	 above.	
a t	 the	 date	 of	 authorisation	 of	 these	 financial	 statements,	 the	 following	
standards	 and	i nterpretations	 which	 have	 not	 been	 applied	 in	 these	
financial	 statements	 were	 in	 issue	 but	 not	 yet	 effective	 (and	 in	 some	
cases	 had	 not	 yet	 been	 adopted	 by	 the	eu):
	 		 iFrs	 9:	 Financial	instruments
	 		 ias	 24	 (amended):	related	party	disclosures
	 		 ias	 32	 (amended):	 Classification	 of	rights	issues
	 		 iFriC	 19:	e xtinguishing	 Financial	liabilities	 with	e quity	i nstruments
	 		 i Fri C	 14	 (amended):	p repayments	 of	 a	 Minimum	 Funding	requirement
	 		 iFrs	 7	 (amended):	disclosure	 –	transfers	 of	 Financial	assets
	 		 ias	 12	 (amended):	deferred	tax:	recovery	 of	underlying	assets
	 		 improvements	 to	iFrss	(May	 2010)
the	adoption	 of	iFrs	9,	 which	 the	 Group	 plans	 to	 adopt	 for	 the	 year	
beginning	 on	 1	january	 2013,	 will	 impact	 both	 the	 measurement	 and	
disclosures	 of	 Financial	i nstruments.	the	directors	 do	 not	 expect	 that	
the	 adoption	 of	 the	 other	 standards	 listed	 above	 will	 have	 a	 material	
impact	 on	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Group	 in	 future	 periods. 	 56	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
1. revenue
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Continuing	 operations
Heat	 treatment	 and	 metal	 joining,	 hot	 isostatic	 pressing	 and	 surface	 technology	 services 499.8	 435.4	
other	operating	 income	 (see	 note	 3) 2.3	 3.7	
investment	 revenue	 (see	 note	 5) 0.3	 1.5	
total	revenue	 (as	 defined	 in	ias	 18,	revenue) 502.4	 440.6	
2. Business	 and	 geographical	 segments
iFrs	 8	 requires	 operating	 segments	 to	 be	 identified	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 internal	 reports	 about	 components	 of	 the	 Group	 that	 are	 regularly	
reviewed	 by	 the	 Chief	executive	 to	 allocate	 resources	 to	 the	 segments	 and	 to	 assess	 their	 performance.
the	Group’s	 reportable	 segments	 have	 been	 determined	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 activity	 of	 the	 Group,	 focusing	 on	 key	 market	 sectors.	
principally,	 this	 splits	 the	 Group	 into	 two	 business	 areas	 being:
	 	aerospace,	defence	 &	energy	 (ade);	and
	 	automotive	 &	 General	industrial	 (aGi).
this	initial	 split	 is	 determined	 following	 consideration	 of	 factors	 including	 the	 different	 customer	 sets,	 differing	 service	 requirements	 and	
different	 characteristics	 of	 business	 activity.	a	 further	 split	 is	 then	 made	 for	 the	 geographical	 divisions	 of	 the	 Group	 being:
	 	western	europe;
	 	north	america;	 and
	 	emerging	 Markets.
group 	 aDe 	 agi
	 head	 	
	office	 and	
	 eliminations 	 Consolidated
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
total	revenue 202.1	 297.7	 .–	 499.8	
result
Headline	 operating	 profit	 prior	 to	 share-based	 payments	 and	 unallocated	 corporate	 expenses 35.1	 27.2	 .–	 62.3	
share-based	payments (1.2) (1.6) (1.4) (4.2)
unallocated	corporate	 expenses .–	 .–	 (6.0) (6.0)
Headline	 operating	 profit/(loss) 33.9	 25.6	 (7.4) 52.1	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.4) (0.5) .–	 (0.9)
segment	result 33.5	 25.1	 (7.4) 51.2	
investment	 revenue 0.3	
Finance	 costs (6.3)
profit	 before	 taxation 45.2	
taxation (11.7)
profit	 for	 the	 year 33.5	
inter-segment	 sales	 are	 not	 material	 in	 either	 year.	
the	Group	 does	 not	 rely	 on	 any	 individual	 major	 customers. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 57
2. Business	 and	 geographical	 segments	 continued
aerospace,	 Defence	 &	energy
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 aDe
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
total	revenue 92.2	 108.9	 1.0	 202.1	
result
Headline	 operating	 profit	 prior	 to	 share-based	 payments	 15.7	 19.5	 (0.1) 35.1	
share-based	payments (0.5) (0.7) .–	 (1.2)
Headline	 operating	 profit/(loss) 15.2	 18.8	 (0.1) 33.9	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.2) (0.2) .–	 (0.4)
segment	result 15.0	 18.6	 (0.1) 33.5	
automotive	 &	general	industrial
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 agi
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
total	revenue 204.6	 43.0	 50.1	 297.7	
result
Headline	 operating	 profit	 prior	 to	 share-based	 payments	 21.3	 5.4	 0.5	 27.2	
share-based	payments (1.2) (0.3) (0.1) (1.6)
Headline	 operating	 profit 20.1	 5.1	 0.4	 25.6	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.1) .–	 (0.4) (0.5)
segment	result 20.0	 5.1	 .–	 25.1	
group 	 ade 	 aGi
	 Head	
	 o ffice	 and	
	eliminations 	 Consolidated
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
total	revenue 189.5	 245.9	 .–	 435.4	
result
Headline	 operating	 profit	 prior	 to	 share-based	 payments	 and	 unallocated	 corporate	 expenses 24.7	 (12.3) .–	 12.4	
share-based	payments .–	 .–	 0.1	 0.1	
unallocated	corporate	 expenses .–	 .–	 (4.5) (4.5)
Headline	 operating	 profit/(loss) 24.7	 (12.3) (4.4) 8.0	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.6) (0.7) .–	 (1.3)
impairment	 charge (5.0) (25.7) (0.8) (31.5)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs 0.9	 (25.9) (0.4) (25.4)
segment	result 20.0	 (64.6) (5.6) (50.2)
investment	 revenue 1.5	
Finance	 costs (5.8)
loss	before	 taxation (54.5)
taxation 3.4	
loss	for	 the	 year (51.1) 	 58	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
2. Business	 and	 geographical	 segments	 continued
aerospace,	 Defence	 &	energy
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	 emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 ade
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
total	revenue 91.3	 97.4	 0.8	 189.5	
result
Headline	 operating	 profit/(loss) 11.7	 13.3	 (0.3) 24.7	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.3) (0.3) .–	 (0.6)
impairment	 charge .–	 (5.0) .–	 (5.0)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs (1.0) 1.9	 .–	 0.9	
segment	result 10.4	 9.9	 (0.3) 20.0	
automotive	 &	general	industrial
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	 emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 aGi
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
total	revenue 176.2	 30.7	 39.0	 245.9	
result
Headline	 operating	 profit/(loss) (10.1) 0.6	 (2.8) (12.3)
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.1) .–	 (0.6) (0.7)
impairment	 charge (3.0) (20.0) (2.7) (25.7)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs (16.9) 0.1	 (9.1) (25.9)
segment	result (30.1) (19.3) (15.2) (64.6)
other	 information
group 	 aDe 	 agi
	 head	 	
	office	 and	
	 eliminations 	 Consolidated
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Capital	 additions 10.1	 25.3	 1.8	 37.2	
depreciation	and	 amortisation 17.8	 29.5	 1.0	 48.3	
Balance	 sheet
assets:
segment	assets 307.0	 435.7	 28.0	 770.7	
other	investments .–	 0.5	 .–	 0.5	
Consolidated	 total	 assets 307.0	 436.2	 28.0	 771.2	
liabilities:
segment	liabilities 64.7	 123.9	 131.8	 320.4	
segment	net	 assets/(liabilities) 242.3	 312.3	 (103.8) 450.8	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 59
2. Business	 and	 geographical	 segments	 continued
aerospace,	 Defence	 &	energy
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 aDe
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Capital	 additions 6.0	 4.1	 .–	 10.1	
depreciation	and	 amortisation 9.5	 8.1	 0.2	 17.8	
Balance	 sheet
assets:
segment	assets 168.8	 136.1	 2.1	 307.0	
other	investments .–	 .–	 .–	 .–	
Consolidated	 total	 assets 168.8	 136.1	 2.1	 307.0	
liabilities:
segment	liabilities 29.1	 35.3	 0.3	 64.7	
segment	net	 assets 139.7	 100.8	 1.8	 242.3	
automotive	 &	general	industrial
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 agi
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Capital	 additions 13.1	 2.3	 9.9	 25.3	
depreciation	and	 amortisation 22.0	 3.1	 4.4	 29.5	
Balance	 sheet
assets:
segment	assets 304.1	 54.4	 77.2	 435.7	
other	investments 0.5	 .–	 .–	 0.5	
Consolidated	 total	 assets 304.6	 54.4	 77.2	 436.2	
liabilities:
segment	liabilities 94.6	 15.3	 14.0	 123.9	
segment	net	 assets 210.0	 39.1	 63.2	 312.3	
group 	 ade 	 aGi
	 Head	
	 o ffice	 and	
	 eliminations 	Consolidated
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Capital	 additions 21.3	 14.2	 1.0	 36.5	
depreciation	and	 amortisation 17.9	 32.3	 0.7	 50.9	
impairment	 losses	 recognised	 in	 income 5.9	 38.7	 0.8	 45.4	
Balance	 sheet
assets:
segment	assets 331.2	 464.0	 (24.6) 770.6	
other	investments .–	 0.5	 .–	 0.5	
Consolidated	 total	 assets 331.2	 464.5	 (24.6) 771.1	
liabilities:
segment	liabilities 75.2	 134.1	 139.2	 348.5	
segment	net	 assets/(liabilities) 256.0	 330.4	 (163.8) 422.6	 	 60	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
2. Business	 and	 geographical	 segments	 continued
aerospace,	 Defence	 &	energy
	 western
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	 emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 ade
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Capital	 additions 14.5	 6.8	 .–	 21.3	
depreciation	and	 amortisation 9.5	 8.3	 0.1	 17.9	
impairment	 losses	 recognised	 in	 income (0.2) 6.1	 .–	 5.9	
Balance	 sheet
assets:
segment	assets 162.6	 166.9	 1.7	 331.2	
other	investments .–	 .–	 .–	 .–	
Consolidated	 total	 assets 162.6	 166.9	 1.7	 331.2	
liabilities:
segment	liabilities 35.9	 39.1	 0.2	 75.2	
segment	net	 assets 126.7	 127.8	 1.5	 256.0	
automotive	 &	general	industrial
	 western	
	 europe
	 north	
	 america
	 emerging	
	 markets
	 t otal	
	 aGi
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Capital	 additions 7.9	 1.7	 4.6	 14.2	
depreciation	and	 amortisation 24.6	 2.9	 4.8	 32.3	
impairment	 losses	 recognised	 in	 income 11.5	 20.2	 7.0	 38.7	
Balance	 sheet
assets:
segment	assets 334.0	 58.6	 71.4	 464.0	
other	investments 0.5	 .–	 .–	 0.5	
Consolidated	 total	 assets 334.5	 58.6	 71.4	 464.5	
liabilities:
segment	liabilities 102.4	 14.7	 17.0	 134.1	
segment	net	 assets 232.1	 43.9	 54.4	 330.4	
revenue	by	 country
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
usa 142.8	 123.0	
France 76.3	 74.9	
Germany 61.1	 50.2	
uK 54.7	 52.7	
others 164.9	 134.6	
total	revenue	-	 continuing	 operations 499.8	 435.4	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 61
3. operating	 profit/(loss)
	Continuing	
	operations
	 Continuing	
	 operations
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
revenue 499.8	 435.4	
Cost	 of	 sales (332.9) (321.5)
Gross	 profit 166.9	 113.9	
other	operating	 income 2.3	 3.7	
distribution	costs (17.4) (18.4)
administration	expenses* (99.7) (90.9)
other	operating	 expenses .–	 (0.3)
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets* (0.9) (1.3)
impairment	 charge* .–	 (31.5)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs* .–	 (25.4)
operating	profit/(loss)		 51.2	 (50.2)
*administration	expenses	 total	 £100.6m	 (2009:	 £149.1m).
exceptional	 items	 comprise:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets 0.9	 1.3	
impairment	 of	 goodwill .–	 29.0	
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs .–	 25.4	
impairment	 of	 investment	 in/loan	 due	 from	 associate .–	 2.5	
0.9	 58.2	
Further	 details	 of	 these	 items	 are	 included	 in	 the	 Finance	director's	report	 on	 pages	 22	 to	 25.
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 has	 been	 arrived	 at	 after	 charging/(crediting):
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Continuing	 operations:
net	foreign	 exchange	 losses .–	 0.3	
depreciation	of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 46.1	 48.5	
amortisation	of	 intangible	 fixed	 assets 2.2	 2.4	
impairment	 of	 goodwill .–	 29.0	
loss/(profit)	on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 0.7	 (0.1)
staff	costs	 (see	 note	 4) 207.6	 199.2	
auditors’	remuneration	 for	 audit	 services	 (see	 page	 62) 0.7	 0.8	 	 62	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
3. operating	 profit/(loss)	 continued
a	more	 detailed	 analysis	 of	 auditors'	 remuneration	 on	 a	 worldwide	 basis	 is	 provided	 below:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Fees	 payable	 to	 the	 Company's	 auditor	 for	 the	 audit	 of	 the	 Company's	 annual	 accounts 0.1	 0.1	
Fees	 payable	 to	 the	 Company's	 auditor	 and	 its	 associates	 for	 other	 services:
the	audit	 of	 the	 Company's	 subsidiaries	 pursuant	 to	 legislation 0.6	 0.7	
total	audit	 fees 0.7	 0.8	
tax	services .–	 0.1	
0.7	 0.9	
in	 addition	 to	 the	 amounts	 shown	 above,	 the	 auditors	 received	 fees	 of	 £5,000	 (2009:	 £5,000)	 for	 the	 audit	 of	 the	 Group's	 pension	 schemes.
Fees	 paid	 to	 the	 Company’s	 auditor,	deloitte	llp,	and	 its	 associates	 for	 services	 other	 than	 statutory	 audit	 of	 the	 Company	 are	 not	
disclosed	 in	 the	 subsidiaries’	 accounts	 since	 the	 consolidated	 accounts	 of	 the	 subsidiaries’	 parent,	bodycote	 plc,	 are	 required	 to	 disclose	
non-audit	 fees	 on	 a	 consolidated	 basis.
a	description	 of	 the	 work	 of	 the	audit	 Committee	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	audit	 Committee	report	 and	 includes	 an	 explanation	 of	 how	 auditor	
objectivity	 and	 independence	 is	 safeguarded	 when	 non-audit	 services	 are	 provided	 by	 the	 auditors.
4. staff	 costs
the	average	 monthly	 number	 of	 employees	 (including	executive	directors)	 was:
	 2010 	 2009
	 number 	 number
ade:
western	europe 	 1,001	 	 1,044	
north	america 	 900	 	 1,047	
emerging	 Markets 	 10	 	 10	
aGi:
western	europe 	 2,053	 	 2,214	
north	america 	 460	 	 370	
emerging	 Markets 	 1,070	 	 1,272	
Head	 office 	 109	 	 63	
	 5,603	 	 6,020	
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
their	aggregate	 remuneration	 comprised:
wages	and	 salaries 172.8	 162.4	
social	security	 costs 29.6	 32.2	
other	pension	 costs 5.2	 4.6	
207.6	 199.2	
disclosure	of	 individual	 directors'	 remuneration,	 share	 interests,	 share	 options,	 long	 term	 incentive	 schemes,	 pension	 contributions	 and	
pension	 entitlements	 required	 by	 the	 Companies	act	 2006	 and	 those	 specified	 for	 audit	 by	 the	listing	rules	of	 the	 Financial	services	
authority	are	 shown	 in	 the	 tables	 in	 the	board	report	 on	remuneration	 on	 pages	 39	 to	 43	 and	 form	 part	 of	 these	 financial	 statements. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 63
5. investment	 revenue
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
interest	 on	 bank	 deposits 0.2	 1.3	
other	interest	 receivable 0.1	 0.2	
0.3	 1.5	
all	investment	 revenue	 relates	 to	 loans	 and	 receivables.
6. finance	costs
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
interest	 on	 bank	 overdrafts	 and	 loans* 1.8	 3.0	
interest	 on	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases 0.2	 0.3	
interest	 on	 derivative	 financial	 instruments .–	 0.1	
interest	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities 5.2	 5.1	
return	on	 pension	 assets (4.3) (3.8)
other	finance	 charges* 3.4	 1.1	
total	finance	 costs 6.3	 5.8	
*	amounts	 arising	 on	 financial	 liabilities	 measured	 at	 amortised	 cost.
7. taxation
			 Continuing	 operations 			 Discontinued	 operations 					t otal
	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Current	 taxation	 -	 charge	 for	 the	 year 8.8	 2.0	 .–	 .–	 8.8	 2.0	
Current	 taxation	 -	 adjustments	 in	 respect	 of	 previous	 years (3.8) 1.8	 5.8	 .–	 2.0	 1.8	
deferred	tax	 (see	 note	 21) 6.7	 (7.2) .–	 .–	 6.7	 (7.2)
11.7	 (3.4) 5.8	 .–	 17.5	 (3.4)
uK	corporation	 tax	 is	 calculated	 at	 28.0%	 (2009:	 28.0%)	 of	 the	 estimated	 assessable	 profit	 for	 the	 year.	taxation	 for	 other	 jurisdictions	
is	 calculated	 at	 the	 rates	 prevailing	 in	 the	 respective	 jurisdictions.
of	the	 total	 charge	 to	 current	 tax	 £5.8m	 (2009:	 £nil)	is	 additional	 provisions	 relating	 to	 taxation	 expected	 to	 arise	 from	 the	 2008	 disposal	
of	 the	testing	 business.
the	charge	 for	 the	 year	 can	 be	 reconciled	 to	 the	 profit	 per	 the	 income	 statement	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
profit/(loss)	 before	 tax:
Continuing	 operations 45.2	 (54.5)
tax	at	 the	uK	 corporation	 tax	 rate	 of	 28.0%	 (2009:	 28.0%) 12.7	 (15.3)
tax	effect	 of	 expenses	 that	 are	 not	 deductible	 in	 determining	 taxable	 profit (3.8) 11.8	
deferred	tax	 assets	 not	 recognised 3.7	 6.3	
tax	provision	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	testing	 division 5.8	 .–	
tax	effect	 of	 other	 adjustments	 in	 respect	 of	 previous	 years (1.8) 1.6	
effect	 of	 different	 tax	 rates	 of	 subsidiaries	 operating	 in	 other	 jurisdictions 0.9	 (7.8)
tax	expense/(credit)	 for	 the	 year 17.5	 (3.4)
the	tax	 charge/(credit)	 on	 items	 taken	 directly	 to	 equity	 is	 £0.9m	 (2009:	 £(0.9)m). 	 64	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
8. Discontinued	 operations
the	testing	business	 was	 sold	 on	 17	october	 2008.	during	 2010	 various	 provisions,	 primarily	 relating	 to	 taxation	 arising	 from	 the	 sale	
were	 reassessed.
the	results	 of	 the	 discontinued	 operations	 included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 income	 statement	 were	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
attributable	tax	 expense (5.8) .–	
net	loss	 attributable	 to	 discontinued	 operations (5.8) .–	
9. Dividends
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amounts	recognised	 as	 distributions	 to	 equity	 holders	 in	 the	 year:
Final	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2009	 of	 5.35p	 (2008:	 5.35p)	 per	 share 9.9	 9.9	
b	share	 special	 dividend	 or	 redemption	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2008	 of	 40.00p	 per	 share .–	 0.7	
interim	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	 of	 2.95p	 (2009:	 2.95p)	 per	 share 5.5	 5.5	
15.4	 16.1	
proposed	 final	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	 of	 5.75p	 (2009:	 5.35p)	 per	 share 10.9	 10.1	
the	proposed	 final	 dividend	 is	 subject	 to	 approval	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	annual	 General	 Meeting	 and	 has	 not	 been	 included	 as	 a	 liability	
in	 these	 financial	 statements.
10. earnings/(loss)	 per	 share
the	calculation	 of	 the	 basic	 and	 diluted	 earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 is	 based	 on	 the	 following	 data:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
earnings/(loss)
earnings/(loss)	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 basic	 earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 being	 net	 profit/(loss)	
attributable	 to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 27.6	 (50.1)
	 2010 	 2009
	 number 	 number
number	 of	 shares
weighted	average	 number	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 basic	 earnings	 per	 share 	 185,543,260 	 185,557,762
effect	 of	 dilutive	 potential	 ordinary	 shares:
share	options 	 180,586 	 16,466
weighted	average	 number	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 diluted	 earnings	 per	 share 	 185,723,846 	 185,574,228 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 65
10. earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 continued
from	continuing	 operations
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
earnings/(loss)
net	profit/(loss)	 attributable	 to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 27.6	 (50.1)
adjustments	to	 exclude	 loss	 for	 the	 year	 from	 discontinued	 operations 5.8	 .–	
profit/(loss)	 from	 continuing	 operations	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 basic	 earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	
excluding	 discontinued	 operations 33.4	 (50.1)
the	denominators	 used	 are	 the	 same	 as	 those	 detailed	 above	 for	 both	 basic	 and	 diluted	 earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 from	 continuing	 and	
discontinued	 operations.
	 2010 	 2009
	 pence 	 pence
earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 from	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations:
basic 14.9	 (27.0)
diluted 14.9	 (27.0)
	 2010 	 2009
	 pence 	 pence
loss	per	 share	 from	 discontinued	 operations:
basic (3.1) .–	
diluted (3.1) .–	
	 2010 	 2009
	 pence 	 pence
earnings/(loss)	 per	 share	 from	 continuing	 operations:
basic 18.0	 (27.0)
diluted 18.0	 (27.0)
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
headline	 earnings
net	profit/(loss)	 attributable	 to	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 27.6	 (50.1)
add	back:
impairment	 charge .–	 31.5	
amortisation	of	 acquired	 intangible	 fixed	 assets	 (net	 of	 tax) 0.8	 1.2	
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs	 (net	 of	 tax) (0.2) 18.1	
loss	for	 the	 year	 -	 discontinued	 operations 5.8	 .–	
headline	 earnings 34.0	 0.7	
	 2010 	 2009
	 pence 	 pence
earnings	 per	 share	 from	 headline	 earnings:
basic 18.3	 0.4	
diluted 18.3	 0.4	 	 66	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
11. goodwill
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Cost
at	1	january 177.3	 180.3	
exchange	 differences 1.3	 (2.1)
adjustment	on	 acquisition	 of	 non-controlling	 interest .–	 (0.9)
adjustment	for	 deferred	 consideration (0.5) .–	
at	31	december 178.1	 177.3	
accumulated	 impairment
at	1	january 69.4	 38.7	
exchange	 differences 1.0	 1.7	
impairment	 losses	 for	 the	 year .–	 29.0	
at	31	december 70.4	 69.4	
Carrying	 amount 107.7	 107.9	
Goodwill	 acquired	 in	 a	 business	 combination	 is	 allocated,	 at	 acquisition,	 to	 the	 business	 units	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 benefit	 from	 that	
business	 combination.	after	 recognition	 of	 impairment	 losses,	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 has	 been	 allocated	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
ade:
western	europe 26.8	 27.4	
north	america 37.1	 36.9	
aGi:
western	europe 17.9	 18.0	
north	america 15.2	 15.2	
emerging	 Markets 10.7	 10.4	
107.7	 107.9	
the	Group	 tests	 goodwill	 at	 least	 annually	 for	 impairment,	 or	 more	 frequently	 if	 there	 are	 indications	 that	 goodwill	 might	 be	 impaired.
the	recoverable	 amounts	 of	 the	 cash	 generating	 units	 are	 determined	 from	 value	 in	 use	 calculations.	the	 key	 assumptions	 for	 those	
calculations	 are	 the	 discount	 rates,	 growth	 rates	 and	 expected	 changes	 to	 selling	 prices	 and	 direct	 costs	 during	 the	 period.	 Management	
estimates	 discount	 rates	 using	 pre-tax	 rates	 that	 reflect	 current	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 and	 the	 risks	 specific	
to	 the	 cash	 generating	 units.	the	 rate	 used	 to	 discount	 the	 forecast	 cash	 flows	 for	 all	 cash	 generating	 units	 is	 9.5%	 (2009:	 9.5%).	
a	10%	 change	 in	 the	 discount	 rate	 identified	 no	 triggers	 of	 impairment.	the	 recoverable	 amount	 is	 the	 sum	 of	 the	 discounted	 cash	
flows	 over	 a	 fifteen	 year	 period,	 being	 management’s	 expectation	 of	 the	 useful	 life	 of	 the	 existing	 asset	 base.
t he	 Group	 prepares	 cash	 flow	 forecasts	 based	 on	 management	 estimates	 for	 the	 next	 five	 years.	the	 expected	 sales	 reflect	 management’s	
expectation	 of	 how	 sales	 will	 develop	 at	 this	 point	 in	 the	 economic	 cycle.	the	 expected	 profit	 margin	 reflects	 management’s	 experience	
of	 each	 cash	 generating	 unit’s	 profitability	 at	 the	 forecast	 level	 of	 sales	 and	 incorporates	 the	 impact	 of	 the	 restructuring	 programme,	 where	
appropriate.	 Cash	 flows	 after	 five	 years	 are	 based	 on	 an	 estimated	 growth	 rate	 of	 3.2%	 (2009:	 3.1%),	 being	 the	 historical	 weighted	 average	
growth	 in	 Gdp	in	 the	 markets	 that	 the	 Group	 operates	 in.	this	 rate	 does	 not	 exceed	 the	 average	 long-term	 growth	 rate	 for	 the	 relevant	 markets.
t he	 Group	 has	 conducted	 a	 sensitivity	 analysis	 on	 the	 impairment	 test	 of	 each	 cash	 generating	 unit’s	 carrying	 value.	a	 cut	 in	 the	 sales	 growth	
rate	 by	 seven	 percentage	 points	 would	 result	 in	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 goodwill	 for	 the	 Group	 being	 reduced	 to	 its	 recoverable	 amount. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 67
12. other	 intangible	 assets
	 software
	other	 intangible	 assets	
	 acquired 	 through	
	 business 	 combinations 	 t otal
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Cost
at	1	january	 2009 11.4	 11.0	 22.4	
exchange	 differences (0.7) (0.5) (1.2)
additions 1.2	 .–	 1.2	
disposals (0.2) .–	 (0.2)
at	1	january	 2010 11.7	 10.5	 22.2	
exchange	 differences .–	 0.2	 0.2	
additions 2.0	 .–	 2.0	
disposals (0.5) .–	 (0.5)
at	 31	 December	 2010 13.2	 10.7	 23.9	
amortisation
at	1	january	 2009 7.1	 2.5	 9.6	
exchange	 differences (0.5) .–	 (0.5)
Charge	 for	 the	 year 1.1	 1.3	 2.4	
disposals (0.2) .–	 (0.2)
at	1	january	 2010 7.5	 3.8	 11.3	
exchange	 differences .–	 0.1	 0.1	
Charge	 for	 the	 year 1.3	 0.9	 2.2	
disposals (0.1) .–	 (0.1)
at	 31	 December	 2010 8.7	 4.8	 13.5	
Carrying	 amount	
at	 31	 December	 2010 4.5	 5.9	 10.4	
at	31	december	 2009 4.2	 6.7	 10.9	
the	amortisation	 periods	 for	 intangible	 assets	 are:
	 years
software 	 3	 to	 5
Customer	 relationships 	 10	 to	 15
Membership	 lists 	 15
non-compete	arrangements 	 2	 to	 5
trade	names 	 3
intangible	 assets	 are	 amortised	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 and	 the	 amortisation	 is	 recognised	 within	 administration	 expenses. 	 68	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
13. property,	 plant	 and	 equipment
l and	 and	 buildings
	 f reehold
	 l ong	 	
	 leasehold
	 short	
	 leasehold
	 plant	 and	
	machinery
	 f ixtures	
	 and	
	 fittings
	 assets	
	 under	
	 construction 	 t otal
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Cost	 or	 valuation
at	1	january	 2009 200.8	 11.1	 5.0	 771.4	 38.4	 40.6	 1,067.3	
additions 0.7	 .–	 0.2	 13.2	 0.9	 20.3	 35.3	
exchange	 differences (15.0) (0.4) 0.2	 (50.0) (2.3) (3.6) (71.1)
reclassified	as	 held	 for	 sale (9.8) .–	 .–	 (4.0) (0.6) (1.2) (15.6)
recategorisation 25.7	 (9.1) 16.8	 (8.4) 2.4	 (27.4) .–	
disposals (3.7) .–	 (0.5) (25.2) (2.4) (0.4) (32.2)
at	1	january	 2010 198.7	 1.6	 21.7	 697.0	 36.4	 28.3	 983.7	
additions 5.0	 .–	 0.3	 25.5	 1.1	 3.3	 35.2	
exchange	 differences 1.4	 0.1	 0.3	 10.0	 0.1	 1.7	 13.6	
reduction	of	 revaluation	 surplus (0.1) .–	 .–	 .–	 .–	 .–	 (0.1)
transfer	from/(to)	 assets	 held	 for	 sale 0.6	 .– .–	 (0.2) (0.1) .–	 0.3	
recategorisation 3.5	 0.1	 (2.0) 7.1	 0.1	 (8.8) .–	
disposals (2.1) .–	 (0.4) (16.4) (2.6) (0.5) (22.0)
at	 31	 December	 2010 207.0	 1.8	 19.9	 723.0	 35.0	 24.0	 1,010.7	
accumulated	 depreciation	 and	 impairment
at	1	january	 2009 58.4	 3.8	 2.2	 438.9	 30.0	 0.7	 534.0	
Charge	 for	 the	 year 5.5	 0.1	 0.9	 39.8	 2.2	 .–	 48.5	
impairment	 loss 8.1	 .–	 0.2	 5.2	 0.2	 0.2	 13.9	
exchange	 differences (4.5) (0.2) 0.3	 (27.3) (1.7) .–	 (33.4)
on	assets	 reclassified	 as	 held	 for	 sale (6.8) .–	 .–	 (3.9) (0.6) (0.6) (11.9)
recategorisation 8.7	 (3.4) 6.8	 (13.2) 1.1	 .–	 .–	
eliminated	 on	 disposals (3.4) .–	 (0.2) (23.1) (2.2) (0.3) (29.2)
at	1	january	 2010 66.0	 0.3	 10.2	 416.4	 29.0	 .–	 521.9	
Charge	 for	 the	 year 5.2	 0.3	 0.8	 38.0	 1.8	 .–	 46.1	
impairment	 losses	 incurred/(reversed) (0.2) .–	 .–	 (0.8) .–	 .–	 (1.0)
exchange	 differences .–	 .–	 0.3	 5.0	 0.3	 .–	 5.6	
transfer	from/(to)	 assets	 held	 for	 sale 0.6	 .–	 .–	 .–	 (0.1) .–	 0.5	
recategorisation 0.4	 .–	 (0.4) (0.1) 0.1	 .–	 .–	
eliminated	 on	 disposals (2.1) .–	 (0.4) (15.5) (2.4) .–	 (20.4)
at	 31	 December	 2010 69.9	 0.6	 10.5	 443.0	 28.7	 .–	 552.7	
Carrying	 amount
at	 31	 December	 2010 137.1	 1.2	 9.4	 280.0	 6.3	 24.0	 458.0	
at	31	december	 2009 132.7	 1.3	 11.5	 280.6	 7.4	 28.3	 461.8	
the	carrying	 amount	 of	 leased	 assets	 is	 £2.1m	 (2009:	 £7.4m).
the	Group	 has	 pledged	 land	 and	 buildings	 having	 a	 carrying	 amount	 of	 approximately	 £0.4m	 (2009:	 £3.2m)	 to	 secure	 banking	 facilities	
granted	 to	 the	 Group.
at	31	december	 2010	 the	 Group	 had	 entered	 into	 contractual	 commitments	 for	 the	 acquisition	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 amounting	
to	 £2.5m	 (2009:	 £6.7m).
in	 addition	 to	 the	 above,	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 amounting	 to	 £6.2m	 (2009:	 £5.8m)	 has	 been	 classified	 as	 held	 for	 sale.
impairment	 losses	 of	 £nil	(2009:	 £12.1m)	 relating	 to	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 are	 recognised	 within	 exceptional	 items. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 69
14. subsidiaries,	 associates	 and	 other	 investments
a	list	 of	 the	 significant	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries,	 including	 the	 name,	 country	 of	 incorporation	 and	 proportion	 of	 ownership	 interest	
is	 given	 on	 page	 99	 and	 100.
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
aggregated	 amounts	 relating	 to	 associates
total	assets .–	 94.5	
total	liabilities .–	 170.6	
revenues .–	 60.0	
loss .–	 (24.2)
amounts	recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 and	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 are	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
operating	profit .–	 .–	
less:	interest .–	 .–	
less:	tax .–	 .–	
share	of	 results	 of	 associates	 prior	 to	 impairment .–	 .–	
interest	 in	 associates .–	 .–	
sundry	investments 0.5	 0.5	
the	Group’s	 share	 of	 the	 results	 of	 associates	 of	 £nil	(2009:	 £5.9m)	 has	 not	 been	 recognised	 as	 the	board	 considers	 that	 the	 investments	
are	 fully	 impaired.
t he	 Group’s	 associated	 company	ssCp	 Coatings	s .à.r.l.	 was	 recapitalised	 through	 a	 share	 issue	 in	 a	 new	 company	 during	 the	 year.	the	 Group	
chose	 not	 to	 participate	 in	 this	 share	 issue,	 and	 as	 a	 result,	 the	 Group’s	 percentage	 holding	 in	 the	 business	 has	 significantly	 reduced	 to	 a	 level	
where	 the	 Group	 no	 longer	 classifies	 the	 business	 as	 an	 associate	 company.
during	the	 prior	 year	 the	 small	 associate	 business	 in	thailand	 was	 sold	 back	 to	 the	 associate	 partners	 resulting	 in	 a	 £2.5m	 loss	 that	 was	
included	 in	 the	 impairment	 charge	 in	 2009.
15. inventories
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
raw	materials 10.1	 9.0	
work-in-progress 4.1	 2.4	
Finished	 goods	 and	 goods	 for	 resale 0.2	 0.2	
14.4	 11.6	 	 70	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
16. finance	lease	 receivables	
					m inimum	
					 lease	 payments
					p resent	 value	
					 of	 minimum	
					 lease	 payments
	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
amounts	 receivable	 under	 finance	 leases:
within	one	 year 0.4	 0.4	 0.4	 0.4	
in	 the	 second	 to	 fifth	 years	 inclusive .–	 0.5	 .–	 0.5	
0.4	 0.9	 0.4	 0.9	
less:	unearned	 finance	 income .–	 .–	
present	 value	 of	 minimum	 lease	 payments	 receivable 0.4	 0.9	
analysed	 as:
non-current	finance	 lease	 receivables	 (recoverable	 after	 12	 months) .–	 0.5	
Current	 finance	 lease	 receivables	 (recoverable	 within	 12	 months) 0.4	 0.4	
0.4	 0.9	
the	present	 value	 of	 minimum	 lease	 payments	 is	 denominated	 in	 the	 following	 currencies:
euro 0.2	 0.6	
us	dollar 0.2	 0.3	
0.4	 0.9	
the	Group	 has	 entered	 into	 finance	 leasing	 arrangements	 with	ionbond	aG,	 for	 3	pvd	 machines.	the	 average	 term	 of	 finance	 leases	
entered	 into	 is	 7	 years.	unguaranteed	 residual	 values	 of	 assets	 leased	 under	 finance	 leases	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 are	 £0.4m	 (2009:	
£0.9m).	the	 interest	 rate	 inherent	 in	 the	 leases	 is	 fixed	 at	 the	 contract	 date	 for	 the	 entire	 lease	 term.	the	 average	 effective	 interest	 rate	
contracted	 approximates	 to	 4.7%	 (2009:	 4.5%).	the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 Group’s	 finance	 lease	 receivables	 at	 31	december	 2010	 is	 estimated	
at	 £0.4m	 (2009:	 £0.9m).	the	 lease	 receivables	 are	 secured	 on	 the	 related	 assets.
the	maximum	 exposure	 to	 credit	 risk	 of	 finance	 lease	 receivables	 for	 the	 current	 and	 prior	 period	 is	 the	 carrying	 amount	 as	 the	 Group	 has	
no	 allowance	 for	 doubtful	 debts.	the	 finance	 lease	 receivables	 are	 not	 past	 due	 and	 are	 not	 impaired	 in	 the	 current	 nor	 in	 the	 prior	 year.
17. other	 financial	 assets
trade	and	 other	 receivables
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year:
amount	receivable	 for	 the	 supply	 of	 services 85.3	 71.9	
other	debtors	 and	 prepayments* 13.9	 19.2	
99.2	 91.1	
amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year:
other	debtors	 and	 prepayments* 2.6	 3.0	
the	average	 credit	 period	 given	 to	 customers	 for	 the	 supply	 of	 services	 as	 at	 31	december	 2010	 is	 59	 days	 (2009:	 63	 days).	an	 allowance	
has	 been	 made	 for	 estimated	 irrecoverable	 amounts	 from	 the	 supply	 of	 services	 of	 £6.9m	 (2009:	 £8.1m).	this	 allowance	 has	 been	
determined	 by	 reference	 to	 past	 default	 experience.
the	directors	consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 approximates	 their	 fair	 value.
*	other	 financial	 assets	 include	 prepayments	 and	 other	 debtors,	 which	 are	 not	 included	 as	 financial	 assets	 under	iFrs	7. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 71
17. other	 financial	 assets	 continued
Credit	 risk
the	Group’s	 principal	 financial	 assets	 are	 bank	 balances,	 cash	 and	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables.
the	Group’s	 credit	 risk	 is	 primarily	 attributable	 to	 its	 trade	 receivables.	the	 amounts	 presented	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 are	 net	 of	 allowances	
for	 doubtful	 receivables.	an	 allowance	 for	 impairment	 is	 made	 where	 there	 is	 an	 identified	 loss	 event	 which,	 based	 on	 previous	 experience,	
is	 evidence	 of	 a	 reduction	 in	 the	 recoverability	 of	 cash	 flows.
the	credit	 risk	 on	 liquid	 funds	 and	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 is	 limited	 because	 the	 counterparties	 are	 banks	 with	 high	 credit-ratings	
assigned	 by	 international	 credit-rating	 agencies.
the	Group	 has	 no	 significant	 concentration	 of	 credit	 risk,	 with	 exposure	 spread	 over	 a	 large	 number	 of	 counterparties	 and	 customers.	
Further	 disclosure	 of	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 instrument	 risk	 management	 activities	 is	 set	 out	 in	 note	 20.
included	 in	 the	 Group’s	 trade	 receivable	 balance	 are	 debtors	 with	 a	 carrying	 amount	 of	 £16.7m	 (2009:	 £16.6m)	 which	 are	 past	 due	 at	 the	
reporting	 date	 for	 which	 the	 Group	 has	 not	 provided	 as	 there	 has	 not	 been	 a	 significant	 change	 in	 credit	 quality	 and	 the	 amounts	 are	 still	
considered	 recoverable.	the	 Group	 does	 not	 hold	 any	 collateral	 over	 these	 balances.
ageing	of	 past	 due	 but	 not	 impaired	 receivables:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amounts	overdue	 by	 up	 to	 1	 month 13.2	 12.2	
amounts	overdue	 by	 1-2	 months 2.2	 2.1	
amounts	overdue	 by	 2-3	 months 0.4	 0.6	
amounts	overdue	 by	 more	 than	 3	 months 0.9	 1.7	
16.7	 16.6	
Movement	 in	 the	 allowance	 for	 doubtful	 debts:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
balance	at	 1	january	 8.1	 8.4	
impairment	 losses	 recognised 2.6	 3.0	
amounts	written	 off	 as	 uncollectable (2.2) (1.2)
impairment	 losses	 reversed (1.5) (1.5)
exchange	 differences (0.1) (0.6)
6.9	 8.1	
in	 determining	 the	 recoverability	 of	 a	 trade	 receivable	 the	 Group	 considers	 any	 change	 in	 the	 quality	 of	 the	 trade	 receivable	 from	 the	 date	
credit	 was	 initially	 granted	 up	 to	 the	 reporting	 date.	the	 concentration	 of	 credit	 risk	 is	 limited	 due	 to	 the	 customer	 base	 being	 large	 and	
unrelated.	accordingly	 the	directors	 believe	 that	 there	 is	 no	 further	 credit	 provision	 required	 in	 excess	 of	 the	 allowance	 for	 doubtful	 debts.
included	 in	 the	 allowance	 for	 doubtful	 debts	 are	 individually	 impaired	 trade	 receivables	 with	 a	 gross	 balance	 of	 £8.6m	 (2009:	 £10.1m).	
the	impairment	 recognised	 represents	 the	 difference	 between	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 these	 trade	 receivables	 and	 the	 present	 value	
of	 the	 expected	 proceeds.	the	 Group	 does	 not	 hold	 any	 collateral	 over	 these	 balances.
ageing	of	 impaired	 trade	 receivables:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
3-12	 months 1.8	 3.4	
over	12	 months 6.8	 6.7	
8.6	 10.1	 	 72	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
17. other	 financial	 assets	 continued
Cash	 and	 bank	 balances
Cash	 and	 bank	 balances	 comprise	 cash	 held	 by	 the	 Group	 and	 short-term	 bank	 deposits	 with	 an	 original	 maturity	 of	 three	 months	 or	 less.	
t he	 carrying	 amount	 of	 these	 assets	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value.	a	 breakdown	 of	 significant	 cash	 and	 bank	 balances	 by	 currency	 is	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
sterling 0.2	 0.1	
euro 12.2	 8.1	
swedish	Krona 2.3	 2.4	
polish	 Zloty 1.5	 2.8	
brazilian	real 1.1	 0.2	
swiss	Franc 0.9	 0.7	
us	dollar 0.8	 2.2	
Czech	republic	 Koruna 0.7	 0.7	
Chinese	yuan 0.7	 0.4	
indian	rupee 0.5	 0.1	
thai	baht 0.5	 0.1	
japanese	yen 0.4	 0.5	
Mexican	peso 0.4	 0.1	
romanian	leu 0.4	 0.2	
other 0.9	 1.0	
total	cash	 and	 bank	 balances 23.5	 19.6	
18. assets	 held	 for	 sale
as	a	 result	 of	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 a	 number	 of	 Group	 assets	 are	 currently	 held	 for	 sale.	they	 comprise	 the	 following:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 6.2	 5.8	
inventories .–	 0.1	
receivables .–	 0.3	
6.2	 6.2	
it	 is	 expected	 that	 the	 disposal	 of	 these	 assets	 will	 be	 completed	 during	 2011.	the	 assets	 held	 for	 sale	 are	 analysed	 between	 operating	
segments	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
ade:
western	europe 1.3	 0.9	
north	america 0.6	 0.6	
aGi:
western	europe 1.8	 2.4	
north	america 0.3	 0.7	
emerging	 Markets 2.2	 1.6	
6.2	 6.2	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 73
19. Borrowings
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
borrowings	at	 amortised	 cost
bank	overdrafts 5.9	 3.3	
loans 67.8	 99.5	
73.7	 102.8	
the	borrowings	 are	 repayable	 as	 follows:
on	demand	 or	 within	 one	 year 8.9	 6.0	
in	 the	 second	 year 0.1	 0.2	
in	 the	 third	 to	 fifth	 years 64.5	 96.3	
after	five	 years 0.2	 0.3	
73.7	 102.8	
less:	amount	due	 for	 settlement	 within	 12	 months	 (shown	 under	 current	 liabilities) (8.9) (6.0)
amount	due	 for	 settlement	 after	 12	 months 64.8	 96.8	
analysis	of	 borrowings	 by	 currency:
	 sterling 	 euro 	 us	Dollar
	 swedish	
	 krona
	 other	
	 	 currencies 	 t otal
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
at	31	december	 2010
bank	overdrafts .–	 5.0	 0.8	 .–	 0.1	 5.9	
loans 48.0	 8.8	 9.9	 0.7	 0.4	 67.8	
48.0	 13.8	 10.7	 0.7	 0.5	 73.7	
at	31	december	 2009
bank	overdrafts 1.2	 1.0	 0.3	 0.7	 0.1	 3.3	
loans 75.0	 14.5	 2.6	 7.0	 0.4	 99.5	
76.2	 15.5	 2.9	 7.7	 0.5	 102.8	
	 2010 	 2009
the	weighted	 average	 interest	 rates	 paid	 were	 as	 follows: 	 % 	 %
bank	overdrafts	 and	 loans 1.7	 1.6	
loans	and	 finance	 leases	 of	 £1.5m	 (2009:	 £3.0m)	 were	 arranged	 at	 fixed	 interest	 rates	 and	 expose	 the	 Group	 to	 fair	 value	 interest	 rate	 risk.	
the	remaining	 borrowings	 are	 arranged	 at	 floating	 rates,	 thus	 exposing	 the	 Group	 to	 cash	 flow	 interest	 rate	 risk. 	 74	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
19. Borrowings	 continued
the	directors	estimate	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 Group’s	 borrowings	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
bank	overdrafts 5.9	 3.3	
loans 67.8	 99.5	
the	other	 principal	 features	 of	 the	 Group’s	 borrowings	 are	 as	 follows:
(i)		bank	 overdrafts	 are	 repayable	 on	 demand.	no	 overdrafts	 are	 secured.
(ii)	the	 Group	 has	 three	 principal	 loans	 which	 are	 secured	 by	 upstream	 guarantees	 provided	 by	 subsidiaries:
(a)		 drawings	 of	 £nil	(2009:	 £nil)	under	 a	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 of	 £110m.	this	 unsecured	 facility	 commenced	 on	 8	january	 2010	
and	 matures	 on	 31	 March	 2013.	the	 multi	 currency	 drawings	 under	 this	 facility	 carry	 an	 interest	 rate	 of	 between	 2.25%	 and	 3.25%	
above	libor	 (the	 margin	 at	 31	december	 2010	 was	 2.25%).
(b)		 drawings	 of	 £64.4m	 (2009:	 £96.2m)	 under	 a	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 of	€125m.	this	 unsecured	 facility	 commenced	 on	 31	july	
2006	 for	 a	 period	 of	 seven	 years.	the	e uro	 drawings	 under	 this	 facility	 carry	 an	 interest	 rate	 of	 between	 0.80%	 and	 1.10%	 above	
libor	 (the	 margin	 at	 31	december	 2010	 was	 0.8%).
(c)		 letters	 of	 credit	 and	 loan	 drawings	 of	 £5.6m	 (2009:	 £6.5m)	 under	 a	revolving	 Credit	 and	letter	 of	 Credit	 Facility	 of	 $20m.	
this	unsecured	 facility	 commenced	 on	 18	 February	 2010	 and	 matures	 on	 31	 March	 2013.	the	us	dollar	 drawings	 and	letter	
of	 Credit	 fees	 under	 this	 facility	 carry	 a	 margin/fee	 of	 between	 1.00%	 and	 3.25%	 above	libor	 (the	 margin	 at	 31	december	 2010	
was	 2.25%	 and	 the	 letter	 of	 credit	 fee	 was	 1.00%).
at	31	december	 2010	 the	 Group	 had	 available	 £160.9m	 (2009:	 £245.8m)	 of	 undrawn	 committed	 borrowing	 facilities.
all	borrowings	 are	 classified	 as	 financial	 liabilities	 measured	 at	 amortised	 cost.
20. Derivative	 financial	 instruments
Currency	 derivatives	 that	 are	 designated	 and	 effective	 as	 hedging	 instruments	 carried	 at	 fair	 value
	 notional	
	 amount 	 f air	 value
	 notional	
	 amount 	 Fair 	 value
asset/(liability) 	 2010 	 2010 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Current
Forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts 0.9	 .–	 1.3	 0.1	
Cross	 currency	 swaps	 -	 fixed/fixed .–	 .–	 31.2	 0.2	
Cross	 currency	 swaps	 -	 floating/floating .–	 .– 39.3	 (3.3)
energy	 contracts .–	 .–	 1.7	 (0.4)
0.9	 .– 73.5	 (3.4)
non-current
Forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts .–	 .–	 0.7	 .–	
Cross	 currency	 swaps	 -	 fixed/fixed .–	 .–	 10.7	 (0.3)
Cross	 currency	 swaps	 -	 floating/floating .–	 .–	 .–	 .–	
energy	 contracts .–	 .– 0.1	 .–	
.–	 .–	 11.5	 (0.3)
total
Forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts 0.9	 .–	 2.0	 0.1	
Cross	 currency	 swaps	 -	 fixed/fixed .–	 .–	 41.9	 (0.1)
Cross	 currency	 swaps	 -	 floating/floating .–	 .–	 39.3	 (3.3)
energy	 contracts .–	 .–	 1.8	 (0.4)
0.9	 .–	 85.0	 (3.7) 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 75
20. Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 continued
the	Group	 utilises	 currency	 derivatives	 to	 hedge	 material	 future	 transactions	 and	 cash	 flows.	the	 Group	 uses	 foreign	 currency	 forward	
contracts	 in	 the	 management	 of	 its	 exchange	 rate	 exposures.	the	 contracts	 are	 primarily	 denominated	 in	 the	 currencies	 of	 the	 Group’s	
principal	 markets.	the	 unrecognised	 gains	 and	 losses	 were	 not	 significant	 in	 either	 2010	 or	 2009.
in	 accordance	 with	iFrs	7	 ’improving	disclosures	 about	 Financial	instruments’,	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 instruments	 are	 considered	 to	 be	
classified	 as	 level	 2	 instruments.	 Fair	 value	 measurements	 are	 those	 derived	 from	 inputs	 other	 than	 quoted	 prices	 included	 within	 level	 1	
that	 are	 observable	 for	 the	 asset	 or	 liabilities,	 either	 directly	 (i.e.	 as	 prices)	 or	 indirectly	 (i.e.	 derived	 from	 prices).
Fair	 value	 is	 determined	 using	 quoted	 forward	 exchange	 rates	 and	 yield	 curves	 derived	 from	 quoted	 interest	 rates	 matching	 maturities	
of	 the	 contracts.
t he	 Group’s	 interest	 rate	 risk	 is	 primarily	 in	 relation	 to	 its	 fixed	 rate	 borrowings	 (fair	 value	 risk)	 and	 floating	 rate	 borrowings	 (cash	 flow	 risk).	
From	 time	 to	 time	 the	 Group	 will	 use	 interest	 rate	 derivative	 contracts	 to	 manage	 its	 exposure	 to	 interest	 rate	 movements	 within	 Group	
policy.	 However	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 the	 Group	 had	 no	 interest	 rate	 derivative	 contracts.
during	the	 year	 the	 Group’s	 foreign	 currency	 denominated	 cross	 currency	 swaps	 either	 matured	 and	 were	 not	 rolled	 over	 or	 unwound.
	 sterling 	 euro 	 us	Dollar
	 swedish	
	 krona
	 t otal	
	 fair 	 value
asset/(liability) 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts (0.2) 0.3	 0.4	 (0.5) .–	
Fixed/fixed .–	 .–	 .–	 .– .–
Floating/floating .–	 .–	 .– .– .–
energy	 contracts .–	 .– .– .– .–
total (0.2) 0.3	 0.4	 (0.5) .–	
on	demand	 or	 within	 one	 year (0.2) 0.3	 0.4	 (0.5) .–
in	 the	 second	 year .– .– .– .– .–	
(0.2) 0.3	 0.4	 (0.5) .–	
	 sterling 	 euro 	 us	dollar
	 swedish	 	
	 Krona
	 danish	 	
	 Krone
	 swiss	 	
	 Franc
	 Czech	
	 Koruna
	 t otal	 	
	 fair 	 value
asset/(liability) 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts (0.1) 1.9	 (1.5) .– .–	 .–	 (0.2) 0.1	
Fixed/fixed 41.9	 (35.5) .–	 .–	 .–	 (6.5) .–	 (0.1)
Floating/floating 39.3	 (33.8) .–	 (3.5) (3.0) (2.3) .–	 (3.3)
energy	 contracts .–	 .– .–	 (0.4) .–	 .–	 .–	 (0.4)
total 81.1	 (67.4) (1.5) (3.9) (3.0) (8.8) (0.2) (3.7)
on	demand	 or	 within	 one	 year 70.4	 (59.2) (0.8) (3.9) (3.0) (6.7) (0.2) (3.4)
in	 the	 second	 year 10.7	 (8.2) (0.7) .–	 .–	 (2.1) .–	 (0.3)
81.1	 (67.4) (1.5) (3.9) (3.0) (8.8) (0.2) (3.7)
financial	risk	 management
the	Group’s	 treasury	 function	 provides	 a	 centralised	 service	 to	 the	 Group	 for	 funding,	 foreign	 exchange,	 interest	 rate	 management	 and	
counterparty	 risk.	treasury	 activities	 have	 the	 objective	 of	 minimising	 risk	 and	 treasury	 operations	 are	 conducted	 within	 a	 framework	 of	
policies	 and	 guidelines	 authorised	 and	 reviewed	 by	 the	board.
t he	 Group	 uses	 a	 number	 of	 derivative	 instruments	 that	 are	 transacted,	 for	 risk	 management	 purposes	 only,	 by	 specialist	 treasury	 personnel.	
the	use	 of	 financial	 instruments,	 including	 derivatives,	 is	 permitted	 when	 approved	 by	 the	board,	 where	 the	 effect	 is	 to	 minimise	 risk	 for	
the	 Group.	speculative	 trading	 of	 derivatives	 or	 other	 financial	 instruments	 is	 not	 permitted.	there	 has	 been	 no	 significant	 change	 during	
the	 financial	 year,	 or	 since	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year,	 to	 the	 types	 or	 scope	 of	 financial	 risks	 faced	 by	 the	 Group. 	 76	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
20. Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 continued
liquidity	risk
liquidity	risk	 is	 defined	 as	 the	 risk	 that	 the	 Group	 might	 not	 be	 able	 to	 settle	 or	 meet	 its	 obligations	 on	 time	 or	 at	 a	 reasonable	 price.	
l iquidity	 risk	 arises	 as	 a	 result	 of	 mismatches	 between	 cash	 inflows	 and	 outflows	 from	 the	 business.	this	 risk	 is	 monitored	 on	 a	 centralised	
basis	 through	 regular	 cash	 flow	 forecasting,	 a	 three-year	 rolling	 strategic	 plan,	 an	 annual	 budget	 agreed	 by	 the	board	 each	december	 and	
a	 quarterly	 re-forecast	 undertaken	 during	 the	 financial	 year.	to	 mitigate	 the	 risk,	 the	 resulting	 forecast	 net	 debt	 is	 measured	 against	 the	
liquidity	 headroom	 policy	 which,	 at	 the	 current	 net	 debt	 levels,	 requires	 committed	 facilities	 (plus	 term	 loans	 in	 excess	 of	 one	 year)	 to	
exceed	 net	 debt	 by	 50%.
a s	 at	 31	december	 2010,	 the	 Group	 had	 committed	 facilities	 of	 £230.9m	 (2009:	 £348.5m)	 which	 exceeded	 net	 debt	 of	 £51.3m	 (2009:	 £85.5m)	
by	 350%	 (2009:	 308%).	the	 Group	 also	 uses	 uncommitted	 short-term	 bank	 facilities	 to	 manage	 short-term	 liquidity	 but	 these	 facilities	
are	 excluded	 from	 the	 liquidity	 headroom	 policy.	the	 Group	 manages	 longer-term	 liquidity	 through	 committed	 bank	 facilities	 and	 will,	
if	 appropriate,	 raise	 funds	 on	 capital	 markets.	 Following	 the	 completion	 of	 the	 £110m	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 and	 the	 $20m	revolving	
and	letter	 of	 Credit	 facility	 on	 8	january	 2010	 and	 18	 February	 2010	 respectively,	 the	 Group’s	 principal	 committed	 bank	 facilities	 have	 the	
following	 maturity	 dates:
	 	 £110m	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 31	 March	 2013	 (2.2	 years)
	 	€125m	revolving	 Credit	 Facility	 31	july	 2013	 (2.6	 years)
	 	 $20m	revolving	 and	letter	 of	 Credit	 Facility	 31	 March	 2013	 (2.2	 years)
in	 addition,	 cash	 management	 pooling,	 netting	 and	 concentration	 techniques	 are	 used	 to	 minimise	 borrowings.
as	at	 31	december	 2010,	 the	 Group	 had	 gross	 cash	 of	 £23.5m	 (2009:	 £19.6m).
interest	 rate	 risk
interest	 rate	 risk	 arises	 on	 borrowings	 and	 cash	 balances	 (and	 derivative	 liabilities	 and	 assets)	 which	 are	 at	 floating	 interest	 rates.	
Changes	 in	 interest	 rates	 could	 have	 the	 effect	 of	 either	 increasing	 or	 decreasing	 the	 Group’s	 net	 profit.	under	 the	 Group’s	 interest	 rate	
management	 policy,	 the	 interest	 rates	 on	 each	 of	 the	 Group’s	 major	 currency	 monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 managed	 to	 achieve	 the	
desired	 mix	 of	 fixed	 and	 variable	 rates	 for	 each	 major	 net	 currency	 exposure.	the	 major	 interest	 rate	 risk	 is	 to	uK	 rates	 but	 exposures	 also	
exist	 to	 rates	 in	 the	usa,	europe	 and	sweden.	 Measurement	 of	 this	 interest	 rate	 risk	 and	 its	 potential	 volatility	 to	 the	 Group’s	 reported	
financial	 performance	 is	 undertaken	 on	 a	 monthly	 basis	 and	 the	board	 uses	 this	 information	 to	 determine,	 from	 time	 to	 time,	
an	 appropriate	 mix	 of	 fixed	 and	 floating	 rates.
as	 at	 31	d ecember	 2010,	 3%	 of	 net	 debt	 was	 at	 fixed	 rates	 (2009:	 3%).	the	 average	 tenure	 of	 the	 fixed	 rate	 debt	 was	 5.2	 years	 (2009:	 3.9	 years).
Currency	 risk
bodycote	has	 operations	 in	 26	 countries	 and	 is	 therefore	 exposed	 to	 foreign	 exchange	 translation	 risk	 when	 the	 profits	 and	 net	 assets	 of	
these	 entities	 are	 consolidated	 into	 the	 Group	 accounts.
o ver	 89%	 of	 the	 Group’s	 sales	 are	 in	 currencies	 other	 than	 sterling	 (eur	 38%,	usd	29%,	seK	 7%	 and	brl	 5%).		 Cumulatively	 over	 the	 year,	
sterling	 rates	 moved	 such	 that	 the	 sales	 for	 the	 year	 were	 £0.3m	 worse	 than	 if	 sales	 had	 been	 translated	 at	 the	 rates	 prevailing	 in	 2009.
it	 is	 Group	 policy	 not	 to	 hedge	 exposure	 for	 the	 translation	 of	 reported	 profits.
the	Group’s	 balance	 sheet	 translation	 policy	 is	 not	 to	 actively	 hedge	 currency	 net	 assets.	 However,	 where	 appropriate,	 the	 Group	 will	 still	
match	 centrally	 held	 currency	 borrowings	 to	 the	 net	 assets.	the	 Group	 principally	 borrows	 in	 sterling	 but	 also	 maintains	 debt	 in	us	dollar,	
euro	 and	swedish	 Krona,	 consistent	 with	 the	 location	 of	 the	 Group’s	 assets.	the	 Group	 recognises	 foreign	 exchange	 movements	 in	 equity	
for	 the	 translation	 of	 net	 investment	 hedging	 instruments	 and	 balances.	as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 Group’s	 change	 of	 balance	 sheet	 translation	 policy,	
£84.6m	 of	 cross	 currency	 swap	 liabilities	 existing	 at	 31	december	 2009	 were	 either	 cancelled	 or	 not	 rolled	 over	 at	 maturity,	 during	 the	 year.
transaction	foreign	 exchange	 exposures	 arise	 when	 entities	 within	 the	 Group	 enter	 into	 contracts	 to	 pay	 or	 receive	 funds	 in	 a	 currency	
different	 from	 the	 functional	 currency	 of	 the	 entity	 concerned.	i t	 is	 Group	 policy	 to	 hedge	 exposure	 to	 cash	 transactions	 in	 foreign	 currencies	
when	 a	 commitment	 arises,	 usually	 through	 the	 use	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 forward	 contracts.	e ven	 though	 approximately	 89%	 of	 the	 Group’s	
sales	 are	 generated	 outside	 the	uK,	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 business	 is	 such	 that	 cross	 border	 sales	 and	 purchases	 are	 limited	 and,	 other	 than	
interest,	 such	 exposures	 are	 immaterial	 for	 the	 Group.
market	 risk	 sensitivity	 analysis
the	Group	 has	 measured	 the	 estimated	 charge	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 and	 equity	 of	 either	 an	 instantaneous	 increase	 or	 decrease	
of	 1%	 (100	 basis	 points)	 in	 market	 interest	 rates	 or	 a	 10%	 strengthening	 or	 weakening	 in	 sterling	 against	 all	 other	 currencies	 from	 the	
applicable	 rates	 as	 at	 31	december	 2010,	 for	 all	 financial	 instruments	 with	 all	 other	 variables	 remaining	 constant.	this	 analysis	 is	 for	
illustrative	 purposes	 only.	the	 sensitivity	 analysis	 excludes	 the	 impact	 of	 market	 risks	 on	 net	 post	 employment	 benefit	 obligations. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 77
20. Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 continued
interest	 rate	 sensitivity
the	interest	 rate	 sensitivity	 analysis	 is	 based	 on	 the	 following	 assumptions:
	 	 changes	 in	 market	 interest	 rates	 affect	 the	 interest	 income	 or	 expense	 of	 variable	 interest	 financial	 instruments;
	 	 changes	 in	 market	 interest	 rates	 only	 affect	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 relation	 to	 financial	 instruments	 with	 fixed	 interest	 if	 these
are	 recognised	 at	 their	 fair	 value;	 and
	 	 changes	 in	 market	 interest	 rates	 affect	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 designated	 as	 hedging	 instruments.
under	these	 assumptions,	 a	 one	 percentage	 point	 fall	 or	 rise	 in	 market	 interest	 rates	 for	 all	 currencies	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 has	 variable	
net	 cash	 or	 net	 borrowings	 at	 31	december	 2010	 would	 reduce	 or	 increase	 profit	 before	 tax	 by	 approximately	 £0.5m	 (2009:	 £0.9m).	
there	is	 no	 significant	 impact	 on	 equity.
Currency	 sensitivity
taking	the	 2010	 sales	 by	 currency,	 a	 10%	 weakening/strengthening	 in	 the	 2010	 cumulative	 average	 rates	 for	 all	 currencies	 versus	 sterling	
would	 have	 given	 rise	 to	 a	 +£50m/-£41m	 movement	 in	 sales	 respectively.		the	 impact	 on	 headline	 operating	 profit	 is	 affected	 by	 the	 mix	
of	 losses	 and	 profits	 in	 the	 various	 currencies.	 However,	 taking	 the	 2010	 operating	 profit	 mix,	 a	 10%	 weakening/strengthening	 in	 2010	
cumulative	 average	 rates	 for	 all	 currencies	 would	 have	 given	 rise	 to	 a	 +£6m/-£5m	 movement	 in	 headline	 operating	 profit.
Counterparty	 risk
Counterparty	 risk	 encompasses	 settlement	 risk	 on	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 and	 money	 market	 contracts	 and	 credit	 risk	 on	 cash,	
time	 deposits	 and	 money	 market	 funds.	the	 Group	 monitors	 its	 credit	 exposure	 to	 its	 counterparties	 via	 their	 credit	 ratings	 (where	
applicable)	 and	 through	 its	 policy,	 thereby	 limiting	 its	 exposure	 to	 any	 one	 party	 to	 ensure	 there	 is	 no	 significant	 concentration	 of	 credit	 risk.	
Group	 policy	 is	 to	 enter	 into	 such	 transactions	 only	 with	 counterparties	 with	 a	 long-term	 credit	 rating	 of	a-/a3	 or	 better.	 However,	 acquired	
businesses	 occasionally	 have	 dealings	 with	 banks	 with	 lower	 credit	 ratings.	business	 with	 such	 banks	 is	 moved	 as	 soon	 as	 practicable.
21. Deferred	 tax
the	following	 are	 the	 major	 deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 and	 (assets)	 recognised	 by	 the	 Group	 and	 movements	 thereon	 during	 the	 current	
and	 prior	 reporting	 periods:
	 accelerated	
	 tax	
	 depreciation
	 t ax	
	 losses
	 r etirement	
	 benefit	
	 obligations 	 other 	 t otal
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
at	1	january	 2009 71.1	 (9.3) (8.9) (27.1) 25.8	
(Credit)/charge	 to	 income (6.0) (12.7) 5.8	 5.7	 (7.2)
Credit	 to	 equity .–	 .–	 (0.8) (0.1) (0.9)
transfers (5.4) 9.3	 (0.4) (1.8) 1.7	
exchange	 differences (5.5) 0.4	 0.2	 2.0	 (2.9)
at	1	january	 2010 54.2	 (12.3) (4.1) (21.3) 16.5	
(Credit)/charge	 to	 income (2.5) 5.3	 .–	 3.9	 6.7	
Charge	 to	 equity .–	 .–	 0.9	 .–	 0.9	
disposal	of	 subsidiaries .–	 (0.1) .–	 .–	 (0.1)
transfers (10.7) (1.7) 0.1	 13.0	 0.7	
exchange	 differences .–	 (0.1) .–	 0.2	 0.1	
effect	 of	 change	 in	 tax	 rate:
income	 statement 0.1	 .–	 .–	 (0.1) .–	
at	31	december	 2010 41.1	 (8.9) (3.1) (4.3) 24.8	
Certain	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 have	 been	 offset.	the	 following	 is	 the	 analysis	 of	 the	 deferred	 tax	 balances	 (after	 offset)	 for	
financial	 reporting	 purposes:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
deferred	tax	 liabilities 73.1	 73.4	
deferred	tax	 assets (48.3) (56.9)
24.8	 16.5	
other	deferred	 tax	 assets	 relate	 to	 provisions	 recognised	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 that	 are	 not	 yet	 deductible	 for	 tax	 purposes,	
in	 particular	 in	 relation	 to	 restructuring	 charges	 and	 local	 profit	 differences	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 reverse	 over	 time.
at	the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 Group	 has	 unused	 tax	 losses	 of	 £208.0m	 (2009:	 £177.1m)	 available	 for	 offset	 against	 future	 profits.	
a	deferred	 tax	 asset	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 £101.0m	 (2009:	 £83.4m)	 of	 such	 losses,	 based	 on	 management	 forecasts	 of	
future	 taxable	 profits	 against	 which	 the	 assets	 can	 be	 recovered	 in	 the	 relevant	 jurisdictions.	no	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 has	 been	 recognised	
in	 respect	 of	 the	 remaining	 £107.0m	 (2009:	 £93.7m)	 of	 such	 losses.	all	 recognised	 losses	 may	 be	 carried	 forward	 indefinitely. 	 78	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
22. obligations	 under	 finance	 leases
					m inimum	
					 lease	 payments
					p resent	 value	
					 of	 minimum	
					 lease	 payments
	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
amounts	 payable	 under	 finance	 leases:
within	one	 year 0.5	 1.0	 0.4	 0.7	
in	 the	 second	 to	 fifth	 years	 inclusive 0.5	 1.5	 0.4	 1.2	
after	five	 years 0.3	 0.4	 0.3	 0.4	
1.3	 2.9	 1.1	 2.3	
less:	future	 finance	 charges (0.2) (0.6)
present	 value	 of	 lease	 obligations 1.1	 2.3	
analysed	 as:
amount	due	 for	 settlement	 after	 12	 months 0.7	 1.6	
amount	due	 for	 settlement	 within	 12	 months	 (shown	 under	 current	 liabilities) 0.4	 0.7	
1.1	 2.3	
the	present	 value	 of	 minimum	 lease	 payments	 is	 denominated	 in	 the	 following	 currencies:
sterling 0.6	 0.7	
us	dollar 0.3	 0.5	
euro 0.2	 0.5	
danish	Krone .–	 0.6	
1.1	 2.3	
it	 is	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 to	 lease	 certain	 of	 its	 fixtures	 and	 equipment	 under	 finance	 leases.	the	 average	 lease	 term	 is	 5.2	 years.	 For	 the	
year	 ended	 31	december	 2010,	 the	 average	 effective	 borrowing	 rate	 was	 7.8%	 (2009:	 7.8%).	interest	 rates	 are	 fixed	 at	 the	 contract	 date.	
all	leases	 are	 on	 a	 fixed	 repayment	 basis	 and	 no	 arrangements	 have	 been	 entered	 into	 for	 contingent	 rental	 payments.	the	 fair	 value	 of	
the	 Group’s	 lease	 obligations	 approximates	 to	 their	 carrying	 amount.
the	Group’s	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 secured	 by	 the	 lessors’	 rights	 over	 the	 leased	 assets. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 79
23. other	 financial	 liabilities
trade	and	 other	 payables	
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year:
trade	creditors 38.6	 29.9	
other	taxes	 and	 social	 security* 16.5	 14.7	
other	creditors 21.8	 11.4	
accruals	and	 deferred	 income 43.5	 37.2	
120.4	 93.2	
amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year:
other	creditors 4.1	 7.5	
trade	creditors	 and	 accruals	 principally	 comprise	 amounts	 outstanding	 for	 trade	 purchases	 and	 ongoing	 costs.	the	 average	 credit	 period	
taken	 for	 trade	 purchases	 as	 at	 31	december	 2010	 is	 46	 days	 (2009:	 46	 days).
the	directors	consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 trade	 payables	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value.
*other	financial	 liabilities	 include	 other	 taxes	 and	 social	 security,	 which	 are	 not	 included	 as	 financial	 liabilities	 in	iFrs	7.
t he	 following	 table	 details	 the	 Group’s	 remaining	 contractual	 maturity	 for	 its	 financial	 liabilities.	the	 table	 has	 been	 drawn	 up	 based	 on	 the	
undiscounted	 cash	 flows	 of	 financial	 liabilities	 based	 on	 the	 earliest	 date	 on	 which	 the	 Group	 can	 be	 required	 to	 pay.	the	 table	 includes	
both	 interest	 and	 principal	 cash	 flows.
	 l ess	 than	 	
	 1 	 year 	 1-2 	 years 	 2-5 	 years 	 5+ 	 years 	 t otal
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
non-interest	bearing* 134.4	 3.5	 4.7	 8.7	 151.3	
Finance	 lease	 liability 0.5	 0.3	 0.2	 0.3	 1.3	
bank	loans	 and	 overdrafts 95.5	 0.2	 0.2	 0.3	 96.2	
derivative	financial	 instruments 0.9	 .–	 .–	 .–	 0.9	
231.3	 4.0	 5.1	 9.3	 249.7	
	 l ess	 than	 	
	 1 	 year 	 1-2 	 years 	 2-5 	 years 	 5+ 	 years 	 t otal
	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
non-interest	bearing* 114.5	 9.2	 4.8	 5.2	 133.7	
Finance	 lease	 liability 0.9	 0.9	 0.5	 0.5	 2.8	
bank	loans	 and	 overdrafts 117.4	 0.2	 0.3	 0.3	 118.2	
derivative	financial	 instruments 77.5	 11.5	 .–	 .–	 89.0	
310.3	 21.8	 5.6	 6.0	 343.7	
of	the	 £96.2m	 (2009:	 £118.2m)	 bank	 loan	 and	 overdraft	 outflows	 disclosed	 above,	 £nil	(2009:	 £nil)	and	 £64.4m	 (2009:	 £96.2m)	 of	 bank	
loans	 are	 drawn	 under	 committed	 facilities	 maturing	 on	 31	 March	 2013	 and	 31	july	 2013	 respectively.	the	 overdrafts	 are	 on-demand	 and	
largely	 part	 of	 pooling	 arrangements,	 which	 include	 offsetting	 cash	 balances.	of	 the	 £0.9m	 (2009:	 £89.0m)	 derivative	 financial	 instrument	
outflows	 disclosed	 above,	 £0.9m	 (2009:	 £85.1m)	 are	 matched	 by	 derivative	 cash	 inflows.
*non-interest	bearing	 financial	 liabilities	 include	 other	 taxes	 and	 social	 security,	 which	 are	 not	 included	 as	 financial	 liabilities	 in	iFrs	7.	
these	are	 payable	 in	 less	 than	 one	 year. 	 80	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
24. provisions
r estructuring
	 r estructuring
	 environ-	
	 mental
	 environ-	
	 mental 	 t otal
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
at	1	january	 2010 17.6	 9.5	 5.9	 33.0	
increase	 in	 provision 5.1	 1.6	 0.6	 7.3	
release	of	 provision (1.8) (0.1) .–	 (1.9)
utilisation	of	 provision (11.1) (1.3) .–	 (12.4)
exchange	 difference 0.2	 0.5	 0.1	 0.8	
at	 31	 December	 2010 10.0	 10.2	 6.6	 26.8	
included	 in	 current	 liabilities 14.0	
included	 in	 non-current	 liabilities 12.8	
26.8	
the	restructuring	 provision	 relates	 to	 the	 remaining	 costs	 associated	 with	 the	 closure	 of	 various	 Heat	treatment	 sites.	 Further	 details	
are	 contained	 in	 the	 Finance	director’s	report.
the	Group	 provides	 for	 the	 costs	 of	 environmental	 remediation	 that	 have	 been	 identified,	 either	 as	 part	 of	 acquisition	 due	 diligence,	
or	 in	 other	 circumstances	 where	 remediation	 by	 the	 Group	 is	 required.	this	 provision	 is	 reviewed	 annually	 and	 is	 separated	 into	
r estructuring	e nvironmental	 and	e nvironmental	 to	 separately	 identify	 environmental	 provisions	 relating	 to	 the	 restructuring	 programme	
from	 those	 arising	 in	 the	 ordinary	 course	 of	 business.
the	increase	 in	 restructuring	 provisions	 is	 due	 to	 the	 ongoing	 implementation	 of	 the	 global	 restructuring	 initiatives.	in	 addition	 income	
of	 £4.0m	 was	 recognised	 following	 the	 disposal	 of	 non	 core	 assets	 associated	 with	 the	 restructuring	 plans.	the	 reversal	 of	 certain	 asset	
impairments	 of	 £0.8m	 was	 also	 recognised	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 ongoing	 restructuring.
Cash	 outflows	 in	 respect	 of	 these	 liabilities	 are	 expected	 to	 occur	 within	 5	 years.	
25. share	 capital
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
authorised:
248,947,368	 (2009:	 248,947,368)	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 17	 3/11p	 each	 43.0	 43.0	
325,000,000	 (2009:	 325,000,000)	b	 shares	 of	 40p	 each 130.0	 130.0	
issued	 and	 fully	 paid:
189,881,917	 (2009:	 188,167,712)	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 17	 3/11p	 each	 32.8	 32.5	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 81
26. notes	 to	 the	 cash	 flow	 statement
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year 27.7	 (51.1)
adjustments	for:
investment	 revenue (0.3) (1.5)
Finance	 costs 6.3	 5.8	
taxation	-	 continuing	 and	 discontinued 17.5	 (3.4)
depreciation	of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 46.1	 48.5	
amortisation	of	 intangible	 assets 2.2	 2.4	
loss/(profit)	on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 0.7	 (0.1)
share-based	payments 4.2	 (0.1)
impairment	 charge .–	 31.5	
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs (1.6) 12.6	
ebitda* 102.8	 44.6	
(increase)/decrease	 in	 inventories (2.7) 1.4	
(increase)/decrease	 in	 receivables (4.7) 29.2	
increase/(decrease)	 in	 payables 15.5	 (21.6)
decrease	in	 provisions (7.0) (5.9)
Cash	 generated	 by	 operations 103.9	 47.7	
Cash	 outflow	 from	 settlement	 of	 derivative	 financial	 instruments (2.9) (12.3)
income	 taxes	 paid (5.4) (24.4)
net	cash	 from	 operating	 activities 95.6	 11.0	
*	earnings	 before	 interest,	 tax,	 depreciation,	 amortisation,	 impairment	 and	 share-based	 payments.
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 comprise:
Cash	 and	 bank	 balances 23.5	 19.6	
bank	overdrafts	 (included	 in	 borrowings) (5.9) (3.3)
17.6	 16.3	
27. operating	 lease	 arrangements	 -	 the	 group	 as	 lessee
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Minimum	 lease	 payments	 under	 operating	 leases	 recognised	 as	 an	 expense 14.4	 14.1	
at	the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 Group	 had	 outstanding	 commitments	 for	 future	 minimum	 lease	 payments	 under	 non-cancellable	 operating	
leases,	 which	 fall	 due	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
within	one	 year 11.7	 8.1	
in	 the	 second	 to	 fifth	 years	 inclusive 19.2	 20.0	
after	five	 years 14.6	 12.0	
45.5	 40.1	
o perating	 lease	 payments	 represent	 rentals	 payable	 by	 the	 Group	 for	 certain	 of	 its	 land	 and	 buildings,	 fixtures	 and	 fittings	 and	 motor	 vehicles. 	 82	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
28. share-based	 payments	 -	equity-settled	 share	 option	 scheme
the	Company	 operates	 3	 share	 option	 schemes	 in	 relation	 to	 Group	 employees.	options	 are	 exercisable	 at	 the	 middle	 market	 closing	 price	
for	 the	 working	 day	 prior	 to	 the	 date	 of	 grant	 and	 are	 excercisable	 3	 years	 from	 the	 date	 of	 grant	 if	 stated	 performance	 criteria	 have	 been	 met.	
o ptions	 lapse	 if	 not	 excercised	 within	 ten	 years	 (7	 years	 for	 the	 1996	 scheme)	 of	 the	 date	 of	 grant	 or	 if	 the	 participant	 leaves	 Group	 employment.
details	of	 the	 share	 options	 outstanding	 during	 the	 year	 are	 as	 follows:
Date	 of	 grant 	 option	 price	 in	 pence 	 exercise	 period 										n o.	 of	 options	 outstanding
	 2010 	 2009
May-00 	 231.42 	 2003-2010 	 – 	 245,316	
apr-01 	 203.37 	 2004-2011 	 262,002		 471,391	
sep-02 	 125.76 	 2005-2012 	 112,295		 139,032	
sep-03 	 147.27 	 2006-2013 	 311,654		 410,581	
	 685,951 	 1,266,320
Movements	 in	 share	 options	 are	 summarised	 as	 follows:
	 number	 of	 shares	
	 under 	 option
	 weighted	 average	
	 exercise 	 price
	 number	 of	 shares	
	 under	 option
	 weighted	 average	
	 exercise 	 price
	 2010 	 2010 	 2009 	 2009
	 pence 	 pence
outstanding	at	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 year 	 1,266,320		 183.95		 2,012,802		 197.04	
exercised	 during	 the	 year 	 (214,204) 	 167.77		 (261,937) 	 132.13	
expired	 during	 the	 year 	 (366,165) 	 222.16		 (484,545) 	 267.24	
outstanding	and	 exercisable	 at	 the	 end	
of	 the	 year 	 685,951		 165.18		 1,266,320		 183.95	
the	weighted	 average	 share	 price	 at	 the	 date	 of	 exercise	 for	 share	 options	 exercised	 during	 the	 year	 was	 167.77	 pence.	the	 options	
outstanding	 at	 31	december	 2010	 had	 a	 weighted	 average	 exercise	 price	 of	 165.18	 pence,	 and	 a	 weighted	 average	 remaining	 contractual	
life	 of	 1.6	 years.	the	 average	 share	 price	 during	 the	 year	 was	 224.2	 pence.
the	inputs	 into	 the	black-scholes	 model	 are	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
weighted	average	 share	 price 	 pence 157.5	 157.5	
weighted	average	 exercise	 price 	 pence 157.5	 157.5	
expected	 volatility 	 % 42.7	 42.7	
expected	 life 	 years 3.0	 3.0	
risk-free	rate 	 % 4.0	 4.0	
expected	 dividends 	 % 4.3	 4.3	
expected	 volatility	 was	 determined	 by	 calculating	 the	 historical	 volatility	 of	 the	 Group’s	 share	 price	 over	 the	 previous	 3	 years.	
the	expected	 life	 used	 in	 the	 model	 has	 been	 adjusted,	 based	 on	 management’s	 best	 estimate,	 for	 the	 effects	 of	 non-transferability,	
exercise	 restrictions,	 and	 behavioural	 considerations.
the	Group	 recognised	 total	 expenses	 of	 £4.2m	 (2009:	 income	 of	 £0.1m)	 related	 to	 equity-settled	 share-based	 payment	 transactions. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 83
29. related	party	 transactions
transactions	between	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries,	 which	 are	 related	 parties,	 have	 been	 eliminated	 on	 consolidation	 and	 are	
not	 disclosed	 in	 this	 note.	transactions	 between	 the	 Group	 and	 its	 associates	 are	 disclosed	 below.	transactions	 between	 the	 Company	
and	 its	 subsidiaries	 and	 associates	 are	 disclosed	 in	 the	 Company’s	 separate	 financial	 statements.
trading	transactions
the	Group’s	 associated	 company	ssCp	 Coatings	s.à.r.l.	 was	 recapitalised	 through	 a	 share	 issue	 in	 a	 new	 company	 during	 the	 year.	
the	Group	 chose	 not	 to	 participate	 in	 this	 share	 issue,	 and	 as	 a	 result,	 the	 Group’s	 percentage	 holding	 in	 the	 business	 has	 significantly	
reduced	 to	 a	 level	 where	 the	 Group	 no	 longer	 classifies	 the	 business	 as	 an	 associate	 company.
during	the	 prior	 year,	 Group	 companies	 entered	 into	 the	 following	 transactions	 with	 related	 parties	 who	 are	 not	 members	 of	 the	 Group,	
namely	ssCp	 Coatings	s.à.r.l.	 and	thai	induction	services	 Company	ltd:
										s ale	 of	 goods	
										 and	 services
										p urchase	 of	
										 goods	 and	 services
										a mounts	 owed	
										 by	 related	 parties
										a mounts	 owed	
										 to	 related	 parties
	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
associates .–	 3.3	 .– 0.2	 .– 18.0	 .–	 .–	
sales	of	 goods	 and	 services	 includes	 payments	 received	 from	 finance	 leases	 (see	 note	 16),	 the	 provision	 of	 management	 services	 and	
interest	 receivable.	all	 transactions	 were	 made	 at	 arm’s	 length.
during	the	 prior	 year	 the	 small	 associate	 business	 in	thailand	 was	 sold	 back	 to	 the	 associate	 partners	 resulting	 in	 a	 cash	 inflow	 of	 £6.9m.	
as	a	 result	 of	 the	 termination	 of	 the	 agreement	 the	 Group	 reported	 a	 loss	 of	 £2.5m.
the	remuneration	 of	 the	board	 of	directors,	 who	 are	 considered	 key	 management	 personnel	 of	 the	 Group,	 was	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
short-term	employee	 benefits 1.6	 1.2	
share-based	payments .–	 0.4	
1.6	 1.6	
Further	 information	 about	 the	 remuneration	 of	 the	 individual	 directors	 is	 provided	 in	 the	b oard	report	 on	remuneration	 on	 pages	 39	 to	 43. 	 84	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
30. retirement	benefit	 obligations
the	Group	 operated	 a	 number	 of	 pension	 schemes	 and	 provided	 leaving	 service	 benefits	 to	 certain	 employees	 during	 the	 year.	the	 defined	
benefit	 obligation	 less	 fair	 value	 of	 assets	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year	 and	 total	 expense	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 are	 summarised	
below	 as	 follows:
Defined	 benefit	 schemes
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
uK	scheme (0.6) (3.7)
non-uK	schemes (11.0) (11.3)
(11.6) (15.0)
total	expense	 recognised	 in	 income	 statement
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
uK	scheme 1.1	 1.2	
non-uK	schemes 1.2	 0.4	
2.3	 1.6	
Further	 details	 of	 the	 Group’s	 defined	 benefit	 arrangements	 are	 given	 in	 the	 Finance	director’s	report	 on	 page	 25.
uk	scheme
the	Company	 sponsors	 the	bodycote	uK	pension	scheme	 which	 is	 a	 funded	 defined	 benefit	 arrangement	 for	 certain	uK	 employees.	
the	last	 full	 actuarial	 valuation	 of	 the	 scheme	 was	 carried	 out	 by	 a	 qualified	 independent	 actuary	 as	 at	 6	april	 2008	 using	 the	 projected	
unit	 credit	 method	 and	 was	 updated	 on	 an	 approximate	 basis	 to	 31	december	 2010.	the	 projected	 unit	 credit	 method	 is	 an	 accrued	
benefits	 valuation	 method	 in	 which	 the	 scheme	 liabilities	 make	 allowance	 for	 projected	 earnings.
the	contributions	 made	 by	 the	 employer	 over	 the	 financial	 year	 have	 been	 £1.0m,	 comprising	 £0.6m	 in	 respect	 of	 benefit	 accrual	 and	
£0.4m	 in	 respect	 of	 ongoing	 expense.	this	 level	 of	 contribution	 has	 been	 reviewed	 following	 the	 triennial	 valuation	 of	 the	scheme	
completed	 as	 at	 6	april	 2008	 and	 it	 is	 expected	 that	 the	 deficit	 will	 be	 extinguished	 by	december	 2016.
it	 is	 the	 policy	 of	 the	 Group	 to	 recognise	 all	 actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 in	 the	 year	 in	 which	 they	 occur	 outside	 of	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	
and	 in	 the	statement	 of	 Comprehensive	income.
the	uK	scheme	 deficit	 decreased	 by	 £3.1m	 during	 the	 year,	 primarily	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 announced	 change	 in	 the	 relevant	 index	 for	 the	
uK	scheme	 from	rpi	to	 Cpi	in	 respect	 of	 the	 revaluation	 of	 deferred	 members’	 benefits.
reconciliation	of	 opening	 and	 closing	 balances	 of	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 obligation
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
defined	benefit	 obligation	 at	 start	 of	 year 73.6	 63.7	
Current	 service	 cost 0.8	 0.8	
interest	 cost 4.2	 3.8	
Contributions	 by	 plan	 participants 0.3	 0.4	
actuarial	(gain)/loss (0.8) 7.3	
benefits	paid,	 death	 in	 service	 insurance	 premiums	 and	 expenses (2.3) (2.4)
defined	benefit	 obligation	 at	 end	 of	 year 75.8	 73.6	
reconciliation	of	 opening	 and	 closing	 balances	 of	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 plan	 assets
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Fair	 value	 of	 assets	 at	 start	 of	 year 69.9	 63.0	
expected	 return	 on	 assets 3.9	 3.4	
actuarial	gain 2.4	 4.5	
Contributions	 by	 employer 1.0	 1.0	
Contributions	 by	 plan	 participants 0.3	 0.4	
benefits	paid,	 death	 in	 service	 insurance	 premiums	 and	 expenses (2.3) (2.4)
Fair	 value	 of	 assets	 at	 end	 of	 year 75.2	 69.9	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 85
30. retirement	benefit	 obligations	 continued
total	expense	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Current	 service	 cost 0.8	 0.8	
interest	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities 4.2	 3.8	
expected	 return	 on	 pension	 scheme	 assets (3.9) (3.4)
total	expenses 1.1	 1.2	
the	cumulative	 amount	 of	 actuarial	 losses	 recognised	 in	 the	statement	 of	 Comprehensive	income	 since	 adoption	 of	ias	 19	 is	 £9.9m.
of	the	 expense	 for	 the	 year,	 £0.8m	 (2009:	 £0.8m)	 has	 been	 included	 in	 the	 operating	 profit	 and	 £0.3m	 (2009:	 £0.4m)	 has	 been	 included	
in	 finance	 charges.	actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 have	 been	 reported	 in	 other	 comprehensive	 income.
assets
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
equities	 (including	 property) 32.2	 26.0	 22.1	
bonds	(including	 gilts) 38.1	 38.7	 14.9	
treasury	bonds .–	 .–	 21.0	
Cash 0.2	 0.1	 0.6	
with	profits	 insured	 policy .–	 0.6	 0.3	
Hedge	 funds 4.7	 4.5	 4.1	
75.2	 69.9	 63.0	
none	of	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 assets	 shown	 above	 include	 any	 of	 the	 Group’s	 own	 financial	 instruments	 or	 any	 property	 occupied	 by,	
or	 other	 assets	 used	 by	 the	 Group.
expected	 long-term	 rates	 of	 return
the	expected	 long-term	 return	 on	 cash	 is	 equal	 to	 bank	 base	 rate	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	the	 expected	 return	 on	 bonds	 is	 determined	
by	 reference	 to	uK	 long	 dated	 gilt	 and	 bond	 yields	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	the	 expected	 rates	 of	 return	 on	 equities	 and	 property	 have	
been	 determined	 by	 setting	 an	 appropriate	 risk	 premium	 above	 gilt/bond	 yields	 having	 regard	 to	 market	 conditions	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
the	expected	 long-term	 rates	 of	 return	 are	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008
	 % 	 per	 	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
equities 6.9	 7.3	 6.6	
bonds 4.9	 5.3	 4.8	
treasury	bonds .–	 .–	 5.5	
with	profits	 insured	 policy .– 5.3	 4.8	
Hedge	 funds 6.9	 7.3	 6.6	
Cash 0.5	 0.5	 1.5	
overall	for	 scheme 5.8	 6.1	 5.7	
actual	 return	 on	 plan	 assets
the	actual	 return	 on	 the	 plan	 assets	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	 was	 8.8%	 (2009:	 12.5%). 	 86	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
30. retirement	benefit	 obligations	 continued
assumptions
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
rpi	 inflation 	 3.65 	 3.70 	 3.15
Cpi	inflation 	 3.15 	 –	 	 –	
salary	increases 	 3.00 	 3.00 	 3.00
rate	of	 discount 	 5.50 	 5.70 	 6.00
allowance	for	 pension	 in	 payment	 increases	 of	rpi	or	 5%	 p.a.	 if	 less 	 3.55 	 3.60 	 3.10
allowance	for	 pension	 in	 payment	 increases	 of	rpi	or	 3%	 p.a.	 if	 less 	 2.75 	 2.80 	 n/a
allowance	for	 revaluation	 of	 deferred	 pensions 	 3.15 	 3.70 	 3.15
Mortality	 –	 current	 pensioners
actuarial	tables	 used
	 pa	 92	y oB	
	 mC,	 1%	
	 underpin
	pa	92	y ob	
	 MC, 	 1%	
	 underpin
	pa	92	y ob	
	 MC, 	 1%	
	 underpin
life	expectancy	 for	 members	 currently	 aged	 65 22.5 22.5 22.5
Mortality	 –	 future	 pensioners
actuarial	tables	 used
	 pa	 92	y oB	
	 mC,	 1%	
	 underpin
	pa	92	y ob	
	 MC, 	 1%	
	 underpin
	pa	92	y ob	
	 MC, 	 1%	
	 underpin
life	expectancy	 at	 age	 65	 for	 members	 currently	 aged	 40 24.0 24.0 24.0
impact	 of	 changes	 to	 assumptions
the	impact	 of	 changes	 to	 certain	 assumptions	 on	 the	 current	 deficit	 and	 the	 2011	 charge	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 the	uK	 scheme	 is	
shown	 in	 the	 table	 below:
	 impact	
	 on 	 current	 	
	 deficit
	 impact	
	 on 	 2011	
	 charge	
	 to 	 income	
	 statement
	 £m 	 £m
Change	 in	 discount	 rate	 by	 0.25%	 (decrease	 in	 rate	 increases	 liability) 3.6	 .–	
Change	 in	 inflation	 assumption	 by	 0.25%	 (increase	 in	 rate	 increases	 liability) 1.8	 0.1	
Change	 in	 mortality	 assumption	 from	pa92	yob,	 Medium	 Cohort	 with	 a	 1%	 underpin	 to	pa92,	
long	Cohort	 with	 a	 1%	 underpin	 (change	 increases	 liability) 3.7	 0.3	
Change	 in	 the	 value	 of	 equities	 by	 5%	 (decrease	 increases	 liability) 1.4	 0.1	
Change	 in	 the	 expected	 return	 on	 equities	 assumption	 by	 0.25% .–	 0.1	
present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligations,	 fair	 value	 of	 assets	 and	 deficit
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligation 75.8	 73.6	 63.7	
Fair	 value	 of	 plan	 assets (75.2) (69.9) (63.0)
deficit	in	 the	 scheme 0.6	 3.7	 0.7	
as	all	 actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 are	 recognised,	 the	 deficit	 shown	 above	 at	 31	december	 2010	 is	 that	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet.
the	best	 estimate	 of	 contributions	 to	 be	 paid	 into	 the	 plan	 for	 the	 year	 ending	 31	december	 2011	 is	 £0.9m. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 87
30. retirement	benefit	 obligations	 continued
amounts	 for	 the	 current	 and	 previous	 four	 years
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008 	 2007 	 2006
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Fair	 value	 of	 assets (75.2) (69.9) (63.0) (47.6) (43.9)
present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligation 75.8	 73.6	 63.7	 61.0	 67.2	
deficit	in	 the	 scheme 0.6	 3.7	 0.7	 13.4	 23.3	
Gain/(loss)	 from	 experience	 adjustment	 on	 plan	 liabilities .–	 .– (0.4) 0.1	 .–	
Gain/(loss)	 from	 experience	 adjustment	 on	 plan	 assets 2.3	 4.5	 (10.7) (0.8) 0.7	
Combined	 non-uk	disclosures
the	Group	 operates	 schemes	 in	 the	usa,	brazil	 and	 continental	europe.	in	 the	us	 there	 are	 three	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 arrangements.	
these	are	 Metallurgical	inc	pension	plan,	 Combined	bodycote	pension	plan	 and	 the	supplemental	retirement	plan.	all	 are	 closed	 to	
new	 accrual.	the	 last	 full	 actuarial	 valuation	 of	 these	 schemes	 was	 carried	 out	 by	 a	 qualified	 independent	 actuary	 as	 at	 1	january	 2008	
(31	december	 2008	 for	 the	 Metallurgical	plan)	 and	 updated	 on	 an	 approximate	 basis	 to	 31	december	 2010.	 Contributions	 made	 by	 the	
Company	 over	 the	 year	 were	 $0.6m.	the	 Group	 also	 operates	 a	 defined	 benefit	 scheme	 for	 1	 employee	 in	brazil.
in	europe	 the	 Group	 operates	 defined	 benefit	 pension,	 post	 retirement	 and	 long-service	 arrangements	 for	 certain	 employees	 in	 France,	
Germany,	italy,	turkey	 (all	 of	 which	 are	 unfunded),	switzerland	 and	liechtenstein.	
reconciliation	of	 opening	 and	 closing	 balances	 of	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 obligation
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
defined	benefit	 obligation	 at	 start	 of	 year 19.8	 22.6	
Current	 service	 cost 0.6	 0.5	
interest	 cost 1.0	 1.3	
actuarial	loss .–	 0.9	
benefits	paid,	 death	 in	 service	 insurance	 premiums	 and	 expenses (0.9) (2.7)
settlement .–	 (1.0)
employee	 contributions 0.1	 0.1	
past	 service	 cost 0.6	 .–	
exchange	 rate	 loss/(gain) 0.8	 (1.9)
defined	benefit	 obligation	 at	 end	 of	 year 22.0	 19.8	
reconciliation	of	 opening	 and	 closing	 balances	 of	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 plan	 assets
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Fair	 value	 of	 assets	 at	 start	 of	 year 8.5	 8.4	
expected	 return	 on	 assets 0.4	 0.4	
actuarial	gain 0.1	 0.6	
Contributions	 by	 employer 0.5	 0.5	
Contributions	 by	 employees 0.1	 0.1	
benefits	paid,	 death	 in	 service	 insurance	 premiums	 and	 expenses (0.3) (0.8)
exchange	 rate	 gain/(loss)	 1.1	 (0.7)
Fair	 value	 of	 assets	 at	 end	 of	 year 10.4	 8.5	 	 88	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	Consolidated	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
30. retirement	benefit	 obligations	 continued
total	expense	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Current	 service	 cost 0.6	 0.5	
interest	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities 1.0	 1.3	
expected	 return	 on	 pension	 scheme	 assets (0.4) (0.4)
settlement	gain .–	 (1.0)
total	expenses 1.2	 0.4	
of	the	 expense	 for	 the	 year,	 £0.6m	 (2009:	 income	 of	 £0.5m)	 has	 been	 included	 in	 the	 operating	 profit	 and	 £0.6m	 (2009:	 £0.9m)	 has	 been	
included	 in	 finance	 charges.	actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 have	 been	 reported	 in	 other	 comprehensive	 income.
the	cumulative	 amount	 of	 actuarial	 losses	 recognised	 in	 the	statement	 of	 Comprehensive	income	 since	 adoption	 of	ias	 19	 is	 £0.7m.	
assets
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
equities 1.1	 0.9	 1.3	
bonds 0.6	 0.7	 0.8	
Cash 1.3	 0.9	 .–	
insurance	 contracts	 -	brazil 1.2	 1.0	 0.6	
insurance	 contracts	 -	switzerland	 and	liechtenstein 6.2	 5.0	 5.7	
10.4	 8.5	 8.4	
none	of	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 assets	 shown	 above	 include	 any	 of	 the	 Group’s	 own	 financial	 instruments	 or	 any	 property	 occupied	 by,	
or	 other	 assets	 used	 by	 the	 Group.	
expected	 long-term	 rates	 of	 return
the	expected	 long-term	 return	 on	 assets	 varies	 by	 country	 and	 each	 reflect	 the	 respective	 expected	 future	 market	 rates	 or	 returns	
on	 assets	 underlying	 insurance	 contracts	 where	 relevant.
actual	 return	 on	 plan	 assets	
the	actual	 return	 on	 the	 plan	 assets	 for	 the	 year	 ending	 31	december	 2010	 was	 6%.
assumptions	 for	 2010
	 salary	
	 increases
	 r ate	 of	
	 discount 	 inflation
	 pension	
	 increases
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
	 % 	 per	
	 annum
usa 	 n/a 	 5.50 	 n/a 	 n/a
brazil 	 6.59 	 10.30 	 4.50 	 n/a
France 	 3.00 	 4.60 	 2.00 	 n/a
Germany 	 2.50 	 4.65 	 n/a 	 1.75
italy 	 n/a 	 4.00 	 2.00 	 n/a
turkey 	 n/a 	 10.00 	 5.10 	 n/a
liechtenstein 	 2.50 	 2.75 	 n/a 	 n/a
switzerland 	 3.00 	 2.75 	 n/a 	 n/a 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 89
30. retirement	benefit	 obligations	 continued
present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligations,	 fair	 value	 of	 assets	 and	 deficit
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligation 22.0	 19.8	 22.6	
Fair	 value	 of	 plan	 assets (10.4) (8.5) (8.4)
deficit	in	 the	 scheme 11.6	 11.3	 14.2	
unrecognised	prior	 service	 cost (0.6) .– .–	
net	liability	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet 11.0	 11.3	 14.2	
as	all	 actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 are	 recognised,	 the	 deficit	 shown	 above	 at	 31	december	 2010	 is	 that	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet.
amounts	 for	 the	 current	 and	 previous	 four	 years
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008 	 2007 	 2006
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Fair	 value	 of	 assets (10.4) (8.5) (8.4) (4.1) (3.7)
present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligation 22.0	 19.8	 22.6	 14.6	 14.5	
deficit	in	 the	 scheme 11.6	 11.3	 14.2	 10.5	 10.8	
Gain/(loss)	 from	 experience	 adjustment	 on	 plan	 liabilities 0.5	 (0.3) (3.7) (0.9) 0.6	
Gain	 from	 experience	 adjustment	 on	 plan	 assets 0.1	 0.6	 2.9	 0.1	 0.3	
(loss)/gain	from	 effects	 of	 changing	 assumptions (0.5) (0.7) (0.5) (1.2) 0.3	
the	only	 funded	 plans	 are	 those	 operated	 in	usa,	brazil,	switzerland	 and	liechtenstein	 (sweden	having	 been	 settled	 in	 2009).	
the	best	 estimate	 of	 contributions	 to	 be	 paid	 into	 the	 plans	 for	 the	 year	 ending	 31	december	 2011	 is	 £0.4m. 	 90	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
Five	year	 suMMary
	 2010 	 2009 	 2008 	 2007 	 2006
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
revenue
existing	 operations 499.8	 435.4	 551.8	 465.2	 413.9	
discontinued	operations .–	 ,–	 164.9	 175.3	 144.7	
revenue	–	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations	 499.8	 435.4	 716.7	 640.5	 558.6	
profit	 for	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations:
headline	 operating	 profit 52.1	 8.0	 91.7	 91.3	 79.7	
share	of	 results	 of	 associates’	 interest	 and	 tax .–	 .– .– .– (0.6)
amortisation	and	 impairment	 of	 goodwill	 and	 intangible	 fixed	 assets (0.9) (32.8) (33.8) (9.1) (7.0)
impairment	 of	 investment	 in	 associate .– .– (12.1) .– (8.3)
Major	 facility	 closure	 costs .– (25.4) (77.6) (5.4) (5.0)
Change	 to	 pension	 scheme	 rules .– .– .– 4.1	 .–
bid	response	 costs .– .– .– (2.1) .–
profit	 on	 disposal	 of	 operations .–	 .–	 199.3	 .– .–
profit/(loss)	 before	 interest	 and	 tax 51.2	 (50.2) 167.5	 78.8	 58.8	
net	interest	 payable (6.0) (4.3) (10.0) (10.3) (12.2)
profit/(loss)	 before	 taxation 45.2	 (54.5) 157.5	 68.5	 46.6	
taxation (17.5) 3.4	 (6.8) (14.7) (2.7)
profit/(loss)	 after	 taxation 27.7	 (51.1) 150.7	 53.8	 43.9	
non-controlling	interests (0.1) 1.0	 (0.9) (1.0) (0.8)
profit/(loss)	 attributable	 to	 the	 equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent 27.6	 (50.1) 149.8	 52.8	 43.1	
Headline	 earnings	 per	 share	 (pence) 18.3	 0.4	 17.5	 16.6	 17.3	
dividends	per	 share	 (pence) 8.7	 8.3	 8.3	 8.0	 7.0	
assets	 employed
intangible	 fixed	 assets 118.1	 118.8	 154.4	 227.3	 212.3	
tangible	fixed	 assets 458.0	 461.8	 533.3	 508.9	 448.4	
other	assets	 and	 liabilities (74.0) (72.5) (126.1) (41.4) (45.9)
502.1	 508.1	 561.6	 694.8	 614.8	
financed	by
share	capital 32.8	 32.5	 32.4	 32.4	 32.2	
reserves 416.3	 387.8	 459.6	 457.6	 417.3	
shareholders’	 funds 449.1	 420.3	 492.0	 490.0	 449.5	
non-controlling	interests 1.7	 2.3	 4.9	 6.6	 4.4	
net	borrowings 51.3	 85.5	 64.7	 198.2	 160.9	
Capital	employed 502.1	 508.1	 561.6	 694.8	 614.8	
net	 assets	 per	 share	 (pence) 236.5	 223.4	 262.4	 151.4	 139.5	
return	on	 capital	 employed:
Headline	 operating	 profit	 (continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations)	
divided	 by	 average	 capital	 employed 10.1	 1.5	 12.6	 13.9	 13.8	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 91
CoMpany	 balanCe	 sHeet
at	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
	 2010 	 2009 note
	 £m 	 £m
fixed	assets
tangible	fixed	 assets 	 3.1	 	 2.9	 2
investments 	 393.2	 	 395.1	 3
	 396.3	 	 398.0	
Current	 assets
debtors
	 -	 due	 within	 one	 year 	 11.2	 	 22.6	 4
	 -	 due	 after	 one	 year 	 56.8	 	 70.3	 4
Cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand 	 0.7	 	 2.8	
	 68.7	 	 95.7	
Current	 liabilities
Creditors	 :	amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year 	 (8.1) 	 (13.4) 5
net	 current	 assets	 	 60.6	 	 82.3	
total	 assets	 less	 current	 liabilities 	 456.9	 	 480.3	
Creditors	 :	amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year 	 (0.6) 	 (0.5) 5
net	 assets 	 456.3	 	 479.8	
Capital	 and	 reserves
Called-up	 share	 capital 	 32.8	 	 32.5	 7
share	premium	 account 	 176.3	 	 176.0	 7
other	reserves 	 124.6	 	 125.0	 7
profit	 and	 loss	 account 	 122.6	 	 146.3	 7
shareholders’	 funds 	 456.3	 	 479.8	
t he	 financial	 statements	 of	b odycote	 plc,	 registered	 number	 519057,	 were	 approved	 by	 the	b oard	 of	d irectors	 and	 authorised	 for	 issue	 on	 24	 February	 2011.	
t hey	 were	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by:	
	
s.	C.	 Harris							
}
		
directors
d.	F.	landless 	 92	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
independent	 auditors’	 report
to	 tHe	MeMbers	 oF	bodyCote	 plC
we	have	 audited	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 of	
bodycote	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	 which	 comprise	
the	 Company	b alance	s heet,	 the	 Company	accounting	p olicies	 and	
the	 related	 notes	 1	 to	 11.	the	 financial	 reporting	 framework	 that	
has	 been	 applied	 in	 their	 preparation	 is	 applicable	 law	 and	united	
Kingdom	accounting	s tandards	 (u nited	 Kingdom	 Generally	accepted	
accounting	practice).
this	report	 is	 made	 solely	 to	 the	 company’s	 members,	 as	 a	 body,	
in	 accordance	 with	 Chapter	 3	 of	p art	 16	 of	 the	 Companies	act	 2006.	
our	audit	 work	 has	 been	 undertaken	 so	 that	 we	 might	 state	 to	 the	
company’s	 members	 those	 matters	 we	 are	 required	 to	 state	 to	 them	
in	 an	 auditors’	 report	 and	 for	 no	 other	 purpose.	to	 the	 fullest	 extent	
permitted	 by	 law,	 we	 do	 not	 accept	 or	 assume	 responsibility	 to	 anyone	
other	 than	 the	 company	 and	 the	 company’s	 members	 as	 a	 body,	 for	
our	 audit	 work,	 for	 this	 report,	 or	 for	 the	 opinions	 we	 have	 formed.
respeCtive	 responsiBilities	 of	DireCtors	 anD	auDitors
a s	 explained	 more	 fully	 in	 the	directors’	responsibilities	s tatement,	
the	 directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	 parent	
company	 financial	 statements	 and	 for	 being	 satisfied	 that	 they	
give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view.	our	 responsibility	 is	 to	 audit	 and	 express	
opinion	 on	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	
with	 applicable	 law	 and	international	standards	 on	auditing	 (uK	and	
ireland).	those	 standards	 require	 us	 to	 comply	 with	 the	auditing	
practices	board’s	 (apb’s)	ethical	standards	 for	auditors.
sCope	of	the	auDit	 of	the	finanCial	 statements
an	audit	 involves	 obtaining	 evidence	 about	 the	 amounts	 and	
disclosures	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 sufficient	 to	 give	 reasonable	
assurance	 that	 the	 financial	 statements	 are	 free	 from	 material	
misstatement,	 whether	 caused	 by	 fraud	 or	 error.	this	 includes	
an	 assessment	 of:	 whether	 the	 accounting	 policies	 are	 appropriate	
to	 the	 parent	 company’s	 circumstances	 and	 have	 been	 consistently	
applied	 and	 adequately	 disclosed;	 the	 reasonableness	 of	 significant	
accounting	 estimates	 made	 by	 the	 directors;	 and	 the	 overall	
presentation	 of	 the	 financial	 statements.
opinion	 on	finanCial	 statements
in	 our	 opinion	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements:
	 		 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	 company’s	 affairs
as	 at	 31	december	 2010;
	 		 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	united	 Kingdom	
Generally	accepted	accounting	practice;	 and
	 		 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 requirements
of	 the	 Companies	act	 2006.
opinion	 on	other	 matter	 presCriBeD	
By	 the	Companies	aCt	 2006
in	 our	 opinion	 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	directors’	report	 for	
the	 financial	 year	 for	 which	 the	 financial	 statements	 are	 prepared	
is	 consistent	 with	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements.
matters	 on	whiCh	we	 are	requireD	
to	report	By	 eXCeption
w e	 have	 nothing	 to	 report	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 following	 matters	 where	
the	 Companies	act	 2006	 requires	 us	 to	 report	 to	 you	 if,	 in	 our	 opinion:
	 		 adequate	 accounting	 records	 have	 not	 been	 kept	 by	 the
parent	 company,	 or	 returns	 adequate	 for	 our	 audit	 have	 not	
been	 received	 from	 branches	 not	 visited	 by	 us;	 or
	 		 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of
the	directors’	remuneration	report	 to	 be	 audited	 are	 not	
in	 agreement	 with	 the	 accounting	 records	 and	 returns;	 or
	 		 certain	 disclosures	 of	 directors’	 remuneration	 specified
by	 law	 are	 not	 made;	 or
	 		 we	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations
we	 require	 for	 our	 audit.
other	 matter
we	have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 group	 financial	 statements	
of	bodycote	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	 and	 the	
information	 in	 the	board	report	 on	remuneration	 that	 is	 described	
as	 having	 been	 audited.
nicola	mitchell	 (senior	statutory	auditor)
for	 and	 on	 behalf	 of	deloitte	llp	
Chartered	accountants	 and	statutory	auditors	 	
Manchester,	uK	
24	 February	 2011 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 93
CoMpany	 aCCountinG	 poliCies
aCCounting	 Convention
the	financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 under	 the	 historical	
cost	 convention	 and	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	united	
Kingdom	 accounting	 standards.	the	 principal	 accounting	 policies	
are	 summarised	 below.	they	 have	 all	 been	 applied	 consistently	
throughout	 the	 year	 and	 the	 preceding	 year	 in	 dealing	 with	 items	
that	 are	 considered	 material	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 Company’s	 financial	
statements.	in	 accordance	 with	section	 408	 of	 the	 Companies	act	
2006	 a	 separate	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 dealing	 with	 the	 results	 of	
the	 Company	 has	 not	 been	 presented.
going	 ConCern
the	directors	have	 at	 the	 time	 of	 approving	 the	 financial	 statements,	
a	 reasonable	 expectation	 that	 the	 Company	 has	 adequate	 resources	
to	 continue	 in	 operational	 existence	 for	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	
thus	they	 continue	 to	 adopt	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 of	 accounting	
in	 preparing	 the	 financial	 statements.	 Further	 detail	 is	 contained	 in	
the	 Finance	director’s	report	 on	 page	 25.
investments
investments	 are	 held	 at	 cost	 less	 provision	 for	 impairment.
foreign	 CurrenCies
transactions	in	 currencies	 other	 than	 pounds	 sterling	 are	 recorded	
at	 the	 rates	 of	 exchange	 prevailing	 on	 the	 dates	 of	 the	 transactions.	
at	each	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 that	
are	 denominated	 in	 foreign	 currencies	 are	 retranslated	 at	 the	 rates	
prevailing	 on	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	non-monetary	 items	 that	 are	
measured	 in	 terms	 of	 historical	 cost	 in	 a	 foreign	 currency	 are	 not	
retranslated.	 Gains	 and	 losses	 arising	 on	 retranslation	 are	 included	
in	 net	 profit	 or	 loss	 for	 the	 period.	
pension	 Costs
For	 defined	 benefit	 and	 defined	 contribution	 schemes,	 the	 amount	
charged	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 in	 respect	 of	 pension	 costs	 is	
the	 contributions	 payable	 in	 the	 year.	 For	 further	 details	 see	 note	 10.
leases
assets	held	 under	 finance	 leases	 and	 other	 similar	 contracts,	
which	 confer	 rights	 and	 obligations	 similar	 to	 those	 attached	
to	 owned	 assets,	 are	 capitalised	 as	 tangible	 fixed	 assets	 and	 are	
depreciated	 over	 the	 shorter	 of	 the	 lease	 terms	 and	 their	 useful	
lives.	the	 capital	 elements	 of	 future	 lease	 obligations	 are	 recorded	
as	 liabilities,	 while	 the	 interest	 elements	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 profit	
and	 loss	 account	 over	 the	 period	 of	 the	 lease	 to	 produce	 a	 constant	
rate	 of	 charge	 on	 the	 balance	 of	 capital	 repayments	 outstanding.	
Hire	 purchase	 transactions	 are	 dealt	 with	 similarly,	 except	 that	
assets	 are	 depreciated	 over	 their	 useful	 lives.	
rental	costs	 under	 operating	 leases	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 profit	 and	
loss	 account	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 period	 of	 the	 lease.
the	Company	as	lessor
amounts	due	 from	 lessees	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 recorded	 as	
receivables	 at	 the	 amount	 of	 the	 Company’s	 net	 investment	 in	 the	
leases.	 Finance	 lease	 income	 is	 allocated	 to	 accounting	 periods	 so	
as	 to	 reflect	 a	 constant	 periodic	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 the	 Company’s	
net	 investment	 outstanding	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 leases.
tangiBle	fiXeD	assets
tangible	fixed	 assets	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 net	 of	 depreciation	 and	 any	
provision	 for	 impairment.	depreciation	 is	 provided	 on	 a	 straight-line	
basis,	 to	 reduce	 the	 carrying	 value	 to	 the	 estimated	 residual	 value	
at	 the	 point	 of	 sale,	 at	 the	 following	 annual	 rates:
Fixtures	 and	 fittings:																																																				 10%	 to	 20%
r esidual	 value	 is	 calculated	 on	 prices	 prevailing	 at	 the	 date	 of	 acquisition.
taXation
Current	uK	 corporation	 tax	 and	 foreign	 tax	 is	 provided	 at	 amounts	
expected	 to	 be	 paid	 (or	 recovered)	 using	 the	 tax	 rates	 and	 laws	 that	
have	 been	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 by	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	
deferred	tax	 is	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 all	 timing	 differences	 that	
have	 originated	 but	 not	 reversed	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 where	
transactions	 or	 events	 that	 result	 in	 an	 obligation	 to	 pay	 more	 tax	
in	 the	 future	 or	 a	 right	 to	 pay	 less	 tax	 in	 the	 future	 have	 occurred	
at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	timing	 differences	 are	 differences	
between	 the	 Company’s	 taxable	 profits	 and	 its	 results	 as	 stated	
in	 the	 financial	 statements	 that	 arise	 from	 the	 inclusion	 of	 gains	
and	 losses	 in	 tax	 assessments	 in	 periods	 different	 from	 those	 in	
which	 they	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 financial	 statements.	
a	net	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 is	 regarded	 as	 recoverable	 and	 therefore	
recognised	 only	 when,	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 all	 available	 evidence,	 it	 can	
be	 regarded	 as	 more	 likely	 than	 not	 that	 there	 will	 be	 suitable	 taxable	
profits	 from	 which	 the	 future	 reversal	 of	 the	 underlying	 timing	
differences	 can	 be	 deducted.	
d eferred	 tax	 is	 measured	 at	 the	 average	 tax	 rates	 that	 are	 expected	
to	 apply	 in	 the	 periods	 in	 which	 the	 timing	 differences	 are	 expected	
to	 reverse	 based	 on	 tax	 rates	 and	 laws	 that	 have	 been	 enacted	 or	
substantively	 enacted	 by	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	deferred	 tax	 is	
measured	 on	 a	 discounted	 basis	 to	 reflect	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	
over	 the	 period	 between	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 the	 dates	 on	
which	 it	 is	 estimated	 that	 the	 underlying	 timing	 differences	 will	
reverse.	the	 discount	 rates	 used	 reflect	 the	 post-tax	 yields	 to	 maturity	
that	 can	 be	 obtained	 on	 government	 bonds	 with	 similar	 maturity	
dates	 and	 currencies	 to	 those	 of	 the	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 or	 liabilities.
DeBt
debt	is	 initially	 stated	 at	 the	 amount	 of	 the	 net	 proceeds	 after	
deduction	 of	 issue	 costs.	the	 carrying	 amount	 is	 increased	 by	 the	
finance	 cost	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 accounting	 period	 and	 reduced	 by	
payments	 made	 in	 the	 period.	 Finance	 costs	 of	 debt	 are	 recognised	
in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 over	 the	 term	 of	 such	 instruments	
at	 a	 constant	 rate	 on	 the	 carrying	 amount.	
relateD	party	transaCtions
the	Company	 has	 taken	 advantage	 of	 the	 exemption	 contained	
in	 Frs	 8	 ‘related	party	transactions’	 not	 to	 disclose	 transactions	
or	 balances	 with	 wholly-owned	 entities	 of	 the	 Group.
share-BaseD	payments
the	Company	 has	 applied	 the	 requirements	 of	 Frs	 20	
‘share-based	payment’.	
the	Company	 issues	 equity-settled	 share-based	 payments	
to	 certain	 employees.	equity-settled	 share-based	 payments	 are	
measured	 at	 fair	 value	 at	 the	 date	 of	 grant.	the	 fair	 value	 determined	
at	 the	 grant	 date	 of	 the	 equity-settled	 share-based	 payments	 is	
expensed	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 vesting	 period.	at	 each	
balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 Company	 revises	 its	 estimate	 of	 the	 number	
of	 equity	 instruments	 expected	 to	 vest	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 effect	 of	
non-market	 based	 vesting	 conditions.	the	 impact	 of	 the	 revision	
of	 the	 original	 estimates,	 if	 any,	 is	 recognised	 in	 profit	 or	 loss	 such	
that	 the	 cumulative	 expense	 reflects	 the	 revised	 estimates	 with	 a	
corresponding	 adjustment	 to	 the	 equity-settled	 employee	 benefits	
reserve.	 Fair	 value	 is	 measured	 by	 use	 of	 a	black-scholes	 model. 	 94	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	CoMpany	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
1. loss	for	 the	 year
bodycote	plc	 reported	 a	 loss	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 ended	 31	december	 2010	 of	 £8.3m	 (2009:	 loss	 £1.8m).
the	auditors’	 remuneration	 for	 audit	 and	 other	 services	 is	 disclosed	 in	 note	 3	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.
total	employee	 costs	 (including	executive	directors)	 were:
	 	 2010	 	 2009	
	 £m	 	 £m	
wages	and	 salaries 	 6.7	 	 3.0	
social	security	 costs 	 0.7	 	 0.3	
other	pension	 costs 	 0.5	 	 0.4	
	 7.9	 	 3.7	
2. tangible	fixed	 assets
	 f ixtures	
	 and	 fittings
	 £m
Cost
at	1	january	 2010 	 3.9	
additions 	 1.1	
disposals 	 (0.4)
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 4.6	
Depreciation
at	1	january	 2010 	 1.0	
Charge	 for	 the	 year 	 0.8	
disposals 	 (0.3)
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 1.5	
net	 book	 value
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 3.1	
at	31	december	 2009 	 2.9	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 95
3. investments
	 shares
	 shares	 in	
	 associates 	 l oans 	 t otal
	 £m 	 £m 	 £m 	 £m
Cost
at	1	january	 2010 	 401.2	 	 7.3	 	 0.1	 	 408.6	
acquisitions	and	 advances 	 2.1	 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 2.1	
disposals	and	 repayments 	 (3.0) 	 (7.3) 	 (0.1) 	 (10.4)
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 400.3	 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 400.3	
provision	 for	 impairment
at	1	january	 2010 	 6.2	 	 7.3	 	 .–	 	 13.5	
provision	 in	 the	 year 	 0.9	 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 0.9	
disposals 	 .–	 	 (7.3) 	 .–	 	 (7.3)
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 7.1	 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 7.1	
net	 book	 value
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 393.2	 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 393.2	
at	31	december	 2009 	 395.0	 	 .–	 	 0.1	 	 395.1	
the	Company’s	 associated	 company	ssCp	 Coatings	s.à.r.l.	 was	 recapitalised	 through	 a	 share	 issue	 in	 a	 new	 company	 during	 the	 year.	
t he	 Company	 chose	 not	 to	 participate	 in	 this	 share	 issue,	 and	 as	 a	 result,	 the	 Company’s	 percentage	 holding	 in	 the	 business	 has	 significantly	
reduced	 to	 a	 level	 where	 the	 Company	 no	 longer	 classifies	 the	 business	 as	 an	 associate	 company.
4. Debtors
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year:
amounts	owed	 by	 subsidiary	 undertakings 0.5	 11.7	
Corporation	 tax	 recoverable 6.3	 7.2	
deferred	taxation	 (note	 6) 2.5	 2.3	
Finance	 lease	 receivables 0.4	 0.4	
other	debtors	 and	 prepayments 1.5	 1.0	
11.2	 22.6	
amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year:
amounts	owed	 by	 subsidiary	 undertakings 	 56.8	 	 69.8	
Finance	 lease	 receivables 	 .–	 	 0.5	
56.8	 70.3	
68.0	 92.9	 	 96	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	CoMpany	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
5. Creditors
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year:
bank	loans 	 .–	 	 2.6	
trade	creditors 	 0.9	 	 0.6	
amounts	owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings 	 2.9	 	 1.1	
dividends	payable 	 .–	 	 5.5	
other	taxes	 and	 social	 security 	 0.1	 	 0.2	
other	creditors 	 0.8	 	 0.5	
accruals	and	 deferred	 income 	 3.4	 	 2.9	
	 8.1	 	 13.4	
amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year:
amounts	owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings 	 0.6	 	 0.5	
	 0.6	 	 0.5	
Bank	 loans	 are	 repayable:
on	demand	 or	 within	 12	 months 	 .–	 	 2.6	
.–	 	 2.6	
6. Deferred	 tax	 asset
	 £m
at	1	january	 2010 2.3	
profit	 and	 loss	 credit 0.2	
at	 31	 December	 2010 2.5	
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
Deferred	 tax	 is	 recognised	 as	 follows:
tax	losses 	 0.4	 	 1.7	
other	timing	 differences 	 2.1	 	 0.6	
deferred	tax	 asset 	 2.5	 	 2.3	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 97
7. Capital	 and	 reserves
share	 capital:
ordinary	 shares	 (allotted,	 called-up	 and	 fully-paid)
	 number	 of	 shares 	 £m
at	1	january	 2010 	 188,167,712	 32.5	
allotted	in	 the	 year 	 1,714,205	 0.3	
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 189,881,917	 32.8	
details	of	 share	 options	 in	 issue	 on	 the	 Company’s	 share	 capital	 and	 share-based	 payments	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	 28	 to	 the	 consolidated	
financial	 statements.
reserves:
	 share	
	 premium	
	 account	
	 other	
	 reserves	
	 profit	
	 and 	 loss	
	 account	 	 t otal	
	 	 £m	 	 	 £m	 	 	 £m	 	 	 £m	
at	1	january	 2010 	 176.0	 	 125.0	 	 146.3	 	 447.3	
dividends	paid 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 (15.4) 	 (15.4)
loss	for	 the	 year 	 .–	 	 .–	 	 (8.3) 	 (8.3)
premium	 arising	 on	 issue	 of	 equity	 shares	 (net	 of	 expenses) 	 0.3	 	 .–	 .–	 	 0.3	
share-based	payments	 and	 acquisition	 of	 own	 shares 	 .–	 	 (0.4) .–	 	 (0.4)
at	 31	 December	 2010 	 176.3	 	 124.6	 	 122.6	 	 423.5	
the	other	 reserves	 is	 stated	 after	 deducting	 £8.0m	 (2009:	 £7.3m)	 relating	 to	 shares	 held	 in	 the	bodycote	international	employee	benefit	
trust.	the	bodycote	international	employee	benefit	trust	 holds	bodycote	 plc	 shares	 and	 satisfies	 awards	 made	 under	 various	 employee	
incentive	 schemes	 when	 issuance	 of	 new	 shares	 is	 not	 appropriate.
at	31	december	 2010	 3,837,581	 (2009:	 2,100,427)	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 17	 3/11p	 each	 were	 held	 by	 the	bodycote	international	employee	
benefit	trust	 and,	 following	 recommendations	 by	 the	 employer,	 are	 provisionally	 allocated	 to	 satisfy	 awards	 under	 employee	 incentive	
schemes.	the	 trust	 waives	 payment	 of	 dividend.	the	 market	 value	 of	 these	 shares	 was	 £10.8m	 (2009:	 £3.3m).
included	 in	 other	 reserves	 is	 the	 capital	 redemption	 reserve	 of	 £129.4m	 (2009:	 £129.4m).
8. Contingent	 liabilities
t he	 Company	 has	 guaranteed	 bank	 overdrafts,	 loans	 and	 letters	 of	 credit	 of	 certain	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 amounting	 to	 £80.5m	 (2009:	 £108.1m). 	 98	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes	 to	 tHe	CoMpany	FinanCial	 stateMents
year	 ended	 31	 deCeMber	 2010
9. financial	Commitments
annual	commitments	 under	 non-cancellable	 operating	 leases	 are	 as	 follows:
	 2010 	 2009
	 £m 	 £m
within	one	 year 0.3 0.3
in	 the	 second	 to	 fifth	 years	 inclusive 0.8 0.9
after	five	 years 0.5 0.7
1.6 1.9
operating	lease	 payments	 represent	 rentals	 payable	 by	 the	 Company	 for	 its	 land	 and	 buildings.
10. pension	 commitments
the	Company	 participates	 in	 a	 group	 defined	 benefit	 scheme,	 the	 details	 of	 which	 are	 disclosed	 in	 note	 30	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	
statements.	 However,	 the	 Company	 is	 unable	 to	 identify	 its	 share	 of	 the	 underlying	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 and	 has	 therefore	 accounted	 for	
the	 scheme	 as	 if	 it	 were	 a	 defined	 contribution	 scheme.	 Full	 disclosures	 concerning	 the	 scheme	 as	 required	 by	ias	 19	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	
30	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	these	 also	 satisfy	 the	 requirements	 of	 Frs17	 ’retirement	benefits’.
the	contributions	 made	 by	 the	 Company	 over	 the	 financial	 year	 to	 both	 the	 defined	 contribution	 and	 the	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	
amounted	 to	 £0.4m	 (2009:	 £0.3m)	 and	 £0.1m	 (2009:	 £0.1m)	 respectively.
11. related	party	 transactions
the	Company’s	 associated	 company	ssCp	 Coatings	s.à.r.l.	 was	 recapitalised	 through	 a	 share	 issue	 in	 a	 new	 company	 during	 the	 year.	
t he	 Company	 chose	 not	 to	 participate	 in	 this	 share	 issue,	 and	 as	 a	 result,	 the	 Company’s	 percentage	 holding	 in	 the	 business	 has	 significantly	
reduced	 to	 a	 level	 where	 the	 Company	 no	 longer	 classifies	 the	 business	 as	 an	 associate	 company.
during	the	 prior	 year,	 the	 Company	 entered	 into	 the	 following	 transactions	 with	 related	 parties	 who	 are	 not	 members	 of	 the	 Group,	
namely	ssCp	 Coatings	s.à.r.l.
						s ale	 of	 goods	
						 and	 services
						a mounts	 owed	
						 by	 related	 parties
	 2010 	 2009 	 2010 	 2009
	 £m	 	 £m	 	 £m	 	 £m	
associates 	 .–	 	 2.4	 	 .–	 	 17.9	
sales	of	 goods	 and	 services	 include	 payments	 received	 from	 finance	 leases,	 the	 provision	 of	 management	 services	 and	 interest	 receivable.	
all	transactions	 were	 made	 at	 arm’s	 length.
at	31	december	 2009,	 a	 provision	 of	 £17.0m	 was	 recognised	 against	 the	 £17.9m	 amounts	 owed	 by	 related	 parties	 above. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 99
prinCipal	 subsidiary	 undertaKinGs
thermal	proCessing	 -	heat	treatment	 anD	metal	 Joining
Country	 of	
incorporation
*bodycote	Heat	treatments	limited	 Cambridge,	 Chard,	 Cheltenham,	 Coventry,	derby,	 Gillingham,	 Great	barr,	
Hazel	 Grove,	 Macclesfield,	rotherham,	skelmersdale,	stillington	 and	woodford england
bodycote	Hardiff	 GmbH landsberg Germany
bodycote	wärmebehandlung	 GmbH	
	
ebersbach,	eching,	essen,	esslingen,	 Karben,	 Korntal,	langenfeld,	
langenselbold,	lüdenscheid,	 Menden,	nürnberg,	otterfing,	remscheid,	
sömmerda,	sprockhövel	 and	wehingen Germany
nitrion	GmbH otterfing Germany
bodycote	Hardingscentrum	bv diemen,	Hengelo,	tilburg	 and	venlo	 netherlands
bodycote	Hardiff	bv apeldoorn	 netherlands
bodycote	värmebehandling	ab Göteborg,	 Hudiksvall,	 Karlskoga,	 Malmö,	 Mora,	s tockholm,	v ärnamo	 and	v ästerås	 sweden
bodycote	sas	
	
	
	
ambazac,	amiens,	beaugency,	billy-berclau,	 Cernay,	 Chanteloup	 les	vignes,	
Chassieu,	 Condé	 sur	noireau,	 Gemenos,	 Gennevilliers,	lagny	 sur	 Marne,	
la	Monnerie	le	 Montel,	la	talaudière,	le	subdray,	neuilly	 en	thelle,	
n ogent,	p usignan,	s erres	 Castet,	s t	aubin	 les	e lbeuf,	s t	nicolas	 d’a liermont,	
st	rémy	en	 Mauges,	villaz	 and	voreppe France
techmeta	sa Metz-tessy France
nitruvid	sas argenteuil	and	 Gandrange France
bodycote	belgium	sa brussels belgium
bodycote	lämpökäsittely	oy pieksämäki,	tampere,	vaasa	 and	vantaa Finland
bodycote	varmebehandling	a/s Herlev	 and	ejby denmark
bodycote	italia	srl Gorgonzola italy
bodycote	trattamenti	termici	spa Flero,	 Madone	 and	rodengo italy
bodycote	wärmebehandlung	wien	 GmbH Kapfenberg,	 Marchtrenk	 and	vienna	 austria
bodycote	rheintal	wärmebehandlung	aG schaan	 liechtenstein
bodycote	schweiz	wärmebehandlung	aG urdorf	 switzerland
bodycote	Ht	s.r.o brno,	liberec,	Krnov,	plzen	 and	prague Czech	republic
bodycote	polska	sp	 z.o.o Czestochowa,	 Chelmno,	 Kozerki,	swiebodzin,	warsaw	 and	 Zabrze	 poland
bodycote	tratamente	termice	srl	
(75%	 owned)	 ‡ brasov	and	 Cugir romania
bodycote	Hökezelö	 KFt		 budapest	 Hungary
bodycote	istas	isil	islem	sanayi	 ve	ticaret	as	
(60%	 owned)	 ‡ ankara,	bursa,	istanbul	 and	izmir turkey
bodycote	thermal	processing,	inc.	
	
	
	
	
Fremont,	santa	 Fe	springs	 and	 Huntington	park,	rancho	dominguez,	vernon,	
westminster	Ca,	berlin,	waterbury,	south	windsor	 and	suffield	 Ct,	ipswich	
and	worcester	 Ma,	Canton	 and	livonia	 Mi,	 Cincinnati,	 Cleveland	 and	london	
oH,	oklahoma	City	 and	tulsa	oK,	arlington,	dallas,	 Houston	 and	 Fort	worth	
tx,	laconia	nH,	Melrose	park	il,	indianapolis	in,	eden	prairie	 Mn,	rochester	
ny,	sturtevant	 and	new	berlin	wi usa
bodycote	thermal	processing	 Canada,	inc. newmarket	and	 Kitchener	on	 Canada
bodycote	thermal	processing	 Mexico	limited silao	and	 Guaymas,	 Mexico england
bodycote	b rasimet	p rocessamento	termico	ltda Campinas,	joinville,	sao	leopoldo	 and	jundiai brazil
bodycote	wuxi	technology	 Co.	limited wuxi China
bodycote	 (n ingbo)	 Heat	treatment	 Co.	limited ningbo China
bodycote	 Metallurgical	s ervices	i ndia	p vt	limited ranjangaon india 	 100	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
prinCipal	 subsidiary	 undertaKinGs
Continued
thermal	proCessing	 -	hot	isostatiC	pressing
*bodycote	H.i.p.	ltd Chesterfield	 and	 Hereford england
bodycote	iMt	inc. andover	Ma,	london	oH	and	princeton	 Kt	and	 Camas	wa usa
bodycote	Heiss-isostatisches	pressen	 GmbH Haag Germany
bodycote	iMt	nv sint-niklaas belgium
bodycote	japan	K.K. nagoya japan
bodycote	sas Magny-Cours France
thermal	proCessing	 -	surfaCe	engineering
*bodycote	Metallurgical	 Coatings	limited	 Knowsley,	 Macclesfield,	stonehouse,	newport,	neath,	
skelmersdale,	wolverhampton	 and	dubai england
bodycote	K-tech,	inc. Hot	springs,	ar usa
bodycote	ytbehandling	ab Katrineholm,	 Karlstad,	 and	västra	 Frölunda	 sweden
bodycote	singapore	pte	ltd singapore singapore
bodycote	argentina	sa buenos	aires the	argentine
group	serviCes
‡*thomas	Cook	 &	son	insurance	brokers	
limited	(75%	 owned) burnley england
except	 where	 stated,	 these	 companies	 are	 wholly	 owned	 subsidiaries	 and	 have	 only	 one	 class	 of	 issued	 shares.	subsidiaries	 marked	 *	 are	
held	 directly	 by	bodycote	 plc.	entities	 marked	 ‡	 have	 been	 treated	 as	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 because	 the	 Group	
exercises	 control	 over	 these	 entities.	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 101
sHareHolder	 enquiries
enquiries	 on	 the	 following	 administrative	 matters	 can	 be	 addressed	 to	 the	 Company’s	 registrars	 at	the	registry,	 34	beckenham	road,	
beckenham,	Kent	br3	4tu.	telephone	0871	 664	 0300	 (calls	 to	 0871	 numbers	 cost	 10p	 per	 minute	 plus	 network	 extras	 –	 lines	 are	 open	 8.30am	
until	 5.30pm,	 Monday	 to	 Friday)	 or	 +44	 (0)208	 639	 3399;	 Fax:	 +44	 (0)1484	 600911;	 and	 email;	 shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com.
	 		 Change	 of	 address
	 		 lost	 share	 certificates	 or	 dividend	 cheques
	 		 dividend	 mandates
	 		 amalgamation	 of	 holdings
Forms	 for	 these	 matters	 can	 be	 downloaded	 from	 the	 registrars’	 website	 at	 www.capitaregistrars.com,	 where	 shareholders	 can	 also	 check	
their	 holdings	 and	 details.
sHare	dealinG	serviCe
information	 on	 a	 low	 cost	 share	 dealing	 service	 offered	 by	 our	 registrar	 is	 available	 from	 Capita	 on	 0871	 664	 0300	 (calls	 to	 0871	 numbers	 cost	
10p	 per	 minute	 plus	 network	 extras)	 or	 at	 www.capitadeal.com.
sHareHolder	analysis
analysis	of	 share	 register	 as	 at	 18	 February	 2011:
Holding	 range 	 number	 of	s hareholders 	 % 	 number	 of	 shares 	 %
1	 to	 1,000 	 1,095 	 41.9 	 483,143 	 0.3
1,001	 to	 10,000 	 1,124 	 43.0 	 3,471,321 	 1.8
10,001	 to	 100,000 	 244 	 9.3 	 7,368,852 	 3.9
100,001	 to	 500,000	 	 87 	 3.3 	 18,787,570 	 9.9
500,001	 and	 over	 	 64 	 2.5 	 159,816,482 	 84.1
	 2,614 	 100.0 	 189,927,368 	 100.0
type	of	 shareholders 	 % 	 of	s hareholders
	 % 	 of	 total	
	 shares
directors’	interests 	 0.1 2.2
Major	 institutional	 and	 corporate	 holdings 	 7.0 91.6
other	shareholdings 	 92.9 6.2
	 100.0 100.0
as	at	 24	 February	 2011	 the	 following	 voting	 rights	 in	 the	 Company	 had	 been	 notified	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	disclosure	 and	transparency	rules.
	 number	 of	 shares 	 %
standard	life	investments	ltd 	 26,580,513 	 14.00
schroders	plc 	 13,187,266 	 6.94
aberforth	partners	llp 	 9,427,581 	 4.96
baillie	Gifford	 &	 Co 	 9,402,000 	 4.95
legal	&	 General	 Group	 plc 	 7,546,421 	 3.97 	 102	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
FinanCial	Calendar
annual	general	meeting 	 27	april	 2011
final	dividend	 for	 2010	 6	 May	 2011
interim	 results	 for	 2011	 july	2011
interim	 dividend	 for	 2011	 	november	 2011
results	for	 2011	 February	 2012 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 103
notes 	 104	bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	aCCounts
notes Bodycote plc 
Springwood Court 
Springwood Close 
Tytherington Business Park 
Macclesfield 
Cheshire 
SK10 2XF
Tel: +44 (0)1625 505300 
Fax: +44 (0)1625 505313 
Email: info@bodycote.com
    © Bodycote plc 2011
Ref: ID5284 
Designed and produced by ID 
www.interactivedimension.com
Printed by Shanleys
www.bodycote.com
