 "'' 
Darty pic 
Annual Report 
2015/16 
II 11111111 
*A5LHJES2* 
A15 09/12/2016 #123 
COMPANIES HOUSE  Overview 
01 Highlights 
02 Chairman's review 
03 Our markets 
Strategic report 
04 At a glance 
05 Strategy 
06 Our business model 
09 Chief Executive's review 
16 Operating review 
17 Financial review 
20 Principal risks 
22 Corporate responsibility 
Directors' report 
26 Board of Directors 
28 Directors' report 
Corporate governance 
32 Corporate governance 
38 Report on Directors' remuneration 
and related matters 
50 Statement of Directors' responsibilities 
Financial statements and notes (IFRS) 
51 Independent auditors' report 
to the members of Darty pic 
56 Group income statement 
57 Group statement of comprehensive income 
58 Group statement of changes in equity 
59 Group balance sheet 
60 Group cash flow statement 
61 Notes to the financial statements 
Darty pic (FRS101) 
109 Independent auditors' report 
to the members of Darty pic 
111 Company balance sheet 
112 Company statement of changes in equity 
113 Notes to the Company 
financial statements 
Other information 
119 Shareholder information 
Certain statements made in this report are forward looking statements. 
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to 
a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from any expected future results in forward looking 
statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations 
or accounting standards, Darty pic does not undertake any obligation 
to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result 
of new information, future developments or otherwise.  Overview 
HIGHLIGHTS 
The Darty Group is a multi-channel electrical retailer 
trading from over 430 stores and websites across Europe. 
We sell a full range of electrical products from major home and small domestic appliances to 
all the latest vision and multimedia products. This is supported by our leading customer service 
offer in-store, online, for home delivery and after-sales. 
We now operate as Darty and Mistergooddeal.com in France, Vanden Borre in Belgium and BCC 
in the Netherlands. 
A strong performance in revenue, profit and cash 
• Like-for-like sales
1 
up 6.1 per cent in France and 
3.9 per cent for the Group. 
• Web sales up 13 per cent and market share gains 
in both France and Belgium. 
• Retail profit up 24 per cent for the Group to 
€93.1 million (2015: €74.9 million). 
• Over €150 million improvement in cash flow and 
a €115 million reduction in net debt year on year. 
Financial summary for the 12 months ended 30 April 2016 
Group I ' 
Revenue €3,656.8m €3,512.1m 
LfL sales' 3.9% (1.6%) 
Retail profit
2 
€93.1m €74.9m 
Adjusted PBP €69.6m €51.3m 
Adjusted EPS 7.3 cents 5.8 cents 
Net debt €108.8m €223.8m 
1 Calculated based on stores that have been open for a full year and the first full 
four weeks of trading have passed. Stores where retail space has been added 
or where a complete format redesign has taken place which involved material 
capital expenditure are excluded. Sales through internet sites, excluding 
Mistergooddeal.com, are included. 
2 Represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and 
associates' interest and taxation, gain on disposal of available·for·sale 
investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items 
and amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 
3 Represents retail profit less finance costs excluding net interest on pension 
schemes. 
4 Based on the statements contained in Fnac's offer document published on 
31 May 2016. 
Offer from Groupe Fnac S.A. ('Fnac') 
• On 25 April 2016 Fnac announced a third increased 
final offer for Darty of 170 pence per Darty share 
or one new Fnac share for every 25 Darty shares 
held. 
• The offer represents a premium of approximately: 
• 110 per cent to the closing price of 81 pence per 
Darty share on 29 September 2015 (being the 
last business day before the date of Fnac's 
possible offer announcement); and 
• 61 per cent to the value of the original offer of 
approximately 105 pence per Darty share-based 
on the closing price of €55.6 per Fnac share on 
19 November 2015 (being the last business day 
before the date of the original offer). 
• Phase 2 competition clearance expected July~ 
• First closing date for acceptances 15 July~ 
• Offer expected to be declared unconditional on 
or before 5 August with settlement no later than 
14 days thereafter. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 01  Overview 
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW 
We have delivered a solid performance during the year 
as the benefits of our three-year 'Nouvelle Confiance' 
strategic plan reached a successful conclusion. 
We launched our Nouvelle Confiance 
strategic plan in December 2012 and 
every year we made continued progress 
in its implementation. During the first two 
years we completed the elimination of the 
losses in our non-core markets to enable 
us to fully focus on our core businesses in 
France, Belgium and the Netherlands. 
We also introduced major initiatives in 
France to secure our future growth. 
The development and roll-out of a 
franchise model has led to a current 
total of 74 outlets. This year we have 
increased our web-generated sales 
by over 12 per cent to account for 
nearly 16 per cent of total product 
sales, and we expanded the kitchen 
offer into an additional11 stores and 
now have a total of over 82 stores. 
In December 2015 we launched our new 
plan for the business, 'Confiance 4.0', 
which builds on our market leadership 
positions, strong brands, improves our 
customer service offer and expands into 
new catchments through our franchise 
programme. Full details of this plan and of 
other activities completed over the year 
can be found on pages 5 to 16. 
Regarding the offer for the Group 
by Fnac, the combination of the two 
companies provides an opportunity to 
take this strong platform to the next 
level, creating a leading European 
retailer, delivering attractive synergies 
for investors, benefits for our customers 
and development opportunities 
for our people. Under the terms of 
this offer we are not intending to 
recommend a final dividend this year. 
Finally, I would like to extend my 
sincere thanks to the Board, senior 
management team and all my colleagues 
across the Group for their support and 
hard work in delivering our plans over 
the last few years. 
Nouvelle Confiance has delivered successful results ahead of schedule 
Alan Parker CBE 
Chairman 
2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 
1. Refocus on core markets 
2. Creating value from our leadership and efficiency savings 
3. Identify future growth opportunities 
4. Confiance 4.0 
02 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Overview 
OUR MARKETS 
We are the third largest specialist electricals retailer in Europe by sales. As at 30 April 2016, 
we hold leading positions in the markets in which we operate. In France, we are the market leader, 
based on industry research by GfK, with a 15.2 per cent share of the French electricals retail 
market. In Belgium we have 9.9 per cent share of the electricals retail market and in the 
Netherlands we have 5.4 per cent share of the electricals retail market. 
Within each market, sales are achieved 
through the store and internet 
channels, or a combination of both, 
via initiatives such as click (online) 
and collect (in-store). Our geographic 
markets have differing levels of online 
penetration i.e. the percentage of total 
sales conducted online. In France it is 
c.20 per cent, in Belgium c.10 per cent 
and in the Netherlands c.30 per cent. 
Our markets are split into a number of 
different major product categories. White 
goods, which includes major domestic 
appliances ('MDA') such as washing 
machines, dishwashers and fridge 
freezers, and small domestic appliances 
('SDA') includes such products as coffee 
machines, vacuum cleaners and health 
and beauty. Brown goods includes 
vision and audio, such as flat screen 
TVs, digital recorders and speakers. 
Grey goods includes multimedia such as 
laptops and tablets and communication 
products such as smartphones. The 
market also encapsulates the related 
accessories for these major product 
categories such as memory cards, 
cables and protective cases. 
Our retail brands tend to have a higher 
share in MDA and SDA than in the vision, 
communication and multimedia 
product ranges. 
We believe that our leading brand 
position in France, and in our other core 
markets, results from a combination 
of factors, including our reputation 
for quality and convenience, the range 
and diversity of our products and our 
extensive network of stores situated in 
high traffic locations and our leading 
websites. In France, our primary market, 
Darty is the most widely recognised 
electricals retail brand (Source: TNS 
Sofres). It has a significantly better 
image than its competitors for its store 
and sales staff, choice of products 
and quality of after-sales service such 
as home delivery and repair. It also 
has the leading electricals website 
(Source: World e-Shopper ranking). 
Our strong brand recognition and the 
fact that consumers associate our 
brand with choice, service and price 
competitiveness are key drivers of 
consumer interest in our offer, visits to 
our stores and websites and our ability 
to generate high sales volumes and 
attractive margins. Our strong brand 
recognition also provides us with a solid 
platform to further expand both our 
product and servic~ offering and our 
network of stores and online platforms. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 03  Strategic report 
AT A GLANCE 
Darty France (including Mistergooddeal.com) 
Revenue (€m) Like-for-like growth 
2,951.3 6.1°/o 
Number of stores
1 
Square metres of selling space 
296 321,800 
Vanden Borre & BCC 
Revenue (€m) Like-for-like growth 
705.5 (3.8)o/o 
Number of stores Square metres of selling space 
137 145,400 
1 Including 74 franchises (67 in France and 7 overseas). 
04 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Retail profit (€m) 
97.0 
Web sales(% of total sales) 
17.0 
Retail profit (€m) 
4.9 
Web sales (% of total sales) 
14.6  Strategic report 
STRATEGY 
Three years ago, following an in-depth internal review of our business, we launched our 'Nouvelle Confiance' 
strategic plan, the principal components of which were to: 
• identify and eliminate losses at our non-core businesses and refocus on core markets; 
• create value from our market leadership and efficiency savings; and 
• develop future growth opportunities. 
We completed the elimination 
of losses in our non-core markets 
in August 2014 and have since 
been focused on our businesses 
in France, Belgium and the 
Netherlands where we are number 
one or two in our markets. 
We have created value from our market 
leadership as well as efficiency savings 
based on our '4Ds' programme: 
Drive trading by delivering on our 
promise to customers; 
Digitalise Darty by further enhancing our 
multi-channel offer and leading websites; 
Develop our brand by improving our 
product and market·leading service 
offerings as well as expanding our 
customer base; and 
Deliver cost efficiency by implementing 
cost-savings. 
'Confiance 4.0' - Our new plan 
In summary, our actions over the 
three-year period in France from 
2012/13 to 2015/16 have achieved: 
• revenue growth of 10 per cent, 
helped by the acquisition of 
Mistergooddeal.com; 
• an improvement in our market share 
by 160 basis points to 15.2 per cent; 
• growth in web sales of 37 per cent; 
• 29 per cent of web sales utilising 
the 'Click & Collect' offer during 
2015/16; 
• the number one position on price 
with service included, home delivery 
and after·sales (Source: TNS Sofres); 
and 
• the €50 million target of gross 
run-rate cost-savings by the end 
of 2014/15 which was delivered 
ahead of schedule, largely through 
rationalisation of head office and 
after-sales service infrastructures. 
Following the successful delivery of 'Nouvelle Confiance', we developed a new plan to secure continued growth. 
Buying trends are evolving: customers want a trusted retailer for white goods; immediate access to products and services; 
tailored services; and connected home appliances as the technology develops. 
With this in mind, our three-year plan is built around four priorities: 
Connected 
to capture 
connected growth 
opportunities 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 OS  Strategic report 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL 
We are the number one electricals retailer in France, the number two electricals retailer in 
Belgium and are a leading multi-channel player in the Netherlands, our core markets. We operate 
under some of the most highly established and recognised retail brands in our sector. We display, 
sell, distribute and provide after-sales support for a wide range of electrical products and 
associated accessories and services, from major home and small domestic appliances to the latest 
vision and audio and telecommunication and multimedia products. We market and distribute our 
products through our network of over 430 stores and leading websites and mobile applications. 
Busmess model Strategy 2015/16 progress 
Market-leading brands in our core markets in Strengthen our leadership positions in our Successfully opened a further franchise 
France, Belgium and the Netherlands. core markets stores in France and three overseas 
Unrivalled service offer before, during and 
after-sales 
Fully integrated multi-channel platforms 
comprising stores, websites and mobile 
applications 
Extensive offer of all electrical products 
and accessories with all major brands 
and own-label and licensed ranges 
Cost-effective operations 
06 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Drive trading by further improving our 
value-added service proposition 
Entered a joint venture agreement to create 
a franchise network of kitchen stores in 
Belgium 
After-sales service initiative 'Le Bouton' 
reached 300,000 customers 
Same day delivery and after-sales service 
intervention for large appliances 
Launched a services marketplace 
Digitalise Darty by further enhancing our· Further 59 stores digitalised 
websites and driving web-generated sales 
Further 1,000 staff equipped with tablets 
Develop our brand by improving our product Rolled out the kitchen offer to a further 
offerings and expanding our customer base 11 stores 
Deliver cost efficiencies by implementing 
cost-saving initiatives 
Introduced new range of personal and home 
connected products to all our stores 
Average net debt reduced by €60 million  Le Bouton, our after-sales 
service initiative, reached 
300,000 
customers 
We now have 6 7 franchise 
stores in France and 
seven overseas 
Future opportun1t1es KPis 
Ongoing review of market consolidation 
opportunities 
Further roll-out of the franchise models 
in France and Belgium 
Continue to assess opportunities for 
extended service offers 
Continue to exploit opportunities from 
new technology 
Continue the roll-out of tablets for use by 
staff and in-store Wi Fi availability 
Further roll-out of the kitchen offer 
Continue to develop the product offering 
as new technology evolves 
Ongoing cost efficiency with focus on the 
after-sales service infrastructure 
Retail profit 
Number of franchise stores 
Like-for-like sales 
Market share 
Online sales growth 
Web-generated sales 
Number of stores with the kitchen offer 
Retail profit margin 
A more detailed description of progress made 
during the year ended 30 April 2016 and our 
opportunities for growth can be found in the 
Chief Executive's review on pages 8 to 15. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 07  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
The growth initiatives we previously 
announced- a franchise store model, 
development of our kitchen offer and 
the acquisition of Mistergooddeal.com 
- are progressing well and are all 
delivering improved results. 
Operating update 
The establishment of franchise stores 
has enabled us, with low investment, to 
increase our store network into smaller 
catchment areas where a typical, larger 
Darty store would not be economical 
to operate. The first franchise stores 
opened in March 2014 and we already 
have 67 stores in France, with a further 
seven overseas, having opened 28 during 
the year in France and three overseas. 
Sales uplifts on conversion to a Darty 
franchise of these former independent 
stores remain very strong and those 
stores trading in their second year are on 
average seeing nearly 17 per cent like-for­
like sales growth. The franchise network 
has now reached a scale that is profitable. 
Introducing a kitchen offer into stores 
was a natural extension for Darty, 
being market leader in the home 
appliances market and with the leading 
reputation for service. We now have 
82 stores with our kitchen offer, 
including 11 opened in the period. 
During the year a new catalogue was 
launched in print and online featuring 
32 different kitchen models, supported 
by a nationwide TV campaign and the 
development of online appointment 
booking with in-store kitchen specialists. 
Following some operational disruption 
last year from our accelerated opening 
programme, this part of the business 
performed better this year with total 
revenue up over 17 per cent and a 
significantly improved contribution. 
Regis Schultz 
Chief Executive 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 09  Web sales at Darty up 
12.7°/o 
16.2% of total 
product sales 
CHANNELS 
To accelerate our multi-channel offer via 
improving our website and mobile content 
Sales via Click & Collect up 
66°/o 
at Darty 
10 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
Mistergooddeal.com, our online channel 
to serve the entry price/low service 
part of the market, has been completely 
integrated into Darty's logistics 
infrastructure. Customers now collect 
ordered products from Darty stores 
rather than stand-alone collection points. 
Revenue remained under pressure 
due to this integration and also due to 
the removal of legacy, non-profitable, 
non-electrical product lines. However, 
the integration and elimination of costs 
has led to a breakeven performance for 
the year, ahead of our initial schedule. 
Confiance 4.0 - our new plan 
Following the successful delivery 
of 'Nouvelle Confiance' we 
developed a new plan to secure 
continued, profitable growth. 
Buying trends are evolving: customers 
want a trusted retailer for white goods, 
with around 80 per cent of white goods 
purchased through specialist retailers 
such as Darty; they want immediate 
access to products and services, 
with over half of customers checking 
online for product availability before 
going to a store; they want tailored 
services, with over a third of Darty 
customers already willing to pay a 
premium for a dedicated service; and, 
as the technology develops, they want 
connected home appliances, with 
households expected on average to each 
have 30 connected products by 2020. 
With this in mind, our new three-year 
plan, predominantly focused on France, 
is built around four priorities: 
Cash, to reinforce financial 
strength and our economic model; 
Channels, to accelerate our 
multi-channel offer; 
Care, to personalise our services; and 
Connected, to capture connected 
growth opportunities. 
Following the successful delivery 
of 'Nouvelle Confiance' we 
developed a new plan to secure 
continued, profitable growth. 
Cash- Reinforce our financial strength 
and economic model 
During the year we introduced a 
Group-wide plan to strengthen our 
financial position. This has been 
achieved through a number of 
working capital and cost initiatives. 
Payment terms have been reviewed with 
suppliers and, where possible, better, 
extended payment terms have been 
agreed. The business has also focused 
on more prompt collection of a variety 
of supplier incentive payments as they 
contractually fall due rather than being 
collected as a year-end exercise. 
We are also taking action to optimise 
our cost structure. The transfer of the 
majority cif the London head office 
functions to Paris was completed 
during the year. We have started to 
create a more efficient back office 
organisation, including reviewing 
all indirect procurement and the 
roll-out of electronic billing. 
After-sales service has been a major 
advantage for Darty, ranking well ahead 
of all its competitors (source: TNS 
Sofres) and a key criteria when choosing 
Darty. Significant investment has been 
made over the years to maintain this 
position through remote assistance, 
building an extensive knowledge 
base on product failures and the 
introduction of in-store workshops. 
Our ambition is now to further reinforce 
this leadership by reconfiguring the 
service operations towards a more 
immediate and personalised service. 
We have launched initiatives this year 
to develop service in-store including 
product filtering and light repair and 
diagnostic tools (deployed in 45 stores) 
resulting in a reduced number of products 
sent to central repair workshops. Specific 
efforts have been made to increase 
first time resolution in our call centres 
leading to improved service for our 
customers and reduced costs. New 
self-assistance functionalities have also 
been implemented on our websites. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 11  Customers selecting premium 
delivery slots at Darty· 
106,000 
45 in-store repair 
or diagnostic facilities 
now available at Darty 
12 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
CARE 
To offer an even better customer 
experience we will personalise our services  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
We have also worked with a number of 
multimedia suppliers to increase efficiency 
of our central repair activity. Finally, we 
have improved the performance of our 
'out of warranty' business through the 
creation of an 'all-inclusive' service offer. 
The culmination of all this ongoing focus 
across the Group supports our medium­
term target to reduce average net debt 
by €100 million and achieve a further 
gross cost reduction of €50 million. 
Channels- Accelerate our 
multi-channel offer 
Darty is already ranked in the top 
five multi-channel retailers globally 
and number one in the electricals 
sector (source: World e-Shopper 
2015). We are further improving our 
customers' experience via our website 
and mobile content and in-store 
offer to stimulate traffic, conversion 
and average basket spend. 
During the year we refreshed the mobile 
site to improve the look and feel, content 
and navigation and we also continued 
to digitalise our stores. This includes 
Wi Fi in-store and equipping staff 
with tablets to demonstrate products 
from a wider range than held in-store. 
They also provide a price comparison 
to competitors and, more recently, 
trials have commenced to also take 
purchase payments. During the year, 
a further 59 stores were digitalised 
and over 1,000 staff equipped with 
tablets, bringing the total number to 
nearly 2,200 staff in 123 stores. Further 
digitalisation is being trialled in-store 
with the use of electronic tickets to 
provide price and product information. 
We continue to improve our store 
network, largely by relocating selected 
stores to retail parks. During the year, 
in France two stores were closed, 
one opened, three extended, one was 
refurbished and five were relocated. 
The store network in France was 
expanded further with 28 franchise 
stores opened during the year, bringing 
the total to 67, with a further three 
overseas franchise stores, bringing the 
total to seven. Our target is for a total 
of 120 franchise stores by 2018/19. 
A further 11 stores were enhanced in the 
year with the addition of the kitchen offer, 
bringing the total to 82 stores with a 
target of 120 stores with the kitchen offer 
by 2018/19. A stand-alone kitchen offer 
is also being introduced at Vanden Borre 
in Belgium in the first half of 2016/17 via 
a joint venture franchise operation. 
Care - Personalise our services 
We are developing an even better 
experience for our customers in terms 
of the range and personalisation 
of our offer and services. 
We have evolved our fulfilment options 
with dedicated in-store collection 
points and 'Click & Collect' lockers 
in high traffic stores. We have added 
customised delivery options, starting 
with same and next day delivery and 
installation for large appliances. 
Our long-established 'Contrat de 
Confiance' already offered a two-year 
guarantee included within the price 
for the majority of products. Following 
the introduction of the Hamon law 
in France this now has to be offered 
for all products. Consequently, the 
'Contrat de Confiance' has required 
minimal amendment to reflect the new 
legislation and therefore the business 
has been significantly less impacted 
than our competitors, who typically 
only offered a 12-month guarantee. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 13  Nearly 200 third party 
suppliers with over 
300,000 
products at Carty 
Additional revenue from connected 
products during the year at Carty 
€5 million 
14 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
CONNECTED 
The increase in 'connected' technology provides 
us with the opportunity to extend our product offer  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
We have started to expand our in-store 
help and repair service via in-store 
counters and workshops to provide 
a more immediate resolution for 
our customers, rather than to send 
products to central repair centres with 
consequential longer turnaround times. 
18 stores now have repair desks (L'Atelier) 
and a further 27 stores have diagnostic 
kiosks. In addition, in October we 
launched in-store private appointments 
with an 'expert' for advice before 
purchasing a product or afterwards 
when picking up from 'Click & Collect'. 
'Le Bouton', Darty's market-leading 
connected service offer, has been chosen 
by more than 300,000 customers 
and during the year we extended the 
service to include video technology. 
Customers can now use their smartphone 
cameras for a live visual link to an 
adviser as well as converse with an 
adviser by phone, enabling Darty staff 
to perform an easier diagnostic. 
During the year we launched a new social 
media initiative. In conjunction with 
service provider Wibilong, customers 
can now join online social groups 
dedicated to a particular product. 
enabling them to discuss the product 
before or after buying with other users. 
We have improved our price perception 
and are now viewed as having the best 
prices on a service-included basis against 
all our competitors, both stores and pure 
web players. With the improvements 
to our service proposition, according 
to TNS Sofres, we are now seen by 
customers as having the most efficient 
delivery and after-sales service offer 
and we are the number one for price 
with service included, value for money, 
delivery and after-sales services. 
We have started to utilise our 
database of 10 million households to 
help us personalise our customers' 
shopping experience with tailored 
recommendations, automated bundles 
and 'one click' solutions. This year, 
campaigns have been run to activate 
dormant customers, target those 
moving house and to promote a 
number of new product categories. 
We are also looking to increase customer 
loyalty and during the year we upgraded 
the existing credit offer through the 
Darty Visa-connected credit card, 
providing greater value beyond financing 
a product purchase. Transactions using 
the card lead to gift cards which can be 
used against future purchases. Other 
benefits include free subscription to 
'Le Bouton', special offers on products, 
VIP shopping evenings and access to 
flexible financing offers and free credit. 
Connected -Capture connected 
growth opportunities 
The increase in, and customer demand 
for, 'connected' technology provides 
us with the opportunity to extend 
our product and service offer. 
We have introduced new categories 
and in-store displays for home 
('Maison Connectee') and wearable 
('Sante Connectee') connected 
devices. This includes such products 
as energy control systems, lighting, 
security, health tracking devices and 
watches. The initial connected product 
range generated around €6 million 
additional revenue during the year. 
We have broadened our product 
marketplace offer into new product 
categories and extended ranges in 
existing categories via nearly 200 third 
party suppliers with over 300,000 
offers. During the year we also became 
a supplier of electrical products on 
the website of La Redoute, a leading 
French mail order company. 
The market in France for the connected 
home and services market is estimated 
to be c.€50 billion by 2018, five times the 
size of the current white goods market 
(source: Euromonitor, Machina, ADEM and 
Comte du Logement). We have started 
to capture this opportunity by launching 
a marketplace for home services. In 
partnership with Hellocasa, 'Darty 
Petits Travaux' is offering customers 
the ability to book online services such 
as plumbing, electrics, gardening and 
profl:!ssional cleaning for a fixed price. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 15  Strategic report 
OPERATING REVIEW 
France 
Total revenue was up 4.9 per cent and 
the Darty brand again outperformed 
the market for the period with like­
for-like sales increasing by 6.1 per 
cent. Darty traded well over the key 
Summer and Winter sales, 'Back to 
School' and Christmas periods. White 
goods sales remain solid, especially 
during the Summer when we saw 
strong hot weather-related sales of 
refrigeration and air conditioning 
products. Vision sales were weak at the 
start of the period against last year's 
football World Cup comparative but did 
improve thereafter supported by the 
Rugby World Cup and were particularly 
strong at the end of the financial 
year on the switchover of terrestrial 
channels (TNT) to high definition. This 
switchover impacted an estimated 
three million televisions, necessitating 
customers to either purchase a set-top 
box or a new television. Darty was well 
prepared for this event. commencing 
a customer awareness programme 
towards the end of 2015 supported by 
dedicated technical assistants at its 
call centres. At the switchover deadline 
in early April, Darty sold over 8,000 
set-top boxes, 3,000 HDMI cables 
and 800 new televisions every hour. 
Finally, in terms of product categories, 
communication sales remained strong 
but the multimedia market remained 
weak, although less so during a 
successful 'Back to School' campaign. 
As a result of our positive social 
relations, we were one of the first 
retailers able to open additional stores 
on a Sunday, following a change 
in the law. Those opened in Paris 
delivered double-digit sales growth. 
16 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Darty's web-generated sales continued 
to grow, up nearly 13 per cent to over 
16 per cent of total product sales and to 
17 per cent including Mistergooddeal.com. 
The 'Click & Collect' option proved 
increasingly popular, with sales increasing 
over 66 per cent. accounting for over 29 
per cent of Darty's web sales compared to 
over 19 per cent last year. This popularity 
was highlighted on Christmas Eve when 
a record 64 per cent of web sales were 
'Click & Collect'. We also saw the best 
ever Sunday trading on Darty.com during 
the Big Weekend in November and a 
record 1.4 million visits to Darty.com on 
the first day of the Winter sale in January. 
Total visits to Darty.com rose over 11 per 
cent to over 188 million with total revenue 
exceeding €400 million for the first time. 
Gross margin saw some benefit in the 
first quarter from a favourable product 
mix with a greater weighting on higher 
margin white goods, but was weaker at 
the end of the year from the very strong 
sales of lower margin vision products. 
Overall gross margin for France was 
down 70 basis points, including 20 basis 
points benefit from Mistergooddeal.com 
and 50 basis points dilutive impact 
from the franchise business. 
With costs under control, retail profit 
was up 39 per cent to €97.0 million 
compared to €70.0 million in the prior 
year. This included €21.5 million of gross 
property profits (2015: €6.8 million), the 
first significant profits from the franchise 
business, breakeven performance from 
Mistergooddeal.com (2015 retail loss: 
€7.7 million), and a halving of losses 
from the kitchens operation. 
During the period one store opened, 
two stores closed, three were 
extended, one was refurbished and 
five relocated. We also added new 
kitchen ranges to a further 11 stores, 
bringing the total number of stores 
with a kitchen offer to 82. 
Belgium and the Netherlands 
At Vanden Borre in Belgium and BCC in 
the Netherlands, overall revenue was 
up 1.0 per cent aided by the full year 
effect of the acquisition of 18 stores 
by BCC in February 2015. Like-for-like 
sales were down 3.8 per cent. Positive 
sales at Vanden Borre were more than 
offset by the sales disruption at BCC 
resulting from the implementation of a 
new warehouse IT system which impacted 
stock availability. Web-generated 
sales continued to grow strongly, up 
nearly 13 per cent to over 14 per cent 
of total product sales with enhanced 
delivery options, including next day 
delivery for large goods and evening 
delivery for smaller items, driving 
very good growth at Vanden Borre. 
Overall for the period, gross margin 
was down 20 basis points, with a 
small improvement at BCC partially 
offsetting a decline at Vanden Borre in 
competitive market conditions. Total 
costs increased 6 per cent reflecting 
the store acquisition by BCC. The retail 
profit for the period was €4.9 million 
compared to €14.8 million in the prior 
year. Vanden Borre saw a small decline 
in retail profits, while BCC's losses 
increased by €9.1 million due to the 
disruption caused by the implementation 
of the IT system. A new system to 
correct the issues was implemented at 
the start of the new financial year. 
During the period, at Vanden Borre 
we opened two new stores and 
refurbished four stores. Vanden Borre 
will open its first stand-alone kitchen 
store in partnership with lxina in the 
first half of the new financial year. 
At BCC we refurbished nine stores.  Strategic report 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
A key delivery this year was the reduction of 
our net debt by €115 million to €108.8 million. 
Albin Jacquemont 
Finance Director 
Revenue and retail profit 
Group revenue at €3,656.8 million was 
up 4.1 per cent including Mistergooddeal. 
com and the franchise stores. On a like­
for-like basis Group revenue was up 3.9 
per cent. We saw strong sales in white 
goods in the first quarter benefiting 
from hot weather-related purchases 
of refrigeration and air conditioning 
products. As expected, vision sales were 
weak at the start of the financial year 
against a successful World Cup campaign 
last year but then showed an improving 
trend as the replacement market 
returned, supported by the new Ultra 
HD and OLEO models and in particular in 
the final quarter by the terrestrial high 
definition switchover in France. Growth in 
communication remained strong through 
the year and the multimedia market 
remained weak, although less so during 
a successful 'Back to School' period. 
Our web-generated sales continued to 
grow. They were up nearly 13 per cent 
to nearly 16 per cent of product sales, 
excluding Mistergooddeal.com, driven 
by continued strong growth in 'Click & 
Collect' sales, which were up over 
54 per cent. 
Gross margin was impacted by ongoing 
product category margin pressure in 
promotional market conditions. This was 
partially offset by an improvement in 
margin from the mix of product sales, 
especially in the first quarter when there 
were better sales of higher margin white 
goods. Total gross margin, excluding the 
lAS 2 adjustment. was down 50 basis 
points. This included a positive impact of 
10 basis points from Mistergooddeal.com 
which was more than offset by a 40 
basis points dilutive impact from the 
lower gross margin franchise business. 
Group retail profit increased 24 per cent 
to €93.1 million compared to €74.9 million 
for the same period last year, with an 
improvement at Darty including €21.5 
million gross property profits (2015: €6.8 
million) and a breakeven performance 
at Mistergooddeal.com (2015: retail 
loss €7.7 million). Vanden Borre saw. 
a small decline in retail profit, losses 
increased by €9.1 million at BCC due to 
warehouse system issues and central 
costs were reduced by €1.1 million. 
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items totalled €36.5 million 
(2015: €13.7 million). Restructuring costs 
of €9.5 million (2015: €8.5 million) were 
incurred in France predominantly relating 
to the reorganisation of the after-sales 
service structure of €6.8 million and 
€2.7 million relating to pro rata retention 
agreements and other HR incentives. 
In the Netherlands, given the 
performance and current market outlook, 
together with the issues arising as a result 
of the new systems implementation, 
a number of exceptional items arose: 
impairment of intangible assets of €10.8 
million; impairment of property, plant 
and equipment of €7.3 million; and €3.5 
million of business disruption costs 
and €0.2 million of restructuring and 
takeover costs. Unallocated restructuring 
costs of €5.2 million mainly include 
€3.9 million of adviser fees relating to 
the offer for the Group and €1.1 million 
relating to the transfer of specific head 
office functions from London to Paris. 
Operating profit 
Operating profit was €53.8 million (2015: 
€60.3 million). 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 17  Strategic report 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
Net finance costs 
Net finance costs were €23.5 million 
(2015: €23.6 million) excluding lAS 19 
pension interest of €1.9 million (2015: 
€3.8 million). This included interest 
payable on borrowings of €18.4 
million (2015: €20.0 million) and loan 
commitment fees and amortisation 
of loan and bond arrangements fees 
of €5.1 million (2015: €4.5 million). 
Adjusted profit before tax 
Adjusted profit before tax was up 36 per 
cent to €69.6 million (2015: €51.3 million). 
Taxation 
The effective tax rate for the continuing 
Group on adjusted profit before 
exceptional items, including the share 
of joint venture and associates' tax was 
44.7 per cent (2015: 39.3 per cent). 
The increase in tax rate from 2015 was 
primarily due to increased losses at BCC 
in the Netherlands where tax credits are 
not currently recognised on losses. 
Based on a total adjusted tax charge 
of €27.1 million (2015: €1B.7 million) 
the total tax rate is 92.8 per cent 
(2015: 55.3 per cent) on unadjusted 
profits, reflecting that tax relief is 
not recognised on all exceptional 
and other non-retail profit items. 
Profit for the period 
The profit for the period from continuing 
operations was €2.1 million (2015: 
€15.1 million). Profit for the period 
from discontinued operations was 
€1.6 million (2015 loss: €1.3 million). 
Total profit for the period was 
€3.7 million (2015: €13.8 million). 
Earnings per share 
Adjusted earnings per share, excluding 
the lAS 19 net interest on pension 
schemes, increased 26 per cent to 
7.3 cents (2015: 5.8 cents). Continuing 
basic and diluted earnings per share 
was 0.4 cents (2015: 2.9 cents).· 
18 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Cash flow 
Cash generated from operations 
was an inflow of €175.1 million (2015: 
€60.7 million), reflecting a €126.5 
million improvement in working capital 
movements from actions to improve 
payment terms and focus on more prompt 
collection of supplier contributions. 
Interest paid was €21.5 million (2015: 
€22.9 million). Tax paid was €9.7 million 
(2015: €21.2 million). Net capital 
expenditure was €12.0 million (2015: 
€36.8 million) reflecting increased 
proceeds from property disposals of 
€33.3 million (2015: €13.9 million). 
€3.1 million proceeds were received 
as part of the disposal of Comet 
(2015: €10.1 million proceeds relating 
to the sale of operations relating 
to Darty Turkey and Datart). 
Cash cost of acquisitions was €2.8 million, 
mainly relating to deferred payment for 
the acquisition of stores in the 
Netherlands by BCC (2015: €9.8 million 
costs mainly for the acquisition of stores 
in the Netherlands by BCC). 
The total dividend payment to 
shareholders remained unchanged 
at 3.5 cents per share, but the 
strengthening of Sterling against 
the Euro for shareholders electing a 
Sterling dividend payment increased 
the cash payment to €18.8 million (2015: 
€18.4 million). Cash inflow was €115.7 
million (2015 outflow: €36.5 million). 
Net debt 
Closing net debt was down €115 million 
at €108.8 million compared to €223.8 
million at 30 April 2015 and average 
net debt was down around €60 million 
compared to last year. As a result, as at 
30 April 2016 none of the Group's €225 
million revolving credit facility was drawn 
down (30 April 2015: €40 million drawn) 
in addition to the Group's outstanding 
€250 million High Yield Bond. 
Retirement benefit obligations 
The lAS 19 net pension liability reduced 
to €70.5 million (2015: €103.4 million), 
split €4.0 million (2015: €38.2 million) 
in the UK and €66.5 million (2015: 
€65.2 million) in France. The fall in 
the UK net liability is mainly due to 
falling inflation and the £10 million 
per annum (€13.5 million) Company 
deficit recovery contributions made. 
Dividends 
An unchanged interim dividend of 0.875 
cents per share was paid but. given 
the terms and current timing of the 
offer from Fnac, the Company does not 
currently intend to recommend a final 
dividend (2015: 2.625 cents per share). 
Revised accounting estimate 
At 30 April 2015, there was a €7.9 million 
exceptional gain arising on the revised 
lAS 2 estimation of distribution costs in 
the carrying value of inventory to take 
account of non-storage warehouse and 
logistic costs. As a result of this change of 
estimate, from 1 May 2015 onwards there 
is an increase in cost of sales and 
a reduction in distribution costs. In the 
12 months to 30 April 2016, this has 
resulted in a €68.1 million increase 
to cost of sales (equivalent to around 
186 basis points reduction in reported 
margins) and a €6B.1 million reduction 
in distribution costs compared to the 
previous lAS 2 inventory valuation basis.  Key performance indicators 
Performance Performance 
Deflmt1on/source 2016 2015 
Sales 
Total revenue growth 
4.1% 3.2% 
Like·for·like sales growth 
3.9% (1.6)% 
Like·for·like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full year and the 
first full four weeks of trading have passed. Stores where retail space has been added or where 
a complete format redesign (including addition of a mezzanine floor) has taken place, which 
involves material capital expenditure are excluded from like·for·like sales calculations. Sales 
through internet sites are included. 
Online sales growth 
3.1o/o 22.2% 
Percentage increase in web-generated sales. 
Multi-channel sales 
16.5% 16.1% 
Web-generated sales as a percentage of total product sales. 
Profitability 
Retail profit 
€93.1m €74.9m 
Retail profit represents continuing Group total operating profit before the share of joint 
venture and associates' interest and taxation, impairment of available·for·sale financial assets, 
exceptional costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 
Retail profit margin 
2.5% 2.1% 
Retail profit as a percentage of total revenue. 
Adjusted earnings per share 
7.3 cents 5.8 cents 
Excludes the effects of movement in options and related charges over non-controlling 
interests, realised losses on available·for·sale financial assets, exceptional costs, exceptional 
finance costs, tax effects of exceptional items, discontinued operations and amortisation of 
acquisition-related intangible assets. 
Cash flow 
Free cash flow 
€164.4m €25.6m 
Free cash flow is defined as cash generated from continuing operations and net sale of 
business operations and subsidiaries less net capital expenditure and investments. 
Non·fi na ncia I 
Market share 
France 15.2% 14.7% 
Share of total electricals market in each country (source: GfK). 
Belgium 9.9% 10.0% 
Netherlands 5.4o/o 5.6% 
Franchise stores 
Number of Darty franchise stores. 
74 43 
Kitchens 
Number of Darty stores with a kitchen offer. 
82 71 
The Group manages its performance using these key performance indicators ('KPis') in. place at a Group and business level. 
The Group also has a set of non-financial KPis, details of which are set out in the corporate responsibility report on page 25. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 19  Strategic report 
PRINCIPAL RISKS 
The taking of risk is an inherent part of doing business and the skill in business is to manage risk effectively. 
The Board and senior management have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the 
business and actively manages those risks. Risk management is performed from both a top-down and 
a bottom-up perspective, ensuring that strategic and operational risks are appropriately addressed. 
The principal risks and uncertainties to delivering our strategy are set out below together with an illustration of what actions are 
being taken to mitigate the effect of these risks on the business and its customers. 
Risk Act1ons taken I Act1ons to be taken 
Legislative and regulatory risks 
The Group's operations are subject to extensive Potential changes to legislation and Briefing sessions for key executives 
regulatory requirements, particularly in relation regulatory requirements are monitored on the likely impact of legislative and 
to its buying and selling of products and after· sales with the help of external advisers, and regulatory change so there is sufficient 
services. its advertising, marketing and sales the business model and processes have time to develop action plans to mitigate 
practices. its employment and pensions policies and been adapted to seek to minimise the any adverse effects. 
planning and environmental issues. Changes in laws impact of these changes. 
and regulations and their enforcement may adversely Continue to ensure legislators and 
impact the Group's operations in terms of costs. Have sought to ensure governmental and regulators are aware of the potential 
changes to business practices, and restrictions on regulatory bodies understand the impact impact of their policies. 
activities. The Group's businesses may also be of proposed legislation on both the 
adversely affected by changes in tax laws and business and its customers. Further development of additional 
increasing reviews by tax authorities of corporate service packages for our customers. 
tax plans. Implemented packages for our 
customers. providing them with a wider 
range of services, not only repair 
services but also assistance in usage 
such as our Pack Serenity multimedia 
assistance service and 'Le Bouton'. 
Economic environment 
The economic environment can influence the level of The '4Ds' strategy has been implemented Roll·out of the 'Confiance 4.0' strategy. 
consumer expenditure on electrical goods in a number and Confiance 4.0 is being implemented. 
of ways. It can also affect the level of promotional Review of the store portfolio with a 
activity in the market, which impacts prices and Offset some of the adverse effects by view to relocating poorly located 
margins. Other economic factors that may adversely trading across a number of categories, stores. 
affect sales include interest rates, government as well as by further introducing new 
economic policy and levels of personal debt. channels such as franchising. Continued roll-out of the franchising 
initiative. 
Deteriorating market conditions could adversely Have significantly improved the working 
impact profitability and cash generation, and delay capital position. Seek solutions to ensure all businesses 
the delivery of growth in our core businesses. are profitable. 
Continued to explore ways to improve 
our cash generation and working capital 
management. 
Terrorist threats and attacks in our markets 
Set up specific crisis management team. Continue to monitor local situations 
and provide psychological support to 
Followed public authority directives and employees where appropriate. 
implemented security procedures in all 
stores. 
20 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  R1sk Act1ons taken I Actions to be taken 
Organisational and business change 
The Directors have recommended an offer for the A retention plan has been implemented. Close monitoring of the anti-trust 
Group from Fnac. There is no certainty that the Regular communication with employees. clearance process and processes in 
transaction will complete and if it does it may be place to ensure business carries on 
some months before completion. Implemented improved change and as usual. 
project management processes. 
There are a large number of initiatives across the Improve prioritisation of initiatives. 
Group following implementation of the strategic Ongoing dialogue with employees and 
review that could disrupt the business. The unions. Improve internal communications. 
implementation of all of the initiatives may be delayed 
or hindered by a complex regulatory environment, 
social unrest and project management issues. 
Information technology 
A number of IT projects are planned to replace large IT Project Committee established. Enhance change management to 
legacy applications built for individual operating prepare staff and processes for 
companies. If not properly planned and implemented, Plan put in place to prioritise removal of organisation and systems changes. 
there could be significant interruption to the business old applications. 
and additional costs could arise. Plans to improve emergency and 
Tested recovery plans across our disaster recovery plans. 
The reliance on IT systems means the business can be business. 
severely adversely impacted if they fail. Continued monitoring and, where 
Reviewed robustness of current necessary, altering systems and 
The increased use of online payments and credit card protections for customer personal data. protections to meet changing threats. 
payments has increased the risk of the loss of 
personal data and theft through cyber attack. 
Profit and cash 
The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is Protected margins, as far as possible, Continued development of 
significantly less than that of many other retailers through buying arrangements and additional Original Equipment 
and is largely determined by the market. consumer by maintaining an efficient sourcing Manufacturer ('OEM') exclusive and 
demand, manufacturer supply, competition and operation. licensed products. 
government regulations. 
Reviews have been made regarding Take legal action to protect our position 
Industry practice has heightened the focus on supplier revenue recognition and collectability of where necessary. 
relationships and potential impact on financial supplier rebates. 
reporting. Cost mitigation plans will continue to 
Cost structures have been actively be implemented and focus on working 
managed in order to mitigate the impact capital management. 
of product margin erosion and increased 
improvement in working capital 
management. 
Reputational risks 
The Group's success is dependent, in part. upon the A number of internal controls and Regular reviews of the likely threats to 
strength of the Group's brands and their reputation. processes have been put in place to try reputation, together with monitoring of 
The Group operates in an industry where integrity, and limit the number and harmful effect the media, including social media. 
customer trust and confidence are important and any of such incidents. 
adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour, 
policies and strategies could damage that customer 
trust and damage the Group's reputation and brands. 
Pension scheme liabilities 
Following the sale of Comet. the UK defined benefit A number of deficit mitigation measures Continue to examine strategies and 
scheme for Comet employees was retained by the have been undertaken, and will be taken additional opportunities to mitigate the 
Group. There is a smaller defined benefit sr.heme in in the future. to reduce both the size of deficit in the UK and France. 
France for senior Darty employees. Both schemes are the deficit and its volatility. 
currently in deficit. These deficits are volatile as a Agree 2016 triennial valuation. 
result of changes in the assumptions regarding life 
expectancy, discount rates (based on gilt yields and 
Company covenant), inflation and future salary 
increases, risks regarding the value of investments 
and the returns derived from such investments. 
Adverse movements in these assumptions could 
increase the deficit, increasing the funding 
requirement to the schemes from the Group. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 21  Strategic report 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
As a specialist electrical retailer, Darty is well placed to manage an effective approach to corporate 
responsibility ('CR') that is compatible with profitable growth and enhances brand equity. 
It has long been our belief that good CR 
practice makes sound financial sense. 
However, a 'one size fits all' approach is 
not appropriate because of the different 
sizes of our businesses. Therefore the 
majority of our activities are locally 
driven, reflecting customer demands and 
market sensitivities. However, there is 
a CR team comprising senior managers 
from each of the businesses. Chaired by 
the Company Secretary, the team meets 
to share best practices and develop 
practical performance measures that 
can be adopted across the Group. 
Our initiatives fall into four key areas: 
Environment 
Improving the Group's use of energy, 
the impact of our transport fleet and 
our use of bulk materials such as paper 
and packaging, by minimising waste, 
increasing energy efficiency and 
reducing our consumption of materials. 
22 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Supply chain 
Improving labour, environmental and 
social practices in the Group's supply 
chain as well as ensuring that our 
suppliers and business partners are made 
aware of our requirements and take all 
reasonable steps to ensure they are met. 
People 
Providing a working environment that 
is conducive to the recruitment and 
retention of the widest possible range 
of talented staff; and offering them a 
safe and healthy place of work - we aim 
to be recognised as a good employer 
seeking to reward people fairly and 
to provide equality of opportunity, 
personal development and training. 
Communities 
Working for our customers and 
local communities, contributing to 
community activities in the areas 
we serve; and supporting and 
encouraging staff fund raising for 
appropriate charitable organisations. 
Environment 
As an electrical retailer we have a 
relatively low direct environmental 
impact. but we still seek to minimise 
the environmental impact of all our 
operations throughout the Group. We 
also want to ensure that neither our 
products nor our operations adversely 
affect the health of our customers, our 
employees or the community at large. 
As one of Europe's market leaders 
in large white goods, we specialise in 
offering our customers specific advice 
on the energy efficiency of our ranges. 
This enables them to make informed 
buying decisions in terms of power 
and water consumption. We also offer 
practical advice in·store and on the 
web on how to use the products in the 
most efficient way and we help dispose 
of them at the end of their lives. 
This programme is tailored to each of 
our markets and is currently in its most 
advanced stages of implementation at 
Darty in France and has been, in part, 
adopted across all the Group. We were 
one of the first retailers to test the 
energy efficiency of all televisions, DVD 
players and computers that we sell and 
then promote the better performing 
products. Darty France has a dedicated 
section on its website, Darty.com, on 
environmental matters. Since September 
2012, practical advice is given to 
customers to help them calculate their 
energy and water consumption on over 
1,000 products inc I uding refrigerators, 
washing machines, dishwashers and 
TVs. This was extended to tumble 
dryers and wine coolers during 2013. 
This financial year, Darty France launched 
a simulator for energy savings accessible 
on the Darty.com site to allow customers 
to estimate the energy consumption of 
their devices and evaluate the savings 
if they opt for their replacement.  A major Group strength, with our 
significant home delivery network, 
is our ability to facilitate the recycling 
of large white goods, helped by our 
efficient 'reverse logistics' capability. 
The ongoing rapid development of new 
technology creates increasing high levels 
of hazardous electronic and electrical 
waste, which is the background for the 
WEEE Directive. Its aim is to minimise 
the impact of electrical and electronic 
equipment on the environment when 
those products eventually become 
waste. In order to sell products within 
the EU manufacturers must demonstrate 
compliance with the regulations. This 
means that electrical retailers must 
offer take-back facilities to cover all 
categories including smaller appliances 
such as kettles and microwaves. 
The newer A++ brands use up to 44 
per cent less energy than products sold 
10 years ago. While hand washing the 
dishes can use up to 50 litres of water, 
a modern dishwasher uses just 13 lit res, 
and some models use just six litres. 
Darty France offers to take away two 
items for recycling free of charge if 
it makes a home delivery for large 
white goods. The collected items are 
sorted in 72 collection sites, where 
they are dismantled. In the 12 months 
to December 2014, Darty France 
collected 40,675 tonnes of product for 
recycling, the equivalent of over 1.19 
million appliances. These were recycled 
into 21,182 tonnes of scrap metal, 6,130 
tonnes of plastic and 3,100 tonnes 
of glass and similar items and saved 
26.405 tonnes of C0
2 
emissions. 
All the stores in Darty France have 
dedicated recycling bins with separate 
compartments for mobile phones, 
small appliances, batteries, and ink 
cartridges. Darty France also collected 
over 46 tonnes of batteries, and over 
seven tonnes of ink cartridges. 
With the '1 for 0' scheme, Darty France 
collects all materials, with or without 
purchase from its stores or website. 
BCC received an eco-certificate for its 
sustainability performance in the field of 
waste management, reducing the impact 
of its waste on the environment by 46 per 
cent by reducing and separating waste. 
We believe that together this makes 
us one of the leading recyclers of MDA 
products in Europe; it sets us apart from 
many pure web players in particular. 
We also aim to reduce the amount of 
packaging we use and ensure that it 
can be recycled. We collect all waste 
packaging when delivering a household 
appliance unless the customer requests 
otherwise. At Darty France, Vanden 
Borre and BCC we have specialised 
equipment that compresses all 
polystyrene packaging collected from 
customers' homes for recycling or reuse 
as garden furniture. At most of our 
operating companies, packaging waste 
is also collected from the warehouses 
and after-sales service centres; 
annually in France we recycle around 
41,000 tonnes of packaging waste. 
We report our emissions data using an 
operational control approach to define 
our organisational boundary, which meets 
the definitional requirements of the 
regulations in respect of those emissions 
for which we are responsible. We have 
reported on all material emission sources 
that we deem ourselves to be responsible 
for. These sources align with our 
operational control and financial control 
boundaries. We do not have responsibility 
for any emission sources that are 
beyond the boundary of our operational 
control. For example, business 
travel, other than by car (including 
commercial flights), is not within our 
operational control and therefore is 
not considered our responsibility. 
Supply chain 
Our customers expect us to have 
procedures in place to ensure that the 
products we sell have been ethically 
produced and handled from the beginning 
right through to the end of the supply 
chain. Many of our electrical products 
are sourced through major international 
brands who have their own strong 
ethical and environmental policies 
in place. We do not have significant 
operations or retail outlets in countries 
that present a material risk from bribery 
or corruption, poor labour standards 
or restrict civil or political rights. 
However, some of our suppliers do. 
There has been continued external 
attention and debate on the role of 
business and human rights. We welcome 
this focus as respect, fairness and 
integrity are an important part of the 
responsible way we run our business. 
We are committed to doing things 
the right way and this is reflected in 
our values and our Code of Conduct, 
which is available on our website. 
A respect for human rights is implicit 
in our employment practices and is 
within the high standards we expect 
from our suppliers. We continue to be 
guided by the International Labour 
Organization ('ILO') core conventions and 
the recommendation of Professor John 
Ruggie, the UN Special Representative 
for human rights. In some areas, such 
as the elimination of child labour, 
our direct influence can be limited 
and in these situations our focus on 
partnerships is of critical importance. 
We also work with our suppliers to 
help them reduce their impact on 
the environment and to manage the 
challenges of sustainable growth. 
The Group sources its own-label 
products principally from factories 
based in China that are committed 
to improving workers' welfare and 
reducing environmental impact. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 23  Strategic report 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
Table 1. Global GHG emissions data for reporting year 
1 January 2015- 31 December 2015 
Tonnes 
Em1ss1ons from: of C0
2
e 
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (Scope 1) 20,377 
Electricity, heat. steam and cooling purchased for own use (Scope 2) 14,637 
T&D losses from electricity and waste disposal (Scope 3) 1,097 
Total 36,110 
Intensity metric: tonnes C0
2
e/Million EUR revenue (€m) 9.87 
Intensity metric: tonnes C0
2
e/FTE 
Table 2. Year-on-year comparison 
Em1ss1ons from: 
Scope 1 
Scope 2 
Scope 3 
Total 
Intensity metric: tonnes C0
2
e/Million EUR 
revenue (€m) 
Intensity metric: tonnes C0
2
e/FTE 
Our audit procedures are benchmarked 
against leading international test 
houses, and are designed to ensure 
proper environmental standards are 
adhered to by our own-label suppliers 
in our factories and additionally to 
monitor the quality of our products. 
We have an experienced quality team 
based in China with expertise in quality 
assurance to support our own-branded 
products. In 2015, we carried out new 
qualification audits as well as surveillance 
audits on the 196 factories we use in 
South East Asia. This is to ensure that 
our suppliers meet the strict social, 
environmental and supply chain standards 
we require. In 2015, a total of 97 audits 
were undertaken. In addition, the team 
carried out over 4.400 final random 
inspections and counter checking on 
shipments on arrival. 
Before shipping of any OEM product 
is allowed, the quality assurance team 
evaluates products with comprehensive 
CE certification from approved European 
notified bodies. Any supplier who fails to 
meet our quality standards is delisted. 
24 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
2.89 
I Tonnes of C0 2e 
Percentage 
---2-0-15_1 ___ 2_0_14 
change(%) 
20,377 19,526 4.4% 
14,637 18,079 -19% 
1,097 1,321 -17% 
36,110 38,926 -7.2% 
9.87 11.44 ·14% 
2.89 2.72 6.1% 
In 2015, a new programme was 
implemented to monitor the customer 
returns of our products periodically. 
This programme allows Darty to be 
at the forefrontto actively lower our 
product returns to optimise customer 
satisfaction and brand reputation. 
In addition, as a further environmental 
measure we are consciously trying 
to minimise the emissions from our 
transport operations. We continue to 
modify our logistics operations to achieve 
a more efficient use of the transport 
fleet and make use of satellite navigation 
systems to improve their delivery 
schedules. This not only reduces the 
distance the vans and lorries travel but 
also provides our customers with more 
predictable arrival times. The Group is 
constantly exploring new initiatives that 
make good CR sense while benefiting 
the businesses. At Darty France we 
have a programme of enhanced driver 
training, with the aim of reducing fuel 
consumption and C0
2 
emissions by some 
15 per cent. Further savings have come 
from the introduction of new delivery 
vehicles with Euro 5 engines and 'Stop 
and Start' technology. Increased use 
of call centres and development of a 
database on repairs that provides first­
level resolution has led to less vehicle 
journeys to customers' homes, not 
only improving our customer service, 
but also reducing our C0
2 
emissions. 
Methodology 
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors' 
Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources 
fall within our consolidated financial 
statement. We do not have responsibility 
for any emission sources that are not 
included in our consolidated statement. 
The method we have used to calculate 
greenhouse gas ('GHG') emissions 
is the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition), using the location­
based scope 2 calculation method, 
together with the latest emission 
factors from recognised public sources 
including, but not limited to, Defra, the 
International Energy Agency, the US 
Energy Information Administration, 
the US Environmental Protection 
Agency and the Intergovernmental 
panel on Climate Change.  People 
As a specialist retailer committed to 
the best customer service, one of our 
key differentiators and strengths is 
our people. We have 12,232 employees 
across Europe and Asia and we want 
them all to have satisfying and rewarding 
careers within the Group. By respecting 
and valuing our employees we engage 
their talents and abilities to the fullest 
extent. We also realise that a well-trained 
workforce is a key differentiator and we 
therefore put great emphasis on our 
training programmes to improve store 
staff product knowledge. Darty France 
has online modules for staff training 
and is looking to expand them further 
to cover home delivery and after-sales 
service. A programme to refurbish 
staff break rooms and ensure there is 
access to a PC for training and personal 
use has been completed in France. 
We now have platforms across the whole 
Group for our employees' opinions to be 
heard and we value their input on how 
the business is being run. The first ever 
employee survey for all the companies 
in the Group was undertaken in 2012 
and all our employees now regularly 
participate in an employee survey. 
Our communication channels include 
regular workers' councils where issues 
are discussed with representatives from 
across the organisation. We also have 
many other forums for discussion that 
allow management to take a wide range 
of viewpoints into account. We promote 
the health, safety and welfare of both 
colleagues and customers across all our 
sites and we monitor and report to our 
Company Directors' 
Other senior managers
2 
All employees 
Director of Risk Management and Audit 
on these issues. We have established 
a written set of Operating Principles 
and a Code of Conduct that outlines 
the ethical standards we expect from 
all employees of companies within the 
Group. This includes both permanent 
and contract staff and any external 
consultants or suppliers we retain. 
Diversity 
The table below provides a breakdown 
of the gender of Directors and 
employees as at 30 April 2016. 
Our people are instrumental to our 
success; we respect and value the 
individuality and diversity that every 
employee brings to the business. 
We base our relationship with our 
employees on respect for the dignity 
of the individual and seek to create a 
positive, open working environment 
wherever we operate. As at 30 April 
2016, 68 per cent of our workforce 
were male and 32 per cent female. 
In terms of the Group's Board of 
Directors, there were nine Directors, 
seven of whom were male and two were 
female (see page 27 to view biographies 
of the members of the Board). 
Communities 
As a Group, we are committed to 
working with the many communities 
we are represented in. We work in 
partnership with outside organisations 
to address a number of long-standing 
social issues and we support a range of 
different charities on a regional basis. 
I 
Male I Female 
7 2 
4 1 
8,324 3,908 
1 Company Directors consists of the Company's Board, as detailed on pages 26 and 27. 
2 other senior managers is as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors' Report) 
Regulations 2013, and includes: i) persons responsible in France for planning, directing or controlling the 
activities of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the Company, other than Company Directors; 
and ii) any other Directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts. 
Cont1nu1ng Group 
112 months to 112 months to 112 months to 
30 April 2016 30 April 2015 30 April 2014 
Staff training days 24,521 25,035 24.420 
Accidents/injuries 916 1,009 955 
A-rated products sold 98.0% 98.4% 98.2% 
Package waste recycled (tonnes) 33,045 43,908 42,932 
Darty France has a long-standing 
reputation for helping the disadvantaged. 
Through the ENVIE programme 
(Enterprise Nouvelle Versl'lnsertion 
par L'Economie) previously long-term 
unemployed are trained in the repair 
of electrical products. During a two-
year programme, trainees practise on 
end-of-life products collected from 
customers. Once repaired, these are 
then sold from ENVIE stores at heavily 
discounted prices. Darty France 
annually donates funds to Telemaque, 
which promotes access to jobs for less 
advantaged youths, and encourages 
Darty employees to become tutors. 
Vanden Borre and Darty France raise 
funds for charities through the sale of toy 
models of their after-sales service vans. 
Performance criteria 
1 The number of days spent on 
staff training 
As a specialist electrical retailer, it is 
important that we create a working 
environment that is conducive to the 
recruitment and retention of talented 
staff who have excellent customer 
service skills and product knowledge. 
2 The number of accidents or injuries 
to staff 
The provision of a safe and healthy 
place of work for our staff is a primary 
concern and key responsibility. 
3 The percentage of energy efficient 
A-rated products sold 
Energy label ratings on fridge freezers 
help our customers choose more 
efficient models. A-rated products use 
the least amount of energy, thereby 
benefiting both our customers and the 
environment. 
4 The number of tonnes of packaging 
waste collected and recycled 
Through our distribution channels and 
warehouses we can efficiently collect 
our own and customers' waste for 
recycling. 
By orP1r of ~e ~oard 
~ ' ..., • "' '\.A.A l-, 
Simon Enoch 
-
Secretary 
15 June 2016 
Registered office: 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 25  Directors' report 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Simon Enoch 
Secretary 
26 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Auditors Registrars and transfer office 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Computershare Investor 
Services PLC 
Stockbrokers 
UBS 
Solicitors 
Slaughter and May 
Registered office 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Audit Committee 
Alison Reed (Chairman) 
Antoine Metzger 
Agnes Touraine 
Remuneration Committee 
Michel Leonard (Chairman) 
Alan Parker CBE 
Pascal Bazin 
Nomination Committee 
Alan Parker CBE (Chairman) 
Michel Leonard 
Regis Schultz 
Alison Reed 
Pascal Bazin 
Carlo D'Asaro Biondo 
Antoine Metzger 
Agnes Touraine  1. Alan Parker CBE (69) 
Chairman 
Alan Parker was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of Darty pic on 9 August 2012 
having served on the Board of Kesa 
Electricals pic since 1 October 2010. 
Alan is also Non-Executive Chairman 
of Mothercare pic, Chairman of Park 
Resorts, President of the British 
Hospitality Association and Board 
member/investor of Winnow Solutions. 
Alan was Chief Executive of Whitbread 
pic from 2004 and retired in November 
2010. During his tenure as CEO he led a 
substantial increase in shareholder value 
and created the UK's largest hospitality 
company, expanding Premier Inn in the 
UK and developing the global Costa 
coffee brand. Prior to joining Whitbread 
in 1992, Alan was based in Brussels 
and Frankfurt as Holiday Inn EMEA 
Managing Director. Alan has also served 
on the Boards of Jumeirah Group LLC, 
VisitBritain, Burger King Worldwide 
and Restaurant Brands International. 
2. Regis Schultz (47) 
Chief Executive 
Regis Schultz was appointed as Chief 
Executive on 23 April 2013. He joined 
from BUT, the French furniture and 
electrical retailer, where he had been 
Chief Executive since 2008. During his 
time at BUT Regis led a major renewal 
of the product offer and store formats, 
delivering both market share and profit 
improvement in a difficult trading 
environment. Prior to BUT he held a 
number of senior positions at Kingfisher 
pic, including Chief Operating Officer for 
B&O. He holds an MSc in Management 
from the Dauphine University, Paris. 
3. Albin Jacquemont (51) 
Finance Director 
Albin Jacquemont joined the Group 
from Carrefour in March 2015. He joined 
Carrefour in 1998 and was appointed 
as Chief Financial Officer for Carrefour 
France in November 2011. Prior to this 
he held a number of senior roles in 
Carrefour including Group Controller 
and Consolidation Director and Chief 
Financial Officer of Carrefour Poland. 
Prior to Carrefour he held a number of 
finance positions at Lyonnaise des Eaux, 
where he joined from Arthur Andersen. 
4. Pascal Bazin (59) 
Non-Executive Director 
Pascal Bazin was appointed as a Non­
Executive Director on 15 October 2012. 
He is a Non-Executive Director of three 
private companies and was most recently 
Chief Executive of Avis pic where he 
oversaw a very successful turnaround 
of the business. He left at the end of 
2011 following the sale of the business 
to Avis Budget Group Inc. Previously 
President of Avis France, he managed 
the recovery of the French business, 
regaining its market-leading position. 
Prior to this he spent some 16 years at 
Yves Rocher in a variety of international 
and technology roles, and was at PPR 
for five years. Pascal is a Graduate 
of the Ecole Polytechnique, Paris. 
5. Carlo D'Asaro Biondo (51) 
Non-Executive Director 
Carlo D'Asaro Biondo was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director on 30 October 
2012. He is also Vice President Southern 
and Eastern Europe, Middle East and 
Africa for Google and has previously 
served as Chief Executive of AOL 
Europe and International Managing 
Director of the media group, Lagardere. 
He is also a Non-Executive Director 
of Mantuan International SA. He has 
a Doctorate in Economics from the 
Universita La Sapienza in Rome. 
6. Michel Leonard (65) 
Senior Independent Director 
Michel Leonard was appointed Senior 
Independent Director on 8 August 
2012, having been a Non-Executive 
Director since 8 February 2010. He is 
also Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. Michel joined the Bongrain 
Group in 1985 as General Manager. He 
then moved on to become Chairman 
of the Management Board of Bong rain 
Europe until 2000 and then lastly 
in 2000 became Chairman of the 
Management Board of Bong rain Group 
until 2003. From 2003 to 2009 he 
was Chairman of the Lactalis Group 
Management Board. Michel is a graduate 
of the HEC School of Management, Paris. 
7. Antoine Metzger (62) 
Non-Executive Director 
Antoine Metzger was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 15 October 
2012. He is also a Director of a non­
listed company in France. He was 
appointed as Secretary-General of the 
lnstitut Fran~ais des Administrateurs. 
He retired as Deputy Chief Executive at 
Vivarte, the French fashion retailer, in 
March 2013, having previously served 
as Secretary-General since joining 
in 2000. Prior to this he had various 
finance, planning and legal roles at Rank 
Xerox, and was CFO at La Redoute and 
Redcats. Antoine is a graduate of the 
HEC School of Management, Paris, 
8. Alison Reed (59) 
Non-Executive Director 
Alison Reed was appointed as a Non­
Executive Director on 8 February 
2012 and is the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Alison is a Non-Executive 
Director and Deputy Chairman of 
British Airways pic, she is also a Non­
Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee at DRS Data & 
Research Services pic. She is also a 
Director of a non-listed company in the 
UK. Her previous experience includes 
21 years with Marks and Spencer pic, 
ultimately as Chief Financial Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer of Standard Life pic 
with responsibility for the flotation and a 
Non-Executive Director of HSBC Bank pic. 
9. Agnes Touraine (61) 
Non-Executive Director 
Agnes Touraine was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 30 October 
2012. She is also the President of Act Ill 
Consultants, having previously served 
as Chief Executive of Vivendi Universal 
Publishing and Games, Hachette 
Consumer Group after having started 
her career at McKinsey. She is also a 
Non-Executive Director of Neopost SA 
and Belgacom SA and is President of the 
lnstitut Franr,;ais des Administrateurs. 
She has held Non-Executive Director 
positions at lTV pic, Cable and Wireless 
pic and Lastminute.com. Agnes Touraine 
has an MBA from Columbia University, 
a law degree from Sorbo nne University 
and graduated from Science Po Paris. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 27  Directors' report 
DIRECTORS' REPORT 
The Directors present their Annual Report together with the Group audited financial statements for the year 
ended 30 April 2016. 
Principal activities 
The Group is a multi-channel 
electrical retailer that operates 
through the following operating 
segments: France (Darty and 
Mistergooddeal.com), Belgium (Vanden 
Borre) and the Netherlands (BCC). 
Business model 
Our business model revolves around 
our strategy outlined in the strategic 
report on pages 5 to 16, focusing on 
restoring profitability and establishing 
the foundations for long-term success 
and rebuilding shareholder value 
for Darty, Vanden Borre and BCC. 
Strategic report 
In accordance with the requirements 
introduced by the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors' Report) 
Regulations 2013, which became effective 
on 1 October 2013, the Directors have 
included certain information required 
for disclosure in other sections of the 
Annual Report. These sections include 
the Chairman's review, Chief Executive's 
review, Operating review, Financial 
review, Corporate responsibility report, 
Corporate governance, Directors' 
remuneration report and the Group 
financial statements and should be read 
in conjunction with this report and this 
information is, accordingly, incorporated 
into this report by reference. 
A review of the development and 
performance of the Group during the 
year, its position at the year end, and 
the outlook and its strategy are given 
in the Chairman's review on page 2, the 
Chief Executive's review on pages 8 to 
15, the Financial review on pages 17 to 19 
and the Operating review on page 16. 
28 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
The Company has chosen, in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 section 
414C(11), to include the disclosure of likely 
future developments in the strategic 
report on pages 5 to 16. Information on 
environmental matters and disclosures 
relating to diversity, gender and human 
rights are contained in the Corporate 
responsibility report on pages 22 to 25. 
The key performance indicators ('KPis') 
and the principal risks and uncertainties 
contained therein, are incorporated into 
this report by reference. Definitions of 
the KPis and the Group's performance 
against them are given on page 19. 
The principal risks and uncertainties are 
set out on pages 20 and 21. Details of 
the Company's policy on addressing 
such risks, along with information on 
the Darty Risk Management Framework, 
can be found in the Corporate 
governance report on pages 32 to 37. 
Profit and dividends 
Group revenue was €3,656.8 million 
(2015: €3,512.1 million), with Group 
retail profit of €93.1 million (2015: 
€74.9 million). The profit before tax was 
€28.4 million (2015: €32.9 million). 
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents 
per share was paid to the Ordinary 
shareholders of the Company on 
31 March 2016. 
Under the terms of the offer from Groupe 
Fnac S.A., the Company is not intending to 
recommend a final dividend. 
Directors 
The names and biographical details of 
the Directors holding office at the date 
of this report are shown on pages 26 and 
27. Particulars of Directors' emoluments 
and their interests in the shares of the 
Group and its subsidiaries are shown in 
the report on Directors' remuneration 
and related matters on pages 38 to 49. 
There were no changes in the Directors' 
interests in shares between the end of 
the financial year and 15 June 2016. 
If the Annual General Meeting is held, 
then in accordance with Principle 
B7.1 of the UK Governance Code all 
of the Directors will be retiring and 
the following, being eligible, are 
offering themselves for re-election: 
Alan Parker 
Regis Schultz 
Albin Jacquemont 
Pascal Bazin 
Carlo D'Asaro Biondo 
Michel Leonard 
Antoine Metzger 
Alison Reed 
Agnes Touraine 
Details of the terms of appointment 
of all the Directors can be found in 
the report on Directors' remuneration 
and related matters on pages 38 to 
49. The Board strongly supports their 
re-election and recommends that 
shareholders vote in favour of the 
resolutions proposing their re-election. 
Details of all the Executive Directors' 
service contracts are set out in the 
report on Directors' remuneration 
and related matters on pages 38 
to 49. None of the Non-Executive 
Directors have a service contract.  Throughout the financial year, and at 
the date of the approval of the financial 
statements, the Group has maintained 
liability insurance for its Directors and 
Officers against the costs of defending 
themselves in civil proceedings taken 
against them in that capacity and in 
respect of damages resulting from the 
unsuccessful defence of any proceedings. 
To the extent permitted by UK law, the 
Group has also provided an indemnity 
for its Directors and Officers. Neither 
the insurance nor the indemnity 
provides any cover where the Director 
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
Share capital and control 
At 30 April 2016 there were 529,553,216 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each in issue 
together with rights under the Group's 
Long-term Incentive Plans for 10,617,072 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents. It is intended 
to satisfy these rights through market 
purchase, rather than issuing new shares. 
Further details of the share capital are 
given in note 27 to the financial 
statements. 
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled 
to attend and speak at general meetings 
of the Company, to appoint one or more 
proxies and, if they are corporations, 
corporate representatives to attend 
general meetings and to exercise voting 
rights. Holders of Ordinary shares may 
receive a dividend and on liquidation 
may share in the assets of the Company. 
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled 
to receive the Company's Annual Report 
and Accounts. Subject to meeting certain 
thresholds, holders of Ordinary shares 
may requisition a general meeting 
of the Company or the proposal of 
resolutions at Annual General Meetings. 
Voting rights 
On a show of hands at a general meeting 
of the Company, every holder of Ordinary 
shares present in person or by proxy 
and entitled to vote has one vote and on 
a poll every member present in person 
or by proxy and entitled to vote has 
one vote for every Ordinary share held. 
None of the Ordinary shares carries any 
special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions 
must be received by the Group's 
registrars not later than (i) 48 hours 
before a meeting or adjourned meeting, 
or (ii) 24 hours before a poll is taken, 
if the poll is not taken on the same day 
as the meeting or adjourned meeting. 
Restrictions on transfer of shares 
There are some restrictions on the 
transfer of shares in the Company, which 
may from time to time be imposed by 
laws and regulations (for example insider 
trading laws). Pursuant to the Group's 
Code of Conduct, the Directors and 
senior executives of the Group require 
approval to deal in the Company's 
shares. Furthermore, where a person 
with at least a 0.25 per cent interest in 
a class of shares has been served with 
a disclosure notice and has failed to 
provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares, the 
Articles of Association ('the Articles') 
provide that the Company may refuse 
to register a transfer of those shares. 
The Group is not aware of any 
agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of shares or on voting rights. 
The Company's Articles of Association 
give the Board the power to appoint 
Directors, but also require Directors 
to retire and submit themselves for 
election at the first Annual General 
Meeting following their appointment. 
A Director who retires in this way is 
eligible for election but is not taken 
into account when deciding how many 
Directors should retire by rotation 
at the Annual General Meeting. The 
Articles themselves may be amended by 
special resolution of the shareholders. 
Pursuant to the Articles, at every Annual 
General Meeting any Director who (i) has 
been appointed by the Board since the 
last Annual General Meeting, (ii) who held 
office at the time of the two preceding 
Annual General Meetings and who did 
not retire at either of them, or (iii) who 
has held office with the Company, other 
than employment or executive office, 
for a continuous period of nine years or 
more at the date of the Meeting, shall 
retire from office and may offer himself 
for reappointment by the members. 
From time to time a Director 
may retire and offer himself for 
reappointment by the shareholders 
to ensure orderly succession. 
Notwithstanding the Articles, in 
accordance with Principle B7.1 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2014 ('the Code'), all Directors will 
offer themselves for re-election at 
the Annual General Meeting. 
The Board of Directors is responsible for 
the management of the business of the 
Group and may exercise all the powers of 
the Group subject to the provisions of the 
Company's Memorandum of Association 
and the Articles. The Articles contain 
specific provisions and restrictions 
regarding the Group's power to borrow 
money. Powers relating to the issuing and 
buying back of shares are also included 
in the Articles and shareholders are 
asked to renew such authorities each 
year at the Annual General Meeting. 
A copy of the Articles is available on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
There are a number of agreements 
that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the 
Group following a takeover, such as 
commercial contracts, the Group's 
bank agreements, the High Yield Bond 
and employees' share plans. None of 
these are deemed to be significant in 
terms of their potential impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole. 
Significant contracts 
There are no parties with whom 
the Group has contractual or other 
arrangements that are essential 
to the business of the Group. 
Purchase of own shares 
At the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on 10 September 2015, 
authority was given for the Company to 
purchase, in the market, up to 52,955,321 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each. The 
Company did not use this authority to 
make any purchases of its own shares 
during the period. At the next Annual 
General Meeting, shareholders will be 
asked to give a similar authority. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 29  Directors' report 
DIRECTORS' REPORT 
Substantial shareholding 
As at 15 June 2016, the following 
interests of more than 3 per cent in the 
issued share capital of the Company 
had been notified under Rule 5 of 
the Financial Services Authorities' 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
Percentage 
Number of of 1ssued 
Ord1nary share 
Name shares cap1tal 
Groupe Fnac 157.415.446 29.73% 
Steinhoff 
Finance Holding 108,020,038 20.40% 
Knight Vinke 75,974,709 14.35% 
DNCA Finance 41,315,771 7.80% 
Legal & General 20,823,334 3.94% 
Morgan Stanley 26,719,087 5.05% 
Lazard Freres 17.412,237 3.28% 
Annual General Meeting 
Notices convening the 13th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company will 
be sent separately to shareholders. 
Corporate responsibility and diversity 
The Group has an operating principles 
handbook which contains a code of 
conduct that sets out the standards 
of behaviour expected in the Group 
and of all who work for the Group, in 
their relationships with employees, 
customers, suppliers, business 
partners, the community (including 
the environment), government and all 
other stakeholders in the business. 
30 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Employment policies 
At 30 April 2016, the number of 
employees working for the Group in 
Europe and Asia was 12,232. The Group 
consists of a number of businesses 
operating in different countries. While 
employment practices may vary 
between these businesses, the Group is, 
nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: 
• all employees receive fair and equal 
treatment irrespective of gender, 
ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital 
status, religion, sexuality or disability; 
• the working environment is conducive 
to achievement and free from 
harassment and intimidation; 
• disabled persons, whether registered 
or not, have equal opportunities when 
applying for vacancies, with due 
regard to their aptitudes and abilities. 
In addition to complying with 
legislative requirements, procedures 
ensure that disabled employees are 
fairly treated and that their training 
and career development needs are 
carefully managed; and 
• the assessment of training needs and 
the provision of appropriate training is 
delivered to its employees. 
Health and safety 
Group companies have a responsibility 
to ensure that all reasonable 
precautions are taken to provide 
and maintain working conditions, for 
employees and visitors alike, which 
are safe, healthy and in compliance 
with statutory requirements and 
appropriate codes of practice. 
The Group's companies pursue the 
objective of minimising the instances 
of occupational accidents and illnesses. 
Examples of this are to be seen in the 
employment of health and safety advisers 
and in the establishment of detailed 
policies and statements of intent and 
training programmes for employees. The 
Company Secretary has the responsibility 
to ensure that the Board is presented with 
a review detailing how the Group overall 
complies with the statutory requirements 
and appropriate codes of practice. 
Employee involvement 
Group companies actively consult their 
staff on matters of concern to them 
in the context of their employment. 
In Europe, where the largest number 
of employees are, there is a formal 
consultation process through workers' 
councils. Consultation also takes place 
through joint consultation committees. 
Information on matters of concern 
to employees, including the 
financial and economic factors 
affecting the performance of 
the Group, is also disseminated 
through conferences, meetings, 
publications and electronic media. 
More information on corporate 
responsibility including greenhouse gas 
emissions is set out on pages 22 to 25. 
Corporate governance 
The Group's statement on corporate 
governance can be found in the 
Corporate governance section 
on pages 32 to 37. The Corporate 
governance section forms part of this 
Directors' report and is incorporated 
into it by way of cross reference. 
Directors' disclosure of information 
to auditors 
The Directors believe that there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
auditors are unaware and each Director 
has taken all steps that they ought 
to have taken as a Director to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the 
auditors are aware of that information. 
Going concern 
The Directors have performed a review 
of revenue and profit forecasts, expected 
cash flows, available borrowing facilities 
and expected compliance with related 
covenants. This has provided reasonable 
expectation that the Darty Group 
has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the next 
financial year and the foreseeable 
future. Following this review and a 
discussion of a number of sensitivities 
that were applied, the Board confirmed 
it continues to be appropriate to follow 
the going concern basis of accounting 
in the financial statements. 
Accordingly, the Directors continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.  Viability assessment 
The viability statement has been 
prepared as if the Darty Group 
continues as an independent 
group with no takeover impact. 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of 
the Code, the Directors have assessed 
the prospect of the Darty Group over 
a longer period than the 12 months 
required by the 'going concern' provision. 
The Board has conducted this review 
over a three-year period, which the 
Directors consider to be a reasonable 
period as the Group's strategic planning 
covers a three-year period as set out 
in the strategic report on pages 20 to 
21. The three-year plan considers the 
Group's cash flows, dividend cover, 
bank and bond covenants and other 
key financial ratios over the period. 
These items are subject to a downward 
sensitivity analysis which involves flexing 
a number of the main assumptions. 
Given the retail environment in which 
Darty operates, revenue and margin 
are considered to have the greatest 
impact on the longer-term viability of 
the Group. In addition, an analysis is also 
undertaken to evaluate the potential 
impact of the Group's principal risks 
actually occurring (see pages 20 and 21). 
Based on the foregoing, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due for the 
period May 2016 to April 2019. 
Fair, balanced and understandable 
The Board received an early draft of 
the Annual Report and Accounts as a 
whole and discussed the tone, balance 
and language of the document. taking 
into account the recent changes in the 
Code and the need for consistency 
between the narrative sections and 
the financial statements. The Board 
received the work undertaken by the 
Audit Committee including the auditors' 
review. The Board's statement on 
the report is outlined on page 35. 
Auditors 
Resolutions concerning the 
reappointment of the auditors and 
authorising the Directors to set 
their remuneration will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been 
the Company's auditors since it listed on 
the London Stock Exchange in July 2003. 
Following its annual review, the Audit 
Committee considers that the relationship 
with the auditors is working well and 
remains satisfied with their effectiveness. 
Accordingly, it has not considered it 
necessary to date to require the firm to 
tender for the audit work. The external 
auditors are required to rotate the audit 
partners responsible for the Group and 
subsidiary audits every five years and 
the current lead audit partner has been 
in place since September 2012. There are 
no contractual obligations restricting the 
Company's choice of external auditors. 
By QJder pf thSBoard 
---s -_..{ A \.A_.O I 
Simon Enoch '-1 
Secretary 
15 June 2016 
Registered Office: 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 31  Corporate governance 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Financial Conduct Authority ('FCA') 
requires listed companies to disclose, 
in relation to the Code, how they have 
applied its principles and whether 
they have complied with its provisions 
throughout the accounting year. 
The Board of Darty pic supports the 
principles of corporate governance 
advocated by the Code and the 
Board believes that it complies in 
full with the terms of the Code. 
Directors 
The Board consists of a Chairman, 
a Chief Executive plus one further 
Executive Director and six Non-Executive 
Directors. There is a clear division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman 
and Chief Executive. 
All the Non-Executive Directors are 
independent in character and judgement 
and there are no relationships or 
circumstances which could affect, or 
appear to affect, a Director's judgement. 
Michel Leonard is the Senior Independent 
Director. Alison Reed, an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee, is a qualified 
accountant. She is considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Board is aware of the other 
commitments of its Directors and is 
satisfied that these do not conflict 
with their duties as Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The Executive 
Directors do not hold any Non-Executive 
Directorships in other companies. 
The Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for specified terms and the 
details of their respective appointments 
are set out in the report on Directors' 
remuneration and related matters 
on pages 38 to 49. Copies of their 
respective letters of appointment or 
contracts are available for inspection at 
the Company's registered office and will 
also be available for inspection at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
32 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
All Directors are subject to re-election 
by shareholders at the first opportunity 
after their appointment and thereafter 
in accordance with Article 82 of the 
Company's Articles of Association. 
The Directors are following the best 
practice requirements of Principle B7.1 
of the Code and all will be retiring at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and 
are offering themselves for re-election. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors meet as a group without the 
Executive Directors present. The 
Non-Executive Directors meet in the 
absence of the Chairman if there are 
any concerns which the Chairman has 
failed to resolve, or to consider his 
performance or terms of appointment. 
The role of the Chairman is to ensure 
that the Board has full and timely 
access to all relevant information. The 
Chairman leads the Board and represents 
the Board to the Chief Executive as 
necessary between Board meetings. 
The duties of the Board and its 
committees are set out clearly in formal 
terms of reference, copies of which are 
available from www.dartygroup.com. 
These are reviewed regularly, stating 
the items specifically reserved for 
decisions by the Board. The Board 
establishes overall Group strategy, 
including new activities and withdrawal 
from existing activities. It approves the 
Group's commercial strategy and the 
operating budget and monitors divisional 
performance through the receipt of 
monthly reports and management 
accounts. The process for the approval 
of acquisitions/divestments for the 
most part is a matter reserved for the 
Board save that it delegates to the 
Chief Executive the responsibility for 
such activities up to a specified level of 
authority. Similarly, there are authority 
levels covering capital expenditure, which 
can be exercised by the Chief Executive. 
Beyond these levels of authority, projects 
are referred to the Board for approval. 
Other matters reserved to the 
Board include: 
• Overview of financial control, audit 
and risk management; 
• remuneration: 
• the Group's framework of executive 
remuneration and its cost in the 
light of recommendations made by 
the Remuneration Committee; 
• the remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors; 
• senior management succession plans 
and the overall direction of 
management development; 
• pension schemes; 
• corporate responsibility; and 
• the appointment or removal of the 
Company Secretary. 
The Board is supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and 
of a quality appropriate to enable it 
to discharge its duties. This includes 
monthly management accounts 
irrespective of whether or not a Board 
meeting is scheduled. There is also a 
procedure under which Directors, in 
furtherance of their duties, are able to 
take independent professional advice, if 
necessary, at the Company's expense. 
The Company Secretary is responsible 
for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and all Directors have 
access to his advice and services. 
The Directors receive training as part of 
their induction from the Company's legal 
advisers on the duties and responsibilities 
of being Directors of a publicly limited 
company. The training needs of the 
Directors are periodically discussed at 
Board meetings and briefings are given 
by the Company Secretary on various 
elements of corporate governance, 
regulatory compliance and best practice.  In previous years the Board has 
conducted its own evaluation exercise. 
In September 2013 it engaged an 
independent professional organisation 
to undertake an evaluation process. 
A further exercise was undertaken in 
2015 which covered the Board, as well 
as its principal committees, and the 
results have been considered by the 
Board and the respective committees. 
The Senior Independent Director, 
Michel Leonard also met with the 
Non-Executive Directors in the 
absence of the Chairman, to assess the 
Chairman's effectiveness. Details of the 
Chairman's professional commitments 
are included in his biography on page 27. 
During the year ended 30 April 2016 
the Board met 24 times. This is felt 
adequate to enable effective running 
of the Company. The attendance record 
of individual Directors at Board and 
committee meetings is detailed above. 
The Board has established a 
number of committees, including 
Audit, Remuneration, Nomination 
and Disclosure Committees: 
(a) Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee consists of three 
Non-Executive Directors, considered by 
the Board to be independent. They are 
Alison Reed (Chairman), Antoine Metzger 
and Agnes Touraine. The Committee has 
at least one member, Alison Reed, who 
possesses recent and relevant financial 
experience. It can be seen from the 
Directors' biographical details, appearing 
on page 27, that the members of the 
Committee bring to it a wide range of 
experience from positions at the highest 
level, both in the UK and France. 
The Committee met five times in 
2015/16. Both the external auditors and 
the Director of Risk Management and 
Audit were present at the meetings 
and, in addition, the Committee met the 
external auditors without management 
present. The external auditors are not 
present when their performance and/or 
remuneration is discussed. The Director 
of Risk Management and Audit has 
the right to request a meeting without 
other management present, and he 
regularly meets the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee without management 
being present. The Chief Executive and 
the Finance Director attend meetings 
as appropriate. 
I A"''' I Rem""'"'"" I Nom'"''"" I o;"'""" 
Board Comm1ttee Comm1ttee Comm1ttee Comm1ttee 
meetmgs meet1ngs meetings meetmgs meetmgs 
(24) (5) (9) (1) (4) 
Alan Parker 24 N/A 
Regis Schultz 24 N/A 
Dominic Platt' 2 N/A 
Albin Jacquemont 22 N/A 
Pascal Bazin 24 N/A 
Carlo D'Asaro Biondo 24 N/A 
Michel Leonard 24 N/A 
Antoine Metzger 24 
Alison Reed 24 
Agnes Touraine 24 
Resigned 18 June 2015. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports the outcome of meetings to 
the Board and the Board receives the 
minutes of all Audit Committee meetings. 
The main role and responsibilities are 
set out in written terms of reference 
which encompass those recommended 
by the Combined Code, ie: 
• to monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Company, reviewing 
significant financial reporting issues 
and judgements contained therein; 
• to review the financial reports for 
publication and to ensure compliance 
with all accounting policies and 
standards; 
• to review the Company's compliance 
with legal and regulatory 
requirements; 
• to review the Company's internal 
financial control and risk management 
systems and to review risk exposures 
and steps taken to monitor and control 
them; 
• to monitor and review the 
effectiveness of the Company's 
internal audit function; 
• to make recommendations to the 
Board in relation to the appointment of 
the external auditors and to approve 
the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditors; 
5 
5 
5 
9 1 4 
N/A 1 4 
N/A 1 1 
N/A N/A 3 
9 1 N/A 
N/A 1 N/A 
9 1 N/A 
N/A 1 N/A 
N/A 1 N/A 
N/A 1 N/A 
• to monitor and review the external 
auditors' independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness, taking into account 
UK professional and regulatory 
requirements; 
• to monitor the operation of formal 
complaints procedures, including 
whistleblowing; 
• to satisfy itself that the Company's 
code of conduct is being enforced; and 
• the removal and appointment of the 
Group Director of Risk Management 
and Internal Audit. 
The Committee has an annual work 
plan. This includes standing items 
that are considered regularly, in 
addition to any specific matters that 
need the Committee's attention and 
topical items on which the Committee 
chooses to focus. This year: 
• at its meetings in May, June, 
September, December and February 
the focus was the review of the 
published financial results, the Annual 
Report and other published financial 
information. The Committee 
considered the appropriateness of the 
Group's accounting policies, critical 
accounting estimates and key 
judgements; 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 33  Corporate governance 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
• a report from the Director of Audit and 
Risk Management was presented and 
discussed at each of the five meetings, 
which highlighted any significant risk 
and control issues; 
• the Committee monitored 
management's responsiveness to the 
Internal Audit findings and 
recommendations and ensured that 
management took appropriate action 
on the issues arising; 
• in addition, at the May 2015 meeting, 
the Director of Audit and Risk 
Management submitted the internal 
audit plans for the coming year which 
were discussed and approved. Key 
areas of focus across the Internal 
Audit Plan included financial 
management and controls, with a 
focus this year on cash in and cash 
out and stock controls, data security, 
cyber security, and the transfer of the 
Group Finance function to France. An 
additional review was added during the 
year into the reasons for the failed 
ERP implementation in BCC and key 
learnings; 
• the external auditors presented their 
Group audit plan, which was 
considered and approved by the 
Committee. The key areas of focus set 
out in the auditors' report on pages 51 
to 55 were discussed. These areas of 
focus were again reviewed with the 
external auditor at the time of their 
review of the half-year results and also 
at the time of the consideration of the 
financial statements for the year. 
There was a detailed review of the 
external auditors' effectiveness at the 
September 2015 meeting, which took 
into account feedback from the 
Committee and various stakeholders 
across the business. The external 
auditors' work was rated as meeting or 
exceeding expectations; 
• Darty's risk management processes 
have been in place throughout the 
period under review. The risks that 
are considered material are regularly 
reviewed by the Executive Committee 
and by the Board. These included 
the risks set out in principal risks on 
pages 20 and 21. The Committee also 
received and discussed specific risk 
presentations on key business areas. 
The Committee also considers any 
whistleblowing reports regarding 
accounting, internal accounting 
controls or auditing matters; and 
34 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
• as a matter of routine, the Committee 
was presented with information on 
material litigation involving Group 
companies. 
The significant issues the Committee 
considered in relation to the financial 
statements for the year ended 30 April 
2016 and that were closely considered 
with the external auditors were: 
Group accounting policies, critical 
accounting estimates and key judgements 
The Committee reviewed the accounting 
policies and the disclosures in note 1 to 
the consolidated financial statements 
that relate to critical accounting 
estimates and key judgements and 
re-confirmed they remain appropriate. 
Carrying value of leasehold properties 
in France and intangible and store assets 
in the Netherlands 
The Audit Committee considered the 
carrying value of leasehold properties 
in France and Holland in light of their 
size and the trading performance of the 
business in recent years. The Committee 
reviewed the store-by-store impairment 
analysis prepared by management and 
the trading forecasts supporting the 
assessment and the WACC calculation 
supported the conclusion that, given 
the performance and the uncertain 
market outlook, an impairment of all 
intangible and all leasehold tangible 
assets was required in the Netherlands 
and that the freehold assets were 
supported by market valuations. 
Revenue and rebate recognition 
The Audit Committee is aware of the 
heightened concern regarding revenue 
recognition and rebates. It has reviewed 
the controls over revenue and rebates 
with senior management to ensure 
the appropriateness of the revenue 
recognition and its collectability. 
The Committee was pleased to 
note the significant improvement in 
cash collection management from 
supplier rebates during the period. 
Going concern 
The Directors have performed a review 
of revenue and profit forecasts, expected 
cash flows, available borrowing facilities 
and expected compliance with related 
covenants. This has provided reasonable 
expectation that the Darty Group 
has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the next 
financial year and the foreseeable 
future. Following this review and a 
discussion of a number of sensitivities 
that were applied, the Committee 
confirmed it would recommend to the 
Board that it continues to be appropriate 
to follow the going concern basis of 
accounting in the financial statements. 
Accordingly, the Directors continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
The Directors have also performed a 
viability review for a period of 36 months 
from 1 May 2016 on the assumption 
that the Darty Group continues as an 
independent company with no takeover 
impact. The Committee confirmed it 
would recommend to the Board that it 
was appropriate to conclude that there is 
reasonable expectation the Darty Group 
will be viable for the 36 months from 
1 May 2016. 
Inventory 
Inventory is the largest asset on the 
balance sheet, and obsolescence could 
adversely affect its value. The Committee 
reviewed the current provision against 
the aging of inventory by category. 
Retirement benefits 
The Committee reviewed the 
assumptions underlying the lAS 19 
accounting valuation of the pension 
liabilities in the financial statements and 
considered the financial assumptions 
including the discount rate, price 
inflation and the rate of increase in 
pensions and salaries as disclosed in 
note 32 of the financial statements. 
Tax 
Following a number of tax audits in 
France there has been an increase 
in potential tax exposures. Extensive 
professional advice has been taken and 
reviewed by the Committee. Provisions 
have been made based on the best 
estimate of the expected outcome. 
As noted above, one of the duties 
of the Audit Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment of the external 
auditors. The Committee, in assessing 
whether to recommend the auditors 
for reappointment. takes a number of 
factors into account. These include: 
• audit scope, planning and the quality 
of reports provided to the Audit 
Committee and the Board and the 
quality of advice given; 
• the level of understanding 
demonstrated of the Group's business 
and industry; 
• the objectivity of the auditors' views 
on the controls around the Group and 
their ability to coordinate a global 
audit working to tight deadlines; and 
• monitoring of non-audit services.  The Committee has put in place 
safeguards to ensure that the 
independence of the audit is not 
compromised and the auditors are 
restricted in their ability to perform 
any non-audit activities. Arrangements 
are in place for the auditors to report 
to the Committee on actions they 
take to comply with the professional 
and regulatory requirements and 
best practice designed to ensure their 
independence from the Company. 
The Committee reviews its performance 
annually through questionnaires, the 
results of which show the Committee 
continues to work effectively. 
(b) Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee 
consists exclusively of Non-Executive 
Directors considered by the Board to be 
independent: Michel Leonard (Chairman) 
Alan Parker and Pascal Bazin. The 
Committee's responsibilities include 
setting remuneration policy, ensuring 
that the remuneration and terms of 
service of the Executive Directors are 
appropriate and that Directors are fairly 
rewarded for their individual contribution 
to the Company's overall performance. 
It also ensures that the allocation of 
shares under the Group's share schemes 
are on a fair and equitable basis and in 
accordance with agreed performance 
criteria. The application of corporate 
governance principles in relation to 
Directors' remuneration is described in 
the report on Directors' remuneration 
and related matters on pages 38 to 49. 
(c) Nomination Comm"ittee 
The members of the Nomination 
Committee are Alan Parker (Chairman), 
Pascal Bazin, Carlo D'Asaro Biondo, 
Antoine Metzger, Michel Leonard, 
Alison Reed, Regis Schultz and 
Agnes Touraine. The Committee is 
chaired by the Senior Independent 
Director on any matter concerning 
the Chairmanship of the Company. 
The Nomination Committee has written 
terms of reference covering the 
authority delegated to it by the Board. 
These include the following duties: 
• to review regularly the Board 
performance, including structure, size, 
composition and diversity and make 
recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any adjustments that are 
deemed necessary; 
• Board appointments and removals are 
matters reserved for the Board. It is 
the responsibility of the Nomination 
Committee to identify and nominate 
candidates for the approval of the 
Board, to fill Board vacancies as and 
when they arise and to review 
succession plans for both Board and 
senior executive positions; and 
• setting policy for granting of service 
agreements (including mitigation 
policy). 
(d) Disclosure Committee 
The members of the Disclosure 
Committee are Albin Jacque mont 
(Chairman), Regis Schultz and Alan Parker. 
The Committee's responsibilities include 
the establishment and maintenance 
of disclosures controls and processes 
for the appropriateness of disclosures 
made by the Group and for compliance 
with the Group's share trading rules. 
Share capital and control 
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2.6 
are to be found on page 30 of the 
Directors' report. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Company recognises the 
importance of communicating with its 
shareholders and does this through 
its Annual and Interim Reports and 
at the Annual General Meeting. 
Although it does not have precise rules 
covering meetings with institutional 
shareholders, it is always ready to 
enter into a dialogue with investors, 
and meetings take place frequently. 
The Board believes that good 
communication with shareholders is 
important. The Chairman has had a 
number of meetings with the Company's 
institutional investors, and there are 
programmes for the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director to meet the 
Company's institutional investors in the 
UK and Europe and presentations are 
made on the operating and financial 
performance of the Group and its longer­
term strategy. Roadshows are held in 
the UK and Europe immediately after 
the presentation of the full-year and 
interim results. If it is not possible to 
arrange face-to-face meetings, meetings 
are held by telephone conference. The 
presentations made to representatives 
of the investment community following 
the announcement of the full-year and 
interim results are available online at 
www.dartygroup.com as is a webcast 
of the result's presentations. 
The Non-Executive Directors are 
given regular updates as to the views 
of institutional shareholders and the 
Senior Independent Director, Michel 
Leonard, is available to meet institutional 
shareholders should there be unresolved 
matters that shareholders believe 
should be brought to his attention. 
The principal communication with private 
investors is through the Annual Report, 
the half-year management statements 
and the Annual General Meeting. 
A presentation is made at the Annual 
General Meeting to facilitate greater 
awareness of the Group's activities. 
Shareholders are given the opportunity 
to ask questions of the Board and the 
Chairman of each Board committee at 
the meeting and meet the Directors 
informally after the meeting. Separate 
resolutions are proposed for each item 
of business and the 'for', 'against' and 
'abstention' proxy votes cast in respect 
of each resolution proposed at the 
meeting are counted and announced 
after the shareholders present have 
voted on each resolution. Notice of the 
Annual General Meeting is posted to 
shareholders with the Annual Report 
at least 20 working days before the 
date of the Annual General Meeting. 
Financial and other information including 
the terms of reference for the Board 
and Board committees are available 
from the Company's registered office 
and are also available on the Company's 
website www.dartygroup.com. 
Accountability, risk management and 
internal control 
It is a requirement of the Code that 
the Board should present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of 
the Company's position and prospects. 
In this context, reference should be 
made to the statement of Directors' 
responsibilities on page 50, which 
includes a statement of compliance 
with the Code regarding the Group's 
status as a going concern, and to the 
auditors' report on page 57, which 
includes a statement by the auditors 
about their reporting responsibilities. 
The Board recognises that its 
responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment 
extends to interim and other price­
sensitive public reports and reports 
to regulators as well as information 
required to be presented by law. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 35  Corporate governance 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Group has a thorough assurance 
process in place in respect of 
the preparation, verification and 
approval of periodic financial 
reports. This process includes: 
Qualified, professional employees 
The involvement of qualified, professional 
employees with an appropriate level 
of experience (both in Group finance 
and throughout the business). 
Comprehensive review 
Comprehensive review and, where 
appropriate, challenge by key internal 
Group functions. 
Transparent process 
A transparent process to ensure full 
disclosure of information to the external 
auditors. Engagement of a professional 
and experienced firm of external auditors. 
Oversight 
Oversight by the Group's Audit Committee, 
involving (among other duties): 
• a detailed review of key financial 
reporting judgements which have been 
discussed by management; and 
• review and, where appropriate, 
challenge on matters including: 
• the consistency of, and any changes 
to, significant accounting policies 
and practices during the year; 
• significant adjustments resulting 
from an external audit; 
• the going concern assumption; and 
• the Company's statement on 
internal control systems, prior to 
endorsement by the Board. 
36 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
In addition to the above process, and 
the review by the Audit Committee as 
to the preparation, internal verification 
and approval process for the Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Committee 
has the opportunity to direct questions 
to the Chief Executive on the overall 
messages and tone of his review and the 
Annual Report. The Committee has also 
considered other information regarding 
the Group's performance presented 
to the Board during the period. After 
debate and consideration of all the 
relevant information the Committee felt 
able to provide comfort to the Board 
that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company's performance, 
business model and strategy. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group's system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness 
and confirms that such reviews have 
taken place regularly throughout the 
year ended 30 April 2016 and up to the 
date of this report. as set out on pages 
36 and 37. ~uch a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The 
Board has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the key procedures that have been 
established to provide internal control. 
In line with publication of guidance 
for Directors on internal control in the 
Combined Code, the Board confirms that 
there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group. These include 
those relating to social, environmental and 
ethical matters. The process is reviewed 
by the Audit Committee, which reports its 
findings for consideration by the Board, 
and is in accordance with the Code and 
the Turnbull Committee guidance. 
The Board has held discussion on 
the risk appetite of the business 
and this has been used when 
determining the principal risks. 
The four key procedures operated 
throughout the year: 
1 Risk assessment: 
• the Group sets out its objectives 
clearly as part of its medium-term 
planning process. These objectives are 
then incorporated as part of the 
budgeting and planning cycle and are 
supported by the use of both financial 
and non-financial key performance 
indicators; 
• the operating companies make 
presentations on risk whose reports 
are incorporated in the risk 
assessment reviewed by the Group 
Audit Committee, which reports to the 
Group Board on the risks and any 
weaknesses facing the businesses; 
• the detailed assessment of strategic 
risks is delegated to the Chief 
Executive. This review is carried out as 
part of the annual budgeting and the 
monthly reporting and reforecasting 
cycles; and 
• the Audit Committee has delegated 
responsibility for considering 
operational, financial and compliance 
risks on a regular basis and receives 
reports on the controls over these 
risks. This includes risks arising from 
social, environmental and ethical 
matters. 
2 Control environment and control 
activities: 
• the Group consists of a number of 
operating companies, each with its 
own management and control 
structures; 
• the Group has established procedures 
for delegated authority, which ensure 
that decisions that are significant, 
either because of the value or the 
impact on other parts of the Group, 
are taken at an appropriate level; 
• the Group has implemented 
appropriate strategies to deal with 
each significant risk that has been 
identified. These strategies include not 
only internal controls but also other 
approaches such as insurance, joint 
ventures and treasury activities; and  • the operating companies work within a 
framework of policies and procedures 
laid down in organisation and authority 
manuals, and personnel are required 
to comply with these procedures. 
Policies and procedures cover key 
issues such as authorisation levels, 
segregation of duties, compliance with 
legislation and physical and data 
security. The Group has also 
established a whistleblowing policy. 
3 Information and communication: 
• the Group has a comprehensive 
system of budgetary control including 
monthly performance reviews for each 
major business and division. These 
reviews are at a detailed level within 
the operating companies and at a 
higher level for the Group Board; 
• on a monthly basis, the achievement of 
business objectives, both financial and 
non-financial, is assessed using a 
range of key performance indicators. 
These indicators are reviewed to 
ensure that they remain relevant and 
reliable; and 
• there are clear procedures in the 
major operating companies for 
employees to report suspected 
improprieties. 
4 Monitoring: 
The effective application of internal 
control within the Group is monitored 
by the Audit Committee, Chief Executive 
(and business heads of the other 
operating companies as appropriate), 
and internal audit and risk management. 
The Audit Committee, which in respect of 
the Group: 
• monitors the integrity of the financial 
statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the 
financial performance; 
• reviews internal financial controls and 
systems, and other internal control 
and risk management systems through 
reports from the internal and external 
auditors on any material control 
weaknesses; 
• reviews risk management 
processes; and 
• monitors and reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal audit function and the 
function's work plans. 
The Chief Executive and, where 
appropriate, the business heads of the 
other operating companies, who: 
• maintain systems that continually 
identify and evaluate significant risks 
resulting from their strategies and that 
apply to their areas of the business; 
• review and monitor the effectiveness 
of internal control systems through an 
operating company Audit Committee 
and reports from internal and external 
audit functions; 
• have responsibility for identification 
and evaluation of significant risks to 
their business area, together with the 
design of mitigating controls; 
• report on any control weaknesses or 
breakdowns that could be material to 
the Group; and 
• certify with the Finance Director for 
the operating company that all 
necessary information has been 
provided to the auditors. 
The internal audit and risk management 
function, which: 
• works with the operating companies to 
develop, improve and embed risk 
management tools and processes into 
their business operations; 
• oversees the operation of the 
individual operating business' 
Audit Committee; 
• ensures that business risks are 
identified, managed and regularly 
reviewed at all levels of the Group 
and that Directors are periodically 
appraised of the key risks in · 
accordance with the Turnbull 
Committee guidance; 
• provides the Board and the Group 
Audit Committee with assurance on 
the control environment across 
the Group; 
• ensures that the operating companies 
have appropriate organisation and 
processes to carry out regular reviews 
of their internal controls; and 
• monitors adherence to the Group's key 
policies and principles. 
While management at each operating 
business has responsibility for the 
identification and evaluation of significant 
risks applicable to their business and 
any mitigating actions to be taken, 
Group executive management 
reviews, identifies and evaluates the 
risks that are significant at Group level 
as well as the mitigating actions against 
those risks. These are then considered 
by the Board. The type of risks identified 
include strategic risk, external factors 
(such as the competitive environment 
and regulations), change management 
programmes, health and safety, retention 
of key management and macro market 
risks. The internal audit plans are 
designed to address the controls and 
actions in relation to each business's 
significant identified risks. Where 
appropriate the risk management process 
will include the use of insurance. 
The Directors can confirm that they 
review the effectiveness of this system 
of internal control, and that it accords 
with the guidance of the Turnbull 
Committee on internal control. 
The Board's review of the system of 
internal control has not identified any 
significant failings or weaknesses, 
and therefore no remedial actions 
are required. 
Due to the process we have in place, the 
Directors believe that we have carried 
out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks of the Company, including those 
that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
By Q!ider;cf t_3le Board 
,6 ~ c'- ~L__ 
Simon Enoch _ 
Company Secretary 
15 June 2016 
Registered Office: 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 37  Corporate governance 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS 
Dear shareholder 
Introduction 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 
to present the Directors' remuneration 
report for the year ended 30 April 2016. 
You will see that, following this 
introductory statement, we have set 
out in full the policy report which was 
approved by a binding shareholder 
vote at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting ('AGM') and to which no 
changes have been made, followed by 
our Annual Report on remuneration 
which is subject to an advisory vote 
at our 2016 AGM. I hope that you find 
the layout of the remuneration report 
clear and transparent and that we 
can rely on your continued support 
for our remuneration policy and its 
implementation during the year. 
Context for executive remuneration 
We have continued our focus on 
implementing and monitoring the 
effectiveness of our remuneration 
principles, which remain unchanged. The 
intention of the principles, which were 
used to guide the content of the policy 
report. is to ensure that remuneration 
arrangements are aligned to and 
support the delivery of the Group's 
business strategy to turn the business 
around and return to growth in order 
to create value for shareholders. 
Darty's aim is to attract and retain as 
high calibre of person as appropriate 
to the specific role. This central aim 
remain~ the same whether we are talking 
about senior executives or colleagues 
wherever they work in our business. 
Major decisions on and changes to 
Directors' remuneration during the year 
As stated above, this year has 
primarily been a year of implementing 
the changes agreed last year. 
The CEO's salary remained unchanged for 
this financial year. 
The operation of the bonus remains 
unchanged, with 50 per cent of any 
bonus earned now being deferred 
for a period of three years. 
38 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
LTIP awards were made subject to 
EPS and free cash flow targets as 
these are still considered to remain 
the most appropriate measures 
of long-term performance aligned 
to shareholder value creation. 
Performance is measured over a three· 
year period, and awards are subject to 
an additional two-year holding period. 
Albin Jacquemont joined the Board as 
CFO effective from 18 June 2015. His 
base salary of €360,000 is c.30 per 
cent lower than that of the previous CFO 
and all incentive arrangements are in 
accordance with our remuneration policy. 
2015/16 remuneration outcomes 
2015/16 saw an improved performance 
by the business and this has been 
reflected through the remuneration 
received by the Executive Directors. 
Under the annual bonus scheme the 
target performance was achieved in 
respect of the profit targets and there 
was also strong performance in respect 
of each of the strategic targets. 
The CEO received a bonus of 125 per 
cent of salary and the CFO a bonus of 
117 per cent of salary (in part reflecting 
the period between joining and the 
2015/16 financial year for which no 
bonus was received last year), half 
of which will be deferred into Darty 
shares for a period of three years. No 
bonus was paid to the departing CFO. 
Performance was strong in respect of 
the LTIP awards made in September 
2013. However, we did not meet all of 
the maximum performance targets, 
with 79.6 per cent of the award vesting 
in total. 50 per cent of this award will 
be received in September 2016 and 50 
per cent vesting in September 2017. 
The one-off share award which Regis 
Schultz received on joining the Group 
to compensate him for the loss of share 
awards at his previous employer. will 
vest on 19 June 2016, and he will receive 
approximately 100 per cent of the award. 
Director departures 
Dominic Platt left the Board on 18 June 
2015 and Albin Jacquemont replaced 
him as Group Finance Director from this 
date. The termination arrangements 
for Dominic Platt were in line with 
the terms of his contract, and our 
remuneration policy, and mitigation 
principles have been applied. 
Further details of all Directors' 
departures are provided in the 
annual report on remuneration. 
We look forward to receiving your 
support at our forthcoming AGM. 
We have also taken note of the desire 
for further transparency for the 
bonus criteria, and have enhanced 
the disclosures for both this and 
the forthcoming financial year. 
Remuneration for 2016/17 
As stated above, we are making no 
changes to our remuneration policy 
this year. However, we intend to increase 
the maximum bonus opportunities for 
the Executive Directors to 150 per cent 
of salary, which is within the current 
policy. The increase has been made to 
ensure that the total remuneration 
package of the Executive Directors 
remains competitive in comparison to 
the market on a forward-looking basis, 
and recognises the exceptional 
performa nee of the executive team 
over the last 12 months. 
At the time of writing this report, the 
Group still remains subject to an offer. 
Therefore, no decisions in respect of 
performance targets for the LTIP will 
be made until this process is complete 
and the Group is in a position to set 
targets which will be aligned with the 
long-term strategy of the business. 
Michel Leonard 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
15 June 2016 
The report complies with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 
8 of the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013. The report has been prepared in 
line with the recommendations of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and the 
requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.  Remuneration policy report 
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which shareholders 
approved,at the 2014 AGM on 11 September 2014, and is effective for three years from then. 
The table below summarises the main components of the remuneration policy. 
Purpose and Operation I Framework used to assess performance and 
Element link to strategy (1nclud1ng max1mum levels) prov1s1on for the recovery of sums pa1d 
Base salary To provide an appropriate Salaries and fees are normally reviewed annually, with Not applicable, although performance in role will be 
and fees level of fixed cash income to changes effective from 1 May taken into account in determining any salary 
attract and retain executives increases 
who can deliver the Salary and fee levels are set taking into account a 
Company's strategy number of relevant factors which include: 
• 
the scale and responsibility of the role 
• 
the skills and experience of the individual 
• 
salary increases awarded across the Group as a 
whole 
• 
competitive practice in companies of a similar size 
and complexity 
To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors 
and other employees, no maximum salary or fee is set 
under the remuneration policy. However. any increase 
will normally be broadly in line with increases awarded 
across the Group as a whole 
Higher increases may be made in certain 
circumstances, which may include: 
• 
an increase in the size or scope of the role or 
responsibilities 
• 
an increase in the size or complexity of the Group 
• 
an increase to reflect the individual's development 
and performance in role 
Benefits To provide a competitive fixed Executive Directors may receive benefits including but Not applicable 
remuneration package to not limited to: a company car (or cash equivalent), 
attract and retain executives travel allowance, private medical and dental insurance, 
who can deliver the travel accident policy, life assurance and long·term 
Company's strategy disability benefit dependent upon the locations in 
which the executives are employed and provide 
services 
No other benefits are currently provided. However, 
where appropriate, other benefits may be provided to 
take account of individual circumstances, such as but 
not limited to: international allowances, relocation 
expenses, housing allowance and education support 
Provision for To provide executives with a The Company may make a payment into a defined Not applicable 
retirement competitive fixed contribution pension plan and/or make a cash 
remuneration package to allowance payment set as a percentage of salary 
attract and retain executives which will not exceed 20 per cent of salary 
who can deliver the 
Company's strategy 
Annual bonus To reward the delivery of the Maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent of annual Bonuses are based on a combination of stretching 
plan business strategy on an salary plus fee. Current opportunities are 125 per cent annual financial performance measures and 
annual basis of salary and fees for the Chief Executive and 100 per role-specific strategic objectives. with the majority 
cent of salary for the Finance Director of the bonus assessed against the financial 
Rewards annual performance performance metrics 
against key financial and Performance is measured over a single financial year 
individual objectives which with payout levels determined by the Committee For target performance up to 65 per cent of the 
are directly linked to the following the year end maximum bonus may be paid 
Group's strategic plan 
Half of any bonus earned will be paid in cash Deferred bonuses are subject to malus and may be 
reduced at the discretion of the Committee in the 
The remaining half will be compulsorily deferred for event of material misstatement of financial results, 
three years and the value received after three years reputational damage to the Group, or gross 
will reflect the change in the value of Darty pic shares misconduct of the individual 
over that period 
The Committee may adjust the bonus payout, either up 
or down, should the formulaic outcome be considered 
not to reflect underlying business performance 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 39  Corporate governance 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS 
Purpose and Operatton Framework used to assess per forma nee and 
Element lrnk to strategy (rncludtng maxtmum levels) provtston for the recovery of sums patd 
LTIP To reward the delivery of the The current maximum face value of annual awards is Vesting of the LTIP is subject to continued 
Company's strategy over the 100 per cent of annual salary plus fee employment and the achievement of stretching 
longer term earnings per share ('EPS') and free cash flow growth 
Awards are made on an annual basis either in the form targets at the end of a three-year performance 
Rewards strong business of nil·cost options or conditional shares with period 
performance and sustained performance assessed over a period of at least three 
increase in shareholder value years. Following the end of the performance period None of the award will vest if the minimum 
awards will be required to be held for up to an performance threshold is not reached 
Supports retention and additional two·year period before they are released to 
promotes share ownership executives For threshold performance up to 25 per cent of the 
award will vest. The vesting level will increase on a 
For awards made in 2014 and onwards, 50 per cent of sliding scale from this threshold to 100 per cent 
the award will be released one year after the end of vesting for stretch levels of performance 
the performance period and 50 per cent two years 
after the end of the performance period Further details. including the performance targets 
attached to the LTIP award made each year, will be 
For awards made in 2013 and prior years before the disclosed in the annual report on remuneration 
adoption of this policy, awards will vest 50 per cent 
after three years and 50 per cent after four years LTIP awards are subject to malus and may be 
reduced at the discretion of the Committee in the 
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic event of material misstatement of financial results, 
LTIP outcomes to improve the alignment of pay with reputational damage to the Group, or gross 
value creation for shareholders to ensure the outcome misconduct of the individual 
is a fair reflection of the performance of the Company 
Shareholding To provide alignment The Chief Executive must build up and hold a minimum Not applicable 
requirement between Executive Directors shareholding of 150 per cent of salary and the Finance 
and shareholders Director 100 per cent of base salary. Executives have 
up to five years from the date of their appointment to 
the Board to build up their share holding 
Legacy plans 
Upon his appointment. the CEO was granted a one·off share award to compensate him for remuneration foregone at his previous 
employer. Details of this award are provided below: 
Purpose and Operatton Framework used to assess performa nee and 
Element ltnk to strategy (tncludtng maxtmum levels) provtston for the recovery of sums patd 
One·off share To compensate for 
award remuneration foregone at 
previous employer 
Notes to the policy table 
One·off award of shares with a face value of 100 per 
cent of salary which will vest on 19 June 2016 subject 
to the achievement of performance conditions 
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting 
The award is subject to the following absolute share 
price performance targets to be achieved based on 
the average of the 28 day trading price immediately 
prior to 19 June 2016: 
• 70p = 30 per cent of award vesting 
• 150p = 100 per cent of award vesting 
The performance metrics that are used to assess performance under the annual bonus are selected by the Remuneration Committee 
each year to incentivise the delivery of financial performance and key role specific strategic objectives. Profit is typically used as the 
measure of financial performance as this is the key underlying measure of financial success for the business on an annual basis. 
The Committee regularly reviews the L TIP performance measures to ensure they are aligned with the Company's long·term strategy 
and shareholders' interests. The current measures of EPS growth and free cash flow ('FCF') have been selected as EPS growth 
focuses executives on real profit growth, which is strongly aligned with value creation, and FCF focuses on ensuring the Company 
has the cash available to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. 
Targets for both the annual bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually against a number of internal and external reference points. They 
are set on a sliding scale at levels the Committee considers to be appropriately stretching for the level of award delivered. 
40 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Remuneration policy for employees 
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors in general is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees 
as not all employees participate in an annual bonus plan and LTIP awards are only made to the most senior individuals in the Group. 
However, the process for reviewing salaries and Directors' fees is applied on a consistent basis across the Group and the key 
principles of providing remuneration that is appropriate to attract, retain, motivate and reward employees to deliver the Group's 
strategic plan without paying more than is necessary applies to all employees as well as Executive Directors. 
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors 
The charts below show how the composition of Executive Directors' remuneration packages as set out in the policy table may vary 
based on the following three performance scenarios: 
• • I • • I Bas1s of valuation 
Minimum performance (below threshold) Fixed pay only- base salary, Directors' fee, benefits and pension 
Target performance Fixed pay, plus bonus at target performance and 25 per cent vesting under the LTIP 
Maximum performance (all performance conditions met) Fixed pay, plus maximum bonus and full vesting under the LTIP 
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated at any time 
without compensation. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years and their appointments are 
reviewed at the end of each three-year term. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 41  Corporate governance 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS 
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: 
Component and objective I Approach 
Fees 
To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre with 
broad commercial experience relevant to the Company 
The Board determines the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors under a policy 
that seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility and technical 
skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board 
Recruitment policy 
When determining the remuneration 
package for a new Executive Director, 
the Committee will take into account 
all relevant factors based on the 
circumstances at that time. This may 
include factors such as the calibre 
of the individual, market practice in 
the candidate's current location or 
locations and scope of the role to 
which they are being appointed. 
Typically, the package will be aligned 
with the Company's remuneration 
policy set out above. However, should 
there be a commercial rationale for 
doing so, the Remuneration Committee 
has the discretion to include any other 
remuneration elements that are not 
included in the ongoing remuneration 
policy, subject to the overall limit on 
variable remuneration set out below. 
The Committee does not intend to 
use this discretion to make non­
performance-related incentive payments 
and is always mindful of the need to 
pay no more than is necessary. 
To help facilitate the appointment of an 
individual the Remuneration Committee 
may need to make awards to 'buy out' 
an external candidate's remuneration 
arrangements, which are forfeited 
as a result of leaving their previous 
employer or appointment. In doing so, 
42 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
The fees paid are reviewed on an annual basis and set at a level to attract 
individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant 
contribution to the Group's activities, while also reflecting the time 
commitment and responsibility of the role. Each Non-Executive Director is 
also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel and other expenses 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any share scheme or annual 
bonus scheme and are not eligible to join the Group's pension schemes. 
The current fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors are as follows: 
• Chairman = £200,000 per annum; 
• Non-Executive Director base fee= £40,500 per annum; 
• Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman= £6,250 per annum; and 
• Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman = £6,250 
per annum. 
In exceptional circumstances where Non-Executive Directors are required to 
commit a significant amount of time above their normal duties additional fees 
may be paid 
the Committee will take into account all 
relevant factors, which may include: the 
form and time horizon of awards, any 
performance conditions attaching to 
the awards and the likelihood of awards 
vesting. The Committee will typically 
seek to 'buy out' awards on a comparable 
basis to those which have been forfeited 
with the intention that the value awarded 
would be no higher than the expected 
value of the forfeited arrangements. 
The maximum level of variable 
remuneration that may be granted to a 
new Executive Director on appointment 
(excluding any 'buy out' of forfeited 
awards discussed above) will be 300 per 
cent of salary as set out in the policy 
table for current Executive Directors. 
Where an individual is promoted to 
an Executive Director position from 
within the Company, remuneration 
commitments made prior to the 
appointment as Director will continue 
on their original terms, provided 
such commitment was not made in 
contemplation of such individual being 
appointed as an Executive Director. 
The remuneration package for a newly 
appointed Non-Executive Director would 
be in line with the structure set out in the 
policy table for Non-Executive Directors. 
Service contracts and exit 
payment policy 
The current CEO has a service contract 
and a letter of appointment under which 
employment can be terminated either 
by the CEO or the Company giving 12 
months' notice. The current CFO has a 
service contract under which employment 
can be terminated by the Company giving 
12 months' notice or the CFO six months' 
notice. For any new Executive Directors 
the Board's policy is for service contracts 
to have a 12-month notice period for 
both the Company and the executive. 
The Company may elect to terminate 
Executive Directors' service contracts by 
making payments in lieu of notice that 
will not exceed 12 months' salary and 
benefits, which can also include, but are 
not limited to, pension, outplacement, 
settlement agreement, non-compete 
agreements and legal fees. The 
Company may at its discretion reduce 
the payment to take into account the 
receipt of a lump sum and mitigation. 
Unless an executive is terminated for 
cause, a payment may be made in 
respect of their bonus opportunity on 
a pro rated basis, taking into account 
employment law in non-UK jurisdictions 
where relevant to the individual, the 
proportion of the financial year for 
which they were employed and subject 
to the performance achieved.  The table below provides a summary of how awards under the LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final 
treatment remaining subject to the Committee's discretion as provided under the rules of the plan: 
Reason for cessat1on of employment Default treatment 
Termination for cause Awards lapse upon cessation of employment 
'Good Ieaver' which includes: death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other If an individual leaves during the performance period the level of award to be 
reason as determined by the Committee 
Change of control 
Statement of consideration of 
shareholder views 
The Remuneration Committee 
considers shareholder feedback 
received in relation to the AGM each 
year and guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies more generally. 
This feedback, plus any additional 
feedback received from time to time, is 
then considered as part of the Company's 
annual review of remuneration. 
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in 
the Company 
The Committee does not consult with 
employees specifically on executive 
remuneration policy. However, when 
reviewing or amending remuneration 
arrangements the Committee considers 
pay practices across the Company, 
including the salary increases applying 
across the rest of the business in the 
relevant market. The Committee also 
takes into account the impact on the 
behaviour of employees more widely and 
the views of all relevant stakeholders. 
received will be determined at the end of the performance period subject to 
the achievement of the performance conditions and pro rated for time 
served. Awards will then be released at the normal release date 
If an individual leaves after the end of the performance period but before the 
release date the level of award determined at the end of the performance 
period will be released at the normal release date 
In the case of death, the Committee may deem the performance period to end 
at an earlier date and the awards are released immediately 
Awards will vest upon the change of control subject to performance at that 
time and pro rated for time served unless the Committee determines 
otherwise 
Payments in relation to existing 
remuneration arrangements 
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss 
of office (including exercising any 
discretions available to it in connection 
with such payments) notwithstanding 
that they are not in line with the 
policy set out above where the terms 
of the payment were agreed: 
• before the policy came into effect; or 
• at a time when the relevant individual 
was not a Director of the Company 
and, in the opinion of the Committee, 
the payment was not in consideration 
for the individual becoming a Director 
of the Company. 
For these purposes 'payments' 
includes the Committee satisfying 
awards of variable remuneration and, 
in relation to an award over shares, 
the terms of the payment are 'agreed' 
at the time the award is granted. 
Annual report on remuneration 
Role and operation of the 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee decides 
both the structure and level of Executive 
Directors' pay and the remuneration of 
the Chairman. The remuneration of Non­
Executive Directors is a matter reserved 
for the Chairman and the Executive 
Directors and no Director is involved in 
setting their own remuneration. The full 
terms of reference can be found on the 
Company's website www.dartygroup.com. 
The following Directors were members 
of the Committee during the year: 
• Alan Parker 
• Michel Leonard (Chairman) 
• Pascal Bazin 
Remuneration decisions are made on 
the advice of, or proposals prepared 
by, the Remuneration Committee and 
the Company. The Chief Executive 
is invited to attend meetings of the 
Committee when appropriate. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 43  Corporate governance 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS 
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. In addition, in making its decisions, the Committee has had access to the 
relevant external advisers appointed by the Remuneration Committee and the Company. 
Deloitte LLP was formally appointed by the Remuneration Committee as its independent external adviser in September 2012. The 
total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of services to the Committee were €106,093. Deloitte LLP has not provided any other 
services to the Company in the financial year 2015/16. Deloitte LLP are a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and are signatories to the Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK. The Remuneration 
Committee, following its annual review, is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has been independent and objective when providing their advice 
during the year. 
Total remuneration (audited) 
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration earned by each Executive Director during the year to 30 April 
2016 and for the prior year: 
and fees Taxable benef1ts Bonus LTIP contnbut1ons Total 
(€) (€) (€)4 (€)5 (€) (€) 
Execut1ve 
Selocy I I I ''"'"" I 
-----zoi6j~ -----zo16j~ -----zo1612o15 --zoi6f2015 2016j--zo15 ~~~ 
Regis Schultz 769,731
2 
653,069 43,455 26,187 833,426 242,923 1,659,089 0 - 82,057 3,305,701 1,004,236 
Dominic Platt 78,104' 556,685' 4,161 29,847 - 163,486 N/A 0 0 0 82,265 750,018 
Albin 
Jacquemont' 316,038 N/A 3,206 N/A 433,836 N/A N/A N/A 39,546 N/A 792,626 N/A 
These amounts include a salary supplement of €13.017 (2015: €92,781) in lieu of a pension contribution. Dominic Platt also received compensation for loss of office in 
2016: €590.535 (2015: nil). He ceased to be a Director on 18 June 2015. 
2 This amount includes a salary supplement of €80.726 (2015: nil) in lieu of a pension contribution. 
3 Albin Jacque mont became a Director on 18 June 2015, when Dominic Platt resigned as a Director. 
4 50 per cent of these amounts were deferred in shares for a three-year period. 
5 The value for the L TIP is based on the average share price of 125p over the last three months of the financial year. The actual value at the vesting date on 
16 September 2016 will be disclosed in next year's annual report on remuneration. 
Base salary and Directors' fee 
No salary increases were made during the year. As Chief Executive Regis Schultz received a base salary and fees totalling £507,500, 
Dominic Platt received a base annual salary of £360,500 per annum for the period to 18 June 2015. From 18 June 2015 Albin 
Jacquemont received an annual salary of €360,000. 
Taxable benefits 
The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, including a car allowance, private medical insurance and 
life insurance. 
Provision for retirement 
The Company made payments of 20 per cent of salary (capped at £60,000 for the CEO) to the executives during the year. Payments 
are made into a defined contribution plan up to £50,000 with any additional amount paid as a cash supplement. As Dominic Platt 
has reached his lifetime allowance, he received a cash supplement of 20 per cent of salary. Albin Jacquemont received €39,546. 
Annual bonus in respect of 2015/16 performance 
The bonus for financial year 2015/16 was based on profit before tax, and role-specific strategic objectives that are closely aligned to 
the achievement of the corporate plan as set out in the table below. Bonuses are also subject to an underpin related to return on 
capital employed and free cash flow which were met. 
Summary of bonus earned 
Regis Schultz 
Performance measure 
Adjusted PBT 
Leadership of Group 
Cost reduction/turnover 
Free cash flow 
Customer satisfaction score 
Improve employee satisfaction score 
Total 
44 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
I 
%base I M1n1mum I Target I Max1mum I 
Payout 
salary performance performance performance (%salary) 
85% €56.7m €63.0m €69.3m 85% 
5% - - - 5% 
5% 29.4% 28.6% 27.8% 4% 
5% €72.1m €112.0m €132.0m 5% 
12.5% 38% 39% 40% 12.5% 
12.5% +5% +10% +15% 12.5% 
125.0% - - - 124.0%  Albin Jacquemont 
I 
% base I M1n1mum 
Target Max1mum Payout 
Performance measure salary performance performance performance (%salary) 
Adjusted PBT 55% €56.7m €63.0m €69.3m 55% 
Free cash flow 20% €72.1m €112.0m €132.0m 20% 
London transition 7.5% - - - 7.5% 
Customer satisfaction 7.5% 38% 39% 40% 7.5% 
Employee satisfaction 10% - - - 4.8% 
Total 100% - - - 94.8% 
As disclosed in last year's remuneration report, Albin's opportunity for 2015/16 was increased on a pro rated basis to reflect the fact 
he joined the Company two months prior to the start of the financial year and did not receive any bonus for this period. As a result, 
his bonus outcome above has been increased to 117 per cent of salary. 
Deferral of bonus 
50 per cent of bonuses are deferred into shares. 
Execut1ve 
• • . ' 
Regis Schultz 193,889 123,350 370,010 
Dominic Platt N/A 85,013 175,203 
Albin Jacquemont 100,881 N/A N/A 
LTIP 
The following performance was achieved in respect of LTIP awards made in September 2013. 
Actual outcome 
2 
3 
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors 
The table below sets out in a single figure the total remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the financial year: 
12 months I 
12 months 
to 30 Apr1l to 30 April 
D1rector 2016 2015 
Alan Parker €270,819 €257,367 
Pascal Bazin €54,841 €52,117 
Carlo D'Asaro Biondo €54,841 €52,117 
Michel Leonard €63,304 €60,160 
Antoine Metzger €54,841 €52,117 
Alison Reed €63,304 €60,160 
Agnes Touraine €54,841 €52,117 
The Directors received no increase in their fees, which were paid in £Sterling. The change reflects the movement in the £/€ 
exchange rate. · 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 45  Corporate governance 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS 
LTIP awards made in financial year 2016 (audited) 
LTIP awards were made in December 2015 to both Executive Directors. Awards were made in the form of conditional shares, subject 
to performance over three consecutive financial years. Awards will vest 50 per cent three years following the date of grant and 
50 per cent four years following the date of grant. 
Face value Number 
Award date (%salary) of shares 
Regis Schultz 10/12/2015 100% 521,851 
Albin Jacquemont 10/12/2015 80% 266,021 
The awards are subject to the following performance measures and targets: 
EPS 
Free cash flow 
30/04/18 
30/04/18 
• I 
70% 
30% 
50% on 10/12/2018 
50% on 10/12/2019 
50% on 10/12/2018 
50% on 10/12/2019 
Year 3 targets 
Minimum = 7.72 cents 
Maximum = 12.74 cents 
Minimum = €93.17m 
Maximum = €153.79m 
For achieving the minimum target 0 per cent of the awards will vest, with straight-line vesting between the minimum and maximum 
performance targets. 
Payments to past Directors (audited) 
Other than as disclosed in relation to Dominic Platt, there were no payments made to past Directors during the year. 
Payments for loss of office (audited) 
On his departure from the Group on 30 June 2015 and in line with his contract of employment, Dominic Platt received a lump sum, 
including Statutory Redundancy Pay of £113,237.50. Between the date of his departure and his commencing full·time employment in 
March 2016 he received a monthly gross sum of £37,745.83. He is considered as a good Ieaver under the Long-term Incentive Plan 
and Group bonus arrangements. 
Statement of Directors' shareholding and share interests (audited) 
Outstanding interests under share schemes 
The table below provides details of Directors' interests in outstanding share awards: 
I 
Granted I Vested I Forfeited 
Date At start dunng dunng dunng At end of 
Name of grant of year the year the year the year the year 
Dominic Platt 17/09/2013 316,333 0 0 169,924 146,409 
15/09/2014 373,769 0 0 249,179 124,590 
Albin Jacquemont 10/12/2015 0 266,021 0 0 266,021 
Regis Schultz 19/06/2013 775,193
1 
0 0 0 775,193 
17/09/2013 666,666 0 0 135,889 530,777 
15/09/2014 648,004 0 0 0 648,004 
10/12/2015 0 521,851 0 0 521,851 
1 One·off share award. 
Vest1ng date I Lapse date 
50% -16/09/2016 50% -16/03/2017 
50% -16/09/2017 50% - 16/03/2018 
50% - 15/09/2017 50% -15/03/2018 
50% -15/09/2018 50% - 16/03/2019 
50% -10/12/2018 50% - 10/06/2019 
50% - 10/12/2019 50% - 10/06/2020 
19/06/2016 19/12/2016 
50% -16/09/2016 50% - 16/03/2017 
50% - 16/09/2017 50% - 16/03/2018 
50% -15/09/2017 50% -16/03/2018 
50% - 15/09/2018 50% - 16/03/2019 
50% -10/12/2018 50% -10/06/2019 
50% - 10/12/2019 50% - 10/06 20 
As part of the terms of his appointment in June 2013, the Chief Executive received a one·off phantom share award equivalent to 
100 per cent of his total salary and fees (i.e. a face value of £500,000) in recognition of remuneration foregone as a result of leaving 
his previous employer. 
46 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  This award vests after a period of three years on 19 June 2016, subject to the achievement of the following share price targets and 
continued employment: 
The award will vest on a straight-line basis between 70p and 150p. 
Awards made in September 2013 
Award made in September 2014 
Measure We1ght1ng Year 3 targets 
EPS 70% Minimum = 8.52 cents To be measured on 
Maximum = 14.06 cents the 2016/17 results 
FCF 30% Minimum = €84.6m To be measured on 
Maximum= €139.7m the 2016/17 results 
Award made in December 2015 
• I Year 3 targets 
EPS 70% Minimum = 7.72 cents To be measured on 
Maximum = 12.74 cents the 2017/18 results 
FCF 30% Minimum = €93.17m To be measured on 
Maximum = €153.79m the 2017/18 results 
The free cash flow definition used for the LTIP measurement is EBITDA plus working capital movements less capital expenditure. 
Shareholding guidelines 
Shareholding guidelines are in place that encourage Executive Directors to build up a holding in Darty pic shares based on a 
percentage of base salary over a period of five years. The table below provides details of these guidelines and executives' current 
holdings in respect of the guidelines, taking into account LTIP and deferred shares. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 47  Corporate governance 
REPORT ON DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS 
Directors' interests 
The beneficial interests of the Directors, which include holdings by their spouses or other related parties, together with non-beneficial 
interests in the Ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in the table below. 
D1rector 
Regis Schultz 
Albin Jacquemont 
Alan Parker 
Pascal Bazin 
Carlo D'Asaro Biondo 
Michel Leonard 
Antoine Metzger 
Alison Reed 
Agnes Touraine 
Review of past performance 
Historical TSR performance 
30 Apnl2016 I 30 Apnl2015 
339,000 339,000 
45,000 N/A 
459,000 459,000 
25,000 25,000 
25,000 25,000 
30,000 30,000 
25,000 25.000 
20,161 20.000 
40,000 40,000 
The following performance graph shows the Total Shareholder Return ('TSR') for Darty pic versus the FTSE 350 General Retailer 
Index for the period 30 April 2009 to 30 April 2016. The Committee believes that the FTSE 350 General Retailer Index is an objective 
comparator group for measuring the Company's TSR and provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging performance. 
TSR - FTSE 350 General Retailers 
(rebased to 100) -Darty 
300 
250 
200 
150 
50 
0 L--------------------------------------------------------
Apr10 Aprll Apr12 Apr 13 Apr14 Apr 15 Apr 16 
CEO single figure of remuneration 
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO over the same six-year period. The total remuneration figure 
includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards that vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and LTIP 
percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum. 
I 
2011 I 2012 2013 I 2014 I 2015 I 2016 -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- --------
Thierry Th1erry Thterry 
Falque· Falque· Falque· Reg1s Regts Reg1s 
Pterrottn Pterrottn P1errot1n ~~ Schultz Schultz Schultz 
Single total figure €1.468,774 €1,936,906 €770.489 €277,627 €13,898 €1,377,749 €1,004,236 €1,646,612 
Annual bonus (%) 15% 0% 0% 57% 0% 91% 35% 124% 
LTIP vesting(%) 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
1 Single figure represents payments made in respect of the four·month period in which Dominic Platt was acting CEO. It is based on salary paid during this period and the 
total value of benefits, pension and bonus paid in respect of the year on a pro rated basis. 
2 Single figure represents payments made while CEO during the year from 23 April2013 to 30 April 2013. 
48 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Percentage change in remuneration for the CEO in comparison to other employees 
The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus earned between 30 April 2015 and 30 April 2016 for the 
CEO compared to the average percentage change of all French employees, as this population represents the majority of the workforce. 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below shows the total pay for all employees compared to other key financial indicators. 
The increase in dividends is caused by the £/€ exchange rate. 
Shareholder voting 
At the AGM in September 2015, the Directors' remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: 
Number of %of votes 
votes for cast votes cast 
286,349,889 79.05 
Remuneration policy for financial year 2016/17 
The following provides details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented in financial year 2016/17. 
Base salary and fees 
Executive Directors' base salaries and fees with effect from 1 May 2016 are as follows: 
1 From 18 June 2015. 
Taxable benefits, pension and bonus 
These will be paid in line with the remuneration policy. 
LTIP awards 
Awards will be made in line with the remuneration policy for the LTIP. The performance measures and targets for awards to be made 
in 2016 are to be determined once the offer the Company is currently subject to has been concluded. 
Non-Executive Directors' fees 
For 2016 these will be as set out in the policy report. 
Annual bonus 2016/17 
Awards will be made in line with the remuneration policy for the annual bonus. Regis Schultz's maximum opportunity remains at 
125 per cent of salary and Albin Jacquemont's opportunity for 2016/17 has been increased to 125 per cent. 
The proportion of the bonus that will be subject to PBT performance will remain the same as in 2014/15 (75 per cent of the maximum 
opportunity). The remainder of the bonus will be subject to a range of individual and strategic objectives. 
By~.r "J~~oard 
Simon Enoch '-'\....{) \,., 
Secretary 
15 June 2016 
Registered Office: 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 49  Corporate governance 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors' remuneration report and the 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards ('I FRS') as adopted by the 
European Union, and the Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising 
Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced 
Disclosure Framework ('FRS 101'). and 
applicable law). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for 
that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and 
• state whether I FRS as adopted by the 
European Union and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards comprising FRS 
101 have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements 
respectively. 
50 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the 
Company's transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the 
Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors' 
remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the lAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company's website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company's 
performance, business model and 
strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the Board of 
Directors section on pages 26 and 27, 
confirm that, to the best of their 
knowledge: 
• the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance 
with I FRS as adopted by the EU, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group; and 
• the Directors' report contained on 
pages 28 to 31 includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces. 
.In the case of each Director in office at 
the date the Directors' report is 
approved, that: 
• so far as the Director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which 
the Company's auditors are unaware; 
and 
• he has taken all the steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director in 
order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company's auditors 
are aware of that information.  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC 
Report on the Group financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Darty pic's Group financial statements (the 'financial statements'): 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ('IFRS') as adopted by the European 
Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: 
• the Group balance sheet as at 30 April 2016; 
• the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended; 
• the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended; 
• the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and 
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial stateme~ts is I FRS as adopted by the· 
European Union, and applicable law. 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
Materiality 
Audit scope 
Area of focus 
• Overall Group materiality: €4.6m, which represents 5 per cent of Group retail profit. 
• We conducted audit procedures, including full scope audits and specified procedures, in France, Belgium 
and the Netherlands. Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work 
accounted for 89 per cent of Group revenues and 91 per cent of Group retail profit. 
• Carrying value of leasehold properties in France and goodwill, intangible and leasehold property assets in 
the Netherlands 
• Going concern - compliance with debt covenants 
• Inventory valuation 
• Accounting for supplier rebate arrangements 
• Estimation of tax provisions 
• Defined benefit pension plan liabilities 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) ('ISAs (UK & Ireland)'). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias 
by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit. including the allocation of our resources and effort. 
are identified as 'areas of focus' in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas 
in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 51  Financial statements and notes 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC CONTINUED 
Area of focus 
Carryinq value of leasehold properties in fran<:e and qoodwill, intanqible 
and store assets in the Netherlands 
Refer to page 33 for the Audit Committee Report and note 1 (Accounting 
policies), note 11 (Exceptional items), note 12 (Intangible assets) and note 13 
(Property, plant and equipment) to the financial statements. 
We included the carrying values ol assets related to leasehold property in 
France of €86.3m as an area of focus due to their magnitude and the 
continued difficult economic environment in France. We also included the 
carrying values of goodwill, intangible and leasehold property assets in the 
Netherlands as an area of focus due to the trading losses incurred in ace. 
Given the changing consumption patterns in the electricals market, as well as 
increasing pressure on margins and a move from store to web sales, there is a 
risk that the value of the goodwill and intangible assets in the Netherlands 
and leasehold property assets in France and the Netherlands may be 
impaired. 
Furthermore, the system disruption caused by the implementation of a new 
warehouse IT system in the Netherlands has resulted in increased losses. 
Management has impaired the carrying value of the goodwill, intangible 
assets and leasehold assets by €18.1m in the year in the Netherlands. The key 
judgements included within the impairment models are the revenue growth 
rates, margin and the WACC rate used as the discount rate. 
Going concern - compliance with debt covenants 
Refer to page 33 for the Audit Committee Report and note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and note 2 (Financial risk management) to the financial statements. 
We focused on the Directors' conclusion that it is appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements because of 
volatility of the markets in which the Group operates and the sensitivity of the 
profitability to a fall in turnover which could result in a reduction in the 
headroom against the debt covenants. 
The Group has a €225m revolving credit facility. The Group's debt covenants 
relate to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared 
to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and 
maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and 
interest. Compliance with these covenants is thus driven largely by business 
performance. 
Inventory valuation 
Refer to page 33 for the Audit Committee Report and note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and note 16 (Inventories) to the financial statements. 
Inventory is the largest asset on the Group's balance sheet (€471.4m as at 
30 April 2016). The ongoing economic situation within the electricals market 
continues to create competition due to the pressures on pricing. This could 
result in an increased level of provisions required for the inventory held 
within the Group. As such there is a risk that the net realisable value of 
inventory may be lower than its original cost and that the year-end markdown 
provisions are not adequate. 
52 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
How our audit addressed the area of focus 
we assessed the store-by-store impairment models prepared by management 
for France and compared the data used in the models to the underlying Soard 
approved forecasts and projections. We considered the assumptions used in 
the forecasts and projections and sought explanations from management as to 
their plans. The key assumptions were revenue growth rates, margin and the 
WACC. We assessed management's explanations by comparing them against 
historical performance and external data such as market growth rates and 
benchmark WACC rates. 
we also assessed the valuation analysis by territory, with a particular focus on 
the Netherlands, which management prepared to assess whether there was a 
requirement for further impairment over and above the individual store level 
impairments. The inputs into the model are consistent with the Group's Board 
approved forecasts and projections and we obtained corroborating evidence 
such as external evidence for WACC and country-specific growth rates. 
we also considered management's prior year forecasts (at the store and 
country level) versus actual results to assess their ability to forecast 
accurately. 
Based on our understanding of the Group, the impairment models used were 
appropriate and we verified the accuracy of the calculations within them. 
We understood management's sensitivity analysis and considered further 
realistic sensitivity to key assumptions and underlying cash flows. We were 
satisfied with the level of impairments that were recorded in the Netherlands 
and that no impairment was required in France. 
We read the impairment disclosures included in the financial statements and 
deem them appropriate. 
We evaluated management's going concern assessment including the latest 
profit forecast, projected future cash flows and projected bank covenants for 
the period of 12 months from 30 April 2016. 
we tested the assumptions used in the forecasts and the covenant calculations, 
including performing sensitivity analyses on the key assumptions, being revenue 
growth rates and margins in the profit and cash forecasts. 
we also considered the likelihood of a covenant breach taking into account the 
effect of a change in the assumptions, available mitigating factors and results 
of sensitivity analyses. 
We discussed with the Directors the actions that they considered they could 
take to alter the timing and/or amount of future cash flows and used our 
knowledge of the business to consider the feasibility and likely impact of the 
Directors' intentions. 
The outcome of our work on going concern is set out below. 
we tested the valuation of inventory through a combination of testing the 
systems and cost inputs that drive the valuation and then assessing the 
judgements that have been made by management to adjust that valuation, such 
as inventory provisions. 
we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the controls over the 
inventory valuation process including the ageing of inventory. We did not 
identify any exceptions from the controls testing performed. 
we compared the purchase price for a sample of inventory items within cost of 
sales to a sample of supplier invoices and also compared this to the latest sales 
price of the inventory to validate the inventory is recorded at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. All items selected for testing were agreed to 
underlying supporting documentation and were appropriately valued at the 
lower of cost and net realisable value. 
We compared a sample of the other cost adjustments, for example the inclusion 
of warehouse costs, within the inventory valuation back to supporting 
documentation and verified these costs were allowable under accounting 
standards. From the testing performed no exceptions were noted. 
We also assessed the reasonableness of the judgements involved in the 
year-end markdown provisions applied to the year-end inventory valuation. 
This was achieved through comparing the provisions against the prior year and 
assessing the provisions against the ageing of inventory by category, as well as 
our knowledge of the business. We deemed the judgements involved 
appropriate.  Area of focus 
Accounting for supplier rebate arrangements 
Refer to page 33 for the Audit Committee Report and note 1 (Accounting 
policies) to the financial statements. 
The Group receives rebates from its suppliers and this remains an area of 
focus due to the quantum of income recorded under these arrangements and 
its significance in relation to the result for the period. The amount to be 
recognised in the income statement for elements of rebate income requires 
management to apply judgement based on the contractual terms in place 
with suppliers and estimates of amounts the Group is entitled to where 
transactions span the financial year end. 
The key judgement that we therefore focus on in the calculation of the 
Group's rebates from suppliers is the amount to be accrued at the year end, 
based on volume estimates. 
Estimation of tax provisions 
Refer to page 33 for the Audit Committee Report and note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and note 7 (continuing Group Income tax expense) to the financial 
statements. 
As a result of ongoing tax audits in France, there has been an increase in 
potential tax exposure and therefore judgement involved in determining the 
level of provisions required. In particular as set out in note 7 to the financial 
statements, the Group has received a demand from the French Tax 
Authorities claiming up to €15.3m in unpaid taxes and penalties relating to the 
Group's holding company structure. 
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities 
Refer to page 33 for the Audit Committee Report and note 1 (Accounting 
policies) and note 32 (Retirement benefits) to the financial statements. 
We focused on defined pension liabilities because of the impact of the liability 
to the overall balance sheet and judgements inherent in the actuarial 
assumptions involved in the valuation. The net pension liability at 30 April 
2016 was €70.5m (2015: €103.4m). The Group's gross pension liabilities at 
30 April 2016 of €634.5m (2015: €707.1m) continue to be sensitive to changes 
in actuarial assumptions. which require significant judgement and technical 
expertise. 
How we tailored the audit scope 
How our audit addressed the area of focus 
We read a sample of contractual agreements with the suppliers to understand 
the rebate mechanisms in place and assessed whether rebates received, and 
receivable, by the Group have been accounted for in the correct financial period 
and in accordance with the specific terms of these agreements. From inspection 
of a sample of these agreements we determined that the terms and conditions 
had been appropriately considered in the calculations of rebates receivable. 
For a sample, we vouched the actual cash rebates received during the year and 
compared against the prior year estimate to assess the accuracy of the estimation 
process. We determined that the level of current year receipts supported the 
assumptions around collectability of prior period rebates receivable. 
We tested the year-end supplier rebate calculations prepared by management 
and compared these against the contractual agreements as well as against the 
prior year outstanding rebates to understand the movement year on year. We 
did not identify any significant differences between the re-calculations we 
performed and the amounts recognised or with the contractual arrangements 
that we tested. 
We assessed the provisions held against certain tax provisions. 
We reviewed external evidence, received by management to support 
management's position regarding the exposure identified in note 7. We utilised 
local tax specialists in France and assessed whether the level of provisions held 
against this exposure was consistent with the third party advice received and 
our understanding of the tax environment in France. 
The judgements in respect of the level of provision required made by 
management was consistent with the audit evidence we had obtained. 
We reviewed the pension assumptions, including discount rates. salary 
increases, inflation and mortality, utilising our pensions specialists. We 
considered the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions comparing the 
discount rates, mortality and inflation rates used to our internally developed 
benchmark ranges. finding them to be within an acceptable range. 
We confirmed that the valuation methods had been consistently applied against 
the prior year. 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the 
industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured across two geographic segments, being: France; and Belgium (Vanden Borre) and the Netherlands (BCC). 
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up these two segments. 
The Group's accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the Group operates. 
During the year, the Group's head office function moved from the United Kingdom to France, where the finance team consolidates 
the reporting packs of France, Belgium, the Netherlands, the central functions and discontinued operations. 
In our view, due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, the businesses in France and Belgium required an audit of their 
complete financial information. We used component auditors from PwC firms who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in 
each of the identified territories to perform this work. 
Specific audit procedures were also performed in the Netherlands based on the areas of risk identified at this location. 
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement 
team in the UK. These included going concern, impairments, pensions, tax and share-based payments. 
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole. We conducted audit procedures, including full scope audits and specified procedures, in France, Belgium and 
the Netherlands. Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 89 per cent of 
Group revenues and 91 per cent of Group retail profit. The Group engagement team visited the French head office given the 
significance of this location to the Group and the head office move during the year, and we attended clearance meetings between 
local management and the component auditors in all locations, either in person or by call. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 53  Financial statements and notes 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC CONTINUED 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall Group materiality 
How we determined it 
Rationale for benchmark applied 
€4.6m (2015: €3.7m). 
5 per cent of Group retail profit. 
We believe that retail profit is a key indicator for the Group as it excludes exceptional 
items and therefore relates solely to the trading performance of the ongoing business 
and is a measure used by the shareholders. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €200,000 
(2015: €200,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors' statement, set out on page 34, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to 
the Directors' statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors' statement. the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part 
of our audit we have concluded that the Directors' use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future 
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors' report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or from this responsibility. 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
the statement given by the Directors on page 50, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report arising 
Governance Code (the 'Code'), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced from this responsibility. 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group's position 
and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit. 
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 33 to 35, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report arising 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit from this responsibility. 
Committee. 
The Directors' assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the Group 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors' confirmation on pages 34 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 We have nothing material to add or to draw 
of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, attention to. 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. 
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to add or to draw 
or mitigated. attention to. 
• the Directors' explanation on page 34 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the We have nothing material to add or to draw 
Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and attention to. 
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as 
they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to 
any necessary qualifications or assumptions. 
54 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors' statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and the Directors' statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Directors' process supporting 
their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether 
the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors' remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions 
of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company's members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors' judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Darty pic for the year ended 30 April 2016 and on the 
information in the Directors' remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor) ("\.\ lf11 I ·-
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP \._:!J~) 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
15 June 2016 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 55  Financial statements and notes 
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
2016 2015 
Note €m €m 
Revenue 3 3,656.8 3,512.1 
Group operating profit 3 52.2 58.9 
Share of post-tax profit in joint venture and associates 14 1.6 1.4 
Total operating profit 53.8 60.3 
Analysed as: 
Retail profit' 4 93.1 74.9 
Share of joint venture and associates' interest and taxation 14 (0.8) (0.9) 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 3 1.4 
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses (1.4) (1.3) 
Exceptional items 11 (36.5) (13.7) 
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets (0.6) (0.1) 
Total operating profit 3 53.8 60.3 
Finance costs 5 (25.4) (27.4) 
Profit before Income tax 28.4 32.9 
Taxation 7 (26.3) (17.8) 
Profit for the year from continuing operations 2.1 15.1 
Proflt/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 10 1.6 (1.3) 
Profit for the year 3.7 13.8 
Proflt/(loss) attributable to: 
-Owners of the parent 3.5 14.2 
- Non-controlling interests 0.2 (0.4) 
3.7 13.8 
Earnlngs/(losses) per share- basic and diluted (cents) 
Continuing operations 0.4 2.9 
Discontinued operations 0.3 (0.2) 
Total earnings per share 9 0.7 2.7 
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates' interest and taxation, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, 
legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 
The notes on pages 61 to 108 form part of these financial statements. 
56 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
2016 2015 
Note €m €m 
Profit for the financial year- continuing operations 4 2.1 15.1 
Profit/( loss) for the financial year- discontinued operations 1.6 (1.3) 
Other comprehensive lncome/(expense) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 32 27.2 (0.2) 
Tax on other comprehensive (income)/expense (2.0) 6.7 
25.2 6.5 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 
Exchange differences 0.9 (6.4) 
Fair value (losses)/gains on cash flow hedges (1.8) 0.3 
Tax on other comprehensive expense/( income) 0.7 (0.1) 
(0.2) (6.2) 
Other comprehensive Income for the year 25.0 0.3 
Total comprehensive Income for the year 28.7 14.1 
Attributable to: 
-Owners of the parent 28.5 14.8 
-Non-controlling interests 0.2 (0.7) 
Total comprehensive Income for the year 28.7 14.1 
The notes on pages 61 to 108 form part of these financial statements. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 57  Financial statements and notes 
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
Total 
Oemerger Accumulated shareholders' Non- Total 
Share and other Translation losses deficit controlling deficit 
capital reserves reserve restated' restated' interests restated' 
€m €m €m €m €m €m €m 
At 1 May 2015 restated 158.9 971.8 8.1 (1,461.9) (323.1) (1.0) (324.1) 
Profit for the period from continuing operations 1.9 1.9 0.2 2.1 
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 1.6 1.6 1.6 
Other comprehensive income/(expense): 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit 
obligations (note 32) 27.2 27.2 27.2 
Tax on other comprehensive income (2.0) (2.0) (2.0) 
25.2 25.2 25.2 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit 
or loss: 
Exchange differences 0.9 0.9 0.9 
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges (1.8) (1.8) (1.8) 
Tax on other comprehensive expense 0.7 0.7 0.7 
(1.1) 0.9 (0.2) (0.2) 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period (1.1) 0.9 28.7 28.5 0.2 28.7 
Transactions with owners: 
Dividends (note 8) (18.8) (18.8) (18.8) 
Employee share schemes 2.6 2.6 2.6 
At 30 April 2016 158.9 970.7 9.0 (1,449.4) (310.8) (0.8) (311.6) 
Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
Total 
Demerger Accumulated shareholders' Non- Total 
Share and other Translation losses deficit controlling deficit 
capital reserves reserve restated' restated' interests restated' 
€m €m €m €m €m €m €m 
At 1 May 2014 158.9 971.6 14.2 (1,452.0) (307.3) (9.6) (316.9) 
Prior year adjustment in respect of IFRIC 21 application (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) 
At 1 May 2014 restated 158.9 971.6 14.2 (1,452.2) (307.5) (9.6) (317.1) 
Profit for the period from continuing operations 15.0 15.0 0.1 15.1 
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (0.8) (0.8) (0.5) (1.3) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense): 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit 
obligations (note 32) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) 
Tax on other comprehensive expense 6.7 6.7 6.7 
6.5 6.5 6.5 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit 
or loss: 
Exchange differences (6.1) (6.1) (0.3) (6.4) 
Fair value gains on cash flow hedges 0.3 0.3 0.3 
Tax on other comprehensive income (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 
0.2 (6.1) (5.9) (0.3) (6.2) 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period 0.2 (6.1) 20.7 14.8 (0.7) 14.1 
Transactions with owners: 
Dividends (note 8) (18.4) (18.4) (0.6) (19.0) 
Employee share schemes 0.4 0.4 0.4 
Sale of company with non-controlling interest (2.8) (2.8) 0.3 (2.5) 
Re-purchase of non-controlling interest (9.6) (9.6) 9.6 
At 30 April 2015 restated 158.9 971.8 8.1 (1,461.9) (323.1) (1.0) (324.1) 
Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
The demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable. Other reserves comprise a reserve arising 
from the first time adoption of lAS 39 in February 2006, a redenomination reserve created upon the redenomination of Ordinary 
shares in September 2010 and the hedging reserve comprising the fair value movements on forward foreign exchange contracts. 
58 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  GROUP BALANCE SHEET 
as at 30 April 2016 
Assets 
Non-current assets 
Intangible assets 
Property, plant and equipment 
Investments 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Other receivables 
Deferred income tax assets 
Total non-current assets 
Current assets 
Inventories 
Trade and other receivables 
Income tax receivable 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Total current assets 
Total assets 
Liabilities 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 
Income tax liabilities 
Trade and other payables 
Derivative financial instruments 
Provisions 
Total current liabilities 
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 
Other payables 
Deferred income tax liabilities 
Retirement benefits 
Provisions 
Total non-current liabilities 
Total liabilities 
Net liabilities 
Equity attributable to owners of the parent 
Share capital 
Other reserves 
Accumulated losses 
Total shareholders' deficit 
Non-controlling interests 
Total equity 
1 Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
The notes on pages 61 to 108 form part of these financial statements. 
2016 
Note €m 
12 56.9 
13 298.5 
14 15.5 
15 
18 9.8 
26 
380.7 
16 471.4 
17 203.9 
19.6 
19 157.1 
852.0 
1,232.7 
21 (17.6) 
25 (29.1) 
20 (939.0) 
23 (1.8) 
24 (0.2) 
(987.7) 
21 (243.0) 
22 (219.4) 
26 (23.2) 
32 (70.5) 
24 (0.5) 
(556.6) 
(1,544.3) 
(311.6) 
27 158.9 
979.7 
(1,449.4) 
(310.8) 
(0.8) 
(311.6) 
2015 2014 
restated' restated' 
€m €m 
68.6 64.3 
321.2 343.9 
15.1 15.3 
1.0 
9.7 11.2 
0.3 
415.6 435.0 
456.8 474.2 
218.0 221.2 
9.6 4.2 
86.9 75.5 
771.3 775.1 
1,186.9 1,210.1 
(11.1) (1.5) 
(15.9) (11.4) 
(837.0) (887.4) 
(0.3) 
(1.8) (3.7) 
(865.8) (904.3) 
(297.7) (259.2) 
(223.0) (227.1) 
(20.3) (30.6) 
(103.4) (104.6) 
(0.8) (1.4) 
(645.2) (622.9) 
(1,511.0) (1,527.2) 
(324.1) (317.1) 
158.9 158.9 
979.9 985.8 
(1,461.9) (1,452.2) 
(323.1) (307.5) 
(1.0) (9.6) 
(324.1) (317.1) 
The financial statements on pages 56 to 108 were authorised for issue and approved by the Board of Directors on 15 June 2016 and 
sign d. on its behalf b 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 59  Financial statements and notes 
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
2016 2015 
Note €m €m 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from operations 28 175.1 60.7 
Interest paid (21.5) (22.9) 
Tax paid (9.7) (21.2) 
Net cash from operating activities 143.9 16.6 
Cash flows from Investing activities 
Acquisition· of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired 35 (2.8) (9.8) 
Sale of discontinued operations, including cash and overdrafts disposed 10 3.1 10.1 
Sale of available·for-sale investments 15 1.0 1.4 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (35.7) (40.2) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 33.3 13.9 
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (9.6) (10.5) 
Dividends received from associates/joint ventures 14 1.3 1.0 
Net cash used In Investing activities (9.4) (34.1) 
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from borrowings 29 3.4 49.8 
Repayments of borrowings 29 (55.3) 
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (18.8) (18.4) 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.6) 
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (70.7) 30.8 
Net increase In cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 63.8 13.3 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at start of year 29 86.7 74.0 
Effects of exchange rate changes 29 1.6 (0.6) 
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 19 152.1 86.7 
The notes on pages 61 to 108 form part of these financial statements. 
60 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These 
policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
The principal entities included in the consolidated financial statements are shown in note 37. The financial information set out on 
pages 56 to 108 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Darty pic for the year ended 30 April 2016 prepared in 
accordance with the accounting policies set out below. Darty pic ('the Company'), and its subsidiaries (together 'the Group'), is a 
multi-channel electrical retailer. The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and 
listed on the London Stock Exchange. These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 
15 June 2016. Its registered office is 22-24 Ely Place, London EC1N 6TE. 
Basis of preparation 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting 
Standards ('I FRS') and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee ('I FRS IC') and with those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under I FRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of foreign currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, 
available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through 
profit or loss and also on a going concern basis. 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with I FRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company's accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are 
disclosed in this note. 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint 
ventures and associated undertakings. All significant consolidated subsidiary companies have a 30 April accounting year end. 
Consolidation 
(a) Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They 
are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. 
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Acqui.sition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non­
controlling interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group's share of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the 
difference is recognised directly in the income statement. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest's proportionate share of the recognised 
amounts of acquiree's identifiable net assets. 
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net 
assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. 
Inter-company transactions including income, expenses, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies 
are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. 
(b) Associates and joint ventures 
Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Joint ventures are all operations over 
which the Group exercises joint control with partners. 
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment is 
initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor's share of the profit or loss 
of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group's investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill (net of any 
accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition. 
The Group's share of its associate's and joint venture's post-acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the income statement. its 
share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post­
acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves. When the Group's share of losses in an associate or a joint venture 
equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not 
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 61  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group's 
interest in the associates and joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred. 
Foreign currency translation 
(a) Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group's undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the undertaking operates ('the functional currency'). The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in Euros, which is the majority of the subsidiaries' functional currency and the Group's presentational currency. 
(b) Transactions and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in ·the 
income statement within finance income or costs. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement 
within operating profit, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for sale are analysed 
between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security, and other changes in the carrying 
amount of the security. Translation differences are recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying amount are recognised 
in other comprehensive income. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss are 
recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as 
equities classified as available for sale are included in the fair value reserve in other comprehensive income. 
(c) Group companies 
The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation 
currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: 
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; 
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and 
(iii) resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. 
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings 
and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are taken to equity. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. 
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences are recycled to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. 
Use of adjusted measures 
Darty pic believes that retail profit, adjusted profit before tax, EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful 
information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders. Each is defined below: 
• Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates' interest and taxation, gain on 
disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items and amortisation 
and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 
• EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets including write-offs. 
• Adjusted profit before tax represents retail profit less finance costs excluding net interest on pension schemes. 
• Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effects of discontinued operations, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, 
legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible 
assets, net interest on pension schemes and tax effects of exceptional and other non-retail profit items. A reconciliation of 
adjusted earnings per share to basic earnings per share is provided in note 9, 'Earnings/(losses) per share'. 
A reconciliation from retail profit to GAAP measurement of profit is provided in the Group income statement. A reconciliation from 
EBITDA to GAAP measurement of profit is provided in note 4, 'Segmental analysis'. 
62 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  1 Accounting policies continued 
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees. 
These terms are not defined by I FRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other 
companies. They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit. 
Exceptional items 
The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of 
the Group's result from year to year. Exceptional items mainly relate to costs associated with a material restructuring (i.e. termination 
payments, onerous lease charges, asset impairments and other write-offs), material business disruption costs or a material change 
to accounting estimates which would distort the underlying result. 
Segmental information 
The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments. These segments are used by the chief operating 
decision-maker, identified as the Group Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources. 
The reportable segments are as follows: 
• France (Darty and Mistergooddeal.com) 
• Belgium and the Netherlands (Vanden Borre and BCC) 
Sales between segments are carried out at arm's length. 
Intangible assets 
(a) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the Group's share of the net identifiable 
assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and fair value of non-controlling interests of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date 
of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is 
included in the carrying value of investments in associates and is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance. Separately 
recognised goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a 
potential impairment and is carried at cost less impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses 
on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of any goodwill relating to the operation sold. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units ('CGUs') for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those CGUs represents a 
separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for 
managing the cash flow of that unit. In practice these are deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired. 
(b) Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. 
(i) Software 
Software costs are costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled 
by the Group. Where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, they are recognised 
as intangible assets. Costs that do not meet the recognition criteria are expensed as incurred. Development costs that are directly 
attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as 
intangible assets when the following criteria are met: 
• it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use; 
• management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it; 
• there is an ability to use or sell the software product; 
• it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits; 
• adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are 
available; and 
• the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured. 
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Acquired 
computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and brinq into use the specific software. 
T11ese costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (two to five years). 
(ii) Leasehold rights 
Amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises or a ri!)ht to trade from a site are recognised as intangible assets. 
The value-in-use of these items is calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant CGUs. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 63  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies continued 
These costs are amortised to their residual value (value-in-use) over their estimated useful lives (15 to 20 years) on a straight-line 
basis. If the value-in-use calculated is greater than the carrying value no amortisation charge is recognised. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices. Fixtures, fittings and equipment comprise tenants' 
fixtures and improvements, computers and electronic equipment and motor cars and commercial vehicles. All property, plant and 
equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. 
Assets in the course of construction represent the cost of purchasing, constructing and installing property, plant and equipment 
ahead of their productive use. They are not depreciated until they are brought into use and transferred to an appropriate and 
permanent category of property, plant and equipment on completion of construction, unless there are circumstances indicating an 
impairment of the asset, where provision is made immediately. 
Subsequent costs are included in an asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset. as appropriate. These costs are 
included in the carrying amounts only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the 
Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset's useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 
€1,000 (or equivalent). All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in 
which they are incurred. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less 
estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives. The depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows: 
Land and buildings 
Freehold buildings 
Long leasehold buildings 
Short leasehold buildings 
Tenants' fixtures and improvements 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 
Computers and electronic equipment 
Motor cars and commercial vehicles 
20 years to residual value 
20 years or remaining lease term, if shorter 
over the remaining period of the lease 
between five and 20 years 
between two and four years 
between two and five years 
The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset's carrying 
amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount. When properties are sold, the difference between the sale proceeds and net book value is recognised in the 
income statement. 
Impairment of assets 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for 
impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or that the asset's use may not generate an economic 
benefit greater than their carrying value. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset's carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash 
flows (as CGUs). For property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, other than goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading 
store. The discount rate applied is based upon the Group's weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the 
risks associated with the relevant business. 
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs. Non-financial assets other than goodwill 
that have suffered an impairment· are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. Where an impairment 
loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount 
of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount. 
64 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  1 Accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and 
available for sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines 
the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: a financial asset is classified in this category if acquired 
principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as 
hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. 
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial assets that are 
not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with 
the Company's investment and risk strategy. 
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets through the income statement are 
included in finance costs/income in the income statement in the period in which they arise. 
(b) Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, where they 
are classified as non-current assets. The Group's loans and receivables comprise 'trade and other receivables' and 'cash and cash 
equivalents' in the balance sheet. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost. 
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other 
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date. 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired. 
Financial liabilities 
(a) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: a financial liability is classified in this category if acquired 
principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges, and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes. Liabilities in this category are classified as current 
liabilities. 
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial liabilities that are 
not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair basis in accordance with 
the Company's investment and risk strategy. 
(b) Financial liabilities at amortised cost 
lnterest-bea.ring bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to 
initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value 
being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost. 
Derivative financial instruments 
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured 
at their fair value at each balance sheet date. All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading (a sub-category of 
financial assets at fair value through the income statement) unless they are designated as cash flow hedges. As such they are valued 
at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement. 
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a periodic basis. Should these derivatives fail 
the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly. To the extent 
that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves (net of 
deferred tax) and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled. 
To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement. 
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction outline the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as 
well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. · 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 65  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies continued 
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives and available-for-sale securities) 
is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is 
the current bid price; the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price. 
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is 
determined using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market 
conditions existing at each balance sheet date. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. The 
value of inventory includes the purchase price, costs associated with bringing the inventory to its present location and condition, 
being the supply chain costs (including transport costs to warehouses, logistics costs within the warehouses and transportation 
costs to retail stores) and applicable trade discou"nts, rebates and other subsidies. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price in the ordinary course of business, less costs estimated to realise the sale of relevant inventory. Provisions have been 
made, if necessary, for slow-moving, obsolete and defective inventories. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible it is written off to the income statement. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are 
credited against 'selling expenses' in the income statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set-off exists. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet, but included within cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow 
statement. 
Share capital 
The Group only has one class of shares, Ordinary shares, which are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the 
cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method where appropriate. Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the 
ordinary course of business from suppliers. They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. For liabilities at amortised cost. the carrying value 
approximates to fair value as the impact of discounting using market interest rates at the end of the reporting period is insignificant. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at 
least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Current and deferred income tax 
Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year. The current income tax charge is 
calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the 
Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where 
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. 
66 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  1 Accounting policies continued 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Recognition of deferred income tax assets takes into account lAS 12 recognition criteria using the Group's judgement on the 
probability of future taxable profits being available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net 
basis. 
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
Employee benefits 
(a) Retirement benefits 
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France, which are supplemental to contributions 
paid to mandatory state-funded schemes. Company-sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance 
companies or trustee-administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation. The Group has both 
defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 
A defined contribution plan is a retirement benefit under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group 
has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees 
the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a retirement benefit that is not a 
defined contribution plan. Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. 
For defined benefit plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the 
balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries 
using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related retirement benefit liability. 
Remeasurements arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the 
statement of comprehensive income. Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Scheme expenses 
relating to the legacy UK pension scheme have been charged to the income statement as part of operating costs. 
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a 
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an 
asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. 
(b) Share-based compensation 
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, 
profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that 
are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. 
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement. with a corresponding adjustment to 
equity. 
(c) Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed 
either to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal, or 
providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 
months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present valu~>. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at the present value of 
the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as 
interest expense. Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material. 
If the Group has a contract that is onerous the present obligation under the contract is recognised and measured as a provision. 
The provision is the lower of the cost of exiting the contract and the cost of fulfilling the obligation. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 67  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies continued 
A warranty provision estimates the future costs of warranty repairs that will be carried out on products already sold. This provision 
looks forward to periods over which the warranties will expire, and is calculated on a consistent basis year on year. 
Restructuring provisions, comprising lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when 
plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on 
or before the balance sheet date. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. 
A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive obligation to meet the costs of restructure. This arises when there is a 
detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least the business or part of the business concerned, principal locations 
affected and the location, function and approximate number of employees to be compensated for terminating their services. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added 
tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. 
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits 
will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group's activities as described below. The amount of 
revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved. The Group bases 
its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each 
arrangement. 
Revenues from sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, 
whichever is later. Retail sales are usually settled in cash or by credit or payment card. 
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for 
the value of such returns at the time of sale. 
Darty has the right to charge the franchisee an up-front fee to establish the necessary links (which are mainly IT related) to the 
Darty infrastructure. These fees are accounted for when the store opens. On an ongoing basis, the franchisee will pay a licence fee 
for the use of the brand which is accrued as the rights are used. In addition, the franchisee will purchase inventories and compensate 
Darty for related logistics costs and after-sales service cover for each product sale. Inventory sales are recognised when the title 
passes. 
Revenues from services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of 
the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided. 
Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. 
The Group sells extended warranty and service contracts. Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these 
contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of 
manufacturer's warranty. Direct costs associated with the sale of the warranty are also deferred and charged over the period for 
which the cover is provided. 
Where the Group sells an extended warranty or service contract and a third party insurance company has responsibility for 
contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale. Where part of the 
obligation under these contracts is re-insured by the Group, the revenue relating to the re-insurance is recognised over the period of 
risk, excluding any period of manufacturer's warranty. 
If an extended warranty is sold by a franchisee, Darty will provide all after-sales support and so bear the risk and reward relating to 
that warranty. As with other extended warranty sales, the corresponding revenue and the direct extended warranty selling cost 
(i.e. the franchisee commission) is spread over the period of risk. 
Finance Income and costs 
Finance income and costs are recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. 
Leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any financial incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into a lease are deferred and spread on a straight-line basis over the life of 
the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee's benefit from the use of the leased asset. 
Lease premiums payable are recorded as a prepayment in the balance sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the 
lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee's benefit from the use of the leased asset. 
68 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  1 Accounting policies continued 
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews. 
In particular, in France, Belgium and Holland, there is an annual indexation linked to local price inflation. This is agreed annually and 
costs are adjusted when agreed and accrued from that date. 
Dividends 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is certain. 
Dividend distribution to the Company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group's financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company's shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid. 
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale, and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if 
their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. A 
discontinued operation is a component of the Group's business that represents a separate major line of business that has been 
disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. 
Effect of new standards 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. The following standards, amendments and 
interpretations were adopted for the year ended 30 April 2016 and have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group. 
IFRIC 21, 'Levies', an interpretation issued in May 2013 and endorsed by the European Union in June 2014, has been applied by Darty 
from 1 May 2015. This interpretation clarifies that the triggering event for the recognition of a liability for levies (i.e. miscellaneous 
taxes, duties and other levies not within the scope of lAS 12) is determined by reference to the terms of the relevant legislation, 
regardless of the period used as the basis of calculating the levy, and is applied retrospectively. Consequently, a liability for payment 
of a levy cannot be recognised progressively in interim financial statements if there is no present obligation at the interim reporting 
date. The impact of this interpretation is shown in note 3. 
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted 
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following standards and interpretations: 
I FRS 9, 'Financial Instruments' 
I FRS 15, 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' (applicable for the year ending 30 April 2019) 
I FRS 16, 'Leases' (applicable for the year ending 30 April 2019) 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain 
critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements 
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on 
management's best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates. 
(a) Estimated impairment of assets 
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in this 
note. In addition, other asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that 
an impairment may be required. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units ('CGU') have been determined based on value-in­
use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow forecasts for each CGU and discount rates 
based on the Group's weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant 
business. Please refer to the intangible assets note and the property, plant and equipment note for details of the key assumptions 
used in these impairment reviews. 
(b) Retirement benefits 
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France. Any net deficit or surplus arising on 
defined benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet. The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the 
balance sheet date. Plan assets are based on market value at that date. Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates of the 
present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members. The most sensitive assumptions involved in 
calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates, price inflation and the discount rute used to calculate the present value of the 
liabilities. The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation. 
(c) Taxation 
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. There are a number of complex tax transactions 
which result in tax exposures across the Group. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of 
whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 69  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies continued 
(d) Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, both types of cost being 
measured using a weighted average cost formula (see note 16). Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less costs estimated to realise the sale of relevant stock. Net realisable value includes, where necessary, 
provisions for slow-moving and damaged inventory. The provision represents the difference between the cost of stock and its 
estimated net realisable value, based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be made which include 
forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic environment and inventory loss trends. 
(e) Supplier income 
The contributions due from suppliers is material and the accounting involves an element of judgement in determining the amount 
and timing of income to be recognised. The major proportion of supplier contributions comes from annual agreements with suppliers 
for volume rebates, sometimes conditional on agreed targets. Buyers negotiate the contracted agreements; these will vary in period 
length by supplier with reconciliations by supplier performed in order to ensure that all rebates booked have been phased 
appropriately and are recoverable. All rebates are included within cost of sales. Where supplier contributions are provided based on 
specific activities or services performed, they are recognised over the period that those services are provided. Funding for a specific 
marketing campaign is netted from marketing costs over the period of the campaign. 
Principal rates of exchange 
Average rate- year ended 30 April 2016 
Closing rate- 30 April 2016 
Average rate- year ended 30 April 2015 
Closing rate- 30 April 2015 
Average rate- year ended 30 April 2014 
Closing rate- 30 April 2014 
2 Financial risk management 
Treasury policy 
GBP 
0.7385 
0.7840 
0.7771 
0.7312 
0.8414 
0.8219 
Turkish Czech 
Lira Koruna 
3.1678 27.1078 
3.2025 27.0560 
2.8347 27.5794 
2.9995 27.4630 
2.7506 26.5792 
2.9295 27.4550 
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. The Board establishes the Group's financial policies 
and the Chief Executive Officer establishes objectives in line with these policies. The Treasury Committee, under the supervision of 
the Finance Director, is then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company 
Treasury teams. Approved Treasury policy defines and classifies risks and also determines, by category of transaction, specific 
approval, limit and monitoring procedures. 
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the functional 
currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Group's 
investments in foreign operations. 
Group Treasury policy requires Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. To 
manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the 
Group use forward and foreign exchange swap contracts, transacted through Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when 
future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity's functional 
currency. Foreign currency swaps are held for trading. Underlying assets or liabilities are held for all currency swaps that the Group 
entered into. 
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates. Foreign exchange risk arises 
because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products. Translation 
exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group financial statements into Euros. Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk 
comprises the fair value interest rate risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates and the cash flow interest rate risk that results 
from borrowing at variable rates. 
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial 
instruments such as liquid assets. derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios. Credit risk is managed by investing in liquid 
assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Group's Treasury policy. The 
Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions. The 
Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loan agreements expire. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade 
receivables are limited due to the Group's customer base being large and unrelated. Due to this, the Directors believe there is no 
further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables. 
Subsidiary companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally. The Treasury Committee 
reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Group's intragroup loans portfolio on a regular basis. 
70 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  2 Financial risk management continued 
Group Treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks. It uses a combination of 
derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks. Treasury operations are conducted 
within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee. 
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk. The Board and 
Treasury Committee receive regular reports of the activities of Group Treasury. 
Capital management 
The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of 
capital. 
The principal sources of capital to fund the Group's operations are equity (note 27), a non-convertible bond (note 21), bank 
borrowings (note 21) and operating leases on properties (note 33). Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements; 
funds are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property leases 
relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies in the industry. 
Market risk 
(a) Foreign exchange risk 
The Group publishes its financial statements in Euros and conducts business mainly in Eurocurrency. It is therefore subject to 
foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Group's transaction costs and the translation of results 
and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries. This foreign currency exchange risk is not material. 
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into Euros of its foreign currency net 
assets by minimising the net assets held in non-Euro currencies. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets held 
in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management. Permission of Group Treasury is required before a 
foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken. Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying 
exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate. 
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged. The gain or 
loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction. 
(b) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk 
If interest rates on Euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher/lower during the year with all other variables held 
constant, finance costs to 30 April 2016 would have been €0.1m (30 April 2015: €0.1m) higher/lower. If interest rates on Euro­
denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher/lower during the year with all other variables held constant, finance costs 
to 30 April 2016 would have been €0.6m (30 April 2015: €1.2m) higher/lower. 
Credit risk 
Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a short-term credit 
rating of A1 or better. Group Treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those 
counterparties on a monthly basis. 
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. Exposures are managed through Group Treasury policy which 
limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss. The maximum credit risk exposure 
relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date. 
Liquidity risk 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through 
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. The Group maintains committed 
bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 71  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
· 2 Financial risk management continued 
Maturity profile of financial liabilities 
The table below analyses the Group's financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. For borrowings and finance 
lease liability, the amounts disclosed in the table are the undisclosed contractual principal repayments and interest payments. For 
trade and other payables and derivative financial instruments, the amounts disclosed equal their carrying balances as the impact of 
discounting is not material. 
2016 
Finance lease liability 
Trade and other payables 
Borrowings 
Derivative financial instruments 
2015 restated 
Finance lease liability 
Trade and other payables 
Borrowings 
Within 
one year 
€m 
1.7 
827.3 
32.3 
1.8 
Within 
one year 
€m 
0.5 
721.2 
25.8 
Between 
one and 
two years 
€m 
3.8 
1.5 
11.8 
Between 
one and 
two years 
€m 
0.5 
0.1 
14.7 
Between 
two and Over 
five years five years 
€m €m 
0.3 0.3 
290.0 
Between 
two and Over 
five years five years 
€m €m 
0.9 
1.8 0.4 
97.3 259.2 
The prior year comparative figures have been restated to ensure comparability with the basis of preparation of the current year 
numbers. The interest payments by maturity are included in the table above. The borrowings amounts disclosed in the prior year 
financial statements have changed from €308.8m to €397m in total. 
The table below analyses the Group's derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table 
are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of 
discounting is not significant. 
Between Between 
Within one and two and 
one year two years five years 
2016 €m €m €m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts- cash flow hedges 
Outflow (52.7) 
Inflow 52.7 
Foreign currency swap- held for trading 
Outflow 
Inflow 
Between Between 
Within one and two and 
one year two years five years 
2015 €m €m €m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts- cash flow hedges 
Outflow (49.1) 
Inflow 49.1 
Foreign currency swap- held for trading 
Outflow 
Inflow 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. 
Over 
five years 
€m 
Over 
five years 
€m 
The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans. The covenants are of a financial nature and 
relate mainly to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest. During the year ending 
30 April 2016, the Group is in compliance with its covenants. 
The revolving credit facility agreement includes financial covenants requiring: (i) that the ratio of adjusted consolidated net debt to 
consolidated EBITDA (each as defined in the revolving credit facility agreement) does not exceed the ratio of 2.50:1.00; and (ii) that 
the ratio of consolidated EBITDAR to consolidated net interest payable plus rents (each as defined in the revolving credit facility 
agreement) is not less than the ratio of 1.50:1.00. These financial covenants are tested at the end of each financial year and each 
financial half-year of the Company. 
72 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  2 Financial risk management continued 
Fair value estimation 
Financial instruments are measured in the balance sheet at fair value. This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of 
the following fair value measurement hierarchy: 
• Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Ieveil). 
• Inputs other than quoted prices included within Ieveil that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as 
prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2). 
• Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). 
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A market 
is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing 
service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm's length 
basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in 
Ieveil. 
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is 
determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is 
available and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are 
observable, the instrument is included in.level2. 
As announced on 7 August 2014, in the prior year the Group completed an agreement to sell its 60 per cent shareholding in Datart 
International in a deal valued at €Sm. Of the total consideration, €1m was given as shares in SEW-1001 a.s., a company based in the 
Czech Republic. These have been classified as level 2 financial instruments because the Group held a put option over these shares 
valuing them at €1m. The Group had a put option exercisable 18 months after the disposal (from 23 January 2016) on the purchasers 
of Datart to acquire these shares for a guaranteed price of €1.0m. The put option was exercised in November 2015 at the guaranteed 
price. 
There were no transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy in the period. 
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: 
• quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments (Ieveil); 
• the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with 
the resulting value discounted back to present value (level 2); and 
• other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments 
(level 3). 
There were no changes in valuation techniques during the period. 
The following table presents the Group's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 April 2016: 
2016 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Total assets 
2015 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Total assets 
All derivative financial assets are held with counterparties with AA credit ratings. 
The carrying amount of all other financial assets and liabilities approximates their fair value. 
Levell 
€m 
Levell 
€m 
Level2 
€m 
Level2 
€m 
1.0 
1.0 
Level3 
€m 
Level3 
€m 
Total 
€m 
Total 
€m 
1.0 
1.0 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 73  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
2 Financial risk management continued 
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 
The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. 
2016 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Trade receivables 
2015 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Trade receivables 
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial assets 
€m 
38.7 
38.7 
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial assets 
€m 
36.3 
36.3 
Related amounts of 
financial liabilities not set 
off in the balance sheet 
€m 
(38.7) 
(38.7) 
Related amounts of 
financial liabilities not set 
off in the balance sheet 
€m 
(36.3) 
(36.3) 
The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. 
2016 
Bank overdrafts 
Trade payables 
2015 
Bank overdrafts 
Trade payables 
Credit quality of financial assets 
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial liabilities 
€m 
282.3 
282.3 
Gross amounts 
of recognised 
financial liabilities 
€m 
207.9 
207.9 
Related amounts of 
financial assets not set off 
in the balance sheet 
€m 
(38.7) 
(38.7) 
Related amounts of 
financial assets not set off 
in the balance sheet 
€m 
(36.3) 
(36.3) 
Net 
amount 
€m 
Net 
amount 
€m 
Net 
amount 
€m 
243.6 
243.6 
Net 
amount 
€m 
171.6 
171.6 
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings 
(if available) or to historical information about counterparty default rates: 
2016 2015 
Group €m €m 
Trade receivables 
Counterparties with external credit rating: 
A 11.2 17.3 
BB 0.5 
BBB 12.3 13.9 
23.5 31.7 
Counterparties without external credit rating: 
Group 1 1.0 2.6 
Group 2 80.1 92.4 
Group 3 7.3 4.4 
88.4 99.4 
Total trade receivables before Impairment 111.9 131.1 
Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits 
AA 31.1 32.1 
A 116.6 49.1 
BBB 0.9 2.0 
BB 
Cash in store 1.0 0.4 
Cash in transit 7.5 3.3 
157.1 86.9 
74 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  2 Financial risk management continued 
Group 1- new customers/related parties (less than six months). 
Group 2- existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with no defaults in the past. 
Group 3- existing customers/related parties (more than six months) with some defaults in the past. All defaults were fully recovered. 
3 Continuing Group operating profit 
Analysis by function: 
Revenue 
Cost of sales 
Distribution costs 
Selling expenses 
Administrative expenses 
Other income 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses 
Exceptional items 
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 
Group operating profit 
Share of post-tax profit in joint venture and associates 
Total operating profit 
2016 
€m 
3,656.8 
(2,572.5) 
(118.4) 
(739.8) 
(138.6) 
3.2 
(1.4) 
(36.5) 
(0.6) 
52.2 
1.6 
53.8 
2015 
€m 
3,512.1 
(2,397.2) 
(179.9) 
(731.7) 
(133.8) 
3.1 
1.4 
(1.3) 
(13.7) 
(0.1) 
58.9 
1.4 
60.3 
Total Group revenue arises from the items in the table below. Revenues from services predominantly comprise those relating to 
customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs and product support. This figure also includes royalties 
received totalling €6.0m (2015: €6.0m). 
Revenue from product sales 
Revenue from franchises 
Revenue from service's (including royalties) 
Total Group revenue 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
3,284.7 
140.1 
232.0 
3,656.8 
3,198.2 
72.8 
241.1 
3,512.1 
At 30 April 2015, there was a €7.9m exceptional gain arising on the revised lAS 2 estimation of distribution costs in the carrying 
value of inventory to take account of non-storage warehouse and logistic costs. As a result of this change of estimate, from 1 May 
2015 onwards there is an increase in the cost of sales and a reduction in distribution costs. In the year ended 30 April 2016, this has 
resulted in a €68.1m (€56.0m for France, and €12.1m for Belgium and the Netherlands) increase to cost of sales (equivalent to a circa 
186bps reduction in the reported margin rate) and a corresponding €68.1m reduction in distribution costs compared to the previous 
lAS 2 inventory valuation basis. 
Other income is from the sub-leasing of property. 
The €1.4m prior year gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments arose from the sale of the Go Sport S.A. shareholding. The 
purchaser of these Go Sport shares completed a takeover of the rest of the company for a higher price, which triggered additional 
proceeds of €1.4m for the Group under the share sale contract. 
IFRIC 21, 'Levies' affects the recognition of certain obligations and has resulted in a €0.2m increase in opening net liabilities at 1 May 
2014. The impacts on the income statement and net liabilities since the change are summarised in the table below: 
2016 2015 2014 
€m €m €m 
Impact on operating profit 
Impact on taxation 
Impact on profit for the year from continuing operations 
Impact on trade and other receivables (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) 
Impact on trade and other payables 0.1 
Impact on deferred income tax liabilities 0.1 0.1 0.1 
Impact on net liabilities (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 75  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
4 Segmental analysis 
The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments. These segments are used by the chief operating 
decision-maker, identified as the Group Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources. 
The reportable segments, all of which derive their revenue primarily from the retail of electrical goods, are as follows: 
• France (Darty and Mistergooddeal.com) 
• Belgium and the Netherlands (Vanden Borre and BCC) 
Datart was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 July 2014 following the signature of a sale and purchase agreement with 
SEW-1001 a.s., a company based in the Czech Republic. Its results have been excluded from the continuing Group. 
All reported sales are to external customers. There is no material difference between revenue by origin and destination. 
2016 
Revenue 
EBITDA' 
Depreciation and amortisation 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including write-offs 
Retail profit/(loss) 
Share of joint venture and associates' interest and taxation 
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses 
Exceptional items 
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 
Operating profit/(loss) 
Finance costs 
Finance costs - net 
Profit before income tax 
Income tax expense 
Profit for the year 
France 
€m 
2,951.3 
117.5 
(42.0) 
21.5 
97.0 
(0.8) 
(9.5) 
86.7 
Belgium 
and the 
Netherlands Unallocated 
€m €m 
705.5 
12.2 (8.7) 
(7.3) (0.1) 
4.9 (8.8) 
(1.4) 
(21.8) (5.2) 
(0.6) 
(17.5) (15.4) 
1 EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
including write·offs. 
Continuing 
Group 
€m 
3,656.8 
121.0 
(49.4) 
21.5 
93.1 
(0.8) 
(1.4) 
(36.5) 
(0.6) 
53.8 
(25.4) 
(25.4) 
28.4 
(26.3) 
2.1 
As of 30 April 2016, there is no transaction with a single external customer which amounts to 10 per cent or more of each segment 
revenues. 
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for France is €2.4m. The share of 
post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of France is €1.6m. 
EBITDA is net of impairment charges (including reversals) totalling €nil as of 30 April 2016. 
Belgium 
and the Continuing 
France Netherlands Unallocated Group 
€m €m €m €m 
Segmental total assets 921.1 196.6 113.4 1,231.1 
Segmental liabilities (1,080.2) (133.0) (329.8) (1,543.0) 
Segmental capital expenditure 35.3 10.1 45.4 
Segmental property lease rental 64.4 24.6 0.4 89.4 
76 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  4 Segmental analysis continued 
Investments in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates of €15.4m are included within the segmental assets of France and 
€0.1m within the segmental assets of Belgium and the Netherlands. 
2015 restated 
Revenue 
EBITDA' 
Depreciation and amortisation 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including write-offs 
Retail profit/(loss) 
Share of joint venture and associates' interest and taxation 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses 
Exceptional items 
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 
Operating proflt/(loss) 
Finance costs 
Finance costs - net 
Profit before income tax 
Income tax expense 
Profit for the year 
Belgium 
and the 
France Netherlands 
€m €m 
2,813.5 698.6 
107.7 20.9 
(44.5) (6.1) 
6.8 
70.0 14.8 
(0.9) 
1.4 
(13.7) 1.5 
(0.1) 
56.8 16.2 
Continuing 
Unallocated Group 
€m €m 
3,512.1 
(9.8) 118.8 
(0.1) (50.7) 
6.8 
(9.9) 74.9 
(0.9) 
1.4 
(1.3) (1.3) 
(1.5) (13.7) 
(0.1) 
(12.7) 60.3 
(27.4) 
(27.4) 
32.9 
(17.8) 
15.1 
1 EBITOA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including 
write·offs. 
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for France is €2.3m. The share of 
post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of France is €0.9m. 
EBITDA includes reversals of impairment totalling €0.4m, all of which are in within the France segment. 
Belgium 
and the Continuing 
France Netherlands Unallocated Group 
restated' restated' restated' restated' 
€m €m €m €m 
Segmental total assets 914.8 197.2 89.0 1,201.0 
Segmental liabilities (975.2) (136.3) (413.1) (1,524.6) 
Segmental capital expenditure 39.4 18.1 0.3 57.8 
Segmental property lease rental 66.2 23.3 0.4 89.9 
1 Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
Investments in equity-accounted joint venture and associates of €15.1m are included within the segmental assets of France. 
Segment assets include available-for-sale and equity-accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible 
assets, inventories, receivables, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally. Unallocated assets include centrally held 
cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax-related prepaid expenses and accrued income. 
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, 
accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally. Unallocated liabilities include 
loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax-related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 77  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
5 Continuing Group finance costs 
Interest payable on borrowings 
Loan commitment fees and the amortisation of loan and bond arrangement fees 
Net interest on pension schemes 
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses 
Finance costs 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
18.4 20.0 
5.1 4.5 
1.9 3.8 
(0.9) 
25.4 27.4 
Foreign exchange gains and losses arise on the retransiation of short-term deposits and loans denominated in a currency other than 
the operation's functional currency. 
6 Continuing Group profit before income tax 
Analysis of costs by nature 
Profit before income tax for continuing Group is stated after the following charges/(credits): 
Staff costs 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
Amortisation of intangibles 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (included within selling expenses and exceptional items) 
Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment (included within selling expenses and 
exceptional items) 
Impairment of intangible assets (included within selling expenses and exceptional items) 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs 
Operating lease rentals payable 
Income from the sub-lease of property 
Cost of inventories written off 
Reversal of written-off inventory (previously accrued provisions now utilised) 
Impairment of trade receivables (included within selling expenses) 
Cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales 
Foreign exchange gains 
Services provided by the Company's auditors and its associates 
Note 
30 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
606.5 585.5 
38.7 39.2 
11.1 11.5 
7.3 11.2 
(0.4) 
10.8 0.4 
(21.5) (6.8) 
104.1 103.3 
(3.2) (3.1) 
42.2 29.8 
(9.5) (13.2) 
2.7 3.1 
2,597.6 2,449.5 
0.2 (0.2) 
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company's auditors as 
detailed below: 
Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 
Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for other services: 
-The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 
-Tax advisory services 
- Other non-audit services 
Total auditors' remuneration 
2016 
€m 
0.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.2 
1.9 
2015 
€m 
0.5 
0.8 
0.1 
0.2 
1.6 
The other non-audit services in 2016 relate mainly to the transaction services work supporting the post-acquisition of HiM stores and 
IT services in the Netherlands. In 2015 these relate mainly to the transaction services work supporting the acquisition of HiM stores 
in the Netherlands. 
78 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  7 Continuing Group income tax expense 
Analysis of charge in year 
UK corporation tax 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 
Foreign tax 
Current tax on profits for the year 
CVAE 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 
Deferred tax (note 26) 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 
Change in tax rate 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 
Total Income tax expense 
Tax on Items (credlted)/charged to equity: 
Deferred income tax (credit)/charge on cash flow hedges in reserves 
Deferred income tax charge/(credit) on actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligations 
Total tax on Items charged/(credited) to equity 
Factors affecting tax charge for the year 
2016 
€m 
11.0 
10.6 
3.3 
2015 
€m 
0.9 
0.9 
7.0 
10.7 
2.4 
24.9 20.1 
1.6 
(0.2) 
1.4 
26.3 
(0.7) 
2.0 
1.3 
(3.8) 
0.6 
(3.2) 
17.8 
0.1 
(6.7) 
(6.6) 
The tax for the year is higher (2015: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below: 
Profit on ordinary activities before income tax 
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax In the UK of 20% (2015: 21%) 
Effects of: 
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 
Adjustments in respect of joint venture and associates 
Expenses not taxable 
CVAE 
Other permanent differences 
Exceptional items not deductible/(taxable) 
Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset (unrelieved tax losses) 
Change in corporation tax rates 
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 
Total income tax expense 
2016 
€m 
28.4 
5.7 
4.4 
(0.7) 
(7.5) 
6.5 
14.8 
3.1 
26.3 
2015 
€m 
32.9 
6.9 
2.0 
(0.7) 
(6.9) 
6.7 
(2.4) 
(0.5) 
8.8 
3.9 
17.8 
Losses not recognised as a deferred tax asset for the current year principally include tax losses arising in BCC and UK head office 
companies (2015: BCC, France and UK head office companies). 
Profit before tax per Group income statement 28.4 32.9 
Share of joint venture and associates' taxation 0.8 0.9 
Adjusted profit before tax 29.2 33.8 
Non-retail profit items 40.4 17.5 
Adjusted profit before tax on continuing operations 69.6 51.3 
Income tax expense per Group income statement 26.3 17.8 
Share of joint venture and associates' taxation 0.8 0.9 
Adjusted income tax expense 27.1 18.7 
Tax relating to exceptional items and non-retail profit items 4.0 1.4 
Adjusted income tax expense on continuing operations 31.1 20.1 
Adjusted effective tax rate 44.7% 39.3% 
Non-retail profit items represents the sum of total operating profit less retail profit excluding share of joint venture and associates' 
taxation plus net interest on pensions. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 79  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
7 Continuing Group income tax expense continued 
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is 20 per cent from 1 April 2015. The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK will 
change from 20 per cent to 19 per cent with effect from 1 April 2017. 
The effect of the changes announced in the Finance Act 2013 will have no impact on the Group's deferred tax liability in the current 
year or in future years. This is due to management's expectation that future UK taxable profits are unlikely, with a consequence that 
there are no deferred tax assets/liabilities recognised in the UK tax group at the balance sheet date. 
Management have assessed the potential tax risks, which takes into account ongoing tax audits underway around the Group, and 
have made provision accordingly. A Group company has received a demand from the French Tax Authority, claiming up to €15.3m in 
unpaid taxes and penalties relating to the Group's holding company structure. Extensive professional advice has been obtained and a 
provision has been made based on our best estimate of the expected outcome. 
8 Dividends 
Final paid 2015: 2.625 cents (2014: 2.625 cents) per share 
Interim paid 2016: 0.875 cents (2015: 0.875 cents) per share 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
14.2 
4.6 
14.0 
4.4 
18.8 18.4 
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents was paid to the Ordinary shareholders of the Company on 30 March 2016. Under the terms of the 
offer from Groupe Fnac S.A., the Company is not intending to recommend a final dividend. The total dividend payment to 
shareholders remained unchanged from the prior year at 3.5 cents per share, but the strengthening of Sterling against the Euro for 
shareholders electing a Sterling dividend payment increased the cash payment to €18.8m (2015: €18.4m). 
9 Earnings/(losses) per share 
Basic earnings/(losses) per share is calculated by dividing the profits/(losses) attributable to shareholders by 527.5m shares 
(30 April 2015: 527.5m shares), being the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue. 
There is no difference between diluted and basic losses per share because all incentive schemes are share awards and there are no 
dilutive share options. Supplementary adjusted earnings per share figures are presented. These exclude the effects of discontinued 
operations, gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments, legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses, exceptional items, 
amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, net interest on pension schemes, and tax effects of exceptional 
items and other non-retail profit items. 
2016 2015 
{Losses)/ Per share {Losses)/ Per share 
earnings amount earnings amount 
€m cents €m cents 
Basic earnings/(losses) per share 
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 3.5 0.7 14.2 2.7 
Discontinued operations (losses)/earnings attributable to owners of the parent (1.6) (0.3) 0.8 0.2 
Continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 1.9 0.4 15.0 2.9 
Adjustments 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments (1.4) (0.3) 
Legacy UK retirement benefit scheme expenses 1.4 0.3 1.3 0.2 
Exceptional items 36.5 6.9 13.7 2.6 
Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 0.6 0.1 0.1 
Net interest on pension schemes 1.9 0.4 3.8 0.7 
Tax relating to exceptional and other non-retail profit items (4.0) (0.8) (1.4) (0.3) 
Adjusted earnings per share 38.3 7.3 31.1 5.8 
10 Discontinued operations 
Operations classified as discontinued in prior years 
Comet was classified as a discontinued operation on 9 November 2011, following the signature of a sale and purchase agreement 
with OpCapita LLP. 
Darty Italy was classified as a discontinued operation on 1 March 2013, following the sale of the Group's Italian operations, and its 
results have been excluded from the continuing Group. 
Darty Spain was classified as a discontinued operation on 30 June 2013, following the closure of its stores, and its results have been 
excluded from the continuing Group. 
80 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  10 Discontinued operations continued 
Darty Turkey was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 January 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with Bimeks A.S., an electrical retailer in Turkey. Its results have been excluded from the continuing Group. 
Datart was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 July 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase agreement with 
SEW-1001 a.s., a company based in the Czech Republic. Its results have been excluded from the continuing Group. 
The results from Datart, Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey, classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated income 
statement. are stated below. 
Revenue 
Cost of sales 
Distribution costs 
Selling expenses 
Administrative expenses 
Exceptional items 
Finance costs 
Finance income 
Loss before Income tax 
Taxation relating to performance of business 
Loss after taxation relating to performance of business 
Profit on disposal, net of tax 
Total profit/(loss) for the period from discontinued operations 
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2016 
€m 
(0.6) 
0.4 
(0.1) 
(0.3) 
(0.3) 
1.9 
1.6 
For the year 
ended 
30 April 
2015 
€m 
36.7 
(27.0) 
(1.3) 
(8.6) 
(2.6) 
0.2 
0.1 
(2.5) 
(2.5) 
1.2 
(1.3) 
As part of the disposal agreement to sell Comet Group pic, its subsidiaries and Triptych Insurance N.V., the Group made an 
investment of £50.0m in Hailey 2 LP. The investment entitled the Group to participate in the equity proceeds of any subsequent sale 
(or other exit) of Comet and/or Triptych by Hailey 2 LP. In the event that the net exit proceeds received by Hailey 2 LP exceed E70m, 
the Group receive a return of 10 per cent of the amount by which the proceeds exceed £70m, and a further return of 20 per cent of 
any amount above £105m. No fixed coupon will be payable on the Group's investment and it has no maturity date. Outside of this, 
the Group has no other control rights relating to this investment. Given the uncertainty over future returns, the investment was fully 
impaired in the year ending 30 April 2012 on the disposal of Comet. On 13 August 2015 the Group received an initial return which 
amounted to £2.3m (€3.1m, or €1.9m net of a 38 per cent French tax charge) but there remained no certainty over the amount of any 
future returns, if any. In May 2016, the Group were advised of a further £3.6m (€4.7m) which was received on 19 May 2016 and will be 
accounted for in the year ending 30 April 2017. 
Otherwise, exceptional items relate to the remeasurement of assets of discontinued operations. 
Cash flows from Datart, Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Da!tY Turkey 
Operating activities 
Investing activities 
Financing activities 
Cash flows relating to performance of business 
Net cash consideration received during the period, including cash and overdrafts disposed 
Total cash flow 
For the year For the year 
ended ended 
30 April 30 April 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
(0.7) (15.3) 
3.1 (0.4) 
2.4 (15.7) 
10.1 
2.4 (5.6) 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 81  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
11 Exceptional items 
france 
Impairment of intangibleassets 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 
Restructuring and takeover costs 
Exceptional gain from revised estimate of inventory carrying value 
Belgium and the Netherlands 
Impairment of intangible assets 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 
Business disruption costs 
Restructuring and takeover costs 
Exceptional gain from revised estimate of inventory carrying value 
Unallocated 
Restructuring and takeover costs 
Exceptional Items In operating profit 
Tax relating to exceptional and other non-retail profit items 
Exceptional loss for the period 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
(9.5) 
(9.5) 
(10.8) 
(7.3) 
(3.5) 
(0.2) 
(0.4) 
(11.2) 
(8.5) 
6.4 
(13.7) 
1.5 
(21.8) 1.5 
(5.2) (1.5) 
(5.2) (1.5) 
(36.5) (13.7) 
4.0 1.4 
(32.5) (12.3) 
In the year, pre-tax exceptional items relating to the continuing Group total €36.5m (2015: €13.7m) which have arisen due to the 
following: 
In Belgium and the Netherlands, given the performance and current market outlook in the Netherlands and issues arising as a result 
of BCC systems implementation, the following exceptional costs have arisen: 
• Intangible asset impairment of €10.8m and property, plant and equipment impairment of €7.3m. 
• €3.5m of business disruption costs arising as a result of the difficulties encountered on the ERP system implementation at BCC. 
These costs are incremental costs to rectify both operational and IT system issues that would not have otherwise been incurred in 
the normal course of business or in the original project scoping. 
In France there have been €6.8m of restructuring costs as a result of: 
• Termination costs arising from a programme to improve both the customer service offer and productivity of after-sales service. 
Affected employees have the right to take voluntary redundancy if there is no other suitable vacancy. A €6.8m provision has 
been raised based on the estimated termination cost obligation. 
• €0.1m of restructuring costs arising due to the finalisation of the integration of Mistergooddeal.com into the Darty business in 
France. 
• A net €0.1m credit relating to prior year restructuring and HR provisions. In light of new information in the year these have been 
released. 
As a result of the possible takeover of the Group there are €7.0m of related exceptional costs as follows: 
• €3.9m of adviser fees incurred and accrued at the balance sheet date, which are included in the unallocated segment. In total, 
adviser fees will range between €20m and €25m if the transaction completes. If the transaction does not complete there may be 
'good faith' payments made to advisers based on an evaluation of their support. At the balance sheet date, given the 
uncertainties inherent in the agreements with the advisers, it is not possible to reliably estimate what these good faith payments 
would be, although they may represent material amounts. Given the estimation uncertainty, no accrual has been made although 
the Directors note that the good faith payments would not exceed the costs were the transaction to complete. 
• €3.1m (France €2.7m, Belgium and the Netherlands €0.2m and unallocated €0.2m) relating to pro-rata retention agreements and 
other HR incentives. 
82 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  11 Exceptional items continued 
The unallocated segment also includes €1.1m of further restructuring costs relating to the transfer of specific head office functions 
from London to Paris. 
€35.5m of the costs are administrative costs, €0.6m are distribution costs and €0.4m are selling costs. 
There is a tax credit relating to exceptional and other non-retail profit items of €4.0m. 
The cash outflow on exceptional items during the period for the continuing Group was €15.7m (2015: €12.7m). 
In the prior year, pre-tax exceptional items relating to the continuing Group totalling €13.7m arose mainly due to the following: 
• €14.5m of property-related charges and impairment costs in France (of which €3.1m are included in restructuring costs); 
• €7.1m of restructuring costs in France (€5.6m) and in unallocated (€1.5m); and 
• a €7.9m exceptional gain (€6.4m in France and €1.5m in Belgium and the Netherlands) arising on the revised lAS 2 estimation of 
distribution costs in the carrying value of inventory to take into account non-storage warehouse and logistics costs. 
12 Intangible assets 
Other 
Goodwill Software intangibles Total 
€m €m €m €m 
Cost 
At 1 May 2015 168.1 171.5 34.4 374.0 
Reclassifications 0.5 0.5 
Additions- separately acquired 2.5 2.5 
Additions- internally generated 7.1 7.1 
Disposals (0.1) (0.8) (0.9) 
As at 30 April 2016 168.1 181.5 33.6 383.2 
Accumulated amortisation and Impairment 
At 1 May 2015 142.7 140.4 22.3 305.4 
Charge for year 10.2 0.9 11.1 
Disposals (0.1) (0.8) (0.9) 
Impairment 6.5 4.2 0.1 10.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.1) (0.1) 
As at 30 April 2016 149.1 154.7 22.5 326.3 
Net book value 
- internally generated 22.5 22.5 
-other 19.0 4.3 11.1 34.4 
As at 30 April 2016 19.0 26.8 11.1 56.9 
Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales €nil, selling expenses €0.6m and 
administrative expenses €10.5m. 
Impairment charges in the year of €10.8m relate to the business disruption from implementation of a new information system, as 
well as performance and an uncertain market outlook in the Netherlands (see note 11). 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 83  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
12 Intangible assets continued 
Cost 
At 1 May 2014 
Adjustment to fair value of Mistergooddeal.com assets acquired 
Reclassifications 
Additions- separately acquired 
Additions- internally generated 
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) 
Disposals 
As at 30 April 2015 
Accumulated amortisation and Impairment 
At 1 May 2014 
Adjustment to fair value of Mistergooddeal.com assets acquired 
Charge for year 
Disposals 
Impairment 
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes 
As at 30 April 2015 
Net book value 
-internally generated 
-other 
As at 30 April 2015 
-internally generated 
-other 
As at 30 April 2014 
Goodwill 
€m 
161.4 
0.2 
6.5 
168.1 
142.4 
0.2 
0.1 
142.7 
25.4 
25.4 
19.0 
19.0 
Other 
Software intangibles 
€m €m 
169.7 
(0.1) 
0.3 
3.3 
7.2 
(8.9) 
171.5 
136.0 
0.6 
11.6 
(7.7) 
(0.1) 
140.4 
21.3 
9.8 
31.1 
20.5 
13.2 
33.7 
33.7 
0.8 
(0.1) 
34.4 
22.1 
0.1 
(0.1) 
0.2 
22.3 
12.1 
12.1 
11.6 
11.6 
Total 
€m 
364.8 
0.1 
0.3 
3.3 
7.2 
7.3 
(9.0) 
374.0 
300.5 
0.6 
11.7 
(7.8) 
0.4 
305.4 
21.3 
47.3 
68.6 
20.5 
43.8 
64.3 
Amortisation charges in the prior year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales €nil, selling expenses €0.5m, 
administrative expenses €11.2m. 
Impairment charges in the prior year of €0.4m were included as exceptional items in the income statement (see note 11). 
Goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment based on value-in-use. Goodwill is tested more 
frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired. Cash-generating units are independent sources of income and represent 
the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. In practice these are 
deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired. 
In the prior year BCC acquired a chain of retail stores in the Netherlands. The goodwill on acquisition is included in the Belgium and 
the Netherlands business segment. 
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segments is as follows: 
Belgium 
and the 
France Netherlands Group 
€m €m €m 
As at 30 April 2016 0.5 18.5 19.0 
As at 30 April2015 0.5 24.9 25.4 
84 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  12 Intangible assets continued 
Goodwill impairment review 
The Group defines its formal approach to goodwill impairments which is performed at the country level on the fully allocated MTP 
(medium-term plan) cash flow against all goodwill. 
Goodwill impairment reviews are carried out annually or whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that an 
impairment may be required. The key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and 
expected changes to selling prices and costs. Management have estimated the discount rate with regard to the specific risks 
inherent within the Group's retail businesses. Discount rates used are on a pre-tax basis. Changes in selling prices and direct costs 
are based on past experience and have been adjusted for expected changes in future conditions. The calculations are based on 
future operating cash flows, over a five-year period, derived using management's latest medium-term plan which will be used in the 
formal impairment tests of the non-current assets. Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates. 
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations for France and Belgium and the Netherlands are as follows: 
• Long-term growth rate of between 0.3 per cent and 0.7 per cent (2015: 2.0 per cent). 
• Pre-tax discount rates of between 10.6 per cent and 13.6 per cent (2015: between 11.0 per cent and 13.9 per cent), being the 
Group's weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business. 
Given the performance and an uncertain market outlook in the Netherlands there has been a full impairment of the BCC goodwill in 
the year to 30 April 2016. 
Sensitivity analysis has not been disclosed as management believes that any reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the 
carrying value of the assets in France and Belgium to exceed their recoverable amount. 
Other intangibles 
Other intangibles comprise amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises, intangible assets acquired in 
business combinations and favourable lease contracts. 
The carrying amount of the other intangibles is analysed by business segment as follows: 
Belgium 
and the 
france Netherlands 
€m €m 
As at 30 April 2016 11.1 
As at 30 April 2015 11.4 0.7 
Other intangibles are valued at fair value less costs to sell. 
13 Property, plant and equipment 
Assets 
fixtures, in the 
Land and fittings and course of 
buildings equipment construction 
€m €m €m 
Cost 
At 1 May 2015 317.4 491.5 8.1 
Reclassifications 0.4 7.1 (8.0) 
Additions 2.3 24.9 8.5 
Disposals (18.8) (18.7) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.1) 
As at 30 April 2016 301.3 504.8 8.5 
Accumulated depreciation and Impairment 
At 1 May 2015 106.5 389.3 
Impairment 7.3 
Charge for year 7.8 30.9 
Disposals (9.7) (15.9) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.1) 
As at 30 April 2016 104.6 411.5 
Net book value 
As at 30 April 2016 196.7 93.3 8.5 
Group 
€m 
11.1 
12.1 
Total 
€m 
.817.0 
(0.5) 
35.7 
(37.5) 
(0.1) 
814.6 
495.8 
7.3 
38.7 
(25.6) 
(0.1) 
516.1 
298.5 
The €37.5m disposals includes the write-off of land and buildings (€0.9m) and fixtures, fittings and equipment (€0.4m), following a 
fire in the Ollioules Darty France store. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 85  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
13 Property, plant and equipment continued 
Assets 
Fixtures, in the 
Land and fittings and course of 
buildings equipment construction Total 
€m €m €m €m 
Cost 
At 1 May 2014 326.3 514.0 11.9 852.2 
Reclassifications 0.2 6.3 (6.8) (0.3) 
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) 0.8 0.8 
Additions 4.2 33.0 3.0 40.2 
Disposals (13.3) (62.4) (75.7) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.2) (0.2) 
At 30 April 2015 317.4 491.5 8.1 817.0 
Accumulated depreciation and Impairment 
At 1 May 2014 94.6 413.7 508.3 
Adjustment to fair value of Mistergooddeal.com assets acquired 1.3 1.3 
Impairment 11.2 11.2 
Reversal of impairment (0.4) (0.4) 
Charge for year 9.7 30.0 39.7 
Disposals (8.6) (55.7) (64.3) 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 
As at 30 April 2015 106.5 389.3 495.8 
Net book value 
As at 30 April 2015 210.9 102.2 8.1 321.2 
Net book value 
As at 30 April 2014 231.7 100.3 11.9 343.9 
The cost of fixtures, fittings and equipment includes €7.4m (2015: €2.1 m) in respect of assets held under finance leases. The related 
accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was €1.0m (2015: €0.1m). The net book value of fixtures, fittings and equipment held 
under finance leases was €6.4m (2015: €2.0m). 
Impairments 
Asset impairment reviews are carried out annually or whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that an 
impairment may be required. 
For the purposes of impairment testing, each individual store is considered by management to be a cash-generating unit. Impairment 
testing is based on value-in-use calculations incorporating discount rates derived from the Group's weighted average cost of capital 
with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business. 
The Group defines its formal approach to impairments which is performed at the country level on the fully allocated MTP (medium­
term plan) cash flow against all non-current assets. Where the MTP can support the carrying value of assets then the next trigger 
tests are applied at the store level against relevant assets and allocating direct store costs and indirect store costs that vary with 
store performance. As web sales represent an increasing proportion of total sales, the Group policy includes click and collect sales 
within the store sales and profit as this is clearly linked to the store and can be allocated appropriately. In addition, assets related to 
click and collect have been apportioned to the stores. 
An impairment was charged to the income statement during the year for €7.3m for the Netherlands (2015: €11.2m for France) and 
there were no reversals of previously held provisions (2015: €0.4m for France) (see note 11). 
The key assumptions used in the impairment review are based upon the achievement of the Group's medium-term plan with a 
long-term growth rate of between 0.3 and 0.7 per cent (2015: 2.0 per cent) and pre-tax discount rate of between 10.6 per cent and 
13.6 per cent (2015: between 11.0 per cent and 13.9 per cent). In Belgium and the Netherlands, where impairments were incurred, the 
long-term growth rate was 0.3 per cent and the pre-tax discount rate was 10.6 per cent. 
86 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  14 Investments 
At 1 May 2015 
Additions 
Share of retained profits in year 
Dividends received 
As at 30 April 2016 
At 1 May 2014 
Share of retained profits in year 
Dividends received 
Disposals 
As at 30 April 2015 
Joint 
venture 
€m 
0.1 
0.1 
Joint 
venture 
€m 
0.6 
(0.6) 
In relation to the Group's interest in its joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows: 
Joint venture 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Income 2.0 
Expense (2.0) 
Profit before interest and tax 
Tax 
Share of profits after tax 
In relation to the Group's interest in the joint venture and associates, the assets and liabilities are shown below: 
Joint venture 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Current assets 
Long-term assets 0.1 
Current liabilities 
Long-term liabilities 
Net assets 0.1 
Associates Total 
€m €m 
15.1 15.1 
0.1 
1.6 1.6 
(1.3) (1.3) 
15.4 15.5 
Associates Total 
€m €m 
14.7 15.3 
1.4 1.4 
(1.0) (1.0) 
(0.6) 
15.1 15.1 
Associates 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
33.1 32.9 
(30.7) (30.6) 
2.4 2.3 
(0.8) (0.9) 
1.6 1.4 
Associates 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
262.6 237.7 
(246.6) (222.6) 
16.0 15.1 
In the prior year the Group disposed of its investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S.A. This was a company incorporated in 
France in which the Group had joint control. Darty Orange S.A. has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed. 
There are no significant capital commitments within Darty Orange S.A. Tax paid on the profits of Darty Orange S.A. is included ·in the 
tax charge of France. The Group owned 5,000 part social shares; this made up 50 per cent of the total shareholding. 
The Group's investment in associated undertakings relate to the Group's holding in Menafinance S.A., a company incorporated in 
France that provides consumer credit services. The Group owns 370,716 Ordinary shares of €16.00 each. Menafinance S.A. has a 
balance sheet date of 31 December. 
On 1 March 2013, as part of the disposal of the Italian operations, the Group acquired a 15 per cent investment in DPS Group s.r.l 
('DPS') through contributing all 20 stores and employees along with a cash contribution of €3.0m. Given the uncertainty over future 
returns, it was decided in 2013 to fully impair this investment. 
During the year, Vanden Borre entered into a joint venture agreement with FBD International SAS in order to create a franchised 
network of kitchen stores in Belgium. The joint venture agreement CVDBK S.A.) has il Cil[lit;;~i v;;~lue of €0.2m with Vanden Borre and 
FBD (through its Belgian subsidiary, lxina) both having contributed 50 per cent. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 87  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
15 Available-for-sale financial assets 
As at 1 May 2015 
Disposals of shares in SEW-100.a.s. 
As at 30 April 2016 
Unlisted securities: Level 2 financial Instruments 
Equity securities- SEW-100.a.s. 
Total securities as at 30 April 2016 
€m 
1.0 
(1.0) 
As part of the consideration for the sale of Datart to SEW-1001 a.s. ('SEW'), a company based in the Czech Republic, the Group held 
603,000 shares in SEW representing 30 per cent of the issued share capital of SEW. The Group had a put option exercisable 18 
months after the disposal (from 23 January 2016) on the purchasers of Datart to acquire these shares for a guaranteed price of 
€1.0m. The put option was exercised in November 2015 at the guaranteed price of €1.0m. 
16 Inventories 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Finished goods for resale 471.4 456.8 
€217.4m (2015: €170.6m) of inventories were not paid for as at 30 April 2016. 
The Group's estimate of the costs included within inventory was refined in the prior year as described in note 11. 
As a result of the higher inventory, the revised lAS 2 accounting estimate basis has resulted in a €0.4m increase to the 2016 retail 
profit and the year-end stock valuation (€11.9m vs. €11.5m last year) as a result of the higher absorption of logistics costs. 
The impact on reported costs classifications and margin rate is outlined in note 3. 
17 Trade and other receivables 
2016 2015 
€m restated' 
€m 
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Trade receivables 111.9 131.1 
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (5.6) (6.7) 
Trade receivables- net 106.3 124.4 
Amounts receivable from joint venture and associates 
Other receivables 53.6 54.4 
Prepayments and accrued income 44.0 39.2 
Total trade and other receivables 203.9 218.0 
1 Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
The book value of the Group's trade and other receivables approximates to fair value due to the short-term nature of these 
receivables. 
2014 
restated' 
€m 
128.7 
(6.9) 
121.8 
1.5 
63.3 
34.6 
221.2 
At 30 April 2016, other receivables of €53.6m (2015: €54.4m) are not past due and not impaired. These relate mainly to value-added 
tax for €30.6m (2015: €24.5m) and Credit d'lmpot pour Ia Competitivite et I'Emploi for €5.9m (2015: €6.0m). 
At 30 April 2016, trade receivables of €6.1m (2015: €33.8m) are past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of independent 
customers and franchisees for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as 
follows: 
2016 2015 2014 
€m €m €m 
Up to three months 4.7 30.9 17.1 
Three to six months 1.1 2.7 1.4 
Over six months 0.3 0.2 0.4 
Total 6.1 33.8 18.9 
· 88 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  17 Trade and other receivables continued 
At 30 April 2016, trade receivables of €5.6m (2015: €6.7m) were provided for. The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to 
franchisees and wholesalers, which are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations. It was assessed that a portion of the 
receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 
2016 2015 2014 
€m €m €m 
Up to three months 0.9 1.0 1.4 
Three to six months 1.1 0.9 0.4 
Over six months 3.6 4.8 5.1 
Total 5.6 6.7 6.9 
The carrying amounts of the Group's trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
2016 2015 2014 
€m restated' restated' 
€m €m 
Pounds Sterling 0.3 0.4 0.7 
Euros 203.3 217.3 207.1 
Czech Koruna 6.5 
Other 0.3 0.3 6.9 
Total trade and other receivables 203.9 218.0 221.2 
1 Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
The Group's trade receivables are stated after provision for impairment based on management's assessment of the creditworthiness 
of the customers. An analysis of the movement in the provision is set out below: 
2016 
€m 
At 1 May (6.7) 
Provisions for receivables impairment (2.7) 
Trade debtors written off in year 3.2 
Unused amounts reversed 0.6 
Disposal -provision with Datart 
As at 30 April (5.6) 
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group's customer base being large and 
unrelated. The credit ratings of the Group's debtors are disclosed in note 2. 
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 
18 Other receivables 
2016 
€m 
Non-current 
Other receivables 9.8 
Total other receivables 9.8 
2015 
€m 
(6.9) 
(3.1) 
2.6 
0.5 
0.2 
(6.7) 
2015 
€m 
9.7 
9.7 
The book value of the Group's other receivables approximates to their fair value. Other receivables consist mainly of rental deposits. 
The carrying amounts of the Group's other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
Euros 
Other 
Total other receivables 
The other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 
2016 
€m 
9.7 
0.1 
9.8 
2015 
€m 
9.6 
0.1 
9.7 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 89  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
19 Cash and cash equivalents 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Cash at bank and in hand 157.1 86.9 
Total 157.1 86.9 
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts comprise the following: 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Bank overdrafts 
Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
157.1 
(5.0) 
152.1 
86.9 
(0.2) 
86.7 
Treasury policy includes counterparty limits of up to €30m in aggregate per core bank or permitted bank (minimum short-term 
rating A1/P1). 
20 Trade and other payables 
Trade payables 
Tax and social security payable 
Other payables 
Accruals 
Deferred income 
Total trade and other payables 
21 Borrowings 
Current 
Bank loans and overdrafts 
Total current 
Non-current 
Bank loans, overdrafts and bonds 
-repayable within one year 
-repayable between one and five years' 
-repayable after five years 
Less amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities 
Total non-current 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
381.6 318.6 
131.1 116.4 
196.9 186.4 
115.7 100.3 
113.7 115.3 
939.0 837.0 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
17.6 11.1 
17.6 11.1 
17.6 11.1 
(2.9) 53.2 
245.9 244.5 
260.6 308.8 
(17.6) (11.1) 
243.0 297.7 
1 The difference between the carrying value of the borrowing facilities and its nil nominal value is the amount of the prepaid fees which remain unamortised (€2.9m as of 
30 April 2016). 
Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in Euros and have floating interest rates based upon EURIBOR. 
In February 2014 the Group signed a new committed €225m five-year revolving credit facility, which expires in February 2019. This 
replaced the Group's existing €455m facility which was due to expire in December 2015. In addition, in March 2015 the Group signed 
a new committed €17m three-year revolving credit facility, which expires in March 2018. In addition, in September 2015 the Group 
signed a new committed €15m three-year revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2018. 
In February 2014 the Group issued €250m Senior Notes with a coupon of 5.875 per cent which mature on February 2021. This is a 
non-convertible bond. 
The book value of the Group's borrowings approximates to their fair value. Borrowings are denominated in Euros. 
90 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  21 Borrowings continued 
Borrowing facilities 
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 April 2016, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met. 
Expiring after more than one year but not more than five years 
Borrowings by class 
Bank overdrafts 
Bank loans 
Issued bonds (including transaction costs) 
2016 
Current Non·current 
€m €m 
(5.0) 
(12.6) 2.9 
(245.9) 
(17.6) (243.0) 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
257.0 185.0 
2015 
Current Non·current 
€m €m 
(0.2) 
(10.9) (53.2) 
(244.5) 
(11.1) (297.7) 
The difference between the carrying value of the issued bond and its €250m nominal value is the amount of prepaid fees which 
remain unamortised. The difference between the carrying value of the bank loans and the drawn·down revolving credit facility is the 
amount of prepaid fees which remain unamortised. 
Obligations under finance leases 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 
Less than one year 
Later than one year but not more than five 
More than five years 
Future finance charges on finance leases 
Present value of finance lease liabilities 
22 Other payables 
Accruals 
Deferred income 
Other payables 
Total other payables 
2016 
€m 
(1.6) 
(3.7) 
(5.3) 
0.2 
(5.1) 
2016 
€m 
1.0 
213.6 
4.8 
219.4 
Deferred income mainly relates to the deferred revenue recognition relating to extended warranties and service contracts. 
23 Derivative financial instruments 
Current portion 
Foreign currency swap- held for trading 
Forward foreign currency contracts- cash flow hedges 
Derivative financial instruments- current 
Total derivative financial Instruments 
2016 
Assets 
€m 
Liabilities 
€m 
(1.8) 
(1.8) 
(1.8) 
2015 
Assets 
€m 
2015 
€m 
(0.5) 
(1.4) 
(1.9) 
(1.9) 
2015 
€m 
1.0 
219.3 
2.7 
223.0 
Liabilities 
€m 
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current 
asset or liability if the remaining maturity ofthe hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity 
of the hedged item is less than 12 months. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 91  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
23 Derivative financial instruments continued 
Hedges 
Forward foreign currency contracts - cash flow hedges 
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US Dollars. The contracts typically cover 
periods from one to nine months. Where cash flow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are assessed to be effective, the 
movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is 
calculated by marking the contracts to market using prevailing forward exchange rates. At 30 April 2016 a net unrealised loss of 
€1.8m (30 April 2015: €nil) with a related deferred tax asset was included within equity in respect of these contracts. At 30 April 2016 
the value of future US Dollar purchases hedged was $58.4m (2015: $54.3m). There was no ineffectiveness recognised in profit or 
loss arising from cash flow hedges. 
24 Provisions 
At 1 May 
Additional amounts provided in the year 
Amounts used or transferred during the year 
Unused amounts reversed during the year 
At 30 April 
Analysed as: 
Current 
Non·current 
Total 
2016 
€m 
2.6 
0.4 
(1.7) 
(0.6) 
0.7 
2016 
€m 
0.2 
0.5 
0.7 
2015 
€m 
5.1 
1.5 
(3.1) 
(0.9) 
2.6 
2015 
€m 
1.8 
0.8 
2.6 
Provisions relate to onerous property contracts. The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a 
shortfall and long-term idle properties. The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service 
charges. 
Non-current provisions are all due to be utilised within two years, with the exception of €0.3m, which is due to be utilised between 
two and three years. 
25 Income tax liabilities 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Income tax 
CVAE 
Total tax liabilities 
26 Deferred tax 
25.5 
3.6 
29.1 
12.3 
3.6 
15.9 
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the country 
in which they originate. 
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred 
income tax assets, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised. 
Following a change in UK tax legislation applicable from 1 July 2009, dividends received in the UK are no longer subject to UK 
taxation, provided certain conditions are met. Consequently no deferred income tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of 
overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings. 
The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by lAS 12) during the year are shown below. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net. 
92 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  26 Deferred tax continued 
2016 
Deferred income tax liabilities 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances Other Total 
€m €m €m 
At 1 May 2015 restated' (40.2) (11.2) (51.4) 
Income statement credit 0.5 2.8 3.3 
Charged to equity 0.3 0.4 0.7 
Reclassification 1.3 1.3 
As at 30 April 2016 (38.1) (8.0) (46.1) 
1 Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
Deferred income tax assets 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances Tax losses Pensions Other Total 
€m €m €m €m €m 
At 1 May 2015 1.5 5.9 23.7 31.1 
Income statement credit/(charge) (5.9) 1.2 (4.7) 
Business combinations 
Reclassification (1.5) (1.5) 
Credited to equity (2.0) (2.0) 
As at 30 April 2016 22.9 22.9 
2015 
Deferred income tax liabilities 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances Other Total 
€m €m €m 
At 1 May 2014 (43.8) (5.8) (49.6) 
Adjustment in respect of IFRIC 21 0.1 0.1 
At 1 May 2014 restated (43.7) (5.8) (49.5) 
Income statement credit/(charge) 5.0 (6.0) (1.0) 
Charged to equity (0.1) (0.1) 
Reclassification (1.5) 0.7 (0.8) 
As at 30 April 2015 (40.2) (11.2) (51.4) 
Deferred income tax assets 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances Tax losses Pensions Other Total 
€m €m €m €m €m 
At 1 May 2014 0.1 15.9 3.2 19.2 
Income statement credit/(charge) 5.8 1.3 (2.9) 4.2 
Business combinations 0.2 0.2 
Reclassification 1.5 (0.2) (0.5) 0.8 
Credited to equity 6.7 6.7 
As at 30 April 2015 1.5 5.9 23.7 31.1 
'Other' deferred tax liabilities mainly relate to merger goodwill (Belgium) and IT costs (France). 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 93  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended.30 April 2016 
26 Deferred tax continued 
The deferred income tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred income tax liabilities, and this gives rise to the 
following amounts disclosed in the balance sheet: 
2016 2015 2014 
€m restated restated 
€m' €m' 
Deferred income tax assets as above 22.9 31.1 19.2 
Offset against deferred income tax liabilities (22.9) (31.1) (18.9) 
Deferred Income tax assets 0.3 
Deferred income tax liabilities as above (46.1) (51.4) (49.5) 
Reduced by deferred income tax assets 22.9 31.1 18.9 
Deferred Income tax liabilities (23.2) (20.3) (30.6) 
1 Restated following the adjustment of certain obligations due to the amendment to IFRIC 21 (see note 3). 
The deferred income tax asset recoverable after more than one year is €22.7m (2015: €28.0m) and the deferred income tax liability 
due after more than one year is €45.1m (2015: €51.5m). 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit 
through the future taxable profits is probable. As at 30 April 2016, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to approximately 
€69m (2015: €67m) and UK losses of approximately €196m (2015: €173m) on which a deferred income tax asset of €nil (2015: €5.9m) 
has been recognised. The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of approximately €57m (2015: €48m) in respect of 
losses amounting to approximately €265m (2015: €225m) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. The tax 
deductibility of losses expire as follows: 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Within five years 16 12 
Within 15 years 53 39 
Not expiring 196 189 
265 240 
27 Share capital 
2016 2015 
Number Number 
m €m m €m 
Authorised, issued and fully paid 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9 
Kesa Employee Share Trust 
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust ('the Trust'), that owns 2,093,938 (2015: 2,093,938) 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents in Darty pic at 30 April 2016. These were acquired at an average cost of €1.94 (2015: €1.94) and included 
in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of €4.1m (2015: €4.1m). The shares are used to satisfy share awards and the 
purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies. Dividends receivable on these shares during the year 
have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust. Shares will be allocated by the Trust when 
relevant options under the scheme are exercised. The market value of the shares at 30 April 2016 was €4.5m (2015: €2.1m). 
94 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  28 Cash flow from operating activities 
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 
Adjustments for: 
Finance costs 
Share of post-tax profit in joint venture and associates 
Continuing Group operating profit 
Discontinued operations operating profit/( loss) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
Net impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 
Increase in inventories 
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 
lncrease/(decrease) in payables 
Net cash Inflow from operating activities 
Net cash flow from operating activities can be summarised as follows: 
Continuing operations 
Discontinued operations 
Net cash Inflow from operating activities 
29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
Cash at bank and in hand 
· Overdrafts 
Borrowings falling due within one year 
Borrowings falling due after one year 
Finance leases 
Total 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Overdrafts 
Borrowings falling due within one year 
Borrowings falling due after one year 
Finance leases 
Total 
2016 2015 
Notes €m €m 
28.4 32.9 
25.4 27.4 
(1.6) (1.4) 
52.2 58.9 
(0.2) (2.6) 
49.8 51.4 
18.1 11.2 
(21.5) (6.9) 
(1.4) 
(14.6) (6.4) 
0.5 (8.4) 
90.8 (35.1) 
175.1 60.7 
175.8 76.0 
10 (0.7) (15.3) 
175.1 60.7 
Exchange 
and other 
2016 Cash flow movements 2015 
€m €m €m €m 
157.1 68.6 1.6 86.9 
(5.0) (4.8) (0.2) 
152.1 63.8 1.6 86.7 
(12.6) (1.7) (10.9) 
(243.0) 57.0 (2.3) (297.7) 
(5.3) (3.4) (1.9) 
(260.9) 51.9 (2.3) (310.5) 
(108.8) 115.7 (0.7) (223.8) 
Exchange 
and other 
2015 Cash flow movements 2014 
€m €m €m €m 
86.9 12.0 (0.6) 75.5 
(0.2) 1.3 (1.5) 
86.7 13.3 (0.6) 74.0 
(10.9) (10.9) 
(297.7) (37.0) (1.5) (259.2) 
(1.9) (1.9) 
(310.5) (49.8) (1.5) (259.2) 
(223.8) (36.5) (2.1) (185.2) 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 95  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
30 Employees and Directors 
Staff costs (Including Executive Directors) 
Wages and salaries 
Social security costs 
Other pension costs 
Total staff costs 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
430.9 
165.8 
9.8 
606.5 
419.1 
162.7 
3.7 
585.5 
Included within wages and salaries is €2.6m (2015: €0.4m) in respect of equity·settled share-based payment transactions. 
Monthly average number of people employed, including Executive Directors 
2016 2015 
Stores 6,960 6,890 
Distribution 4,216 4,658 
Administration 1,322 1,278 
Total 12,498 12,826 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Directors 
Salaries, fees and taxable benefits 1.8 1.9 
Compensation for loss of office 0.6 
Bonuses 1.3 0.4 
Aggregate emoluments total 3.7 2.3 
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 
Aggregate gains arising from the exercise of share options 
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 
Total 3.7 2.4 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Highest-paid Director 
Salaries, fees and taxable benefits 0.8 0.7 
Compensation for loss of office 
Bonuses 0.8 0.2 
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 
Aggregate gains arising from the exercise of share options 
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 
Total 1.6 1.0 
The number of Directors who exercised share options during the year can be seen on page 46 in the Directors' remuneration report. 
A breakdown of payments to Directors can be seen on page 44 in the Directors' remuneration report. 
Key management compensation 
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 
Compensation for loss of office 
Post-employment benefits 
Share-based payments 
Total 
Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Darty Executive Committee. 
96 Darty pte Annual Report 2015/16 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
5.2 
0.6 
0.2 
6.0 
4.0 
0.3 
4.3  31 Share-based payments 
Share-based payments 
During the year covered by these financial statements, the Group has operated the following share award plan: 
• Long-Term Incentive Plan ('LTIP') 
Details of the significant share award plans are shown below. 
(a) June 2012 grant of nil cost share awards 
June 2012 LTIP grant 
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
24 June 2012 
£0.49 
£nil 
95 
9,011.400 
3 years 
46% 
N/A 
3 years 
1.94% 
5.00% 
£0.42 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April2016 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Expired during the year 
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 
(b) September 2013 grant of nil cost share awards 
September 2013 LTIP grant- three-year award 
Number 
2.412,699 
(2.412,699) 
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in 
exceptional circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The 
awards are based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each 
year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
17 September 2013 
£0.74 
£nil 
21 
1,773,584 
3 yeurs 
54% 
N/A 
3 years 
2.51% 
5.00% 
£0.66 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 97  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
31 Share-based payments continued 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2016 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Forfeited during year 
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 
September 2013 LTIP grant- four-year award 
Number 
1,773,584 
(561,883) 
1,211,701 
Executive Directors received annual awards of four-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
17 September 2013 
£0.74 
£nil 
21 
1,773,584 
4 years 
54% 
N/A 
4 years 
2.51% 
5.00% 
£0.66 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past four years. The expected life was the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent with the 
assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April2016 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Forfeited during year 
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 
98 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Number 
1,773,584 
(561,882) 
1,211,702  31 Share-based payments continued 
(c) September 2014 grant of nil cost share awards 
September 2014 LTIP grant- three-year award 
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
15 September 2014 
£0.80 
£nil 
67 
2,538,416 
3 years 
54% 
N/A 
3 years 
1.92% 
3.51% 
£0.72 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April2016 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Forfeited during year 
Outstanding at 30 April2016 
Exercisable at 30 April2016 
September 2014 LTIP grant- four-year award 
Number 
2,538,416 
(225,616) 
2,312,800 
Executive Directors received annual awards of four-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
15 September 2014 
£0.80 
£nil 
67 
2,538,416 
4 years 
50% 
N/A 
4 years 
1.92% 
3.51% 
£0.70 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past four years. The expected life was the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and Frnnce government bonds of a term consistent with the 
assumed option life. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 99  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
31 Share-based payments continued 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2016 in respect of the L TIP awards is shown below: 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Forfeited during year 
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 
(d) December 2015 grant of nil cost share awards 
December 2015 LTIP grant- three-year award 
Number 
2,538.416 
(225,617) 
2,312,799 
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in 
exceptional circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The 
awards are based on annual earnings per share and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
10 December 2015 
£1.04 
£nil 
67 
1,784,036 
3 years 
50% 
N/A 
3 years 
1.11% 
3.79% 
£0.93 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent 
with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2016 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Granted during the year 
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 
December 2015 LTIP grant- four-year award 
Number 
1,784,036 
1,784,036 
Executive Directors received annual awards of four-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in exceptional 
circumstances). Other executives participated, with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. The awards are 
based on annual earnings per share and free cash flow targets, with one-third of the award available in each year. 
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: 
Grant date 
Share price at grant date 
Exercise price 
Number of employees 
Number of shares in scheme 
Vesting period 
Expected volatility 
Option life 
Expected life 
Risk-free rate 
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 
Fair value of awards 
100 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
10 December 2015 
£1.04 
£nil 
67 
1,784,036 
4 years 
50% 
N/A 
4 years 
1.11% 
3.79% 
£0.89  31 Share-based payments continued 
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past four years. The expected life was the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk-free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent with the 
assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April2016 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: 
Number 
Outstanding at 1 May 2015 
Granted during the year 
Outstanding at 30 April 2016 
Exercisable at 30 April 2016 
1,784,036 
1,784,036 
The weighted average remaining contractual life is 2.07 years for total options outstanding of 10,617,072 as at 30 April 2016. 
32 Retirement benefits 
Summary of Group retirement benefits and funding arrangements 
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France. 
In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme ('the Comet Pension Scheme') with assets held in a separate 
trustee-administered fund. The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and future service accrual was ceased on 
30 September 2007. Following the disposal of Comet on 3 February 2012, Darty pic became sponsoring employer and accordingly 
assumed all the liabilities associated with the Comet Pension Scheme. All member benefits, including any link to future salary 
increases, ceased from that date. 
In the UK, the trustees must agree a funding plan with the sponsoring company such that any funding shortfall is expected to be met 
by additional contributions and investment performance. In order to assess the level of contributions required, triennial valuations 
are carried out with plan's obligations measured using prudent assumptions (relative to those used to measure accounting liabilities). 
The March 2013 triennial valuation was agreed with the trustees in March 2014, resulting in fixed annual payments of £10.0m per 
annum aiming to make good the £73m deficit by May 2019. Company contributions to be paid in 2016/17 total £10.0m (2015/16: 
£10.0m). The next triennial valuation has recently commenced as at March 2016. 
The UK scheme provides benefits for members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits 
provided depends on the member's length of service and salary at 3 February 2012. The trustees are required to act on behalf of the 
Scheme's stakeholders in accordance with UK legislation and play a role in the long-term investment and funding strategy. In the UK 
scheme, pensions in payment are generally increased in line with inflation. The Group works closely with the trustees to manage 
the scheme. 
There is a risk to the Company that adverse experience (asset volatility, longevity or inflation) could lead to a requirement for the 
Company to make additional contributions to cover any deficit increase that arises. A description of pension scheme liabilities risks 
and mitigation measures is set out in the Principal Risks section of the Annual Report. 
In France, post-retirement benefits are primarily provided by the state system though the Group has supplementary funded pension 
plans in place for certain senior executives. At 30 April 2016, these pension plans had a deficit of €8.7m. The Group has no further 
mortality risk post-retirement. This scheme is no longer open to new entrants, with existing liabilities being paid as they fall due. 
At 30 April 2016, there were seven members remaining in the scheme. In addition, the Group is required to pay lump sum retirement 
indemnities to employees when they retire from service. The entitlement on retirement is secured through the purchase of an 
annuity from an insurance company under terms prescribed by legislation. No pre-funding is legally required, though at 30 April 
2016 €17.4m of funding has been set aside for retirement indemnity plans set against estimated lAS 19 liabilities of €75.2m, leading 
to a net deficit of €57.8m. 
In 2015/16, liabilities in the UK have reduced significantly as a result of falling inflation (actuarial gain of €21.4m) and the £10.0m 
annual deficit contribution. Over the year, the total liability reduced from €38.2m to €4.0m, mainly as a result of the gain due to 
inflation and contributions paid during the year. 
Outside of the UK and France defined benefit obliqations, the operating companies !Jenerally operate defined contribution pension 
schemes. Annual contributions to these schemes are summarised below: 
Defined contribution schemes 
UK 
€m 
0.1 
2016 
France 
€m 
Other 
€m 
2.9 
Group 
€m 
3.0 
UK 
€m 
0.2 
2015 
France 
€m 
0.2 
Other 
€m 
2.6 
Group 
€m 
3.0 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 101  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
32 Retirement benefits continued 
Defined benefit schemes - lAS 19 Accounting Valuations 
The Group's defined benefit schemes in the UK and France have been valued by a qualified and independent actuary at 30 April 2016 
based on lAS 19 (Revised). No significant new legislation has impacted the lAS valuation for the year ended 30 April 2016. As 
announced in 2011, an increased retirement age has been implemented under French legislation and is being phased in to 2018. 
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 
2016 2015 
UK France UK France 
% % % % 
Discount rate 3.5 0.25-1.75 3.5 0.25-1.50 
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries N/A 2.25 N/A 2.25 
Rate of pension increases 2.9 N/A 3.1 N/A 
Price inflation 1.75 1.75 
- RPI 3.0 3.2 
- CPI 2.0 2.2 
Discount rate 
In the UK, the discount rate is based on the yield on high-quality AA and Corporate-rated bonds, in line with the requirements of the 
accounting standards. 
In France, the discount rate is based on the Towers Watson Global RATE:Link model. 
Price inflation 
For the UK scheme, the assumption for future RPI price inflation is taken from published Bank of England estimates for future price 
inflation, as implied by the index-linked and fixed interest gilt markets, as at the accounting date, and reflects the duration of the 
pension liabilities. 
In the long-term, inflation measured by the Consumer Prices Index ('CPI') is expected to be lower than the RPI because of differences 
in how the indices are calculated. The CPI assumption takes the assumption for Retail Prices Index inflation and deducts 1.0 per cent 
(2015: 1.0 per cent), reflecting long-term structural differences between the inflation measures. 
For the France schemes, the inflation rate of 1.75 per cent (2015: 1.75 per cent) in the Eurozone is based on the report 'Consensus 
Forecasts' published by 'Consensus Economics'. 
For the UK scheme, the Group has used S1PA tables, weighted by 97 per cent for males and 95 per cent for females, with improvements 
in line with the CMI 2013 projections and a long-term rate of 1.25 per cent p.a. for males and females. For the France schemes, the 
mortality tables used by the Group are TGHF 2005 for pensioners and IN SEE 2011/13 H/F for non-pensioners. 
The main mortality outcomes for the UK scheme are summarised below: 
2016 2015 
Years Years 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 60 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 60 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 40 
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 40 
Duration of the schemes 
26.6 
29.3 
28.6 
31.4 
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Comet Pension Scheme is approximately 21 years. 
26.5 
29.2 
28.5 
31.3 
In France, the main scheme is the Darty Retirement Indemnity Plan, which had 9,600 active members at the year end (2015: 9,811). 
This plan has an expected duration of 15 years. The weighted average of the four France schemes, based on the values of their 
defined benefit obligations, is 15 years. 
Expected Company contributions 
Company contributions to the Comet Scheme will be £10.0m in the year to 30 April 2016. In France, Company contributions are 
expected to total €nil next year. 
Membership data 
Approximately one-third of the Scheme's liabilities are in respect of current pensions in payment. with the other two-thirds in 
respect of non-pensioners. At 31 March 2016, the Comet Scheme had 3.421 deferred pensioners with an average age of 48 and a 
total deferred pension of £11,556,000 per annum. A total of 1.714 pensioner members had an average age of 66 and a total annual 
pension of £6,973,000. 
At 30 April 2016, in France, active members of the main Darty Retirement Indemnity Plan totalled 9,600, with an average age of 40. 
There were 10 members in other France schemes with an average age of 54. 
102 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  32 Retirement benefits continued 
Net liability 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 
UK 
€m 
Present value of defined benefit obligations 550.6 
Fair value of plan assets (546.6) 
Net liability recognised In the balance sheet 4.0 
Asset holdings 
2016 
France Group 
€m €m 
83.9 634.5 
(17.4) (564.0) 
66.5 70.5 
2015 
UK France Group 
€m €m €m 
625.0 82.1 707.1 
(586.8) (16.9) (603.7) 
38.2 65.2 103.4 
In the UK, €0.6m (2015: €0.6m) of the assets held were quoted assets. In France, €nil (2015: €nil) of the assets held were quoted assets. 
Quoted assets are assets which have a quoted market price in an active market. 
The fair value of plan assets at the end of the year for the defined benefit plans are as follows: 
2016 2015 
UK France UK France 
€m €m €m €m 
Equities and equity derivatives 104.3 1.7 135.1 1.5 
Gilts 156.5 162.3 
Bonds 46.8 13.8 47.7 13.7 
Cash 2.4 0.3 4.4 
Dynamic asset allocation 157.8 180.4 
Real estate 1.3 1.1 
Swaps 31.8 20.9 
Alternatives 45.4 34.8 
Other 1.6 0.3 1.2 0.6 
Total 546.6 17.4 586.8 16.9 
Asset liability matching strategy 
For the UK scheme, the hedging strategy is reviewed and re-balanced regularly. The current policy is to hedge 85 per cent of interest 
rate risk and 85 per cent of inflation risk. There are no swaps in the assets of the France schemes. 
Self investment 
The Plan assets of the UK and France schemes do not contain any direct investments in Ordinary shares or bonds issued by 
Darty pic. 
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 
2016 2015 
UK France Group UK France 
€m €m €m €m €m 
Current service cost 5.4 5.4 3.4 
Interest cost 1.1 0.8 1.9 2.6 1.2 
Curtailment losses/(gains) 1.4 1.4 (1.5) 
Total Included In the Income statement 1.1 7.6 8.7 2.6 3.1 
Group 
€m 
3.4 
3.8 
(1.5) 
5.7 
Of the total charge, including defined contribution schemes, €nil (2015: €nil), €6.1m (2015: €4.3m), €2.0m (2015: €1.8m) and €0.3m 
(2015: €0.3m) were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses, selling expenses and distribution costs respectively. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 103  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
32 Retirement benefits continued 
Analysis of the movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year is show below: 
2016 
UK France 
€m €m 
Defined benefit obligation at start of year 625.0 82.1 
Current service cost 5.3 
Interest cost 21.4 1.2 
Benefits paid (16.8) (0.5) 
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income (39.6) (5.6) 
Integration of Mistergooddeal.com scheme 
Curtailment losses/(gains) 1.4 
Currency translation movement (39.4) 
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 550.6 83.9 
2016 
UK France 
€m €m 
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income impacting the defined benefit obligation arose from: 
Experience (gains)/ losses on benefit obligation (10.4) (2.7) 
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes in financial assumptions (29.2) (2.9) 
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes in demographic assumptions 
(39.6) (5.6) 
Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year: 
2016 
UK France 
€m €m 
Fair value of plan assets at start of year 586.8 16.9 
Interest credit 20.3 0.2 
Contributions by employer 13.5 
Contributions by employees 
Benefits paid (16.8) 
The return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
interest income (18.2) 0.3 
Currency translation movement (39.0) 
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 546.6 17.4 
Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year: 
2016 
UK France 
€m €m 
Liabilityat start of year 38.2 65.2 
Total expense as above 1.1 7.6 
Contributions paid (13.5) 
Benefits paid (0.5) 
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income (21.4) (5.8) 
Integration of Mistergooddeal.com scheme 
Curtailment gains 
Currency translation movement (0.4) 
Liability at end of year 4.0 66.5 
104 Darty pic: Annual Report 2015/16 
2015 
Group UK France Group 
€m €m €m €m 
707.1 478.2 62.5 540.7 
5.3 3.4 3.4 
22.6 22.0 1.7 23.7 
(17.3) (12.9) (2.6) (15.5) 
(45.2) 75.2 18.2 93.4 
0.4 0.4 
1.4 (1.5) (1.5) 
(39.4) 62.5 62.5 
634.5 625.0 82.1 707.1 
2015 
Group UK France Group 
€m €m €m €m 
(13.1) (6.7) (2.1) (8.8) 
(32.1) 81.9 13.9 95.8 
6.4 6.4 
(45.2) 75.2 18.2 93.4 
2015 
Group UK France Group 
€m €m €m €m 
603.7 418.1 18.0 436.1 
20.5 19.4 0.5 19.9 
13.5 12.9 12.9 
(16.8) (12.9) (1.7) (14.6) 
(17.9) 93.1 0.1 93.2 
(39.0) 56.2 56.2 
564.0 586.8 16.9 603.7 
2015 
Group UK France Group 
€m €m €m €m 
103.4 60.1 44.5 104.6 
8.7 2.6 3.1 5.7 
(13.5) (12.9) (12.9) 
(0.5) (0.9) (0.9) 
(27.2) (17.9) 18.1 0.2 
0.4 0.4 
(0.4) 6.3 6.3 
70.5 38.2 65.2 103.4  32 Retirement benefits continued 
Cumulative remeasurements recognised in equity: 
2016 2015 
UK France Group UK France Group 
€m €m €m €m €m €m 
At beginning of year 32.4 32.5 64.9 45.3 14.4 59.7 
Remeasurements recognised in the year (21.4) (5.8) (27.2) (17.9) 18.1 0.2 
Currency translation movement (0.4) (0.4) 5.0 5.0 
At end of year 10.6 26.7 37.3 32.4 32.5 64.9 
The actual returns on plan assets were: 
2016 2015 
UK France Group UK France Group 
€m €m €m €m €m €m 
Actual returns on plan assets 2.4 0.5 2.9 110.0 0.6 110.6 
History of experience gains and losses: 
2016 2015 2014 
UK France Total UK France Total Total 
Continuing Group €m €m €m €m €m €m €m 
Experience gains/(losses) arising on plan assets: 
Amount (18.2) 0.3 (17.9) 93.1 0.1 93.2 (22.7) 
Experience (gains)/losses arising on defined benefit 
obligation: 
Amount (21.4) (5.8) (27.2) (17.9) 18.1 0.2 8.5 
Present value of plan liabilities 550.6 83.9 634.5 625.0 82.1 707.1 540.7 
Fair value of plan assets 546.6 17.4 564.0 586.8 16.9 603.7 436.1 
Unrecognised past service costs 
Deficit (4.0) (66.5) (70.5) (38.2) (65.2) (103.4) (104.6) 
Sensitivity of defined benefit obligation and income statement charge to key assumptions: 
Impact on defined Impact on 
benefit obligation income statement 
2016 2015 2016 2015 
Sensitivity €m €m €m €m 
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate 62.0 69.8 (2.1) (2.1) 
An increase of 0.5 per cent in price inflation 47.4 53.2 (2.1) (2.3) 
An increase of one year in longevity 15.3 17.3 (0.6) (0.6) 
The sensitivity analyses above have been prepared based on reasonable assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting year and 
may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions 
constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability recognised in the 
balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change 
compared with the previous year. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 105  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
33 Operating lease commitments 
The Group has operating lease commitments for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as 
motor vehicles. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
2016 
€m 
Future aggregate minimum lease payments
1 
under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
Within one year 90.2 
2015 
€m 
89.1 
Later than one year and less than five years 
After five years 
140.7 159.2 
18.3 21.1 
Total 249.2 269.4 
1 Excluding annual indexation increases. 
The Group sublets some unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have 
various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
Future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases 
34 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities 
Capital commitments 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for: 
-property, plant and equipment 
-intangible assets 
Total 
Contingent liabilities 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
3.9 5.2 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
4.9 4.7 
0.3 
4.9 5.0 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews 
('Litigation'). The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated to determine whether it is more likely than not 
that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or 
sufficient. The outcome of any Litigation is difficult to predict, and significant management judgement is exercised when determining 
the value and risk of a contingent liability. The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the Litigation to which it is a party to 
have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group. 
The Company, in line with standard practice, has given some guarantees and indemnities, most notably in relation to ~isposals of 
subsidiary undertakings and legacy tax matters. The liabilities are, in the main, capped based on agreed terms and valuations and 
unwind over time. 
There are a number of ongoing indirect and corporation tax audits and competition authority reviews underway around the Group 
and in respect of previously disposed businesses where we have provided guarantees and indemnities. Other than those already 
disclosed, there are investigations which give rise to possible risks though the overall impact to the Group is not deemed material. 
35 Business combinations 
There have been no changes to the fair value adjustments presented below in the year ended 30 April 2016. 
Business combinations in the prior year 
On 2 February 2015, the Group, through its subsidiary BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. (The Netherlands), acquired the trade and assets 
of 18 separate store (BV) entities from HiM Retail BV, an electrical retailer trading across the central and southern Netherlands. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid for HiM Retail BV, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at 
the acquisition date. 
Aggregate consideration to 30 April 2015 
Cash 
Working capital adjustments arising at acquisition date 
Total aggregate consideration to 30 April 2015 
The working capital adjustment mainly relates to deferred consideration paid in the year ended 30 April 2016 of €2.7m. 
106 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
€m 
7.9 
2.8 
10.7  35 Business combinations continued 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
Property, plant and equipment (note 13) 
Other intangible assets (note 12) 
Inventories 
Total Identifiable net assets 
Goodwill 
Total 
Total fair value acquired 
as reported at 
2 February 2015 
€m 
0.8 
0.8 
2.8 
4.4 
6.3 
10.7 
Fair value 
adjustments 
for the year 
€m 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
0.2 
Total fair value 
acquired as at 
30 April2015 
€m 
0.8 
0.8 
2.6 
4.2 
6.5 
10.7 
The goodwill of €6.5m which arose from the acquisition was fully impaired in the year ended 30 April 2016 (see note 12). 
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from 1 March 2015 to 30 April 2015 contributed by the 
acquired stores was €8.0m; the acquired stores also contributed a loss of €0.3m over the same period. 
Had the acquired stores been consolidated from 1 May 2014, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2015 
would have shown pro-forma revenue of €3,544.1m and retail profit of €77.7m. 
Acquisition-related costs of €1.0m were charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 
30 April 2015. 
36 Related party transactions 
There have been no new material related party transactions in the year ended 30 April 2016. 
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below. 
Joint ventures and associates 
Dividends received 
Value of products sold by the Group where an associate has provided credit facilities 
Commission received from joint ventures 
Amounts recoverable from joint ventures 
Amounts recoverable from associates 
Amounts payable to joint ventures 
Amounts payable to associates 
The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales. 
Other related parties 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
1.3 1.0 
190.5 178.9 
1.6 1.4 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
Rent payments 1.8 
Other payments for services 0.6 
Outstanding balances at year end 
All transactions are at arm's length and balances are unsecured. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 107  Financial statements and notes 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
37 Principal subsidiaries 
Company 
Etablissements Darty et Fils S.A.S. 
New Vanden Borre S.A. 
BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. 
Country of Percentage owned 
incorporation and voting rights 
France 99.7% 
Belgium 100.0% 
The Netherlands 100.0% 
Description of 
share classes owned Main activity 
Ordinary shares Retailing 
Ordinary shares Retailing 
Ordinary shares Retailing 
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full 
list of all subsidiary and other investments in the Group are shown in the Darty pic Company financial statements on pages 111 to 118 
of this Annual Report. 
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation. 
38 Events after the reporting period 
On 25 April 2016, Groupe Fnac S.A. announced the terms of a final cash offer with partial share alternative to acquire the entire 
issued and to be issued share capital of Darty pic. The offer document was sent to shareholders on 18 May 2016. 
108 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC 
Report on the Company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Darty pic's Company financial statements (the 'financial statements'): 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 30 April 2016; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
What we have audited 
Darty pic's financial statements comprise: 
• the Company balance sheet as at 30 April 2016; 
• the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and 
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure 
Framework'. 
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect 
of significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors' report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited tiy us; or 
• the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors' remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) ('ISAs (UK & Ireland)'). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company's members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 109  Financial statements and notes 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC CONTINUED 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors' judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor) n-...\ I ./1( I"-. 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ~ 0 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
15 June 2016 
110 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
as at 30 April 2016 
Fixed assets 
Tangible assets 
Investments 
Total fixed assets 
Current assets 
Debtors due within one year 
Cash at bank and in hand 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Net current assets 
Total assets less current liabilities 
Net assets excluding retirement benefit liabilities 
Retirement benefits 
Net assets Including retirement benefit liabilities 
Capijalandreserves 
Share capital 
Other reserves 
Profit and loss account 
Total equity 
Note 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
10 
2016 
€m 
166.9 
166.9 
66.3 
0.1 
(3.8) 
62.6 
229.5 
229.5 
(4.0) 
225.5 
158.9 
0.6 
66.0 
225.5 
2015 2014 
€m €m 
166.9 166.9 
166.9 166.9 
113.6 139.2 
(4.5) (4.8) 
109.1 134.4 
276.0 301.3 
276.0 301.3 
(38.2) (60.1) 
237.8 241.2 
158.9 158.9 
0.6 0.6 
78.3 81.7 
237.8 241.2 
Darty pic has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Loss attributable to the Parent Company is €13.0m (2015: €10.7m restated). 
The notes on pages 113 to 118 form part of these financial statements. 
The financial statemen son pages 111 to 118 were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 June 2016 and signed on its behalf by: 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 111  COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
Called-up Other Profit and Total 
share capital reserves loss account equity 
€m €m €m €m 
Balance at 1 May 2014 158.9 0.6 81.7 241.2 
Loss for the financial year (restated) (10.7) (10.7) 
Exchange difference (restated) 7.6 7.6 
Investment in ESOP shares 0.2 0.2 
Actuarial gain on pension scheme (restated) 17.9 17.9 
Total comprehensive Income 15.0 15.0 
Shares issued 
Dividend paid during the year (18.4) (18.4) 
Balance at 30 April 2015 158.9 0.6 78.3 237.8 
Loss for the financial year (13.0) (13.0) 
Exchange difference (4.0) (4.0) 
Investment in ESOP shares 2.1 2.1 
Actuarial gain on pension scheme 21.4 21.4 
Total comprehensive Income 6.5 6.5 
Shares issued 
Dividend paid during the year (18.8) (18.8) 
Balance at 30 April 2016 158.9 0.6 66.0 225.5 
112 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies 
Darty pic ('the Company') is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the 
registered office is 22-24 Ely Place, London EC1N 6TE. 
The accounting policies adopted by the Directors are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the 
current year and prior year. 
Basis of preparation 
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Financial Reporting Standard 101 
Reduced Disclosure Framework ('FRS 101'). The amendments to FRS 101 (2013/14 Cycle) issued in July 2014 and effective immediately 
have been applied. 
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU ('Adopted I FRS'), but makes amendments where necessary in 
order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has 
been taken. 
In these financial statements, the Company has early adopted FRS 101 for the first time. The Company meets the definition of a 
qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, in the 
year ended 30 April 2016, the Company has changed its accounting framework from UK GAAP to FRS 101 as issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council and has, in doing so, applied the requirements of IFRS 1.6-33 and related appendices. The prior year financial 
statements were restated for material adjustments on adoption of FRS 101 in the current year as set out in note 2. 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention. Historical cost is 
generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets. 
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101: 
(a)the requirements of lAS 1 to provide a balance sheet at the beginning of the year in the event of a prior year adjustment; 
(b)the requirements of lAS 1 to provide a statement of cash flows for the year; 
(c) the requirements of lAS 1 to provide a statement of compliance with I FRS; 
(d) the requirements of lAS 1 to disclose information on the management of capital; 
(e) the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of lAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors to disclose 
new I FRS that have been issued but are not yet effective; 
(f) the requirements in lAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more 
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; 
(g)the requirements of paragraph 17 of lAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose key management personnel compensation; 
(h)the requirements of I FRS 7 to disclose financial instruments; and 
(i) the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of I FRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose information of fair value valuation 
techniques and inputs. 
Disclosure exemptions for subsidiaries are permitted where the relevant disclosure requirements are met in the consolidated 
financial statements. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Group accounts of Darty pic. The Group accounts of 
Darty pic are publicly available. 
Investments 
In the Company balance sheet. investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost adjusted for capital contributions relating 
to share-based payments. 
Tangible fixed assets 
Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. 
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is charged to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value over the estimated 
useful life of the asset to the Company. 
Tangible fixed assets comprise fixtures, fittings and equipment. These are depreciated over their estimated useful economic life of 
five years on a straight-line basis. · 
Employee share schemes 
The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the employee's 
related performance. Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally 
entitled to the shares. The cost of awards is measured as the fair value of the award at grant date less employee contributions. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 113  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
1 Accounting policies continued 
Dividends 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 
Dividend distribution to the Company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company's shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid. 
Retirement benefits 
A defined contribution plan is a retirement benefit under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The 
Company has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all 
employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a retirement benefit 
that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will 
receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. 
For defined benefit plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the 
balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested. The 
defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value 
of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality 
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related retirement benefit liability. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in 
the profit and loss reserve. 
For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a 
mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. 
Taxation 
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years. 
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the 
balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future. An 
asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities recognised have not been discounted. Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to the UK of 
retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable. 
Auditors' remuneration 
During the year the Company obtained the following services from the Company's auditors at costs as detailed below: 
Audit fees: 
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Company's financial statements 
Fees for other services: 
Other non-audit services 
114 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
0.5 0.4 
0.5 0.4  2 Explanation of transition to FRS 101 
This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial statements under FRS 101 (Financial Reporting Standard 101) 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition. The last financial 
statements under a previous GAAP (UK GAAP) were for the year ended 30 April 2015 and the date of transition to FRS 101 was 
therefore 1 May 2015. 
Rec:onc:ifiation of profit and loss ac:c:ount 
The following is a reconciliation illustrating the adjustments posted to the profit and loss account to restate prior years' 
comparatives as a result of the transition to FRS 101 from UK GAAP during the year. 
Transition 
Transition adjustments 
adjustments to other 
2015 UK to profit and comprehensive 2015 
GAAP loss account income FRS 101 
€m €m €m €m 
Interest cost (4.1) 6.7
1 
2.6 
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension liability, net of tax (11.0) 
_, 
(6.9) (17.9) 
Currency translation movement 6.1 
_, 
0.2 6.3 
Total comprehensive expense (9.0) 6.7 (6.7) (9.0) 
Notes to reconciliation of profit and loss account 
1 The actuarial gain on pension booked through the STGRL was lower under FRS 17 than the actuarial gain on the pension booked through SOC I under lAS 19R, giving 
rise to a GAAP difference. The actuarial gain on pension per I FRS is shown net of tax. 
Rec:onc:iliation of equity 
No adjustments were posted to restate the prior years' equity balances as a result of the decision to transition to FRS 101 on 
1 May 2015. 
3 Tangible assets 
Cost 
At 1 May 2015 
Additions 
At 30 April 2016 
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 May 2015 
Charge for the year 
At 30 April 2016 
Net book value 
At 30 April 2016 
At 30 April 2015 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
€m 
0.3 
0.3 
0.3 
0.3 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 115  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
4 Investments 
Cost and net book value 
At 30 April 2015 
At 30 April 2016 
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
€m 
166.9 
166.9 
The Company owns the issued Ordinary share capital of the following subsidiary companies in the proportions indicated: 
Percentage owned Country of 
and voting rights Nature of business incorporation 
Kesa France SA 99.7% Holding company France 
Kesa Electricals·SAS 100% Holding company Electrical France 
Retailer & Group 
CEVL SNC 99% Sourcing activities France 
VIDEO INFORMATION FRANCE (V.I.F.) SNC 100% Staff training France 
PARTICIPATIONS DISTRIBUTION ET SERVICES (P.D.S.) SNC 100% Holding company France 
Darty Grand Est SNC 100% Retailing France 
Centrale d'Achat des Professionnels de I'Eiectromenager SNC 100% Dormant company France 
Darty Grand Ouest SNC 100% Retailing France 
IMMOBILIERE DARTY SNC 100% Retail property trade France 
A211LE DE FRANCE SNC 100% Home service France 
A21 DARTY ALSACE LORRAINE SNC 100% Home service France 
A21 DARTY NORD SNC 100% Home service France 
A21 DARTY OUEST SNC 100% Home service France 
A21 DARTY PROVENCE MEDITERRANEE SNC 100% Home service France 
A21 DARTY RHONE ALPES SNC 100% Home service France 
DARTY SNC 100% Dormant company France 
COMPAGNIE EUROPEENNE DE COMMERCE ET DE DISTRIBUTION SAS 100% Sourcing France 
DARTY DEVELOPPEMENT SAS 100% Leasing of intellectual property France 
and similar products 
(franchise business) 
DARTY FINANCEMENTS SAS 100% Financing France 
Kesa Holdings Limited 100% Holding company England and Wales 
Kesa International Limited 100% Investment company England and Wales 
Darty Holdings SAS 100% Holding company France 
Etablissements Darty et Fils SAS 100% Retailing France 
Menafinance SA 50% Credit distribution France 
New Vanden Borre S.A. 100% Retailing Belgium 
BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. 100% Retailing The Netherlands 
New Vanden Borre Transport S.A. 100% Retailing Belgium 
Kesa Turkey Limited 100% Holding company England and Wales 
BCC Vastgoed Holding BV 100% Holding company The Netherlands 
Rivieradreef Holding BV 100% Holding company The Netherlands 
Rivieradreef OG BV 100% Property company The Netherlands 
Oude Haagweg Holding BV 100% Holding company The Netherlands 
Oude Haagweg OG BV 100% Property company The Netherlands 
Bouwerij Amstelveen BV 100% Property company The Netherlands 
Bouwerij Amstelveen OG BV 100% Property company The Netherlands 
BCC Elektro-Speciaalzaken BV 100% Retailing The Netherlands 
Polectro Plaza BV 100% Property company The Netherlands 
Polectro BV 100% Property company The Netherlands 
Kesa Spain Ltd 100% Holding company England and Wales 
Kesa Sourcing Ltd 100% Holding company England and Wales 
DPS 15% Retailing Italy 
Van den Borre Kitchens 50% Retailing Belgium 
116 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  5 Debtors due within one year 
2016 2015 2014 
€m €m €m 
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 65.8 113.4 138.7 
Prepayments 0.5 0.2 0.5 
Total debtors due within one year 66.3 113.6 139.2 
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
2016 2015 2014 
€m €m €m 
Other creditors 0.4 0.1 0.1 
Accruals 3.4 4.4 4.7 
Total creditors due within one year 3.8 4.5 4.8 
7 Retirement benefits 
The Company has not replicated the full disclosure of the retirement benefit scheme in their financial statements. The full disclosure 
can be found in the Group financial statements on pages 101 to 105. 
8 Share capital 
2016 2015 2014 
Number Number Number 
m €m m €m m €m 
Authorised 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 1,000 300.0 1,000 300.0 1,000 300.0 
Issued and fully paid 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9 
Kesa Employee.Share Trust 
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust ('the Trust'), that owns 2,093,938 (2015: 2,093,938) 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents in Darty pic at 30 April 2016. These were acquired at an average cost of €1.94 (2015: €1.94) and included 
in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of €4.1m (2015: €4.1m). The shares are used to satisfy share option exercises 
and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies. Dividends receivable on these shares during the 
year have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust. Shares will be allocated by the Trust when 
relevant options under the scheme are exercised. The market value of the shares at 30 April 2016 was €4.5m (2015: €2.1m). 
9 Employees 
2016 
€m 
Staff costs for the year 
Wages and salaries 4.3 
Social security costs 0.3 
Other pension costs 0.1 
Total staff costs 4.7 
Average monthly number of administration staff employed during the year, including Directors, was 12 (2015: 20). 
For details of remuneration of Directors employed by the Company, refer to the Report on Directors' Remuneration and related 
matters on pages 38 to 49. 
2015 
€m 
4.4 
0.5 
0.2 
5.1 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 117  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
for the year ended 30 April 2016 
10 Dividends 
Final paid 2015: 2.625 cents (2014: 2.625 cents) per share 
Interim paid 2016: 0.875 cents (2015: 0.875 cents) per share 
2016 2015 
€m €m 
14.2 
4.6 
14.0 
4.4 
18.8 18.4 
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents was paid to the Ordinary shareholders of the Company on 30 March 2016. Under the terms of the 
offer from Groupe Fnac S.A., the Company is not intending to recommend a final dividend. 
11 Operating leases 
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 
Less than one year 
Between one and five years 
More than five years 
118 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
2016 
€m 
0.1 
0.1 
0.2 
2015 
€m 
0.1 
0.2 
0.3  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Registrar and transfer office 
All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to the Company's Registrar, as follows: 
By mail: Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
The Pavilions, 
Bridgwater Road, 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
By phone: +44 (0)370 707 1102 
By email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk 
Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Darty pic. 
Investor Centre 
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by our Registrars. This service allows you to view your share 
portfolio and see the latest market prices of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your address, 
update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online. To take advantage of this service, please log in at 
www.investorcentre.co.uk and enter your Shareholder Reference Number and Company Code. The information can be found on your 
last dividend voucher or share certificate. 
Dividend mandates 
If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank account through the BACSTEL-IP (Bankers' Automated Clearing Services) 
system, you should contact our Registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form or apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk. 
Electronic shareholder communications 
We have entered into an arrangement with our Registrars whereby shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder 
communications from the Company electronically, rather than in paper format via the postal system. 
We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our electronic communications service. In order to receive shareholder 
communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and Annual Report and Accounts electronically rather than by post, you 
should register your details via the Investor Centre/Shareholder information and services page of the Darty pic website www. 
dartygroup.com. You can also register for electronic communications via www.investorcentre.co.uk. 
Share dealing service 
We offer an internet and telephone share dealing service for shareholders (in certain jurisdictions) in conjunction with 
Computershare, our Registrars. 
Internet dealing: 
• The fee is 1.0 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of. £30.00. Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases. 
• Up to 90-day limit orders available on sales. 
• Service is available to place orders out of market hours. 
• Log onto www.computershare.com/dealing/uk. 
Telephone dealing: 
• Commission is 1.0 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of £15.00. Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases. 
• The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you while you are still on the telephone. 
• Service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays. 
• Call +44 (0)370 703 0084. 
No forms will need to be completed in advance and the settlement period is ten business days after your trade has been dealt in the 
market, for both internet and telephone share dealing. Further information and copies of the terms and conditions of both these 
services can be obtained by calling +44 (0)370 703 0119. 
The value of your investments and the income derived from them may go down as well as up. You may not get back all ttu~ money 
that you invest. This is not a personal recommendation. If you are unsure if a service or product is right for you then you should seek 
professional advice. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 119  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED 
Gifting shares to your family or to charity 
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Registrars for a Gift Transfer Form. If you only have a 
small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to ShareGift, the 
share donation charity (registered charity number 1052686). The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the Registrars. 
Further information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift internet site www.ShareGift.org. 
120 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Darty pic 
Registered address 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
+44 (0)20 7269 1400 
Registered in England 
Company number: 04232413 
For information visit 
www.dartygroup.com 
