 Annual 
report and 
accounts 
2016
G R E A T B R I T I S H
D E S I G N
G R E A T B R I T I S H
M A N U F A C T U R E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
G R E A T B R I T I S H
S E R V I C E
DFS Furniture plc
1 Rockingham Way 
Redhouse Interchange
Adwick-le-Street
Doncaster
DN6 7NA
www.dfscorporate.co.uk www.dfs.co.uk
DFS Furniture plc Annual report and accounts 2016
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   1-3 12/10/2016   18:04 G R E A T B R I T I S H
D E S I G N
G R E A T B R I T I S H
M A N U F A C T U R E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
G R E A T B R I T I S H
S E R V I C E
 
We are the sofa experts.  
We specialise in
making us a Great British 
business and the leading 
retailer of upholstered  
furniture in the UK.
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   4-6 12/10/2016   18:04 01
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
CONTENTS 
Visit us online at dfscorporate.co.uk
See full statement on page 8
I am delighted to report that our 
financial and operational progress 
remains on track in our first full year  
of trading since DFS returned to the 
stock market in March 2015.
Richard Baker
Chairman
Strategic report
Highlights 02
Our business 04
Market overview 06
Chairman’s statement 08
Our business model 10
Our strategy 12
Growth strategy in action 14
Risks and uncertainties 16
Chief Executive’s report 20
Key performance indicators 24
Financial review 26
Corporate responsibility 28
Governance
Board of Directors 32
Directors’ report 34
Corporate governance statement 36
Audit Committee report 43
Nomination Committee report 48
Directors’ remuneration report 50
Directors’ responsibilities statement 63
Independent auditor’s report 64
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 66
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 67
Consolidated balance sheet 68
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity 69
Consolidated cash flow statement 70
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 71
Company balance sheet 91
Company statement of 
changes in equity 92
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 93
Shareholder information 95
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 02
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
A year of record results
HIGHLIGHTS
OP E R A T I O N A L F I NAN C I AL
GROSS SALES 
£980.4m
up 7 .4%  
(FY15: £913.1m)
REVENUE
£756.0m
up 7 .1%  
(FY15: £706.1m)
UNDERLYING EBITDA
£94.4m
up 5.8% (FY15: £89.2m)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
£64.5m 
(FY15: underlying £33.3m)
NET DEBT/ADJUSTED EBITDA 
1.45x
Continued strong  
cash generation
UNDERLYING EPS
23.7p
up 28.1% (adjusted  
underlying FY15: 18.5p)
FINAL DIVIDEND 
7.5p
per share proposed  
Full year total 11.0p, up 18.3%
Further special capital return  
to shareholders expected later 
in FY17
• Proven growth strategy on track:
 – Broadening our appeal
 ∙ 35% growth in branded 
upholstery orders through DFS.
 ∙ Sofa Workshop ranges 
performing well in DFS stores.
 – UK stores
 ∙ Three new 10-15,000 sq. ft. DFS 
stores opened in UK and ROI.
 ∙ DFS small store trial opened in 
Bromley, with further store in 
Crawley to open shortly.
 – International
 ∙ Netherlands stores trading in line 
with expectations, with third 
store opened post year end.
 – Full utilisation of retail space
 ∙ Eleven Customer Distribution 
Centres operating at year end.
 ∙ Twelve Dwell co-located stores 
performing strongly; potential for 
over 40 Dwell stores. 
 – Online
 ∙ Continued strong growth  
in gross sales, profits and  
site traffic.
• Continued strong increases in 
customer satisfaction scores: 
average post-purchase NPS 
above 80%; established customer 
rising from 21.9% to 31.2%.
• Positive customer and employee 
response to partnership with 
Team GB for Rio Olympics. 03
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
Today the DFS Group 
employs approximately 
4,000 people and 
operates over 100 retail 
stores in the UK, the 
Republic of Ireland and  
the Netherlands, a 
comprehensive online 
channel, and our own  
five factories in the UK.
DFS STORES IN THE UK  
& REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
1
109
DWELL AND SOFA 
WORKSHOP STORES
1
36
STORES IN THE 
NETHERLANDS
1
02
STORES IN SPAIN
1
01
1 As at 30 July 2016
Cruquius
San Javier
Rotterdam
The Netherlands
UK & ROI
Spain
 • DFS stores
 • Factories
 • Dwell stores
 • Sofa Workshop stores
  DFS/Dwell/ 
Sofa Workshop
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   3 12/10/2016   18:05 04
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
OUR BUSINESS
A Great British 
business
At DFS, we have almost 50 years of experience in designing, 
manufacturing, selling, delivering and installing an extensive range  
of sofas and other upholstered and general furniture products.  
Our products are complemented by our market-leading interest  
free credit offer, British Standards accreditation, long-term 
guarantees and comprehensive after-sales service. Through our 
broad core DFS product range, together with our premium branded 
partnerships and our subsidiaries Sofa Workshop and Dwell,  
we really do offer a sofa for everyone.
Our heritage and focus make us the clear UK sofa experts, with a  
share in the segment greater than our next four specialist competitors 
combined. Through our scale, specialism and in-house manufacturing 
expertise we are able to offer our customers an unbeatable 
combination of great products, great service and great value.
DESIGN & INSPIRE
We inspire our customers through our 
dominant and distinctive advertising that 
encourages customers to consider an 
upholstery purchase, through our in-house 
design and buying expertise, which ensures 
that we are always at the forefront of home 
furnishing trends, and using our market-
leading, interactive website – where our live 
chat video service allows us to engage with 
our customers face-to-face.
RETAIL
Our nationwide showroom network is 
staffed by a knowledgeable, well-trained 
and highly motivated retail sales team; they 
are complemented by our transactional 
website, apps and telephone call centres  
to deliver a market-leading omnichannel 
experience that is available to our 
customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
UPHOLSTERY RANGES 
INTRODUCED IN FY16
163
SERVICE MANAGERS  
IN THE FIELD
1
200
UPHOLSTERY ORDERS  
MADE IN-HOUSE IN FY16
25%
DFS is the leading upholstery retailer in the  
UK – passionate about making and selling  
high quality, great looking sofas since 1969.
G R E A T B R I T I S H
D E S I G N
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
1 As at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   4 12/10/2016   18:05 05
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
MANUFACTURE
Our five UK factories produce more than a 
quarter of the furniture we sell; this vertical 
integration enhances our competitive edge 
by improving efficiency, enhancing flexibility, 
strengthening quality control and 
substantially reducing delivery lead times for 
our always made-to-order products.
SERVICE
We employ our own delivery crews to 
provide a full installation service to our 
customers, and also offer a facility for the 
collection and recycling of their old sofas. 
Top quality aftercare is also guaranteed, 
with a nationwide team of 200 specialist 
upholsterers on hand to visit customers in 
their homes and promptly address any 
service issues.
See our business model on page 10
G R E A T B R I T I S H
M A N U F A C T U R E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
S E R V I C E
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 06
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
The sofa experts
We have been consistently capturing market share, 
achieving success through offering great service, great 
choice and great value.
Large potential customer base
DFS has a specialist focus on the retail 
upholstered furniture segment which 
accounts for approximately 25% of the 
furniture and floorcoverings market.  
The UK retail upholstered furniture 
segment was estimated by Verdict to be 
valued at c.£3.2 billion in 2015. We also 
offer a selected range of beds, dining  
and other furniture giving access to  
other segments in the market.
Clear leader in the segment
DFS is the clear leader in the upholstery 
segment with 26.4% share by value.  
Our share is greater than that of our next 
four competitors combined. We see three 
broad categories of companies competing 
in the upholstery retail market: Specialist 
Chains such as DFS, ScS, Harveys, 
Sofology and Furniture Village; 
Independents that are typically single 
store operations; and General 
Merchandisers and Others with stores 
such as Ikea, John Lewis, Next, Argos, 
Debenhams and all other retailers 
including DIY chains and supermarkets.
A new sofa will be located at the heart of a 
customer’s home for a number of years. 
As a result, most customers will perform 
significant research in order to find the 
right product for them. This depth of 
research generally leads customers to 
prefer to choose to purchase from 
Specialist Chains and Independents that 
have the specialist sales staff and breadth 
of product range to appeal to the 
broadest range of customers. 
This trend can be seen in the combined 
market share of these two categories now 
accounting for two-thirds of retail sales 
and having steadily grown from 2010  
to 2015. 
Customers are however increasingly 
choosing to purchase from Specialist 
Chains, with the sector share held by 
specialists rising from 45.3% in 2010 to 
54.6% in 2015. Specialist Chains benefit 
from advertising more widely than 
Independents and using their purchasing 
scale to offer customers better value and 
more attractive purchase financing terms, 
as well as giving the reassurance of more 
visible financial strength and brand 
reputation to underpin long-term  
product warranties. 
We believe that this trend is likely to 
continue as customers continue to see the 
benefits that Specialist Chains can offer 
and Independents continue to face the 
challenge of declining sales with static 
fixed costs.
Our website also maintains a leading 
presence, attracting more than 40% of the 
specialist segment’s traffic volumes.
Steady growth trends over  
long-term periods
Between 1995 and 2015, the UK 
upholstered furniture segment has grown 
by 2.9% per annum on a compound 
annual growth basis, driven by a c.7 year 
replacement cycle and underpinned by 
demographic trends.
The segment is principally driven by three 
key factors: consumer confidence, 
housing market activity and consumer 
credit availability. After peaking at 
£3.9 billion in 2007, the subsequent 
financial crisis, compounded by the exit of 
several significant retailers, caused the 
segment to decline to £2.9 billion in 2011 
from where it has since stabilised to 
c.£3.2 billion in 2015. 
Although the outlook for 2017 is 
somewhat uncertain following the result of 
the UK’s EU Referendum, current levels of 
consumer confidence still remain 
significantly above those seen during the 
financial crisis and the number of housing 
transactions and rate of consumer credit 
growth has not as yet changed markedly.
Between 1995 and 2015, the UK upholstered 
furniture sector has grown by 2.9% per annum on 
a compound annual growth basis.
MARKET OVERVIEW
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   6 12/10/2016   18:06 07
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Oct 2016 -1.0
7.7 1,226
+6% year on year 10.3
2015 2015 2015
2016 YTD Aug 2016
3.1
5.9 1,223 2014 2014 2014 -2.6
3.6 1,068 2013 2013 2013 -18.6
-0.5 892 2008-12* 2009-12* 2009-12*
2006-07* 2006-08* 2006-08*
-26.0
5.6 1,644 -6.2
KEY MARKET DRIVERS
Consumer confidence
Levels of consumer spending, particularly 
for big ticket items, are influenced by 
general consumer confidence. While 
levels of consumer confidence have been 
impacted recently by the outcome of the 
EU Referendum, as of October 2016, they 
remain well above the lows seen in 2008.
Housing market
Independent research conducted on our 
behalf suggests that c.20% of upholstery 
purchases are triggered by a house move. 
Housing market transaction volumes are 
well above levels seen between 2009-
2012 albeit still at levels significantly 
beneath the 2006 peak.
Consumer credit
Upholstered furniture typically has 
relatively high unit prices and thus the 
availability of consumer credit can 
facilitate purchases and upselling. 
Consumer credit availability has steadily 
improved since 2010 lows.
Consumer confidence
1
Net unsecured lending growth
3
 (%) Housing transactions (‘000s
2
)
2. HMRC - number of residential property 
transactions completions with a value over 
£40,000 for England and Wales
3. Bank of England - 12 month average growth rate 
of total (excluding the Student Loans Company) 
sterling net unsecured lending to individuals (in %) 
seasonally adjusted
1. GfK Consumer Confidence average of individual 
scores for each year
* Mathematical average of reported values
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   7 12/10/2016   18:06 08
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Delivering on  
our strategy
“The tried and tested DFS growth 
strategy has delivered another set of 
record results and put us in an 
excellent position, as the market 
leader, to continue to generate 
shareholder value. Our unique and 
flexible business model, the quality 
and commitment of our people, our 
family culture and our focus on 
customer satisfaction remain the key 
factors behind our continuing 
success.” 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   8 12/10/2016   18:06 09
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Growth strategy on track
I am delighted to report that our financial 
and operational progress remains on 
track. These excellent results reflect 
the executive management team’s 
successful implementation of multiple 
strategic initiatives that have delivered 
ahead of our expectations in a number 
of areas, enabling us once again to 
outperform the furniture retail market 
as a whole. Such outperformance has 
been a consistent feature of the DFS 
track record in all the varied market 
conditions the business has encountered 
throughout its long operating history.
Our markets
The key macroeconomic indicators of 
consumer confidence, housing market 
activity and consumer credit availability 
remained generally favourable throughout 
the year, enabling the UK retail furniture 
market to continue its recovery from 
the low point it reached in 2011, in the 
wake of the global financial crisis. The 
market still remains, however, some 20% 
smaller by value than at its peak in 2007, 
potentially indicating further scope for 
growth in the longer term once current 
economic uncertainties are resolved.
Results and dividend
The business performed strongly 
throughout the year to deliver continued 
record levels of revenues, profits and cash 
flow. The strong cash generation that is 
such an important feature of our business 
enables the Board to recommend 
payment of a final dividend of 7.5 pence 
per share (FY15: 6.2 pence), an increase 
of 21.0%. Together with the increased 
interim dividend of 3.5 pence (FY15: 
3.1. pence) paid in June, this makes a 
total dividend for the year of 11.0 pence 
(FY15: 9.3 pence), a rise of 18.3%, in line 
with our commitment to deliver excellent 
returns to our shareholders through a 
consistently progressive dividend policy.
Given the strong progress in reducing 
our financial leverage and current positive 
trading momentum, the Board is also 
pleased to confirm it currently expects 
that the business will be in a position, 
at the interim results in March 2017, 
to announce a further special capital 
return to shareholders anticipated to 
occur prior to the current financial year 
end in July 2017. In the interests of 
prudence, the return would depend on 
the capital requirements of the business, 
in line with the detailed guidance 
given within the Financial Review. 
People
Our whole family of some 4,000 people 
deserve our sincere thanks for their 
hard work in delivering another set 
of record results. Their commitment 
to delivering outstanding service to 
our customers at every stage of their 
experience with DFS is endorsed by 
record levels of customer satisfaction, as 
measured by our Net Promoter Scores.
I am delighted to welcome Nicola Bancroft 
to our Board as Chief Financial Officer, 
following the retirement of Bill Barnes 
after almost 13 years. Bill leaves with 
our thanks and our very best wishes for 
the future. Nicola and Bill have worked 
closely together for the last three years 
and the handover of responsibilities 
has therefore been seamless and 
smooth. I am particularly pleased that 
we now have equal representation 
of women and men on our Board.
Conclusion
DFS has weathered many forms of 
political and economic turbulence during 
its 47 years of operating history, and I 
have confidence that we will continue 
to be well positioned despite the 
uncertainties inevitably surrounding the 
outcome of the EU Referendum. Our 
business model, scale, vertical integration 
and highly flexible cost base all provide 
resilience against potentially weaker 
trading conditions, relative to the market. 
We will continue to pursue our proven 
long-term growth strategy, leveraging 
our excellent cash flow to invest in the 
business for the future, and I am confident 
that this will continue to deliver long-
term profitable growth and cash returns 
for the benefit of all our stakeholders. 
Richard Baker
Chairman
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   9 12/10/2016   18:06 10
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
6
D E S I G N & I N S P I R E
R E T A I L
M A N U F A C T U R E
S E R V I C E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
D E S I G N
G R E A T B R I T I S H
S E R V I C E
 
V A L U E 
 
C H A I N
Creating value
Design & inspire
We inspire our customers to 
consider a purchase through 
our dominant and distinctive 
advertising, our in-house design 
and buying expertise and with 
our market-leading, interactive 
website.
Scale
Our upholstery sales are greater than those of our next 
four specialist competitors combined. By leveraging our 
scale when sourcing products, offering interest free 
credit and spreading the cost of central services and 
buying advertising, we are able to offer our customers 
an overall product, value and service proposition that we 
believe competitors struggle to match. Furthermore, with 
over 100 stores giving us nationwide coverage of the UK 
and Republic of Ireland, our high store sales densities 
reduce our fixed cost margins for rent and rates.
Vertical integration
With vertical integration from product design through  
to installation and service, we benefit from significant 
advantages in cost, customer service and 
responsiveness. Our five factories allow us to shorten 
lead times and provide valuable cost insights for 
negotiations with external suppliers. Our well-trained 
in-house delivery and service teams enable us to control 
interactions with our customers at every stage to ensure 
their satisfaction.
Expert focus
We are sofa specialists with nearly 50 years of expertise 
in designing, making, selling and servicing upholstered 
furniture. Sustained, memorable advertising and regular 
range innovation mean that our brand has unmatched 
consumer recognition as the UK’s number one sofa 
retailer. This has underpinned our proven ability to 
achieve consistent, profitable, above market growth in a 
wide range of trading environments throughout our long 
operating history.
Service
Our own directly-employed delivery 
crews and service upholsterers 
allow us to provide a market 
leading installation and aftercare 
service to our customers.
KEY COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES:
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   10 12/10/2016   18:06 11
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
6
D E S I G N & I N S P I R E
R E T A I L
M A N U F A C T U R E
S E R V I C E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
M A N U F A C T U R E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
 
V A L U E 
 
C H A I N
We have a ‘difficult to match’ business model,  
with key advantages that deliver sales growth,  
market share gain and strong margins.
Retail
Our nationwide showroom 
network is staffed by 
knowledgeable, well-trained 
and highly motivated retail sales 
teams complemented by our 
transactional website, apps and 
telephone call centres.
Happy customers
By using our operational advantages, we aim 
to delight our customers by offering the best 
combination of product, service and price. 
We monitor our customer satisfaction using 
NPS*, and have seen our score for post 
purchase satisfaction rise from 40%  
in January 2012 to an average of  
83.9% in FY16.
Gross sales growth
Our target is to achieve gross sales growth  
that is consistently above overall market rates. 
We have grown Group gross sales over the 
last five financial years by over £230m  
or 30%. Our success is evidenced by 
consistent growth in our share of the 
upholstery segment of the furniture  
market, as estimated by independent 
consultants Verdict Retail.
Strong margins and 
cash ﬂow
Our EBITDA margin in FY16 was 12.5%, and 
12.6% in FY15. Our strong profitability and 
robust business model deliver a consistently 
excellent cash flow, reflected in a £25.0m 
reduction in net debt over the  
last financial year after the payment of  
£31.0m in returns to shareholders.
Manufacture
Our five UK factories produce more 
than a quarter of the furniture we 
sell ensuring we maintain a 
competitive edge in all product 
sourcing.
OUTCOMES:
* Net Promoter Score (“NPS”) is an industry standard measure of customer satisfaction, based on the direct 
question “How likely are you to recommend DFS to friends, family or colleagues?”. Scoring is on a 0 to 10 
scale. NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of customers who are detractors (score of 0 to 6) from 
enthusiasts (score of 9 or 10).
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 12
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
2016 2016 2016
75 105 1
35 109 3
2015 2015 2015
55 100 0 2014 2014 2014
Key performance indicator Key performance indicator Key performance indicator
Strategy for growth
OUR STRATEGY
1. Broadening our product and 
brand appeal
2. Exploit UK and ROI roll-out 
opportunities
3. Establish presence in 
international markets
4. Full utilisation of store  
retail space
5. Maintain online leadership
We aim to consolidate our leadership across all 
segments of the upholstered furniture market 
by increasing our appeal to older and more 
affluent ‘aspirational customers’ while retaining 
our core mass market appeal.
The DFS tradition of making all products to 
order, and our own UK manufacturing base, 
have provided a strong platform to achieve 
this by broadening the DFS product range, 
developing exclusive brand partnerships and 
acquiring complementary businesses.
Exclusive brand partnerships with French 
Connection, House Beautiful and Country 
Living delivered 35% growth in bookings last 
year, building on a 75% uplift in FY15. 
We see continued potential to build on our 
nationwide store coverage by opening both 
three to five profitable new stores each year 
in the traditional 10-15,000 sq. ft. DFS store 
format and by developing smaller stores of 
as little as 2,500 sq. ft. in high footfall urban 
locations.
Three new larger format stores were 
successfully opened in FY16 at Christchurch, 
Limerick and Kettering, and we also opened a 
second smaller urban store in Bromley.
Our proven, bespoke customer catchment 
area model enables us to predict accurately 
where future store opening opportunities exist.
We have already identified locations for more 
than 15 additional 10-15,000 sq. ft. stores that 
are each predicted to generate over £500,000 
of incremental EBITDA net of existing store 
cannibalisation.
Our ability to extend the DFS brand to new 
markets was first demonstrated by our 
successful expansion into the Republic of 
Ireland, where we opened our first store in 
2012, and is continuing with our more recent 
developments in the Netherlands and Spain.
We continue to be encouraged by the results 
of our trial in the Netherlands. Our initial store 
at Cruquius opened in November 2014, while 
our second store at Alexandrium in Rotterdam 
opened in September 2015 and is achieving a 
comparable performance to Cruquius despite 
its smaller 10,000 sq. ft. footprint.
The DFS Spain operation acquired in 
October 2015 has benefited from showroom 
refurbishment and is successfully driving 
online traffic.
Releasing former warehouse space in 
our store estate enables us to generate 
incremental retail sales while consolidating 
warehousing and delivery in lower cost and 
more logistically efficient offsite locations.
A store-in-store concept to expand the 
Dwell brand alongside DFS has been 
proven to deliver a superior sales and profit 
performance compared with trials of using 
the additional space to retail beds and dining 
furniture.
We have accelerated our planned Customer 
Distribution Centre (“CDC") conversion 
programme, opening six during FY16 rather 
than our initial target of three per annum.
We now expect to complete our CDC 
conversion programme in FY17 with the 
opening of a further eight CDCs to give us a 
total of 19.
We have the clear market-leading online 
upholstery platform, accounting for over 
40% of upholstery segment web traffic, and 
a proven track record of growing margin-
enhancing sales through this channel.
With most customers now beginning their 
research on potential furniture purchases 
online, our website provides both inspiration 
to visit our physical stores and the opportunity 
to make direct purchases through a 
convenient, interactive platform that is 
available 24 hours per day throughout the 
year.
Sales completed online continued to show 
double digit growth during FY16.
Integrating online technology into our stores 
through the roll-out of “Swoosh” furniture 
visualisation technology across the DFS 
estate demonstrates our ability to offer our 
customers a true omnichannel proposition.
GROWTH IN EXCLUSIVE  
BRAND SALES
35%
NUMBER OF DFS STORES  
(UK & ROI) 
+4
NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL 
STORES
3
STORES WITH CONVERTED 
WAREHOUSE SPACE
19
ONLINE GROWTH RATE
15.6%
• We have an ambition to reach a 
share in the ‘aspirational’ customer 
segment of 25% by the end of FY18.
• We will achieve this target without 
weakening our strong share in and focus 
on our other core customer segments.
• We will open between three and five 
UK and ROI stores each financial 
year using our large and medium 
10,000-15,000 sq. ft. formats.
• Each of these traditional formats is 
targeted to achieve cash payback 
within two years on the initial c.£1m 
operating and capital expenditure 
(including incremental logistics assets).
• We will continue to test and 
learn from our trial small-format 
(2,000-5,000 sq. ft.) stores.
• Building on our success in 
the ROI, we aim to develop a 
profitable national network of 10-20 
stores in the Netherlands, which 
leverages our UK infrastructure 
and proven operating model.
• We will develop our Spanish 
store presence to profitably serve 
significant ex-pat communities in 
Southern Spain, giving us a foothold 
in the overall Spanish market.
• We will complete our roll-out of 
19 UK CDCs by the end of FY17 
with completion of retail space 
conversion occurring in FY18.
• Retail space released by our CDC 
openings will either be converted into new 
Dwell or Sofa Workshop stores, allow us 
to downsize our retail footprint, or be used 
to sell an extended range of furniture.
• Once fully rolled out, our programme 
is targeted to deliver incremental 
annual EBITDA of an average of 
£650k - £700k per CDC.
• We will continue to maintain a 
share of over 40% of upholstery 
segment web traffic. 
• Our significant investment in key 
future online technologies, in particular 
mobile web, personalisation and 
strengthening the omnichannel 
customer experience will continue.
TARGETS
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 13
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
2016 2016
8
19 15.6
17.5
6.7
2015 2015
3 2014 2014
Key performance indicator Key performance indicator
1. Broadening our product and 
brand appeal
2. Exploit UK and ROI roll-out 
opportunities
3. Establish presence in 
international markets
4. Full utilisation of store  
retail space
5. Maintain online leadership
We aim to consolidate our leadership across all 
segments of the upholstered furniture market 
by increasing our appeal to older and more 
affluent ‘aspirational customers’ while retaining 
our core mass market appeal.
The DFS tradition of making all products to 
order, and our own UK manufacturing base, 
have provided a strong platform to achieve 
this by broadening the DFS product range, 
developing exclusive brand partnerships and 
acquiring complementary businesses.
Exclusive brand partnerships with French 
Connection, House Beautiful and Country 
Living delivered 35% growth in bookings last 
year, building on a 75% uplift in FY15. 
We see continued potential to build on our 
nationwide store coverage by opening both 
three to five profitable new stores each year 
in the traditional 10-15,000 sq. ft. DFS store 
format and by developing smaller stores of 
as little as 2,500 sq. ft. in high footfall urban 
locations.
Three new larger format stores were 
successfully opened in FY16 at Christchurch, 
Limerick and Kettering, and we also opened a 
second smaller urban store in Bromley.
Our proven, bespoke customer catchment 
area model enables us to predict accurately 
where future store opening opportunities exist.
We have already identified locations for more 
than 15 additional 10-15,000 sq. ft. stores that 
are each predicted to generate over £500,000 
of incremental EBITDA net of existing store 
cannibalisation.
Our ability to extend the DFS brand to new 
markets was first demonstrated by our 
successful expansion into the Republic of 
Ireland, where we opened our first store in 
2012, and is continuing with our more recent 
developments in The Netherlands and Spain.
We continue to be encouraged by the results 
of our trial in The Netherlands. Our initial store 
at Cruquius opened in November 2014, while 
our second store at Alexandrium in Rotterdam 
opened in September 2015 and is achieving a 
comparable performance to Cruquius despite 
its smaller 10,000 sq. ft. footprint.
The DFS Spain operation acquired in 
October 2015 has benefited from showroom 
refurbishment and is successfully driving 
online traffic.
Releasing former warehouse space in 
our store estate enables us to generate 
incremental retail sales while consolidating 
warehousing and delivery in lower cost and 
more logistically efficient offsite locations.
A store-in-store concept to expand the 
Dwell brand alongside DFS has been 
proven to deliver a superior sales and profit 
performance compared with trials of using 
the additional space to retail beds and dining 
furniture.
We have accelerated our planned Customer 
Distribution Centre (“CDC") conversion 
programme, opening six during FY16 rather 
than our initial target of three per annum.
We now expect to complete our CDC 
conversion programme in FY17 with the 
opening of a further eight CDCs to give us a 
total of 19.
We have the clear market-leading online 
upholstery platform, accounting for over 
40% of upholstery segment web traffic, and 
a proven track record of growing margin-
enhancing sales through this channel.
With most customers now beginning their 
research on potential furniture purchases 
online, our website provides both inspiration 
to visit our physical stores and the opportunity 
to make direct purchases through a 
convenient, interactive platform that is 
available 24 hours per day throughout the 
year.
Sales completed online continued to show 
double digit growth during FY16.
Integrating online technology into our stores 
through the roll-out of “Swoosh” furniture 
visualisation technology across the DFS 
estate demonstrates our ability to offer our 
customers a true omnichannel proposition.
GROWTH IN EXCLUSIVE  
BRAND SALES
35%
NUMBER OF DFS STORES  
(UK & ROI) 
+4
NUMBER OF INTERNATIONAL 
STORES
3
STORES WITH CONVERTED 
WAREHOUSE SPACE
19
ONLINE GROWTH RATE
15.6%
• We have an ambition to reach a 
share in the ‘aspirational’ customer 
segment of 25% by the end of FY18.
• We will achieve this target without 
weakening our strong share in and focus 
on our other core customer segments.
• We will open between three and five 
UK and ROI stores each financial 
year using our large and medium 
10,000-15,000 sq. ft. formats.
• Each of these traditional formats is 
targeted to achieve cash payback 
within two years on the initial c.£1m 
operating and capital expenditure 
(including incremental logistics assets).
• We will continue to test and 
learn from our trial small-format 
(2,000-5,000 sq. ft.) stores.
• Building on our success in 
the ROI, we aim to develop a 
profitable national network of 10-20 
stores in the Netherlands, which 
leverages our UK infrastructure 
and proven operating model.
• We will develop our Spanish 
store presence to profitably serve 
significant ex-pat communities in 
Southern Spain, giving us a foothold 
in the overall Spanish market.
• We will complete our roll-out of 
19 UK CDCs by the end of FY17 
with completion of retail space 
conversion occurring in FY18.
• Retail space released by our CDC 
openings will either be converted into new 
Dwell or Sofa Workshop stores, allow us 
to downsize our retail footprint, or be used 
to sell an extended range of furniture.
• Once fully rolled out, our programme 
is targeted to deliver incremental 
annual EBITDA of an average of 
£650k - £700k per CDC.
• We will continue to maintain a 
share of over 40% of upholstery 
segment web traffic. 
• Our significant investment in key 
future online technologies, in particular 
mobile web, personalisation and 
strengthening the omnichannel 
customer experience will continue.
TARGETS
4. Full utilisation of store 5. Maintain online leadership
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   13 12/10/2016   18:06 14
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
G R E A T B R I T I S H
D
E S I G
N
ASPIRATION AND EXCLUSIVITY
Our French Connection, Country Living and House 
Beautiful partnerships highlight how we are 
successfully using our upholstery design and 
manufacturing expertise to create exclusive branded 
ranges of high quality British upholstery. Together with 
our Sofa Workshop subsidiary, these branded ranges 
are broadening our appeal to all customers, and 
particularly to aspirational customer segments.
During the year we have seen strong growth once again from our 
French Connection ranges together with the exciting launches 
of the House Beautiful Lydia, Country Living Lavenham and Sofa 
Workshop Dillon and Ellie in DFS stores. 
GROWTH STRATEGY IN ACTION
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   14 12/10/2016   18:06 15
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
DESTINATION RETAIL LOCATIONS
Our new Oxford site is a great example of the potential 
of our retail space conversion programme. Originally a 
DFS store with on-site warehouse, we moved the 
warehouse space off-site and in December 2015 
opened both a Dwell and a Sofa Workshop alongside 
our DFS store. 
Prompted by the broad appeal of our three store brands we have 
seen a wider variety of customers visiting the site. Footfall has also 
increased, which we interpret as a more frequent shop by customers 
driven by Dwell’s homewares range. Overall the conversion has 
released new, profitable sales space for Dwell and Sofa Workshop 
and increased sales from the existing DFS store.
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   15 12/10/2016   18:06 16
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
E V A L U A T E
I D E N T I F Y
M I T I G A T E
Managing risk
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties in both 
the development and day-to-day operations of its business.
Risk management framework
The Group has an established risk register which is coordinated 
and analysed by the Group’s Internal Audit function to facilitate 
regular review of key risks by the Directors. Each identified risk is 
allocated to a member of the Executive Board. The Directors 
maintain overall responsibility for risk management throughout 
the Group and oversee the implementation by the Executive 
Board and operational management of processes to manage 
these risks. The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s internal 
risk register on a regular basis.
Assessment of principal risks and uncertainties
The Directors confirm that they have made a robust assessment 
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risks are discussed below, together with the Group’s 
related mitigating activities. Other risks which are currently either 
not known to the Group or are not considered material could 
also impact the Group’s reported performance or assets. 
Risk management framework
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   16 12/10/2016   18:06 17
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
RISK MITIGATION MOVEMENT
Economy and consumer  
market conditions
The retail market for upholstered furniture in  
the UK is highly competitive. The Group’s 
success is therefore dependent on its ability  
to compete effectively, particularly during peak 
trading periods. 
The Group’s products represent a significant 
discretionary spend for customers and 
demand is heavily influenced by factors 
affecting the economies in which the Group 
operates including (but not limited to) consumer 
confidence, income levels, interest rates, the 
availability of credit and the level of housing 
market activity.
4 5 3 4 2 3 1 2 1
The Group continues to make substantial investments in marketing 
to maintain its leading brand status. Marketing strategy is supported 
through econometric and customer insight analysis. 
Detailed sales information by product and store is reviewed daily, 
enabling changes to product selection, incentive structures and 
advertising strategy to be made on a dynamic basis to optimise sales. 
The Group’s interest free credit offer allows customers to spread the 
cost into affordable monthly payments.
Product and innovation 
Maintaining the reputation of, and value 
associated with, the Group’s brands and 
product offering is central to the success  
of the business. 
A failure to predict changes in customer tastes 
or the impact of changes in the competitor 
environment could reduce the Group’s revenues 
and market share.
1
Products and services are continually reviewed to ensure they suit 
customers’ needs, are competitively priced, offer good value and are 
supported by excellent customer service, in order to enhance the 
Group’s market-leading position. Our in-house design teams enable 
reaction to emerging trends and new entrants to the market. External 
design partners are also incentivised to generate new product 
concepts on a regular basis. 
Quality Level Agreements are in place with all upholstery suppliers, 
reinforced with internal quality control procedures to rapidly identify 
and rectify product liability and recall issues. Compliance with fire 
regulations and other quality standards is supported by independent 
external testing.
The Group has a focus on offering outstanding customer care and 
service. This is underpinned by our established use of Net Promoter 
Score (“NPS") at all touch points of the consumer journey to ensure 
our brand is growing, trusted and appealing.
Expansion of retail store network
The growth of the Group depends on its ability 
to open and operate new stores on a timely 
and cost-effective basis while continuing to 
increase sales at existing stores. This includes 
successfully achieving incremental sales from 
retail space released by roll out of Customer 
Distribution Centres.
Competition for desirable retail sites has 
historically been significant, which may reduce 
the availability and/or increase the rental costs 
of such sites. Successful execution of any new 
store roll-out also depends upon a number of 
other factors, including the hiring, training and 
retention of qualified personnel and the capability 
of the Group’s existing information technology 
and distribution systems to accommodate  
new stores.
3 4 2 3 1 2
The Group continuously reviews the location and format of its stores 
and their contribution to overall results. A detailed appraisal model 
is applied to assess the payback period and expected profitability of 
each potential new store, including its impact on existing stores in the 
area. Appraisals are subject to thorough review and approval by the 
Board before any investment is made. 
The Group has an established supporting infrastructure in place  
to recruit and train new employees and fit out and open stores  
to schedule.
Link to strategic priority Increased risk Decreased risk Stable 4 5 3 4 2 3 1 2 1
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   17 12/10/2016   18:06 18
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
RISK MITIGATION MOVEMENT
Website and IT systems 
The Group’s websites are a key component of its 
omnichannel proposition and a failure to review 
and innovate in this competitive area could 
impact achievement of the Group’s strategic 
growth plans. 
Websites and other parts of the Group’s 
operations depend upon the continued 
availability and integrity of its IT systems. 
4 5
The Group continues to make substantial investment in both website 
development and marketing to maintain its market-leading position. 
An established team of experienced staff in this field are supported 
with ongoing relationships with external partners.
The Group engages with independent third parties to actively monitor 
both customer satisfaction with its digital services and the emergence 
of new online competitors.
Full back-up and business continuity procedures, comprising both 
internal and third party resources, are in place and are regularly 
reviewed, tested and updated. Technical security measures against 
data loss through a systems breach are in place and regularly 
reviewed. Third party penetration testing is carried routinely to check 
the resilience of the Group’s systems to cyber-attack.
Consumer finance 
The majority of the Group’s sales are to 
customers that utilise its interest free finance 
offerings, which are provided by external finance 
houses that, in return for a fee, bear the risk of 
customer default. Credit standards with respect 
to customer finance offerings typically tighten 
during periods of economic downturn, which 
may limit the Group’s ability to offer customer 
finance on commercially acceptable terms and/
or may increase the amount of the fee payable to 
the external providers of customer finance. 
1
The Group has longstanding relationships with a number of finance 
houses, with long term contracts in place with two providers which 
more than cover the total requirement for customer finance. These 
arrangements enable a redistribution of business in the event of 
withdrawal by one or more providers, and surety on acceptance rates 
and fee levels. These key metrics are continuously reviewed to ensure 
that each provider remains competitive.
An increase in LIBOR that affects the cost of providing credit may be 
mitigated by revising the customer offer in line with maintaining market 
leader status.
Supply chain
A large portion of the Group’s products are 
supplied by a core of manufacturers, with many 
produced in continental Europe and Asia.  
The Group’s internal manufacturing operations 
also supply a significant proportion of goods 
sold and may not wholly be able to compensate 
for the failure of any of the Group’s key external 
suppliers to satisfy their delivery obligations.
Increases in finished goods and underlying 
commodity prices may negatively impact the 
Group’s trading margins.
1
The Group maintains flexible supply arrangements to facilitate 
switching between suppliers where necessary and uses a variety of 
freight forwarders to avoid reliance on any one transport link. 
Supplier performance is monitored against operational and quality 
targets and reviewed by senior management. All external upholstered 
furniture suppliers are frequently inspected by the Group to ensure 
working conditions and quality standards are maintained. 
Fixed prices are negotiated for finished goods and the scale  
of the Group enables it to achieve significant cost savings with 
supplier partners. The Group’s in-house manufacturing capacity 
provides insight into production costs and the ability to create  
cost-efficient designs.
Employees 
The success of the Group depends significantly 
on its ability to attract and retain a workforce that 
includes experienced sales, product design and 
production personnel and to retain members 
of its senior management team, many of whom 
have significant experience in the Group’s 
business and industry. The physical nature of our 
products and handcrafted production processes 
involves a number of manual activities, 
increasing the complexity of health and  
safety compliance.
4 5 3 4 2 3 1 2 1
Employee remuneration is structured to be at attractive levels and 
to incentivise employees towards results that are aligned with the 
objectives of the Group. In addition, senior management across the 
business may participate in equity in the Group or in longer term 
incentive plans operating over a three year cycle.
Succession planning is operated throughout the business to identify 
short and long term successors to key roles. A high performance 
training programme is in place for individuals identified for key roles. 
The Group makes significant investment in training employees 
in health and safety requirements. Dedicated internal teams are 
supported where needed by external advisors in specialist ares.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   18 12/10/2016   18:06 19
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
RISK MITIGATION MOVEMENT
Financial risk and liquidity
A downturn in the macroeconomic  
environment may impact the Group’s  
ability to obtain financing. 
An increase in interest rates could increase 
the Group’s financing costs. The Group is also 
exposed to foreign currency exchange risk on 
certain purchases sourced from overseas. 
4 5 2 3 1 2
The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has sufficient 
medium and long term facilities in place, including a £30.0 million 
revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 which is as yet 
unutilised. 
Foreign exchange and interest rate risks are managed through the use 
of appropriate hedging arrangements in accordance with its Board-
approved treasury policy, with details reviewed by the Board on a 
regular basis. No financial instruments are entered into for speculative 
purposes.
In response to the significant change in foreign currency exchange 
rates following the EU Referendum, the Group has established detail 
plans to actively manage its cost base and supply chain to mitigate 
these risks as far as possible.
Regulatory environment 
The Group is subject to increasing levels  
of compliance requirements in many  
of its activities from regulatory and other 
authorities and is subject to regulatory risk  
with potential for significant financial impact  
or reputational damage. 
Changes to the regulatory environment 
surrounding DFS product warranty insurance 
could impact the sales of these products. 
Changes in other legislation which may have 
significant retrospective or future economic 
effects could also impact operating results.
4 5 3 4 2 3 1 2 1
Comprehensive training and monitoring programmes are in place to 
ensure that employees are appropriately skilled to deliver high levels of 
customer service and maintain regulatory compliance. 
A Reputational Risk Committee is in place to monitor management 
information and review processes and procedures to ensure our 
customers are treated fairly. This includes rigorous oversight and 
escalation processes to maintain the status of limited permission to 
offer consumer finance granted by the FCA.
Viability reporting
In accordance with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period 
significantly longer than 12 months from the date of approval of the 
financial statements.
This assessment was based on the current position of the Group and 
the key risks and uncertainties, as discussed on pages 16 to 19 of 
this Annual Report, and considered a period of four years from 
30 July 2016. A period of four years was selected by the Directors 
since it reflects the period over which the Group’s various growth 
initiatives are anticipated to have a key impact on the business profile 
and corresponds to the Group’s normal planning cycle. 
Those risks which could significantly affect the future viability of the 
Group were identified and their potential impacts on the financial 
performance and viability of the Group were assessed under a 
number of severe but plausible scenarios.
This assessment included sensitivity and stress-testing analysis of the 
impact of reduced revenues and a decrease in gross margin both 
separately and collectively. The analysis takes into account the high 
level of variable and discretionary spend in the Group’s business 
model and the existence and effectiveness of other mitigating actions 
the Group could take, including the restriction of dividend payments. 
In developing the viability assessment it has been assumed that the 
Group’s £200.0 million senior loan facility will be refinanced on its 
maturity in March 2020 on similar terms to the current arrangement.
Based upon this assessment, the Directors have confirm that they 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four year 
assessment period.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   19 12/10/2016   18:06 20
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Consistent
outperformance
Overview
Our strong sales growth was sustained 
throughout the year, as many of our 
strategic initiatives continued to deliver 
ahead of our expectations within a 
healthy furniture market environment. 
This performance enabled us to deliver 
profit before tax at the upper end 
of market expectations despite the 
increased operating costs arising from 
our investment for the future in the 
development of Dwell, Sofa Workshop 
and DFS internationally. The business 
also remains highly cash generative, 
enabling us to fund our investments in 
store openings and refurbishments, and 
an accelerated programme of retail space 
conversion, while reducing gearing and 
increasing returns to our shareholders.
Growth strategy update
Broadening our appeal to customers
We remain committed to “creating and 
making sofas that every home loves and 
can afford”, and have focused on extending 
our appeal to an even broader range of 
customers so as to consolidate our position 
as the UK market leader in upholstered 
furniture across all customer segments.
Our ranges of Exclusive Brands have 
performed well ahead of our expectations, 
with a 35% increase in total sales 
orders over the year as a whole. 
Highlights included the introduction 
of a number of new models under 
the House Beautiful brand, and the 
continued outstanding success of the 
French Connection Zinc range. Our 
close supplier relationships and vertical 
integration insights have enabled us to 
introduce a seven-day express delivery 
option across the Zinc sofa range. 
We extended our partnership agreements 
with French Connection, House Beautiful 
and Country Living during the year, and are 
also achieving encouraging results from the 
sale of sofas from our own Sofa Workshop 
Dillon and Ellie ranges through DFS stores.
“It is naturally pleasing to again report record 
results that demonstrate the robustness of our 
business model, the effectiveness of our growth 
strategy and the excellence of our products and 
our people. Together these unique assets give 
DFS the proven ability to achieve consistent 
outperformance of the retail furniture market over 
the long term.” 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   20 12/10/2016   18:06 21
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
21
UK and Republic of Ireland  
DFS store roll-out
Our well-established programme of adding 
new 10-15,000 sq. ft. DFS stores at the rate 
of three to five per annum has continued to 
plan, with the successful opening of three 
new stores at Christchurch and Kettering 
in the UK and Limerick in the Republic 
of Ireland. Our established customer 
catchment area model, leveraging our 
comprehensive delivery postcode data, 
enables us to make a highly accurate 
assessment of new store opportunities to 
target new stores likely to deliver substantial 
incremental EBITDA, and achieve rapid 
payback within two years. Progress in 
opening new stores in the 2017 financial 
year is well advanced with two new stores 
opened in Truro and Salisbury, and further 
openings planned in the next six months.
Following the success of our initial trial of 
a smaller 2,500 sq. ft. store last year in the 
Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, 
London, we opened a further small store 
in Bromley in April 2016 and will shortly 
open a third store in this format in Crawley, 
extending the trial outside the M25. The 
development of this smaller concept is 
made possible by our market-leading 
website and innovative “Swoosh” furniture 
visualisation technology, allowing us to 
demonstrate the comfort of our products 
to customers with just one unit from each 
range in store, while using large screens 
to show our complete range of sizes, 
types, coverings and colour options. 
International expansion
We continue to make progress in The 
Netherlands, where we opened a 
second store in Rotterdam’s Alexandrium 
shopping mall and retail park in September 
2015. At 10,000 sq. ft. this store is 
smaller than our initial trial opening in 
Cruquius and is achieving comparable 
results, giving us reassurance that store 
performance is replicable and predictable 
in new locations. Cruquius also achieved 
satisfactory growth in sales year-on-year. 
As expected, our investment in long-term 
brand-building for DFS in The Netherlands 
was reflected in operating costs, net of 
incremental revenue, of approximately 
£2 million during the year, and we expect 
to maintain a similar £2-3 million of net 
investment in the current financial year. 
In September 2016 we opened a 3,300 
sq. ft. store in Amsterdam as our first trial 
in The Netherlands of a smaller format 
store in a shopping centre location. We 
intend to maintain a measured approach 
to additional store openings as we 
strengthen customer awareness and 
reputation in this market, with the long-
term aim of building the scale needed 
to support national TV marketing based 
on the proven model of DFS in the UK.
EXCLUSIVE BRANDS TOTAL  
SALES ORDER INCREASE
35%
EXPRESS DELIVERY LEAD 
TIMES ON CERTAIN RANGES
7 days
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   21 12/10/2016   18:06 22
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
DFS Spain, acquired in October 2015, 
performed well during the year following 
the refit of its showroom in San Javier, 
near Murcia in January 2016. However, 
since our brand primarily appeals to 
the 800,000-strong British expatriate 
community in Spain, recent trading 
in this business has understandably 
seen some impact from the uncertainty 
arising from the EU Referendum vote.
Retail space optimisation
We have established a successful model 
for Dwell to occupy store warehousing 
space converted for retail use within the 
DFS estate. This has two positive results. 
First, the new Dwell stores generate 
higher revenue and profits than we have 
been able to achieve by using converted 
space to sell ranges of beds and dining 
furniture. Secondly, the first twelve Dwell 
stores opened have also generated a 
c.2% like-for-like increase in DFS bookings 
within the associated DFS stores, as these 
stores have benefited from increased 
footfall through new customers and an 
increased frequency of return visits. 
The success of the Dwell store-in-store 
concept has led us to accelerate our 
investment in the Customer Distribution 
Centre (“CDC”) conversion programme. 
This programme releases additional retail 
space by removing DFS’s warehouse 
operations from stores and consolidating 
them into larger, purpose-built, off-site 
facilities. A further six CDCs opened during 
the year, giving us a total of eleven at the 
year-end, which serve approximately half  
of our store estate. We now expect 
to complete the programme with 
the opening of a further eight CDCs 
during the new financial year. 
On completion of the CDC conversion 
programme and store-in-store roll-out 
we will have over 40 Dwell stores giving 
us nationwide coverage, together with 
more than five new Sofa Workshop 
stores, whilst in the remainder of the 
DFS estate we will utilise the remaining 
retail space to carry additional ranges 
of beds and dining furniture. Whereas 
previously we have guided to incremental 
EBITDA per CDC of c.£500k, we now 
expect each of the CDC conversions 
will generate £650k–700k of incremental 
EBITDA including both the benefit of the 
incremental Dwell profitability and also 
the impact of DFS LFL sales growth. 
The roll-out of this programme involves 
significant pre-opening costs in the short 
term, as new sales staff are recruited and 
trained and we scale up our supply chain 
and head office to support the new stores. 
With the scale and pace of roll-out this 
financial year, we believe the incremental 
benefits we are currently seeing will be 
offset by implementation costs, however 
from FY18 and into FY19 we expect 
there will be a £3-4 million increase in 
EBITDA in aggregate above the previous 
guidance given for this growth lever.
Omnichannel
Today the web is the natural starting 
point for most people researching 
a potential furniture purchase and a 
vital gateway and complement to our 
physical stores. Our website dfs.co.uk 
remains a strong leader, continuing to 
attract over 40% of upholstery sector 
web traffic over the course of the year.
Continued investment in our web channel 
this year has included the upgrading of 
our product viewer and room planning 
apps, the development of a new online 
payment system, and the introduction 
of an online order tracking service that 
allows customers to follow the progress 
of their new furniture through every step 
from placing their order to its installation 
in their home. Our mobile and tablet 
sites have remained a focus for our 
development reflecting the changing mix 
of devices our customers use to visit our 
site. We have also enjoyed continued 
double-digit growth in sales completed 
online, making a valuable contribution to 
overall Group sales growth. Subsequent 
to the end of the financial year we also 
successfully replatformed our website 
allow us to continue to grow our scale 
and add incremental functionality.
The integration of online technology with 
our stores has also continued during the 
financial year, with roll-out of ‘Swoosh’ 
furniture visualisation technology in over 
70% of the DFS estate, with all stores 
planned to have the technology before 
our key Winter Sale trading period. This 
allows us to project the full range of models, 
colours and materials on a video wall in 
store, enabling customers to see exactly 
how their chosen product will look in 
their homes, and helping our store staff 
to sell the full breadth of the DFS range.
Customer service
We remain determined to deliver the 
highest standards of service to all our 
customers. Our approach relies both 
on proactive training and Net Promoter 
Score (“NPS”) linked incentivisation of our 
staff, combined with a feedback system 
that allows us accurately to measure 
and track the satisfaction of customers 
throughout their purchase down to product, 
store, factory and employee level. 
I am pleased to report a further 
improvement in our post-purchase NPS 
to 83.9% (FY15: 78.8%) during the year. 
As I indicated in our last annual report, 
we have placed increasing emphasis on 
our ability to deliver established customer 
satisfaction – the willingness of customers 
to recommend our products to their friends 
or family six months after making their 
own purchase. This established customer 
satisfaction (surveyed six months post-
delivery) showed a substantial improvement 
to 31.2%, compared with 21.9% in the 
prior year. All our management and 
customer-facing staff are now incentivised 
according to the results achieved in 
these established customer NPS.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   22 12/10/2016   18:06 23
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Management
I would like to join the Chairman in  
thanking Bill Barnes for his great  
contribution to DFS as our Group  
Finance Director since 2003, and to wish 
him a very long and happy retirement. 
As well as welcoming Nicola Bancroft  
to her new role as Chief Financial Officer,  
I would like to welcome Toni Wood to our 
Executive Committee as Chief Marketing 
Officer. Toni joins us from Costa Coffee, 
where she was Global Brand & Digital 
Director, and has previously held senior 
marketing roles at The Jordans & Ryvita 
Company, Findus and Procter & Gamble.
Corporate responsibility
We have continued to work hard to  
be a responsible and sustainable 
 business that puts something back 
 into the communities where we operate. 
Our Energy Management Policy has 
continued to reduce our environmental 
impact by reducing emissions from 
our delivery vehicles and company car 
fleet, and by upgrading store lighting 
through the installation of low-energy 
SHARE OF THE UPHOLSTERY 
SECTOR WEB TRAFFIC  
DFS.CO.UK ATTRACTS  
DURING A YEAR
40%
ESTABLISHED CUSTOMER  
NPS (SIX MONTHS POST ORDER) 
INCREASED TO
31.2%
AMOUNT RAISED FOR THE 
BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION  
IN 2016
£3.4m
LED equipment. Our ISO 14001 
environmental accreditation was extended 
during the year to cover DFS retail stores 
as well as our head office in Doncaster.
In the community, we have continued 
our partnership with the British Heart 
Foundation (“BHF") both in fundraising 
through the successful sofa recycling 
scheme, and in training and raising 
awareness among our people. All  
new starters at DFS receive training 
in CPR skills which may prove literally 
life-saving. We are proud to have raised 
£3.4 million for BHF during the year 
and also to have raised more than 
£750,000 for BBC Children in Need.
Team GB partnership
We were delighted to play a part in the 
historic and well-deserved success of 
Team GB in the Rio 2016 Olympics through 
our sponsorship as Team GB’s official 
homeware partner. In this role we were 
responsible for making Team GB’s base 
in Rio a comfortable home-from-home 
for our athletes. It was naturally a source 
of particular pride and pleasure that all 
our participating Brand Ambassadors 
– Adam Peaty, Laura Trott and Max 
Whitlock – won gold medals during the 
games: successes which we were able 
to celebrate on digital billboards across 
the UK highlighting our partnership. 
As well as helping to enhance the profile 
of DFS through connected advertising, 
the partnership enabled us to engage our 
staff with the athletes’ philosophy of how 
marginal gains in many areas can add 
up to a noticeable improvement in overall 
performance. We held a number of internal 
events to drive staff engagement across 
the business, including holding our very 
own DFS Olympics in Doncaster, and 
were grateful to our Brand Ambassador 
Denise Lewis, the 2000 gold medallist 
in the heptathlon, for helping to build 
excitement and support in the run-up to 
the games by undertaking a nationwide 
tour of our stores and factories. 
Outlook
The relatively short trading period inevitably 
makes it hard to predict the impact of 
the EU Referendum on the furniture retail 
market however we are reassured that 
the Group’s trading in the last fourteen 
weeks has not indicated any weakening 
of demand to date. We recognise that in 
2017 retailing of furniture in the UK faces 
an increased risk of a market slowdown 
with additional cost pressures from foreign 
exchange movements, whilst it is likely that 
the retail environment will remain intensely 
competitive. However, with its proven 
resilient operating model the Group remains 
very well positioned to mitigate economic 
headwinds and achieve continued growth 
in its share of the UK retail furniture market.
Overall we believe DFS enjoys excellent 
prospects to deliver long-term profitable 
growth, strong cash generation and a 
progressive dividend policy as one of 
the UK’s best-known brands, a major 
British manufacturer and the country’s 
leading retailer of upholstered furniture. 
Ian Filby
Chief Executive Officer
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   23 12/10/2016   18:06 24
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
2016
2016 2016
2016 980.4
75.6 80.1
94.4
2015
2015 2015
2015 913.1
70.7 79.2
89.2
2014
2014 2014
2014 853.4
75.2 91.4
82.3
2013 2013 804.3 83.8
2012 2012 748.7 81.2
2016 21.2
2015 21.2
2014 20.9
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Measuring 
performance
FINANCIAL KPIS
Gross sales (£m)
Free cash flow (£m)
Gross sales represents the total amounts 
payable by external customers for goods 
and services supplied by the Group, 
including aftercare services (for which the 
Group acts as an agent), delivery charges 
and value added and other sales taxes.
Cash conversion is free cash flow 
expressed as a percentage of Adjusted 
EBITDA.
Free cash flow is Adjusted EBITDA, less 
gross capital expenditure and changes in 
working capital.
Adjusted EBITDA means underlying 
earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation, as 
adjusted for certain material, unusual or 
non-recurring items which the Directors 
believe are not indicative of the Group’s 
underlying performance.
Continued growth in sales and EBITDA
Consistently strong rates of return
1 No adjusted items in FY16 or FY15. £2.3m of 
adjusted items in FY14 relating to start-up 
operating losses of acquired businesses and 
prior period bonus adjustments.
Cash conversion (%)
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 (£m)
+7.4%
+6.9%
+5.8%
Return on capital employed (%)
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)  
is post-tax operating profit before 
non-underlying items plus operating lease 
charges expressed as a percentage of  
the sum of: property, plant & equipment, 
computer software, working capital and 
8x operating lease charges.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   24 12/10/2016   18:06 25
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
2016
2016 2016 2016
2016 109
35 19 15.6
83.9
2015
2014 2014 2014
2015 2015 2015
2014 2014 2014
2015 105
100 64.8 23.8
75 8 17.5
6.7 55 3
78.8
2016 31.2
2015 21.9
NON - F I N A NC I A L K P I S
Number of DFS stores
Growth in exclusive brand sales (%)
Number of UK and Republic of Ireland stores 
trading at the end of the financial period.
Year-on-year change in value of sales 
orders of exclusive brand product ranges.
Weighted average number of DFS stores 
during the financial period where former 
warehouse space has been converted 
into retail space.
Year-on-year change in sales generated 
by internet/telephone/live chat channels.
Net promoter score (%)  
Post purchase customer satisfaction 
Average across all DFS stores based on post 
purchase customer satisfaction surveys.
Stores with converted 
warehouse space Online growth rate (%)
+4
35% 19 15.6%
+5.1% pt
Average across all DFS stores based on 
established customer satisfaction surveys.
Net promoter score (%)  
Established customer satisfaction
+9.3% pt 26
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Reporting 
record results
This review covers the financial year to 30 July 2016, our first full financial year since 
becoming a public company in March 2015. As a different pre-IPO capital structure was in 
place for the majority of the previous year, the table below is presented in order to show an 
underlying comparative position:
FY16 
Underlying
£m
Non-
underlying
£m
FY16
Total 
£m
FY15 
Underlying
£m
Non-
underlying 
£m
FY15
Total
£m
EBITDA 94.4 – 94.4 89.2 (11.6) 77.6
Depreciation and 
amortisation (18.6) – (18.6) (17.0) – (17.0)
Operating profit 75.8 – 75.8 72.2 (11.6) 60.6
Net finance expense (11.3) – (11.3) (38.9) (11.0) (49.9)
Profit/(loss) before tax 64.5 – 64.5 33.3 (22.6) 10.7
Taxation (14.1) 9.9 (4.3) (10.4) 2.9 (7.5)
Profit/(loss) for the year 50.4 9.9 60.2 22.9 (19.7) 3.2
Adjusted for:
Shareholder loan interest – 16.6
Adjusted profit after tax 50.4 39.5
Earnings per share 23.7p 18.5p
“I am delighted to 
present my first 
financial review as 
CFO and to report  
on another successful 
year for DFS. My thanks 
to my predecessor 
Bill Barnes and to the 
rest of the Board for 
their support in 
achieving a smooth 
handover of 
responsibilities.”
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Sales and revenue
Group gross sales for the full year  
increased by 7 .4% to £980.4 million 
(FY15: £913.1 million), including a 6.1% 
increase in DFS sales as well as increased 
contributions from Dwell and Sofa 
Workshop. This growth was ahead of the 
7 .0% reported at the half year as a result of 
the acceleration of the conversion of in-store 
warehouses into new retail space, 
predominantly new Dwell stores.
Group revenue grew by 7 .1% to 
£756.0 million (FY15: £706.1 million). The 
slightly different growth rate to gross sales 
reflects increased uptake of interest free 
credit by Dwell and Sofa Workshop 
customers and a change in the rate of 
insurance premium tax increasing the cost 
of certain aftercare services. 
Gross margin
Gross profit has continued to increase at a 
faster rate than revenue, up 9.9% to 
£134.3 million (FY15: £122.3 million). This 
reflects a small improvement in gross 
margin on goods sold, consistent with our 
previous guidance that planned investments 
in price points is now complete. We also 
continue to benefit from the spreading of 
our marketing over a wider revenue base as 
the business continues to grow.
Currently prevailing US Dollar and Euro 
foreign exchange rates, particularly the 
US Dollar which is the currency 
denomination in which we purchase 
c.$120.0 million annually of finished goods, 
present us with some challenges in 
sustaining this progress. Active management 
of our sourcing, cost base and range mix 
will, we believe, already  offset approximately 
two thirds of the gross impact in the 
financial year, with a £4 million adverse net 
impact remaining to be addressed. We 
continue to work to seek to offset the 
remainder of the impact within the 
financial year. 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 27
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Looking further ahead, the actions we are 
taking together with the scale of our 
operations, the geographical mix of our 
sourcing and our significant UK own-
manufacturing capability provide us with 
significant advantages compared to many 
other retailers in our sector.
Central costs
Underlying administrative expenses rose by 
£6.8 million to £39.9 million for the full year. 
This arose from a number of factors: 
In line with our accounting policy, in FY15 
£2.8 million of first year costs relating to 
international and acquired business start-up 
activity were included within non-underlying 
items, reducing reported underlying 
administrative costs by this amount last 
year. These businesses are now presented 
entirely within underlying operations. 
The accelerated expansion of our subsidiary 
businesses through our ongoing retail space 
optimisation programme has also resulted in 
increased costs of c.£1.3 million arising in 
advance of sales growth.
The remaining increase is due to additional 
costs associated with our new status as a 
publicly listed company, including employee 
share based remuneration charges, 
performance-related bonuses and 
additional training and compliance costs.
For the new financial year, we anticipate a 
further increase in share based payment 
charges and some continuation of 
investment for growth, totalling c.£2 million. 
Operating profit and EBITDA
The net impact of the sales and margin 
effects noted above was a 5.8% increase  
in underlying EBITDA for the year to 
£94.4 million (FY15: £89.2 million), with the 
underlying EBITDA margin decreasing 
slightly to 12.5% (FY15: 12.6%) as a result of 
the increase in central costs noted above. 
Underlying operating profit rose 5.0% to 
£75.8 million (FY15: £72.2 million).
Finance costs
Interest payable primarily relates  
to the Group’s senior bank facility of 
£200.0 million (together with an undrawn 
revolving credit facility of £30.0 million). 
As we noted in last year’s annual report, 
the new capital structure in place 
following the IPO has significantly 
reduced underlying finance costs.
Tax
As reported at the half year, the Group has 
now concluded a long-running negotiation 
with HMRC in respect of the amount of 
shareholder loan interest allowable for 
corporation tax in the period of Advent 
International’s ownership. The potential 
benefit of this had not previously been 
recognised and accordingly a prior year tax 
credit of £9.9 million has been recognised in 
the income statement for the current year 
and is shown as a non-underlying item. 
Corporation tax due in respect of historical 
periods in relation to this of £5.9 million has 
been received in full and is included in the 
cash flow statement.
Excluding this one-off credit, and the 
impact of a change in the tax rate  
applied in the calculation of the Group’s 
deferred tax asset, the underlying 
effective tax rate for the year was 20.5% 
(FY15: 21.5%), slightly higher than the UK 
Corporation Tax rate applicable in the 
period of 20.0% (FY15: 20.7%).
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share (“EPS”) for 
the year was 23.7 pence. Basic earnings per 
share was 28.3 pence (FY15: 4.3 pence). 
The statutory EPS figures for last year were 
impacted by the pre-IPO capital structure 
being in place for the majority of the year. 
Using the more comparable adjusted 
earnings of £39.5 million as shown in the 
table above and the same number of shares 
in issue as for this year’s EPS calculation 
results in an adjusted underlying EPS for the 
year to July 2015 of 18.5 pence per share.
Capital expenditure
Cash capital expenditure for the year was 
£24.5 million (FY15: £20.8 million). We have 
continued our programme of new store 
openings and maintained our ongoing 
investment in the refit of existing stores to 
sustain a high quality retail environment. 
Additional capital expenditure was made  
in FY16 in support of the accelerated roll  
out of the CDC programme, including the 
expansion of Dwell. We have also 
undertaken further development of our 
market-leading retail website and made 
significant investments in new in-store 
technologies such as ‘Swoosh’. 
We anticipate that capital expenditure  
will show a similar increase in the year 
ahead to £28-30 million (and reducing 
thereafter) reflecting significantly more 
CDC and retail space conversions than in 
FY16, as well as maintaining our current 
rate of new store openings (3-5 new 
stores per annum) and investment in 
other growth initiatives. 
Cash flow and balance sheet
The Group continues to maintain a robust 
balance sheet to support future growth. 
We closed the year with cash of 
£66.7 million (FY15: £40.7 million),  
giving a net debt position of £137.1 million 
(FY15: £162.2 million) and achieving a 
gearing ratio of 1.45 times underlying 
EBITDA. This strong performance 
included the payment of a total of 
£27.3 million in dividends (comprising 
interim and final dividends for FY15  
as well as the interim dividend for FY16) 
and £3.7 million for the purchase of 
1.5 million of our own shares. The shares 
bought back are held in treasury for the 
purposes of satisfying employee share 
awards.
Dividend 
The continued strength of our cash flow 
allows DFS consistently to both reduce 
leverage and to return cash to shareholders 
as part of our total shareholder return. In line 
with our previously stated dividend policy of 
a pay-out ratio of 45-50% of profit after tax 
the Board has therefore proposed a final 
dividend of 7 .5 pence per share taking total 
dividends for FY16 to 11.0 pence per share, 
an increase on the prior year of 18.3%.
Over the medium term the Board intends to 
operate leverage broadly in the range of 1.0 
to 1.5 times net debt to underlying LTM 
EBITDA. To the extent there is surplus cash 
within the business, after taking into account 
capital requirements of the business, the 
Board expects to return this to 
shareholders. 
As outlined in the Chairman’s statement, the 
Board’s current intention is to undertake a 
special capital return during FY17 while 
targeting net debt to underlying EBITDA at 
approximately 1.5 times at the end of the 
financial year. The final amount and form of 
this return will be announced alongside the 
interim results and will be subject to the 
likely capital needs of the business. 
The Board’s intention is for this return to 
form a sustainable and recurring 
increment to the Group’s Total 
Shareholder Return.
Nicola Bancroft
Chief Financial Officer
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 28
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Making a  
positive impact
DFS aims to improve the environmental performance of our operations year on year, 
especially focusing on energy efficiency, reducing waste and managing climate change 
risks. We also work hard to reduce the impacts of our distribution.
The Group has an Energy Management Policy to support the reduction of the Group’s 
energy use where practical and consistent with the operational needs of the business. 
Last year we achieved ISO 14001 accreditation for our head office operations and  
this year successfully extended this across our retail operations in the UK and  
Republic of Ireland.
Greenhouse gas data
Tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity measure 
(Tonnes CO
2
e per employee)
2016 2015 2016 2015
Scope 1 10,969 11,888 2.8 3.2
Scope 2 17,122 19,123 4.3 5.2
Total 28,091 31,011 7.1 8.4
Electricity use is a significant contributor 
to the Group’s CO
2
 emissions. We have 
continued to invest in low energy LED 
lighting for our stores, both retro-fitting 
across our existing estate and introducing 
as standard in new stores opened during 
the period. We have also introduced 
energy efficient lighting in two of our UK 
factories. These initiatives have delivered a 
significant contribution to the decrease in 
our overall emissions figures.
Waste management remains an important 
consideration for the Group and we have 
introduced internal store league tables for 
waste volumes to further encourage and 
promote this. Biomass systems installed 
at our wood mills allow us to use waste 
wood to heat our factories. We are 
pleased to have this year achieved zero 
waste to landfill from our head office 
operations and an overall 92.1% landfill 
diversion across our UK and Republic of 
Ireland operations. Our long term goal 
remains zero waste to landfill from all of 
our operations. 
The continuing success of DFS owes a 
great deal to the exceptional team of 
people that we employ. 
We remain strongly committed to helping 
all our employees to make the most of 
their talents through our continuing 
programmes of training and development. 
Internal training courses are accredited to 
National Standards and this year we 
delivered more than 5,000 days of formal 
training in a wide variety of areas from 
core skills in sales and administration and 
practical health and safety training to real 
behavioural development through our 
management development programme. 
Our apprenticeship programme continues 
to go from strength to strength, with seven 
of our first Service Manager intake group 
now having full time permanent positions 
with DFS. The programme has been 
expanded during the year with separate 
groups of approximately ten apprentices 
recruited in our retail and manufacturing 
operations as well as a second intake of 
service manager apprentices. We were 
pleased to receive the Youth Employment, 
Talent Management & Recruitment award 
at the UK Employee Experience Awards 
for the second year running, recognising 
the high quality of the programme. 
DFS firmly believes in the benefits of a 
diverse workforce. The gender analysis of 
employee numbers is reported to the 
operating board on a monthly basis and 
we have a number of strategic initiatives 
underway to enhance our gender balance. 
The gender balance of employees at July 
2016 is as follows:
ENVIRONMENT
As an established British business with stores all over the UK and parts of Europe, 
DFS has an incredible opportunity to be an environmental leader and to help our 
customers live better. We know that retailers can sometimes be part of the problem 
and that achieving a sustainable society is a long journey.
We want to effectively and efficiently deliver real value for our customers, employees, 
shareholders, suppliers, and the people in the communities in which we operate. 
Throughout our interaction with all these parties, we aim to make a positive impact on 
society and the environment in support of the Group’s longer term commercial and 
strategic objectives.
OUR PEOPLE
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   28 12/10/2016   18:06 29
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Making a  
positive impact Our dedication to bringing comfort into people’s lives doesn’t stop at sofas.
July 2016 July 2015
Female Male Female Male
Directors 2 33% 4 67% 2 29% 5 71%
Senior managers 2 22% 7 78% 3 19% 13 81%
All employees 1,378 34% 2,702 66% 1,216 33% 2,501 67%
OUR PEOPLE
Management development
We have reinforced our commitment to the ongoing development of our employees 
through the introduction of an Effective Management Programme. This programme is 
targeted at managers, specialists and business partners right across the Group and is 
delivered in small group forums designed to bring people from diverse parts of our 
organisation together. The programme, which has been approved and validated by 
the Chartered Management Institute, includes comprehensive 360 degree feedback 
and more than five days of dedicated workshops.
The Effective Management Programme is complemented by a growing portfolio of 
one day management skills workshops to form part of a personal development toolkit. 
To date some 79 individuals have successfully completed the programme and we 
have already seen improved collaboration and synergies throughout the Group, with 
better communication and an interdependent approach to projects. 
As our business goes from strength to 
strength, we recognise the importance of 
effective communication. We want to 
improve all our employees’ experience while 
they work for us, making sure that every 
team member has the information that they 
need at their fingertips, whether that’s the 
latest DFS news, employee benefits and 
special offers or to simply check their 
employment details.
During the year we were pleased to be able 
to launch our own employee APP , ‘My DFS’, 
which allows us to keep all employees 
informed about what’s going on in the 
organisation more quickly and easily, 
particularly for those colleagues who are 
field based. My DFS also hosts information 
relevant to employees, and allows the user 
to tailor the information they see.
Our employee APP complements our 
existing routes for communication with 
employees which include manager 
briefings, company presentations and 
conferences, as well as regular newsletters, 
including a monthly update directly from the 
Chief Executive. Employee views are sought 
through regular feedback sessions with 
directors and an active programme of 
employee engagement surveys, the results 
of which are communicated back to staff.
DFS aims to support the health and welfare 
of our employees and their families through 
a variety of initiatives including life and 
critical illness cover, and an employee 
assistance service. It is the policy of the 
Group to support the employment of 
disabled people, wherever possible, both  
in recruitment and by retention of employees 
who become disabled whilst in the 
employment of the Group as well as 
generally through training and career 
development.
We were delighted to once again obtain 
external recognition for excellence in 
employee conditions by the award for the 
third year running of Top Employer 
certification from the Top Employers Institute.
Health and Safety
The health and well-being of our employees, 
customers and partners is extremely 
important to DFS, and we have placed an 
increased focus on continuing improvement 
in managing health and safety risks across 
all of the Group’s operations. The Board 
receives regular updates on performance, 
including reporting of any significant issues 
at each meeting. Unfortunately, in 2015 an 
incident occurred in one of our factories 
which resulted in the injury of one of our 
employees. During the year the Health & 
Safety Executive have verbally advised us 
that they are intending to prosecute the 
Group in relation to this incident. No formal 
proceedings have commenced as at the 
date of this report and we have made 
appropriate provision in our accounts in the 
event of an adverse outcome. 
This year has seen our biggest ever 
investment in health and safety training with 
more than 120 managers and supervisors 
passing the level 2 IOSH Managing Safely 
course. In addition there has been extensive 
training in manual handling, fire marshalling 
and vehicle management, plus enhanced 
job-specific training with a focus on our 
manufacturing and supply chain operations. 
We have also launched a bespoke health 
and safety e-learning programme to 
enhance the consistency of induction and 
refresher training.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 30
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Team GB partnership
However talented the individuals, we firmly believe that we can achieve more as 
a team and our partnership with Team GB provided an engaging and inspiring 
platform to bring our employees together.
DFS employees experienced a variety of Team GB themed events from our 
company conference through to a head office team-building Olympics. Our 
three participating Brand Ambassadors visited DFS sites, at key milestones like 
100 Days to go, and former athlete and Brand Ambassador Denise Lewis spent 
a week travelling around the business meeting the teams and sharing her 
sporting experiences. 
We also launched a reward and recognition programme across the whole 
business to celebrate the achievements of the DFS team on the back of our 
Team GB partnership. Individuals were rewarded regularly for exemplifying our 
company values and going the extra mile. Four hardworking employees got to 
experience the Olympics in person with the ultimate prizes being packages to 
Rio, inspiring all our employees to be world class in everything they do. 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our customers are at the very heart of our 
business so in pursuit of our vision of DFS 
being a world-class British business we 
need to deliver an outstanding experience 
for our customers, at all times.
We make significant investment in 
employee training and incentivisation to 
deliver the highest levels of customer 
service and ensure that we treat our 
customers well. Staff performance and 
customer satisfaction are monitored 
though regular inspections, surveys and 
mystery shoppers, which are carried out 
through an independent consumer 
research group. 
Customer referral is the perfect indicator of 
excellent customer satisfaction and we use 
Net Promoter Score (“NPS”) as a measure 
of recommendation, which provides us 
with an internationally recognised predictor 
with proven links to business success. 
Established Customer NPS forms a 
component of remuneration for employees 
throughout the business, including 
salespeople, management and head office 
teams and Executive Directors. 
30
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   30 12/10/2016   18:06 31
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
OUR PRODUCTS AND SUPPLIERS
COMMUNITY
DFS goes to great lengths to ensure the 
quality and safety of all the products it 
sells. Our own detailed quality checks are 
supported by the use of independent 
safety specialists, and all upholstered 
furniture items are offered with a  
15 year guarantee.
We have longstanding relationships with 
our upholstery suppliers and close contact 
with them is maintained through frequent 
visits by our operational and senior 
management. DFS has led the industry in 
establishing quality level agreements with 
all suppliers; these set targets for ways of 
working and service outcomes together 
with a dedicated forum for working in 
partnership with supplies to monitor and 
improve performance, including 
compliance with our ethical trading 
requirements.
DFS has worked in partnership with the 
British Heart Foundation since 2012, 
implementing an innovative sofa recycling 
scheme to give our customers a means of 
disposing of their old sofa while 
simultaneously raising money for the 
charity. We are very proud that since its 
inception in 2012 this scheme has raised 
more than £10 million to help fund vital 
research into coronary heart disease.
In addition, our association with the British 
Heart Foundation has supported the 
training of more than 600 new and existing 
employees in CPR skills and defibrillator 
awareness that will help more people 
survive an out of hospital cardiac arrest. 
We have also continued our support for 
BBC Children in Need for a third year, 
raising £750,000 through a variety of 
activities including offering customers a 
chance to win their entire order for free by 
entering a monthly draw.
DFS remains a Gold Partner of the Duke 
of Edinburgh’s Award, supporting young 
people to develop new skills for work and 
life and contribute to their communities. 
This includes our apprentices, who 
complete the Gold award as part of their 
apprenticeship programme. A similar 
arrangement is in place in the Republic of 
Ireland where DFS is a Gold Partner of 
Gaisce – The President’s Award.
In addition to the major national charities 
above, DFS supports a number of 
charities and initiatives based locally to 
our operations, particularly those 
promoting opportunities for young people. 
Charitable donations made by the Group 
during the year amounted to £263,099 
(FY15: £264,011).
This Strategic Report was approved by 
the Board on 5 October 2016.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Filby
 Chief Executive 
Officer   
 
Nicola Bancroft
Chief Financial  
Officer
AMOUNT RAISED FOR  
BBC CHILDREN IN NEED
£750,000
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   31 12/10/2016   18:06 32
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
N  Member of the Nomination 
Committee
A Member of the Audit Committee R  Member of the Remuneration 
Committee
*
 Denotes Chairman of Committee
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Richard Baker (54)
Non-Executive Chairman
Ian Filby (57)
Chief Executive Officer
Nicola Bancroft (52)
Chief Financial Officer
Luke Mayhew (63)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Gwyn Burr (53)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Julie Southern (56)
Independent Non-Executive Director
DATE OF JOINING DFS DATE OF JOINING DFS
July 2010 September 2010 January 2013 October 2014 December 2014 February 2015
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
N* – – N R A N R* A N R A*
EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE
Richard has 30 years of experience in the 
consumer and retail sector and previously 
served as Chairman of Virgin Active Group, 
Chief Executive of Boots Group and Alliance 
Boots (overseeing the merger between 
Boots Group and Alliance Unichem in 2005) 
and Chief Operating Officer at Asda  
Group plc.
Ian has 35 years of retail experience, 
primarily at Alliance Boots, where his most 
recent roles were Retail Brand Development 
Director and Trading Director. 
He was also previously Interim Chief 
Executive Officer of Nectar and 
Non-Executive Chairman of Shoe Zone plc.
Nicola has 28 years of experience in the retail 
sector and previously worked for Alliance 
Boots where she held a series of senior 
finance roles, including Commercial Finance 
Director and Retail & Transformation Finance 
Director. Since joining DFS, as Commercial 
Finance Director, she established the 
commercial finance function and was 
responsible for strategic planning, financial 
planning, business intelligence and finance 
partnering providing support to all  
business areas.
Luke previously served for 13 years on the 
Board of John Lewis Partnership, including 
as Managing Director of the Department 
Store division. He also spent five years 
at British Airways plc and seven years at 
Thomas Cook Group plc in senior positions. 
He was also previously Chairman of the 
British Retail Consortium, a Non-Executive 
Director of WH Smith plc and Brambles Ltd, 
and Chairman of Pets at Home  
Group Limited.
Gwyn previously served on the operating 
board of J Sainsbury plc with responsibility 
for marketing, customer service, human 
resources, corporate responsibility and 
corporate communications, as well as 
key sponsorship schemes including the 
Paralympic Games programme. Before that, 
she held various management positions 
within the supermarket group Asda.
Julie was previously with Virgin Atlantic for 
13 years, firstly as CFO for ten years before 
taking on the role of Chief Commercial 
Officer. Prior to joining Virgin Atlantic, she 
was Group Finance Director of Porsche Cars 
GB and Finance and Operations Director of 
WH Smith’s subsidiary HJ Chapman & Co.
QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS
MA (Hons) in Engineering Science from 
Cambridge University and a Diploma in 
Strategic Retail Management from Harvard
MA (Hons) in Chemistry from Cambridge 
University
BA (Hons) in Accounting and Finance 
and fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants
BA (Hons) in Politics, Philosophy and 
Economics from Oxford University and a 
Masters in Economics from the University of 
London 
BA (Hons) in Economics and History from 
Bradford University
MA (Hons) in Economics from Cambridge 
University and member of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants in England  
and Wales
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman of Whitbread plc
1
• Chairman of the British Retail Consortium
• Operating Partner at Advent 
International plc
• Advisor to Aimia
• Non-Executive Director of the 
Lawn Tennis Association
• Non-Executive Director of 
AELTC Grounds plc
• Member of the British Retail 
Consortium Board
• Chairman of the British Retail 
Consortium Policy Board 
• Trustee of Pennies charity 
• Director of IFF Life and 
Business Solutions Ltd
None • Independent Non-Executive Director 
of InterContinental Hotels Group plc
2
• Trustee of BBC Children in Need
• Director of the National Youth 
Orchestra of Great Britain 
• Director of Platinum Sports 
Management Limited
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Metro AG
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Hammerson plc
2
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Just Eat plc
2
• Non-Executive Director of 
Sainsbury’s Bank plc
• Independent Non-Executive Director 
of NXP Semiconductors N.V.
• Independent Non-Executive Director 
of Gate Group Holdings AG
3
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Cineworld Group plc
4
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Rentokil Initial plc
4
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   32 12/10/2016   18:06 33
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
Richard Baker (54)
Non-Executive Chairman
Ian Filby (57)
Chief Executive Officer
Nicola Bancroft (52)
Chief Financial Officer
Luke Mayhew (63)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Gwyn Burr (53)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Julie Southern (56)
Independent Non-Executive Director
DATE OF JOINING DFS DATE OF JOINING DFS
July 2010 September 2010 January 2013 October 2014 December 2014 February 2015
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
N* – – N R A N R* A N R A*
EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE
Richard has 30 years of experience in the 
consumer and retail sector and previously 
served as Chairman of Virgin Active Group, 
Chief Executive of Boots Group and Alliance 
Boots (overseeing the merger between 
Boots Group and Alliance Unichem in 2005) 
and Chief Operating Officer at Asda  
Group plc.
Ian has 35 years of retail experience, 
primarily at Alliance Boots, where his most 
recent roles were Retail Brand Development 
Director and Trading Director. 
He was also previously Interim Chief 
Executive Officer of Nectar and 
Non-Executive Chairman of Shoe Zone plc.
Nicola has 28 years of experience in the retail 
sector and previously worked for Alliance 
Boots where she held a series of senior 
finance roles, including Commercial Finance 
Director and Retail & Transformation Finance 
Director. Since joining DFS, as Commercial 
Finance Director, she established the 
commercial finance function and was 
responsible for strategic planning, financial 
planning, business intelligence and finance 
partnering providing support to all  
business areas.
Luke previously served for 13 years on the 
Board of John Lewis Partnership, including 
as Managing Director of the Department 
Store division. He also spent five years 
at British Airways plc and seven years at 
Thomas Cook Group plc in senior positions. 
He was also previously Chairman of the 
British Retail Consortium, a Non-Executive 
Director of WH Smith plc and Brambles Ltd, 
and Chairman of Pets at Home  
Group Limited.
Gwyn previously served on the operating 
board of J Sainsbury plc with responsibility 
for marketing, customer service, human 
resources, corporate responsibility and 
corporate communications, as well as 
key sponsorship schemes including the 
Paralympic Games programme. Before that, 
she held various management positions 
within the supermarket group Asda.
Julie was previously with Virgin Atlantic for 
13 years, firstly as CFO for ten years before 
taking on the role of Chief Commercial 
Officer. Prior to joining Virgin Atlantic, she 
was Group Finance Director of Porsche Cars 
GB and Finance and Operations Director of 
WH Smith’s subsidiary HJ Chapman & Co.
QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS
MA (Hons) in Engineering Science from 
Cambridge University and a Diploma in 
Strategic Retail Management from Harvard
MA (Hons) in Chemistry from Cambridge 
University
BA (Hons) in Accounting and Finance 
and fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants
BA (Hons) in Politics, Philosophy and 
Economics from Oxford University and a 
Masters in Economics from the University 
of London 
BA (Hons) in Economics and History from 
Bradford University
MA (Hons) in Economics from Cambridge 
University and member of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants in England  
and Wales
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman of Whitbread plc
1
• Chairman of the British Retail Consortium
• Operating Partner at Advent 
International plc
• Advisor to Aimia
• Non-Executive Director of the 
Lawn Tennis Association
• Non-Executive Director of 
AELTC Grounds plc
• Member of the British Retail 
Consortium Board
• Chairman of the British Retail 
Consortium Policy Board 
• Trustee of Pennies charity 
• Director of IFF Life and 
Business Solutions Ltd
None • Independent Non-Executive Director 
of InterContinental Hotels Group plc
2
• Trustee of BBC Children in Need
• Director of the National Youth 
Orchestra of Great Britain 
• Director of Platinum Sports 
Management Limited
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Metro AG
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Hammerson plc
2
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Just Eat plc
2
• Non-Executive Director of 
Sainsbury’s Bank plc
• Independent Non-Executive Director 
of NXP Semiconductors N.V.
• Independent Non-Executive Director 
of Gate Group Holdings AG
3
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Cineworld Group plc
4
• Independent Non-Executive 
Director of Rentokil Initial plc
4
In preparation for the IPO in March 2015, all of the above Directors were appointed to the Board of DFS Furniture plc in February 2015 
with the exception of Nicola Bancroft who was appointed in August 2016 (following the retirement of Bill Barnes in July 2016).
1. Chair of the Nomination Committee
2. Chair of the Remuneration Committee
3. Chair of the Nomination and Compensation Committee
4. Chair of the Audit Committee
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 34
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Introduction
The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial 
statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016, in accordance 
with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006. Certain disclosure 
requirements for inclusion in this report have been incorporated 
by way of cross reference to the Strategic report and the 
Directors’ remuneration report, and should be read in 
conjunction with this report. 
The following also form part of this report:
• greenhouse gas emissions, which can be found on page 28;
• employees, which can be found on pages 28 to 29;
• the Corporate governance statement, set out on pages 36 to 
42; and
• our strategy and objectives, set out on pages 12 to 15.
Information regarding the Group’s charitable donations can be 
found in the corporate responsibility report on page 31.  
No political donations were made in 2016 (FY15: £nil).
The Company
DFS Furniture plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated 
and domiciled in the UK, with registration number 07236769.
The shares of the Company have been traded on the main market of 
the London Stock Exchange throughout the 52 weeks ended 30 July 
2016. The Company has no overseas subsidiaries but operates 
branches in the Republic of Ireland, Spain and the Netherlands.
Results and dividends
The Group’s results for the year are set out in the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 66 to 90. The Company only 
results of DFS Furniture plc are set out on pages 91 to 94. 
The Directors have declared an interim dividend of 3.5 pence per 
share, which was paid on 22 June 2016, and also proposed a 
final dividend of 7.5 pence per share to be paid in respect of the 
52 weeks ended 30 July 2016. It is intended that the final 
dividend will be paid on 28 December 2016 to all shareholders 
on the register on 9 December 2016. The Company’s shares will 
trade ex-dividend from 8 December 2016.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who held office at the date of this 
Annual Report and their biographical details can be found on 
pages 32 to 33. Following recommendations from the 
Nomination Committee, the Board considers that all Directors 
continue to be effective, committed to their roles and able to 
devote sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities. 
All of the Directors were appointed to the Company on  
2 February 2015 with the exception of Nicola Bancroft who was 
appointed on 1 August 2016. In accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association, all of the Directors will retire from office 
and seek re-election, with exception of Nicola Bancroft who will 
seek election, at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on  
2 December 2016 
Directors’ interests
Information about the Directors’ interests in the Ordinary Shares 
of the Company on 30 July 2016, or date of appointment if later, 
and any subsequent changes as at 4 October 2016 is set out in 
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 50 to 62.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s 
Articles, the Company has purchased and maintains directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance cover which remains in place as at 
the date of this report. A review is carried out on an annual basis 
to ensure that the Board remains satisfied that an appropriate 
level of cover is in place.
Employees
As at the year end the Group employed 4,080 employees (as set 
out in the gender analysis table on page 29.
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association of the Company can only be 
amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the 
shareholders. No amendments are proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
The Company’s next AGM will take place on 2 December 2016 at 
DFS Head Office, 1 Rockingham Way, Redhouse Interchange, 
Adwick-le-Street, Doncaster, DN6 7NA at 2.30pm, and the 
Chairs of each of the Board’s Committees will be present to 
answer questions put to them by shareholders. The Annual 
Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM, including the 
resolutions to be proposed, will be sent to shareholders at least 
21 clear days prior to the date of the meeting.
To encourage shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the 
Company proposes to offer electronic proxy voting through the 
CREST service and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at 
the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their proxies. 
Voting results will be announced through the Regulatory News 
Service and made available on the Company’s corporate website.
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital are set out in Note 21 to 
the consolidated financial statements. The Company has one 
class of Ordinary Shares and, as at 4 October 2016, the 
Company had an issued share capital of 213,030,601 Ordinary 
Shares of £1.50 each.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed 
by UK law and the Company’s Articles of Association. Holders of 
Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to receive notice 
and to attend and speak at general meetings. On a show of 
hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy (or duly 
authorised corporate representatives) shall have one vote and, on 
a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall 
have one vote for every share held.
Other than the general provisions of the Articles of Association 
and prevailing legislation, there are no specific restrictions on the 
size of a holding or on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares. The 
Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in the restriction of the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. No shareholder holds 
securities carrying any special rights or control over the 
Company’s share capital.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 35
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
Authority to purchase own shares
At the last AGM of the Company on 4 December 2015, the 
Company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. This authority will expire at the 
close of the next AGM on 2 December 2016 unless revoked, 
varied or renewed prior to that meeting. 
As at the date of this Annual Report, 1,500,000 Ordinary shares of 
£1.50 each have been purchased and are held by the Company as 
treasury shares with the expectation that they will be utilised to 
satisfy future share-based employee-award obligations.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2016 AGM to renew  
this authority.
Authority to allot shares
At the last AGM of the Company on 4 December 2015, the 
Company was granted a general authority by its shareholders to 
allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of £106,515,300 
(or up to £213,030,601 in connection with an offer by way of a 
rights issue).
As at the date of this Annual Report, no shares have been issued 
under this authority. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 
2016 AGM unless revoked, varied or renewed prior to that meeting.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2016 AGM to renew this 
authority.
Major interests in shares
As at 4 October 2016, the Company had been advised of the 
following notifiable interests in the Company’s voting rights:
Shareholder/notifier
Number of  
voting rights % voting rights
Advent Diamond 
(Luxembourg) Sarl 51,361,259 24.3
Jupiter Asset Management 12,391,391 5.9
Pelham Long / Short Small 
Cap Master Fund Ltd 12,292,942 5.8
Franklin Templeton Fund 
Management Ltd 11,950,000 5.6
Royal London Asset 
Management Ltd 8,275,848 3.9
Richard Baker
1
4,824,402 2.3
1. Deemed to be an active concert party with Advent Diamond (Luxembourg) Sarl.
These interests may have changed since the Company received 
notification. However, notification is not required until the next 
applicable threshold is crossed.
Financial risk management
The Group’s objectives and policies on financial risk 
management, including information on credit, liquidity and 
market risks can be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Going concern
The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has 
sufficient medium and long-term facilities in place, including 
£200.0 million of a senior loan facility maturing in 2020 and a 
£30.0 million revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 
which is as yet unutilised. Further details of these facilities and 
the Group’s financial management objectives are detailed in the 
financial statements.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial 
position, forecasts and projections, the Company’s Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
will be able to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements.
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the Directors at the date of this report confirms that:
• so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• he/she has taken all the reasonable steps that he/she ought to 
have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as 
auditor and a resolution to re-appoint it as the Company’s auditor 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Subsequent events
Between 30 July 2016 and the date of signing of this report there 
have been no reportable subsequent events.
This report has been approved by the Board of Directors and has 
been signed on its behalf by:
Paul Walker
Group Company Secretary
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   35 12/10/2016   18:06 36
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Introduction
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to introduce DFS Furniture plc’s Corporate 
governance report for the year, being the Group’s first full 
financial year since the IPO in March 2015.
During this time, the Board has been fully committed to 
continually developing the highest standards of corporate 
governance for the Group and, in particular, addressing the areas 
of non-compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
noted last year.
In this report, we include a description of how the Group has 
applied the principles and provisions of the Governance Code 
and provide details of the Governance structure and framework, 
highlighting the enhancements from last year. 
Board composition
Following the movement in Board members during the year, the 
Board is currently comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman and 
two Executive Directors along with three independent Non-
Executive Directors. The Governance Code recommends that at 
least half the board of directors of a UK listed company, 
excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive 
directors determined by the board to be independent in 
character and judgement and free from relationships or 
circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the 
directors’ judgement. As a result, we continue to be compliant 
with the Governance Code in this regard and have achieved our 
previously stated objective regarding Board composition and 
independence. 
In last year’s Annual Report, we noted an area of ongoing 
non-compliance with the Governance Code due to fact that I, the 
Company’s Non-Executive Chairman, am, for the purposes of 
the Governance Code, not considered to have been independent 
on my appointment as Chairman back in 2010 due to my role as 
an Operating Partner at Advent. As a consequence, this 
non-compliance continues, as indeed will the independence 
safeguards put in place at the time of the IPO to counter any 
potential issues. These safeguards prohibit me from acting on 
behalf of Advent in respect of its investment in the business and 
also prevent me from receiving any remuneration from Advent in 
respect of my role at DFS. Furthermore, the other members of 
the Board are unanimously of the opinion that I can continue to 
be a valuable asset to the Group, bringing a wealth of experience 
in public companies and a keen understanding of retail 
businesses, as well as being independent in character and 
judgement.
“Our vision is to be a world class British 
company in all respects including 
corporate governance.”
Key governance activities:
The main governance issues addressed by the Board, 
and its Committees, during the year include:
• managing the selection process and transition of 
our new Chief Financial Officer, Nicola Bancroft, in 
preparation for the retirement of Bill Barnes in July 
2016. Details of the appointment processes can be 
found in the Nomination Committee report on pages 
48 and 49;
• performing the first evaluation of the Board, and its 
various Committees, in order to ensure its 
effectiveness. Further details on this process and its 
outcomes can be found on page 41;
• reviewing the Board composition following the 
stepping-down of Advent’s Nominee Director, Andy 
Dawson, in April 2016; and
• reviewing the written Terms of Reference for all 
three of the Board Committees and amending 
where appropriate.
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   36 12/10/2016   18:06 37
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
Our vision is to be a world class British company in all aspects including corporate governance. As stated last year, we view 
measurement of performance, targeting improvement and reporting results to be as important for us as a Board as it is for  
our business.
Richard Baker
Chairman
5 October 2016
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
DFS Furniture plc Board
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
3 Independent Non-Executive Directors
2 Executive Directors
Executive Committee
Audit Committee
Members:
3 Independent Non-Executive 
Directors
The Audit Committee’s role is to 
assist the Board with the 
discharge of its responsibilities in 
relation to ﬁnancial reporting.
Remuneration 
Committee
Members:
3 Independent Non-Executive 
Directors
The Remuneration Committee 
recommends the Group’s policy 
on executive remuneration and 
determines the levels of 
remuneration for Executive 
Directors, the Chairman and  
senior management.
Nomination 
 Committee
Members:
Non-Executive Chairman
3 Independent Non-Executive 
Directors
The Nomination Committee 
assists the Board in reviewing 
the structure, size and 
composition of the Board.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   37 12/10/2016   18:06 38
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
Compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code 2014: Introduction
The Board is wholly committed to upholding high standards of 
corporate governance and following a rigorous structure for the 
supervision, control and management of the Group.
The UK Corporate Governance Code (“Governance Code”), 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, 
applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014.  
A copy of the Governance Code can be found at www.frc.co.uk.
The corporate governance report that follows, which 
incorporates reports from the Audit and Nomination Committees 
on pages 43 to 49 together with the Strategic report on pages 2 
to 31, the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 50 to 62 and 
the Directors’ report on pages 34 and 35, describes and explains 
how the Company has applied the relevant provisions and 
principles of the Governance Code, and the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
throughout the year.
Compliance statement
The Company adopted the “Governance Code” since admission 
of the Company’s shares to the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange on 11 March 2015. During the financial year ended 
30 July 2016, the Company has applied all of the main principles 
of the Code with the ongoing exception of “A.3.1 The Chairman 
was not independent on appointment”, the explanation for which 
is noted in the Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance.
The role of the Board
The Board currently consists of three Independent Non-
Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Chairman and two 
Executive Directors. Biographies of all members of the Board 
appear on pages 32 to 33.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of 
the Group and for leading and controlling the Group and has 
overall authority for the management and conduct of the Group’s 
business, strategy and development. The Board is also 
responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of 
internal control and risk management (including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall 
effectiveness of systems in place) and for the approval of any 
changes to the capital, corporate and/or management structure 
of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer 
(“CFO”) sit on the Board and two levels of management sit below 
the Board: the Executive Committee and the Operating Board, 
each of which are led by the CEO. The CEO and CFO therefore 
act as a bridge between Management and the Board. The Board 
delegates to management the day-to-day running of the business 
within defined parameters and Board meetings are scheduled to 
coincide with key events in the corporate and trading calendar.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for 
its approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its 
Committees. This schedule sets out key aspects of the affairs of the 
Group which the Board does not delegate, including:
• approval of the annual Group budget and strategic four year 
business plan and review of performance against them, 
including approval of growth activities into new markets or 
countries;
• approval of the interim/annual report and accounts and any 
preliminary announcement, including approval of dividend 
policy/payments;
• approval of treasury policies, material guarantees, granting of 
security and entry into/material amendment of loan facilities;
• approval and review of the management of balance sheet 
foreign exchange exposure;
• approval of material finance and operating leases and 
approval of major investments including corporate/capital 
acquisitions/disposals;
• approval of changes to the Group’s capital structure including 
reductions of capital and share issues/buybacks;
• approval of recommendations from the Audit, Remuneration 
or Nomination committees; 
• ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based on a 
mutual understanding of objectives;
• approval of changes to the structure, size and composition of 
the Board and any other control structure;
• maintenance of a sound system of internal controls and  
risk management, including approval of the Group’s risk 
register; and
• any decision likely to have a material impact on the Group 
from any financial, operational, strategic or reputational 
perspective.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the  
Group Company Secretary, who has responsibility for ensuring 
compliance with the Board’s procedures. All the Directors have the 
right to have their opposition to, or concerns over, any Board 
decision noted in the minutes. During the year, no such opposition 
or concerns were noted. The Board has adopted guidelines by 
which Directors may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in the performance of their duties.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met several 
times throughout the year without the Executives present.
 
Board committees
Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board has 
delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees certain authorities. There are written terms of 
reference for each of these Committees, all of which have been 
reviewed and amended, where appropriate, during the year.  
The revised terms of reference were adopted by the Board on  
17 June 2016 and are available on the Group’s corporate 
website, www.dfscorporate.co.uk. Separate reports for each 
Committee are included in this Annual Report from pages  
43 to 62.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   38 12/10/2016   18:06 39
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
• managing the business of the Board including organising 
and chairing regular meetings;
• ensuring the submission to the Board by the Chief 
Executive of objectives, policies and strategies for  
the Group, including the Group business plan and 
annual budget; 
• keeping under review with the Board the general 
progress and long term development of the Group and 
ensuring that effective strategic planning for the Group  
is undertaken; 
• facilitating the contributions of Non-Executive Directors 
to the leadership of the Group;
• holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors 
without the Executive Directors present, as appropriate; 
• ensuring effective communication between the Board 
and the Company’s shareholders;
• acting on the results of the Board’s annual review of its 
and its Committees’ and individual Directors’ 
performances; and
• appraising the performance of the Chief Executive and 
making appropriate recommendations as to his or her 
remuneration to the Remuneration Committee. 
The Governance Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a company with a premium listing on the official list of the London 
Stock Exchange (“Official List”) should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent 
Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary. The 
Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels through the 
Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve, or for which such channels would be inappropriate. Luke Mayhew 
was appointed as the Senior Independent Director and has served in this capacity throughout the year.
• managing the Group’s physical, financial and  
human resources; 
• planning the Group’s strategies effectively; 
• ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant 
legislation and regulatory requirements; 
• allocating duties and responsibilities to Directors; 
• reviewing the performance of the other Executive 
Directors and making appropriate recommendations as 
to their remuneration to the Remuneration committee; 
• managing the Group’s relations with shareholders, 
customers, suppliers, regulators, other public 
organisations, other companies and the media; and 
• keeping the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors 
informed in respect of all relevant matters.
ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN
ROLE OF THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR (“SID”)
ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Board is chaired by Richard Baker, who was appointed in 2010 whilst the Group was under Advent’s private ownership. 
The Chairman of the Company is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.  
Ian Filby is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for managing the profitable operation of the Group to create 
shareholder value by promoting the long term success of the Group. The role is distinct and separate to that of the Chairman 
and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing,  
as summarised below:
ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   39 12/10/2016   18:06 40
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
Board balance and independence
As mentioned in the Chairman’s introduction, DFS cannot be fully 
compliant with the recommendations of the Governance Code in 
this area, but will continue to mitigate any perceived risks with 
appropriate safeguards.
The Company has a relationship agreement (“the Relationship 
Agreement”) in place with its principal shareholder, Advent, and 
with the current Chairman, Richard Baker. 
The principal purposes of the Relationship Agreement are to 
ensure that:
• the Group and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their 
business independently of Advent and/or Richard Baker;
• all transactions and arrangements between the parties are 
conducted at arm's length and on normal commercial terms; and
• neither party take any action or propose a shareholder 
resolution that would have the effect of preventing the Group 
from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules. 
The Company confirms that the terms of the Relationship 
Agreement have been fully complied with during the year.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Advent is entitled 
to nominate for appointment to the Board one Nominee Director 
who is approved as being suitable by the Nomination Committee. 
This entitlement will remain in force for so long as Advent holds, in 
the aggregate, at least 15% of the ordinary share capital or voting 
rights of the Company. Up to 25 April 2016, the Nominee Director 
appointed by Advent was Andy Dawson who stepped-down from 
Board on that date. At the date of this Annual Report, while 
Advent’s shareholding is still sufficient to exercise this entitlement, 
no further Nominee Director has been nominated.
Length of appointments
Non-Executive appointments to the Board are for an initial period of 
three years, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the 
Company’s annual general meeting and to any requirements of the 
Listing Rules, and are contingent on continued satisfactory 
performance.
Date of appointment Board Audit Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Total meetings in financial year 9 3 3 4
Richard Baker 3 February 2015 8/9
1
– – 3/4
1
Ian Filby 3 February 2015 9/9 – – –
Bill Barnes 3 February 2015 9/9 – – –
Andy Dawson
4
3 February 2015 5/7
2
– – –
Luke Mayhew 3 February 2015 8/9
3
3/3 3/3 4/4
Gwyn Burr 3 February 2015 9/9 3/3 3/3 4/4
Julie Southern 3 February 2015 9/9 3/3 3/3 4/4
Notes:
1. Richard Baker was unable to attend one Board meeting/Nomination Committee meeting (due to family illness) but received the papers and provided advance input for 
the relevant meetings.
2. Andy Dawson was unable to attend one Board meeting (due to illness) and one telephone Board meeting (due to a prior commitment) but received the papers and 
provided advance input for the relevant meetings.
3. Luke Mayhew was unable to attend one telephone Board meeting (due to a prior commitment) but received the papers and provided advance input for the relevant 
meeting.
4. Andy Dawson stepped down from the Board on 25 April 2016 and therefore was only eligible to attend seven meetings in the year.
Information, meetings and attendance
During the year, the Board met on seven occasions to review operational, trading and strategic performance, including the approval of 
the updated strategic four year plan and budget for the next financial year. In addition, two telephone meetings were held to review 
important trading periods and market announcements. 
A summary of meeting attendance for the year is as follows:
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 41
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
Members of the executive team and the Chairman attended 
committee meetings as appropriate. Nicola Bancroft was appointed 
as CFO on 1 August 2016 and was therefore not required to attend 
any Board meetings during the year. However, as part of the 
planned handover process from Bill Barnes, she attended all of the 
meetings since confirmation as CFO designate.
The Board has a full programme of Board meetings planned for 
the year ahead and intends to meet seven times, with two 
additional telephone meetings to review important trading 
periods. At these meetings, the Board will monitor the Group’s 
performance against the agreed strategy and business plan and 
review specific business areas, including health and safety and 
regulatory matters, in order to maintain and enhance a broad and 
thorough understanding of the business model.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Company 
Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information. Prior to each scheduled 
Board meeting, a pack is circulated in respect of the most recent 
financial period which includes an update on key performance 
targets, trading performance against budget and includes 
detailed financial and non-financial data and analysis. Board 
packs are distributed in the week prior to each meeting to 
provide sufficient time for Directors to review their papers in 
advance. If Directors are unable to attend a Board meeting for 
any reason, they nonetheless receive the relevant papers and are 
consulted prior to the meeting and their views are made known 
to the other Directors.
Conflicts of interest
The duties to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such 
situations for authorisation by the Board are the personal 
responsibility of each Director. All Directors are required to 
ensure that they keep these duties under review and to inform 
the Group Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any 
change in their respective positions.
The Company’s conflict of interest procedures are reflected in its 
Articles of Association (“Articles”). In line with the Companies Act 
2006, the Articles allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and 
potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate. The decision to 
authorise a conflict can only be made by non-conflicted 
Directors. The Board considers conflicts or potential conflicts at 
each Board meeting.
The Articles require the Company to indemnify its officers, 
including officers of wholly-owned subsidiaries, against liabilities 
arising from the conduct of the Group’s business, to the extent 
permitted by law. For a number of years, the Group has 
purchased Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and this is 
anticipated to continue.
Development
As noted in last year’s Annual Report, all Directors received an 
induction briefing from the Group’s legal advisers on their duties 
and responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company as 
part of the preparations for the IPO. Furthermore, the Non-
Executive Directors have all met key members of senior 
management and advisors to the Group, many of whom have 
given presentations to the Board and Committee members 
during various Board and Committee meetings, in order to 
continue the development of their understanding of the Group 
and the issues it faces. 
During the year, the Chairman reviewed and agreed with each 
Director their individual training and development needs. In 
particular, with regard to the recent appointment of 
Nicola Bancroft as CFO, a bespoke development programme 
was implemented during her time as CFO designate in order to 
complement the existing experience acquired during her 
previous 3½ years as Commercial Finance Director.
Board evaluation
As disclosed last year, an evaluation of the Board, and its various 
Committees, was deferred until it had been working together for 
a reasonable length of time to enable meaningful conclusions to 
be drawn.
As a result, following the first anniversary of the IPO, the Board 
carried out its first review of its own effectiveness, and that of its 
various Committees, during the year. This review, which covered 
the period from the IPO to the end of the current financial year, 
was facilitated by the Chairman, and the Group Company 
Secretary, and involved:
• each Director completing a formal questionnaire on the 
performance of the Board and each of the Board committees, 
considering the balance of skills, diversity, independence  
and knowledge of the Group on the Board, how the  
Board works together, and other factors relevant to its 
effectiveness; and
• the Chairman speaking to all Directors on a one-to-one basis.
The consensus was that the Board, and its Committees, which 
were newly formed just prior to the time of the IPO, had 
performed effectively. Nevertheless, the Board recognised areas 
for on-going development which should form the focus for the 
following year including:
• certain aspects of talent management and succession 
planning;
• the evaluation process of the CEO’s performance; and
• the evolution of the Board’s forward agendas.
The Governance Code provides that evaluation of the Board of 
FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least 
every three years. Therefore, it is envisaged such a review will 
take place either in the next financial year or the year after that.
The Senior Independent Director, Luke Mayhew, together with the 
Independent Non-Executive Directors, evaluated the performance 
of the Chairman and discussed the results with him.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   41 12/10/2016   18:06 42
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
Election of Directors
The Board can appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a 
vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board. Any Director so 
appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next 
following AGM and shall then be eligible for election by 
shareholders. In accordance with the Articles, Nicola Bancroft 
will be offering herself for election, along with all the other 
Directors for re-election, at the AGM to be held at DFS Head 
Office, 1 Rockingham Way, Redhouse Interchange, 
Adwick-le-Street, Doncaster, DN6 7NA, on 2 December 2016, 
full details of which are set out in the notice of meeting 
accompanying this Annual Report.
As noted above, following the formal internal evaluation process 
of the effectiveness of the Board, the Board is satisfied that each 
Director remains competent to discharge his/her responsibilities 
as a member of the Board.
External appointments
The Executive Directors may accept outside appointments provided 
that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to 
perform their duties as Executive Directors of the Group. Up to  
21 June 2016, Ian Filby was Non-Executive Chairman of Shoezone 
plc and also continues to be a director of IFF Life and Business 
Solutions Limited and the British Retail Consortium. The Board 
considers that these appointments do not adversely impact his 
ability to carry out his role. Bill Barnes did not hold any outside 
appointments during the year and Nicola Bancroft does not 
currently hold any outside appointments.
The Non-Executive Directors’ appointment letters anticipate a 
minimum time commitment of two days per month, recognising 
that there is always the possibility of an additional time 
commitment and ad hoc matters arising from time to time, 
particularly when the Group is undergoing a period of increased 
activity. The average time commitment inevitably increases 
where a Non-Executive Director assumes additional 
responsibilities such as being appointed to a Board Committee.
Relations with shareholders
In accordance with the Code, the Board recognises that it has 
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with 
shareholders takes place and any major shareholders’ issues and 
concerns are communicated to the Board through the Chairman.
As part of its investor relations programme, the Executive has 
maintained an active dialogue with its key stakeholders, including 
institutional investors, during the year in order to discuss issues 
relating to the performance of the Group including strategy and 
new developments. 
In particular, the Company communicates with both the institutional 
and private shareholders through the following means:
• Interaction with all shareholders
 – The Company’s corporate website (www.dfscorporate.co.uk), 
where investor information and news is regularly updated.
 – The Annual Report, which sets out details of the Group’s 
strategy, business model and performance over the past 
financial year and plans for future growth.
 – The Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders have 
the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed and to 
put questions to the Board and executive team.
 – Presentations of full year and interim results to analysts and 
shareholders, which are also available on the Company’s 
corporate website.
• Interaction with institutional shareholders
 – The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
Director of Corporate Finance hold meetings with 
institutional investors following the full-year and  
interim results.
 – The Chairman meets with institutional shareholders  
on request.
• Interaction with private shareholders
 – Dial-in facility to live presentations of the full-year and 
interim results.
 – Dedicated email point of contact to answer shareholder 
questions and queries.
The Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter 
stakeholders might wish to raise. Investor relations activity, 
analysis of the share register, views of major shareholders and 
advice from the Company’s brokers are all ongoing items of 
review by the Board. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are available to 
attend investor relations meetings or to request meetings with 
investors or analysts independently of the Group’s management, 
if required.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   42 12/10/2016   18:06 43
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
43
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The principal role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and 
review the integrity of the Group’s financial results, to review the 
Group’s internal controls and risk management systems, to 
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit 
function and to make recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the external auditor.
In this report, I explain how the Committee discharged these 
responsibilities, with specific reference to the requirements of the 
Governance Code, therefore assisting the Board in determining 
this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The composition of the Committee has remained unchanged 
since the last annual report, due the continuing independence of 
its members, and three meetings have been held during the year, 
in-line with its terms of reference. 
During the last twelve months I have been particularly pleased 
with the development of the Internal Audit function which has 
expanded its focus away from being a largely store based 
compliance team to encompass a focus on the wider business 
and head office functions. The team have also started to work 
with Dwell and Sofa Workshop to ensure that consistent and 
appropriate internal controls are applied across the whole of the 
Group. The initial expanded Internal Audit reports reflecting this 
wider remit have highlighted some useful areas where control 
improvements can be made which the business is addressing. 
As always there is a need for continued change and the 
Committee will continue to support the Internal Audit function in 
line with the operational needs of the business. 
The Committee has also ensured that appropriate internal 
policies are in place. This covers a variety of areas including 
non-audit work, whistleblowing and litigation review. 
I would like to thank the Company and my fellow Committee 
members for their engagement during the year and look forward 
to continued progress in the coming 12 months.
Julie Southern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
5 October 2016
“I have been particularly pleased  
with the development of the Internal  
Audit function.”
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   43 12/10/2016   18:06 44
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 
Annual Report and Accounts and the half-yearly reports remains 
with the Board. The Audit Committee will give due consideration 
to laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Audit Committee reviews the content of the Annual Report and 
Accounts and advises the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they 
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.
Activities of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee of the Group met three times during the 
year and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 40. At 
each meeting, standing agenda items relating to whistleblowing 
and litigation issues were reviewed.
At the October 2015 meeting, the Committee discussed and 
approved the full year results for 2014/15 including a review of the 
full year external audit and KPMG LLP’s subsequent re-
appointment. It also reviewed and approved a non-audit services 
policy and, following a review of the 2014/15 internal control 
environment, reviewed and approved the internal audit scope 
and programme for 2015/16.
At the March 2016 meeting, the Committee reviewed a  
summary of internal audit reports, reviewed and approved an 
updated whistleblowing policy and considered the updated risk 
register and risk profile of the Group, including HMRC’s annual 
risk review.
At the June 2016 meeting, the Committee reviewed and 
approved KPMG LLP’s continuing appointment, audit strategy 
and fees for the audit of the 2015/16 full year results. In addition, 
it reviewed a further summary of internal audit reports, an 
updated risk profile and the results of the first evaluation of the 
Committee’s effectiveness. Furthermore, it approved a policy for 
the accounting of non-underlying items and also approved 
updates to the Committee’s terms of reference following their 
annual review. 
The updated terms of reference were adopted by the Board on 
17 June 2016 and are available on the Company’s corporate 
website at www.dfscorporate.co.uk.
Following the 2015/16 year end, at the September 2016 meeting, 
the Committee reviewed and approved, for consideration by the 
Board, the financial results for the 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 
including a review of the full year external audit. As part of that 
review process, the members of the Committee reviewed the 
Annual Report, the adequacy of the disclosure with respect to 
going concern and whether the Annual Report taken as a whole 
was fair, balanced and understandable.
Composition
The Audit Committee is chaired by Julie Southern and its other 
members are Luke Mayhew and Gwyn Burr.
The Governance Code recommends that all members of the 
Audit Committee are Non-Executive Directors, independent in 
character and judgement and free from any relationship or 
circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear 
to, affect their judgement and that one such member has recent 
and relevant financial experience. The Board considers that, by 
virtue of her current and former executive and non-executive 
roles, details of which are set out on page 33, Julie Southern has 
recent and relevant financial experience and the Company 
complies with the requirements of the Governance Code in this 
respect. Similarly, both Luke Mayhew and Gwyn Burr have 
extensive relevant commercial and operational experience in 
large organisations which benefit the Committee. Biographies of 
the Independent Non-Executive Directors are included on pages 
32 and 33.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chairman 
attend meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation, as do 
KPMG LLP and other members of management or the Board as 
appropriate. The Group Company Secretary also attends by 
invitation in order to maintain a record of the meetings.
Roles and responsibilities
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities with regard to the oversight of:
• financial reporting;
• internal controls and risk management systems;
• compliance, whistleblowing and fraud; and
• internal and external audit.
In particular, this includes:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group, including its annual and half-yearly reports, and any 
other formal announcement relating to its financial 
performance including a review of any significant financial 
reporting judgements contained therein;
• reviewing the Group’s processes and procedures for ensuring 
that material business risks are properly identified and 
managed;
• reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal financial controls and risk management systems;
• receiving regular reports on significant litigation and 
compliance issues;
• reviewing the Group’s arrangements with regard to employee/
contractor whistleblowing, fraud detection, prevention of 
bribery and money-laundering;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function in the context of the Group’s overall risk 
management system;
• overseeing the Group’s relationship with its external auditor, 
including their appointment, remuneration, independence and 
the effectiveness of the audit process; and
• developing and implementing a policy on the supply of 
non-audit services.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   44 12/10/2016   18:06 45
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
This additional review by the Audit Committee, supplemented by 
advice received from external advisors during the drafting 
process, assisted the Board in determining that the report was 
fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it was 
approved. The Committee considered the appropriateness of 
preparing the accounts on a going concern basis, including 
consideration of forecast plans and supporting assumptions and 
concluded that the Group’s financial position was such that it 
continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared on a 
going concern basis.
Significant issues considered in relation to the  
financial statements
The Committee, together with management and the  
Group’s external auditor, considered the following significant 
matters in relation to the financial statements and how these 
were addressed.
Impairment of intangible assets 
The Group holds significant goodwill in the business following the 
acquisition of the DFS Group in 2010 by Advent and the DFS 
Group’s subsequent acquisition of The Sofa Workshop Limited. 
In addition, the Group has recognised the value of the respective 
brands of Sofa Workshop, Dwell and DFS Spain as intangible 
assets. As required by accounting standards, management have 
completed an annual impairment review of the carrying value of 
these assets for each cash-generating unit, and in total, details of 
which are set out in note 9 to the financial statements. This 
review highlighted that no impairment charge was required.
Share-based incentives
The Group has continued to implement share-based incentive 
schemes for senior management and a Save As You Earn 
scheme for all employees. The valuation methods and the related 
assumptions for these schemes are subject to management 
judgement. There is a risk that these instruments are not valued 
correctly and therefore an incorrect charge is recognised in the 
financial statements. The Group’s external auditor has 
independently audited the valuation models used by 
management and the assumptions used in calculating the 
Group’s IFRS 2 charge.
 
Provisions and long-term accruals
Several of the Group’s provisions and accruals, which primarily 
relate to the estimated cost of the retail customer guarantees 
provided and claims relating to historical sales of Payment 
Protection Insurance, continue to require significant judgement in 
assessing their appropriateness and quantum. Management 
have considered the rationale and basis for these provisions and 
long term accruals to assess their reasonableness and adequacy 
which has been reviewed and agreed by the Group’s external 
auditor in conjunction with their substantive testing.
Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit process
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external 
auditor and considers the re-appointment of the Group’s auditor, 
KPMG LLP, before making a recommendation to the Board to be 
put to shareholders. As part of this responsibility, the Committee 
approved the audit plan for the 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 
and reviewed the auditor’s findings and management 
representation letters. Prior to recommending the appointment of 
KPMG LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit 
Committee reviewed the extended audit process, the 
performance of the auditor and its ongoing independence, taking 
into consideration input from management, responses to 
questions from the Committee and the audit findings reported to 
the Committee. Based on this review, the Committee concluded 
that the external audit process had been run efficiently and that 
KPMG LLP has been effective in its role as external auditor.
Approach to appointing the external auditor and how 
objectivity and independence are safeguarded relative  
to non-audit services
The Audit Committee does not currently consider it necessary to 
have a bespoke policy for the rotation of the external audit firm 
other than continuing to comply with the audit tender rules 
applying to the Group.
The Audit Committee has a previously established policy 
intended to maintain the independence and integrity of the 
Company’s auditor when acting as auditor of the Group’s 
accounts. The policy governs the provision of audit, audit-related 
assurance and non-audit services provided by the auditor. In 
summary, this requires approval by the Committee for all 
individual non-audit engagements:
• with an expected cost in excess of £50,000; and
• where it is expected the annual cost for all non-audit 
engagements will be in excess of £150,000.
The policy detailed the types of non-audit services which are 
prohibited as they could directly threaten auditor objectivity and 
independence. It also describes permissible services, which 
would generally be acceptable (subject to the monetary limits 
above) and possible services which require Audit Committee 
approval on a case-by-case basis.
This policy has been followed during the 52 weeks ended 30 July 
2016. However, following the EU Audit reforms which came into 
effect from 17 June 2016, the Committee notes, for future 
financial periods, the external auditor is now prohibited from 
undertaking certain non-audit engagements. In particular, this 
prohibits the provision of tax services to which, historically, the 
majority of recurring non-audit engagements have related. As a 
result, alternative tax advisors will be appointed in due course.
Independence safeguards
The current audit firm was appointed while the Group was under 
private ownership and has served for a number of years. In 
accordance with best ethical standards, external auditors are 
required to adhere to a rotation policy whereby the audit 
engagement partner is rotated after five years but can only serve 
for up to two years following the initial listing of the Group. 
Therefore, our current external auditor, KPMG LLP, has 
introduced a new engagement partner who, as part of the 
transitional process, has shadowed this year’s audit in 
preparation for the handover of responsibilities next year. 
The Audit Committee notes that FTSE 250 companies must put 
the audit out to tender at least every ten years and therefore 
KPMG LLP may remain as external auditor until the completion of 
the 2025 annual audit. However, the Committee will continue to 
consider annually the need to tender the audit for audit quality or 
independence reasons. There are no contractual obligations in 
place that restrict the choice of statutory auditor.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   45 12/10/2016   18:06 46
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
In particular, a reputational risk committee, comprising 
management from all relevant areas of the business, meets on a 
monthly basis to review key regulatory areas including:
• complaints management relating to legacy payment 
protection insurance issues;
• FCA regulated credit broking activities relating to the provision 
of interest-free credit to customers;
• data protection in all areas of the business; and 
• health and safety across all business activities and premises.
This committee places emphasis on key metrics designed to 
provide oversight of performance and highlight any potential 
detriment or risk to the Group while seeking to achieve the very 
best customer outcomes and provide a safe environment for 
staff, customers and data alike.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of 
internal controls and risk management and discharges its duties 
in this area by:
• holding regular Board meetings to consider the matters 
reserved for its consideration;
• receiving regular management reports which provide an 
assessment of key risks and controls;
• scheduling annual Board reviews of strategy including reviews 
of the material risks and uncertainties facing the business;
• ensuring there is a clear organisational structure with defined 
responsibilities and levels of authority;
• ensuring there are documented policies and procedures in 
place; and
• scheduling regular Board reviews of financial budgets and 
forecasts with performance reported to the Board monthly.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, 
the Committee will continue to:
• review the risk register compiled and maintained by senior 
managers within the Group and question and challenge 
where necessary;
• regularly review the system of financial and accounting 
controls; and
• report to the Board on the risk and control culture within the 
Group.
In respect of the Group’s financial reporting, the Finance 
Department is responsible for preparing the Group financial 
statements using a well-established process and ensuring that 
accounting policies are in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards. All financial information published by the 
Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
There have been no changes in the Company’s internal control 
during the financial year under review that have materially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Group’s 
control over financial reporting.
The external auditor is also required periodically to assess 
whether, in its professional opinion, it is independent and those 
views are shared with the Audit Committee.
The Committee has authority to take independent advice as it 
deems appropriate in order to resolve issues on auditor 
independence. No such advice has been required to date.
Independence assessment by the Audit Committee
The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the external 
auditor is not impaired and notes that the audit firm’s 
engagement partner rotation policy has been complied with. 
Furthermore, the level of fees paid for non-audit services, details 
of which are set out in note 3 to the financial statements, does 
not jeopardise its independence. 
The Committee has assessed the performance and 
independence of the external auditor and recommended to the 
Board the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor until the AGM 
in 2017.
Internal audit
Following the recommendation to the Board, the scope and 
focus of the internal audit function was reviewed during the year 
and a programme agreed at the October 2015 meeting. As a 
result, guided by a biannual review of the risk register, more 
emphasis has been placed on:
• head office functions, with direct focus on regulatory 
compliance and perceived areas of high risk;
• the store environment, particularly in relation to conduct risk;
• new store/CDC openings, to ensure consistent 
implementation of operational/compliance procedures; and
• the subsidiary trading companies, by integrating them into the 
Group internal audit programme.
Appropriate resources have been put in place to support the 
implemented changes.
Internal audit reports continue to be issued to key management 
highlighting significant issues and making relevant 
recommendations. High level reporting is made to the Operating 
Board on a monthly basis, and to the Audit Committee on a 
biannual basis, ensuring that appropriate remedial actions are in 
place to address unsatisfactory performance.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal controls 
for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness. In accordance with 
FRC guidance, it carries out such a review at least annually, 
covering all material controls including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The Group has operating policies and 
controls in place covering a range of issues including financial 
reporting, capital expenditure, business continuity and information 
technology and appropriate employee policies. These policies are 
designed to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting 
and govern the preparation of financial statements.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   46 12/10/2016   18:06 47
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, is satisfied that 
an effective system of internal controls and risk management is in 
place which enable the Group to identify, evaluate and manage key 
risks and which accord with the guidance published by the FRC. 
These processes have been in place since the start of the financial 
year and up to the date of approval of the accounts. Further details 
of specific material risks and uncertainties facing the business can 
be found on pages 16 to 19.
Whistleblowing
The Group is committed to the highest standards of openness, 
honesty, integrity and accountability and, as a result, has a 
whistleblowing policy in place. This policy is intended to make 
employees or third parties aware that they should report any serious 
concerns or suspicions about any wrongdoing or malpractice on 
the part of any employee of the Group. Examples include fraud, 
breakdown in internal controls, misleading customers, bribery, 
dishonesty, corruption and breaches of data protection or health 
and safety. This facility was reviewed during the year and it was 
agreed that appropriate arrangements are in place for proportionate 
and independent investigation of such matters. 
During the year, there were two instances of whistleblowing both 
of which were fully investigated and addressed in accordance 
with the policy.
Control environment
The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and 
moral values and professionalism in all its activities. The Group 
has policies in place for:
• anti-bribery;
• equal opportunities; and
• gifts and entertainment.
Accountability
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s financial position 
and prospects. The responsibilities of the Directors and external 
auditor are set out on page 63. As set out in the Directors’ report, 
the Directors consider the Group’s business to be a going concern.
Julie Southern
Chairman of the Audit Committee
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   47 12/10/2016   18:06 48
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
My role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee is to ensure 
we have the appropriate skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity on the Board and in senior management positions, both 
now and in the future, in order that DFS continues to compete 
successfully in the marketplace.
During the year, we had the challenge of replacing Bill Barnes, 
our Group Finance Director for the past 13 years, in preparation 
for his retirement in July 2016. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to express our sincere gratitude to Bill for his dedicated and 
diligent service over the years and, at the same time, following a 
rigorous market-wide selection process, welcome Nicola 
Bancroft to the Board.
Further Board movements during the year included the stepping 
down of Advent’s Nominee Director, Andy Dawson, in line with 
their investment strategy. Once again, on behalf of the Board, I 
would like to express our sincere gratitude to Andy for his 
support as representative of DFS’s largest shareholder since 
their initial investment in 2010.
As mentioned in my introduction to the corporate governance 
statement, it is not possible to fully comply with the provisions of the 
Governance Code, because of my deemed lack of independence 
on appointment back in 2010. However, with the appropriate 
safeguards in place, and the fact that at least half of the Board’s 
members are now independent Non-Executive Directors, we believe 
any perceived risk has been satisfactorily mitigated.
As a result of the above Board changes, it is very pleasing to note 
that we have now achieved a 50:50 gender balance on the Board. 
During the forthcoming year, it is my intention the Committee will 
continue to be proactive in assessing and managing an orderly 
evolution of the membership of the Board and to make 
recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance 
where appropriate.
Richard Baker
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
5 October 2016
“We have now achieved a 50:50 gender 
balance on the Board.”
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   48 12/10/2016   18:06 49
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
Composition
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard Baker and its 
other members are Luke Mayhew, Gwyn Burr and Julie Southern. 
The Governance Code recommends that a majority of the 
Nomination Committee be non-executive directors, independent in 
character and judgement and free from any relationship or 
circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, 
affect their judgement. As such, the Board considers that the 
Company complies with the Governance Code. 
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend 
Committee meetings, but the Committee may invite others, 
including the Chief Executive Officer, the Head of Human 
Resources and external advisers, to attend all or part of any 
meeting if it thinks it is appropriate or necessary or pursuant to 
the terms of any agreement with shareholders. 
The Nomination Committee will meet as often as it deems 
necessary but in any event at least once a year.
Roles and responsibilities
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing 
the structure, size and composition of the Board and its 
committees (including an appraisal of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity, including gender) and for making 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
It is also responsible for identifying and nominating for the 
approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and 
when they arise.
The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed, and 
amended where appropriate, during the year and the revised 
terms of reference adopted by the Board on 17 June 2016, 
details of which are available on the Company’s corporate 
website at www.dfscorporate.co.uk.
Activities of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee formally met four times during the 
year and the main activities included:
• management of the market-wide selection process, engaging 
the services of Calibro (who are independent of the Group), 
for the replacement of Bill Barnes as CFO resulting in the 
appointment of Nicola Bancroft (including coordination of the 
transitional process);
• review of the Board size, structure and composition  
following the stepping-down of Advent’s Nominee  
Director, Andy Dawson;
• review of the talent and succession planning for the Board, 
taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing 
the business resulting in the restructuring of the Executive 
Board within the senior leadership team;
• internal review of the Committee’s effectiveness; and
• consideration of the re-election of Directors at the AGM. 
Diversity
The Group pursues diversity, including gender diversity, throughout 
the business. The Board has set specific targets for the coming year 
in relation to the proportion of female retail colleagues which will be 
reported upon in due course. Furthermore, following the recent 
appointment of Nicola Bancroft, our Board now has three female 
Directors and therefore a 50:50 gender split. We will continue to give 
due consideration to Board balance and diversity when making new 
appointments to the Board but will continue to apply the overarching 
principle of appointing talented people at every level to deliver high 
performance.
Richard Baker
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   49 12/10/2016   18:06 50
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Remuneration Committee members
• Gwyn Burr (Chairman)
• Luke Mayhew
• Julie Southern
PART A: ANNUAL STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
In my letter last year I set out the Remuneration Committee’s (the 
“Committee”) rationale behind our first Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy (“Policy”), which received significant support at the 2015 AGM 
(99.91% voted for). At this moment in time we do not believe there is 
a need to make any changes to Policy at the 2016 AGM, but we will 
continue to monitor emerging best practice to ensure our Policy is 
acting in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders. 
It has been a record year for DFS and our remuneration 
outcomes reflect this. As we continue into 2017 the Board 
recognises that, following the EU Referendum, our business and 
the industry faces increased challenges. As a result of this we 
have sought to ensure that the operation of prospective short- 
and long-term incentive arrangements is suitable for the 
challenging environment we will be operating in.
In this letter I have provided a summary of year-end decisions, 
remuneration decisions we made in relation to Bill Barnes and 
the appointment of Nicola Bancroft, and those made for FY17. 
About this report
This report has been prepared in compliance with  
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
(the “Regulations”) as well as the Companies Act 2006.
This report is set out in the following key sections: 
PART A: ANNUAL STATEMENT 50
PART B: OUR REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE  52
PART C: 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION  54
1 Executive Director Remuneration 54
2 Implementation of remuneration policy for the Executive 
Directors for 2017 55
3 Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to  
Directors’ remuneration for 2016 57
4 Chief Executive Officer and employee pay 58
5 Non-Executive Director Remuneration 59
6 Directors’ shareholdings and share interests 60
7 Services contracts and letters of appointment 61
8 Bill Barnes retirement remuneration  62
9 Shareholder voting 62
Gwyn Burr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
What remuneration decisions did we make as a result of 
performance over 2016? 
You will have read earlier in this Annual Report that the Company 
delivered very strong results for 2016 with:
• Gross sales up 7.4% to £980.4 million;
• Underlying EBITDA up 5.8% to £94.4 million;
• Continuing strong cash flow with net debt closing just below 
1.5x EBITDA; and
• Very positive progress on customer satisfaction scores with 
average established customer Net Promoter Score increasing 
from 21.9% to 31.2%.
This robust and consistent performance reflects the implementation 
of DFS’s proven growth strategy, building on its established market 
leadership to further broaden product and brand appeal. Growth 
initiatives include a measured programme of store expansion in the 
UK and overseas, retail space release, continued development of 
the Group’s omnichannel proposition and constant enhancement of 
its product range. This growth strategy is delivering ahead of the 
Board’s expectations in a number of areas and generating revenue 
growth above that seen in the retail furniture market. Our incentive 
arrangements for the Executive Directors are closely aligned to 
business performance with a high proportion of remuneration 
delivered through incentive arrangements designed to reward 
achievement of short- and long-term strategic objectives. 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 51
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
We assessed the Executive Directors’ 2016 Annual Bonus against 
gross sales, PBT, cash flow, NPS and personal performance targets 
(each measure has 20% weighting) at year-end. As a result of the 
strong results delivered for 2016 and also the excellent leadership 
and personal performance of both Ian Filby and Bill Barnes, the 
Committee determined that they would receive a cash bonus award 
equal to 71.9% of the maximum (equating to £305,575 for Ian Filby 
and 74.4% of the maximum £223,326 for Bill Barnes). Full details of 
the performance measures and targets can be found on page 54.
Under our LTIP, we granted our first awards upon IPO and 
subsequent awards at the start of FY16. These awards will be 
assessed against the performance targets at the end of FY17 (for 
the IPO awards) and FY18 (for the 2016 awards). We will provide 
full details on how we performed against the IPO award 
performance targets in next year’s report. 
Appointment of Nicola Bancroft as Chief Financial Officer 
and Bill Barnes retirement
Nicola Bancroft, previously our Commercial Finance Director, 
was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and an Executive 
Director with effect from 1 August 2016. Nicola replaces Bill 
Barnes, who retired from the Board on 30 July 2016. Bill 
continued as an employee of the Group through August 2016 in 
order to complete a smooth handover during the year end 
period. We have provided full details on Bill’s leaving 
arrangements on page 62 of this report. 
On appointment to the role of Chief Financial Officer, the 
Committee determined that Nicola’s salary would be £240,000, 
which will be reviewed annually. Over time the Committee 
intends, in line with policy and subject to performance, to align 
Nicola’s salary to a more market competitive positioning. This 
may result in increases greater than those given to the wider 
employee group. In addition, Nicola will be entitled to participate 
in the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP. 
Looking forward to 2017
We reviewed Ian Filby’s base salary at year end taking into 
consideration business performance, personal performance and 
increases provided to employees across the Group, and determined 
that his salary will be increased by 1.2% to £430,100 (in line with the 
average increase across the Company). 
Both Ian Filby and Nicola Bancroft may receive a bonus of up to 
100% of salary, subject to the achievement of stretching gross 
sales, PBT, cash flow, NPS and personal performance targets. 
These targets and the actual performance levels achieved will be 
disclosed retrospectively in next year’s report. 
In October 2016 we plan to grant annual awards under the LTIP 
equal to 130% of salary to Ian Filby and 100% of salary Nicola 
Bancroft. In setting the performance conditions for these awards, 
we considered a number of factors including the EU Referendum 
result which has increased the risk of a market slowdown with 
additional cost pressures from foreign exchange movements. 
Alongside this, our expectation is that the wider retail environment 
will remain intensely competitive. Overall the Group remains very 
well positioned to mitigate any economic headwinds. Taking these 
factors into account, to ensure that the LTIP awards due to be 
granted act as an appropriate incentive to motivate and retain our 
executive team and execute our strategy we have:
• Set EPS growth targets so that threshold vesting occurs at 
4% p.a. and maximum vesting occurs at 13% p.a. When 
converted into absolute EPS figures, the targets are higher 
than the targets for awards granted previously. The EPS 
targets will continue to have a 50% weighting on  
LTIP outcomes. 
• Decided to use two relative TSR peer groups for the 2017 and 
future LTIP awards. 25% of the total LTIP award will continue 
to be measured against the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
Investment Trusts), while the balance (25% weighting) will be 
measured against the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index.
The use of two TSR peer groups will ensure that participants are 
focused on outperforming a basket of other General Retailers, as 
well as companies in the main index of which we are a member. 
Overall the Committee is comfortable that the performance targets 
have been designed such that achievement of truly stretching 
performance targets would result in maximum rewards, whilst 
reward at the lower end of the scale is also attainable, subject to the 
appropriate level of performance. Full details of the performance 
measures and targets can be found on page 56.
Matters to be approved at the 2016 AGM 
We have not presented our Policy in this report since, as noted 
earlier, it is not subject to a shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. 
The Policy is available to view in full on the Company’s website at 
dfscorporate.co.uk. 
We have, however, improved the 'Our Remuneration at a Glance' 
section to provide shareholders with a concise overview of our 
Policy, our performance over FY16 and respective remuneration 
outcomes along with information on how the Committee intends to 
implement Policy for 2017 . The 2016 Annual Report on 
Remuneration together with this letter is subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the AGM on 2 December 2016. 
Along with other members of the Committee, I am committed to 
hearing, and take an active interest in, your opinions as 
shareholders. If you would like to discuss any further aspect of 
our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views.
Gwyn Burr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
5 October 2016 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   51 12/10/2016   18:06 52
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
PART B: OUR REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE
Ahead of the detailed 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration, we have summarised below the key elements of our Policy, 
the key remuneration outcomes for 2016 and how we intend to implement Policy in 2017.
(i) Summary of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Element Key features of Policy
Executive Directors
Base salary •  Set at a level which is sufficiently competitive to recruit and retain individuals of the appropriate 
calibre and experience.
Benefits and pension •  Market competitive benefits package provided. 
• Maximum contribution to personal pension scheme or cash in lieu is equal to £50,000.
Annual bonus • Maximum award equal to 100% of salary p.a.
• Performance period is one financial year with pay-out, in cash, based on achievement against 
a range of financial and non-financial targets.
LTIP • Maximum award equal to 150% of salary p.a. (300% of salary in exceptional circumstances).
• Awards vest after three years subject to the achievement of certain performance measures.
Shareholding requirement • Up to 200% of salary for Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors
Fees • Non-Executive Directors may receive a base fee and additional fees for the role of Senior 
Independent Director or membership and/or Chairmanship of certain committees.
• Our full Policy can be found online at dfscorporate.co.uk.
• Both incentive plans incorporate malus and clawback provisions.
(ii) How did we perform in 2016?
Key FY16 business highlights
• Gross sales up 7.4% to £980.4 million.
• Underlying EBITDA up 5.8% to £94.4 million.
• Continuing strong cash flow with net debt closing at 1.5x EBITDA.
• Positive progress on customer satisfaction scores with average established customer Net Promoter Score  
increasing from 21.9% to 31.2%.
2016 annual bonus assessment: At the start of the 2016 Financial Year, we set stretching performance targets  
for the Annual Bonus plan. Below we summarise the targets and the outcomes for both Ian Filby and Bill Barnes.
 
Measure (weighting) Target Actual
% of maximum
achieved
Gross sales (20%) £985.7m £980.4m 75.2%
PBT (20%) £62.3m £64.6m 96.7%
Cash flow (20%) £46.7m £49.2m 100.0%
NPS (20%) 36% 31.2% –
Personal (20%) – – 87.5%/100%
Based on an assessment against the 2016 bonus scorecard the Committee determined that Ian Filby would receive a bonus of 
£305,575 (71.9% of maximum) and £223,326 for Bill Barnes (74.4% of maximum).
 
The 2016 bonuses for Ian Filby and Bill Barnes will be paid in cash. 
LTIP vesting: No LTIP awards vested during the year. 
The first award under the LTIP, which was granted at the time of the IPO, will vest; subject to the achievement of the 
performance targets at the end of FY17.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   52 12/10/2016   18:06 53
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
(iii) Levels of remuneration for 2016 and executive shareholdings 
Single figure remuneration
Below we summarise the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors over the past two financial years: 
790
£'000
Ian Filby 804
725
Bill Barnes 603
 Base salary
 Taxable benefits
 Bonus
 Long-term incentives
 Pension
 Other
£0 £100 £200 £300 £400 £500 £600 £700 £800
2015
2015
2016
2016
Level of shareholdings
Below we present a summary of the level of shareholdings for both the Executive Directors at 30 July 2016:
200
% of base salary
Ian Filby
664
200 Bill Barnes
495
 Shareholding requirement
 Value of beneficially owned shares
At the year-end the value of both Executive Directors' shares exceeded the shareholding requirement of 200% of salary.
(iv) Implementation of Policy for 2017
Executive Directors
Element Ian Filby Nicola Bancroft
Base salary £430,100 £240,000
Pension and benefits £50,000 £40,000
Benefits will be provided in line with Policy for 2017
Annual bonus 100% of salary maximum 100% of salary maximum
2017 measures Group gross sales, Group underlying profit before tax, Group 
underlying cash flow, growth in Established Net Promoter 
Score, personal objectives
LTIP – to be granted in October 130% of salary 100% of salary
2017 measures Total Shareholder Return and earnings per share targets
Shareholding requirement 200% of salary 200% of salary
Non-Executive Directors
Fees £50,000; additional £10,000 for Senior Independent Director
Full details on how we plan to implement Policy in 2017 are set out on pages 55 to 56.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   53 12/10/2016   18:06 54
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
PART C: 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
This 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of how the Company’s Policy for Directors was implemented during the 
Financial Year ended 30 July 2016. This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and 
the Regulations. An advisory resolution to approve this report and the Annual Statement will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 
2 December 2016. 
1 Executive Director Remuneration 
Single figure remuneration table – audited
The remuneration of Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative figures for the prior Financial 
Year is shown below. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Base salary
£000
Taxable
benefits
£000
Bonus
£000
Long-term
Incentives
£000
Pension
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Ian Filby 2016 425 23 306 – 50 – 804
2015 390 18 332 – 50 – 790
Bill Barnes 2016 300 40 223 – 40 – 603
2015 294 38 251 – 40 102 725
Notes
1. Taxable benefits comprise car and fuel allowance, private medical insurance (including cover for spouses and dependants), relevant professional subscriptions,  
seasonal gifts and reimbursement of home telephone line and telephone expenses – the values of which has been included in the taxable benefits column.
2. The Executive Directors’ are entitled to receive a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash in lieu – the value of which has been included in the pension  
column for Bill Barnes. Ian Filby waived his entitlement to a pension contribution from the Group and a charitable donation of £50,000 (2015: £50,000) has been  
made as an alternative. 
3. Mike Ristaino was a Director of the Company until 3 February 2015 in an administrative capacity on behalf of Advent Diamond (Luxembourg) Sarl. He received no 
remuneration in 2015 for his services to the Company.
4. Other – represents the amounts reported in relation to the Management Equity Plan in the 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration.
5. Nicola Bancroft did not serve as a Director during FY15 or FY16 and is therefore is not included in the table above. 
Annual bonus outcomes for the financial year ending 30 July 2016 – audited
For 2016 the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director (Bill Barnes) had a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 100% of 
salary. For each Executive Director, the 2016 annual bonus determination was based on performance against five performance 
measures namely; gross sales, underlying PBT, underlying cash flow, NPS and personal objectives. 
The table below provides information on the targets for each measure, actual performance and resulting bonus payment for each 
Executive Director: 
Performance measure
Weighting 
(% of maximum 
bonus opportunity)
Threshold 
performance target 
(0% of performance 
measure maximum 
opportunity earned)
Target level of 
performance
Maximum 
performance target 
(100% of 
performance 
measure maximum 
opportunity 
earned)
Actual 
performance 
outcome
% of performance 
measure maximum 
opportunity earned
Gross sales 20% £924.0m £985.7m £999.0m £980.4m 75.2%
Underlying PBT 20% £53.0m £62.3m £65.0m £64.6m 96.7%
Underlying cash flow 20% £39.2m £46.7m £49.2m £50.7m 100.0%
NPS 20% 32% 36% 37% 31.2% –
Personal objectives 20% See summary of assessment below 87.5%/100.0%
Overall extent to which the 
bonus targets were achieved
71.9% of maximum for the Chief Executive Officer
74.4% of maximum for the Finance Director
Notes
1. Between threshold, target and maximum, pay-out for the measures was calculated on a straight-line basis. 
2. Gross sales and underlying PBT are presented on the income statement on page 66. Underlying cash flow means the net movement in cash and cash equivalents during 
the Financial Year as adjusted for cash flows associated with non-underlying items.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   54 12/10/2016   18:06 55
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
Performance against the personal objectives and the Committee’s assessment of performance for both Executive Directors is set out 
in the table below: 
Director Personal objectives set at the start of the year Assessment against the targets
Ian Filby • Develop a long term Group property plan.  
 
• Increase gross sales of new brands and extended 
ranges through use of in-store technology. 
• Launch new customer charter and demonstrate 
positive impact.
• Property strategy developed and presented to the 
Board, forming the basis of the space growth 
strategic initiative.
• Gross sales of new brands exceeded targets, sales 
of extended ranges grew but below target 
performance.
• Customer charter launched internally and externally 
as our “Customer Promise”.
Bill Barnes • Successfully complete first full year of public 
company report and compliance.
• Develop management information including 
enhanced Board performance report.
• Create clear plan for use of capital, including 
investing for profitable growth in the business.
• All reporting requirements achieved and effective 
investor relations function developed.
• Extension of business intelligence platform and 
enhanced Board reporting developed.
• Successful delevering of the business, share 
buyback programme established and capital needs 
of the business supported.
As a result of the performance results shown above, the bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors are £305,575 for Ian Filby  
(71.9% of maximum) and £223,326 for Bill Barnes (74.4% of maximum). No part of the bonus will be subject to deferral and no 
discretion was exercised by the Committee when determining the bonus outcomes.
LTIP 
No LTIP awards vested during the year. The first award under the LTIP, which was granted at the time of the IPO will vest, subject to 
the achievement of the performance targets, at the end of the 2017 Financial Year.
Defined benefit pension
The Executive Directors do not have a prospective right to a defined benefit pension by reference to qualifying service.
Payments to past Directors or for loss of office – audited
During the year there were no payments to past Directors and no payments for loss of office.
2 Implementation of remuneration policy for the Executive Directors for 2017
Base salary
In setting salary levels for the 2017 Financial Year for the Executive Directors, the Committee considered a number of factors, including 
individual performance and experience, pay and conditions for employees across the Group, the general performance of the 
Company, pay levels in other comparable companies and the economic environment. The salaries for 2017 and the relative increases 
are set out below.
Base salary 
£000
2017 2016 % change
Ian Filby £430,100 £425,000 +1.2%
Nicola Bancroft £240,000 – –
Nicola Bancroft was appointed to the role of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 August 2016 on a salary of £240,000. 
Pension and benefits
The maximum contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash in lieu is equal to £50,000 for Ian Filby and £40,000 (less employers 
NI cost) for Nicola Bancroft. Ian Filby has waived his entitlement to a pension contribution from the Group and a monthly charitable 
donation will be made instead. 
Benefits will be provided to the Executive Directors in line with the Policy. 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   55 12/10/2016   18:06 56
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
PART C: 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Annual bonus
Consistent with the Policy the maximum and threshold bonus potentials for 2017 are: 
Threshold bonus Maximum bonus
Ian Filby 0% of salary 100% of salary 
Nicola Bancroft 0% of salary 100% of salary 
For FY17, performance measures comprise Group gross sales, Group underlying profit before tax, Group underlying cash flow, growth 
in Established Customer Net Promoter Score and personal objectives. Each performance measure shall have a 20% weighting. 
The Committee is of the opinion that the precise performance targets for the Annual Bonus are commercially sensitive and that it 
would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the Financial Year. Actual targets, 
performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance period so shareholders can fully assess the 
basis for any pay-outs as we have done for the 2016 bonus scorecard in this report. 
LTIP Awards
Details of the LTIP Awards to be made in October 2016 are provided below. 
Type of award
Maximum value of award at grant 
date Vesting period Exercise price
Ian Filby Conditional Share Award 130% of salary Three years Nil 
Nicola Bancroft Conditional Share Award 100% of salary Three years Nil 
The awards will vest subject to achieving two challenging measures, namely Adjusted EPS (50% weighting) and Relative Total 
Shareholder Return (50% weighting). The targets are contained in table below: 
Measure Performance period Performance target Vesting (% of Award)
Total Shareholder Return versus  
FTSE 250 Index (excluding  
Investment Trusts)
1
 and FTSE 350 
General Retailers Index
3 financial years ending FY19 Below Index return 0%
Equal to Index return 20%
12% p.a. above the Index return 100%
Adjusted Earnings per Share
2
3 financial years ending FY19 Less than 4% per annum 0%
4% per annum 20%
13% per annum 100%
Notes
1. Growth in Total Shareholder Return will be calculated on a simple average annual growth rate and the measurement of TSR will be split evenly between the two peer 
group indices (i.e. 25% weighting each).
2. Adjusted Earnings per Share will be calculated on a compound annual growth basis. The basis of the EPS targets for the 2017 LTIP awards is set out in full in the Annual 
Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   56 12/10/2016   18:06 57
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
3 Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration for 2016
The Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board,  
within agreed terms of reference, on remuneration for the Executive Directors and Chairman and has oversight of remuneration 
arrangements for senior management. The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Company’s website at  
www.dfscorporate.co.uk. 
Committee meeting 
Members of the Committee during 2016 Independent October 2015 January 2016 June 2016 Attendance
Gwyn Burr (Chair) Yes √ √ √ 100% 
Luke Mayhew Yes √ √ √ 100% 
Julie Southern Yes √ √ √ 100%
All Committee members attended all Remuneration Committee meetings that took place while they were members of the Committee. None 
of the Committee members has any personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the decisions made by the Committee, 
conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business. The Chairman, Chief Executive 
Officer and the Finance Director may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee, but are not present when their own remuneration is 
being discussed. The Committee is supported by the HR Director, Finance and Company Secretariat functions. 
During the year, there were three Committee meetings. The matters covered at each meeting are covered in the table below:
October 2015 January 2016 June 2016
• Salary review for Executive Board 
members.
• 2015 bonus scorecard assessment.
• Approving the 2016 bonus scorecard.
• Approving the 2016 LTIP Awards.
• Approving the 2015 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
• Reviewed levels of shareholding.
• Guidelines for operation of DFS share 
plans.
• Adoption of Irish SAYE scheme.
• Remuneration benchmarking.
• Bill Barnes retirement arrangements.
• Review of Remuneration Committee 
Terms of Reference.
• Initial discussions on the 2016 
Director’s Remuneration Report.
• Annual bonus and in-flight LTIP 
performance updates.
• Update on corporate governance, 2016 
AGM season and market trends.
The Committee received external advice in 2016 from PwC during the year. The Committee appointed PwC as its advisors after a 
tender process in July 2015. PwC are considered by the Committee to be objective and independent. PwC are members of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviewed the nature of all the services provided during the year by PwC and was satisﬁed that no conﬂict of interest 
exists or existed in the provision of these services. The total fees paid to PwC in respect of services to the Committee during the year 
were £119,250. Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   57 12/10/2016   18:06 58
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
PART C: 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
4 Chief Executive Officer and employee pay
Total Shareholder Returns and Chief Executive Officer pay since IPO
The Committee believes that the current Executive Director Policy and the supporting reward structure provide clear alignment with 
the Company’s performance. The Committee believes it is appropriate to monitor the Company’s performance against the FTSE 250 
Index as it represents a broad equity market against which the Company compares itself. 
The chart below illustrates our Total Shareholder Return performance against the FTSE 250 Index since 5 March 2015, the date of IPO, 
to 30 September 2016. The Group’s share price fell at the end of June 2016 as part of the general market response to the result of the 
UK EU Referendum, impacting reported TSR, but has since significantly recovered. 
60
80
100
120
140
Mar 2015 May 2015 Jul 2015 Sep 2015
DFS Furniture plc
Rebased TSR
Nov 2015 Jan 2016 Mar 2016 May 2016 Jul 2016 Sep 2016
FTSE 250
Chief Executive Officer 2016 2015 
Single figure of total remuneration (£000) 798 790 
Bonus pay-out (% maximum) 71.9% 85.2% 
Long-term incentive vesting rates (% maximum) n/a n/a 
No LTIP awards vested during the year – the first award, which was granted at the time of the IPO will vest, subject to the achievement 
of the performance targets, at the end of the 2017 Financial Year.
Percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Chief Executive Officer’s pay with the wider employee population. The 
Company considers DFS employees other than those whose remuneration includes piecework or commission, and excluding the 
Executive Directors, to be an appropriate comparator group. 
% change from 2015 to 2016 Base salary Benefits Annual bonus
Chief Executive Officer +9.0% +27.8% -8.0%
Employee pay +1.2% – +7.0%
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 59
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders. 
Significant distributions 2016 2015 % change
Employee spend £132.9m £125.0m +6.3
Distributions to shareholders £31.0m – –
Notes
1. The above figures are taken from notes 4, 20 and 21 to the financial statements.
5 Non-Executive Director Remuneration
Single figure remuneration table – audited
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components, with comparative figures for the prior 
year, is shown below. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations. 
Director
Fees
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Richard Baker 2016 210 – 210
2015 210 – 210
Luke Mayhew 2016 60 – 60
2015 50 50 100
Gwyn Burr 2016 50 – 50
2015 33 25 58
Julie Southern 2016 50 – 50
2015 25 20 45
Andy Dawson 2016 – – –
2015 – – –
Notes
1. Andy Dawson did not receive a fee for his role as Non-Executive Director. He resigned from the Board on 25 April 2016. 
2. Other amounts include additional payments made in respect of contributions to the Admission process.
Fees to be provided in 2017 to the Non-Executive Directors
The following table sets out the annual fee rates for the Non-Executive Directors:
2017 2016 % change
Chairman fee £210,000 £210,000 –
Independent Non-Executive Director fee £50,000 £50,000 –
Senior Independent Director fee £10,000 £10,000 –
Fees for Non-Executive Directors have not been changed for 2017, but will be kept under review for future periods.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   59 12/10/2016   18:06 60
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
PART C: 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
6 Directors’ shareholdings and share interests 
Shareholding and other interests at 30 July 2016 – audited
Directors’ share interests and, where applicable, achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below. In order that their 
interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain (as relevant) a personal 
shareholding equal to 200% of their base salary in the Company. 
Shareholding at 30 July 2016
Interests in shares under the  
LTIP (Conditional Shares)
Director
Number of 
beneficially owned 
shares
1
% of salary held
Shareholding 
requirement met
Subject to 
conditions
Vested but 
unexercised
Unvested SAYE 
awards
Total at 30 July 
2016
Ian Filby 1,313,208 664% Yes 384,350 – 3,429 1,700,987
Bill Barnes 690,526 495% Yes 216,200 – 3,429 910,155
Richard Baker 4,824,402 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4,824,402
Luke Mayhew 31,621 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 31,621
Gwyn Burr – n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a –
Julie Southern 3,921 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 3,921
Total 6,863,678 – – 600,550 – 6,858 7,471,086
Notes
1. Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons.
2. Shareholding requirement calculation is based on the share price at the end of the year (£2.15 at 30 July 2016).
3.  Nicola Bancroft did not serve as a Director during FY16 and is therefore not included in the table above. 
At 5 October 2016 there had been no movement in Directors’ shareholdings and share interests from 30 July 2016.
LTIP Awards granted in 2016 – audited
The table below sets out the details of the LTIP Awards granted on 23 October 2015 where vesting will be determined according to the 
achievement of certain performance measures. Non-Executive Directors do not receive awards under the plan.
Director Type of award
Face value / Maximum 
value of award at grant 
date (£/% of salary) Number of shares
Percentage of award 
receivable for threshold 
performance Vesting date Exercise price
Ian Filby
Conditional 
Share Award 
£552,500
130% 185,527 20% 23 October 2018 Nil
Bill Barnes
Conditional 
Share Award 
£300,169
100% 100,795 20% 23 October 2018 Nil
Notes
1. In line with the Rules of the plan, awards were determined using an average share price prior to grant of £2.978.
2. Awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions which will be measured at the time the Group publishes its full year financial results.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   60 12/10/2016   18:06 61
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
The awards will vest subject to achieving two challenging performance measures, namely Adjusted EPS (50% weighting) and Relative 
Total Shareholder Return (50% weighting). The targets are contained in table below: 
Measure Performance period Performance target Vesting (% of Award)
Total Shareholder Return versus 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
Investment Trusts)
3 financial years ending FY18 Below Index return 0%
Equal to Index return 20%
12% p.a. above the Index return 100%
Adjusted Earnings per Share 3 financial years ending FY18 Less than 8% per annum 0%
8% per annum 20%
18% per annum 100%
Notes
1. Growth in Total Shareholder Return will be calculated on a simple average annual growth rate.
2. Adjusted Earnings per Share will be calculated on a compound annual growth basis. 
SAYE Awards – audited
The following table details SAYE awards granted to Executive Directors during the year:
Director Number of awards Date of grant Vesting date Exercise Price
Ian Filby 3,429 10 December 2015 31 January 2019 £2.62
Bill Barnes 3,429 10 December 2015 31 January 2019 £2.62
Dilution 
The Company funds its share incentives through a combination of new issue and market purchased shares. The Company monitors 
the levels of share grants and the impact of these on the ongoing requirement for shares. In accordance with guidelines set out by the 
Investment Association (“IA”) the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period to 
employees under all its share plans.
7 Service contracts and letters of appointment
When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard to market practice and corporate governance best practice. Executive 
Directors’ service agreements can be terminated by not less than six months’ prior written notice given by the Executive or by not less 
than 12 months’ prior written notice given by the employer. The table below summarises the service contracts and letters of 
appointments for our Executive Directors.
Director Date of contract Notice period
Ian Filby 13 July 2010
6 months (Executive)  
or 12 months (Company)
Bill Barnes 6 July 2010
Nicola Bancroft 1 August 2016
Details of external appointments of Executive Directors are provided on pages 32 to 33.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for a review 
after an initial three year term terminable by either the Non-Executive Director or the Company with one month’s prior written notice. 
Each Non-Executive Director is subject to annual re-election at the Company’s AGM. 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   61 12/10/2016   18:06 62
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
PART C: 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED
The table below sets out the dates that each Non-Executive Director was first appointed as a Group Director (all Directors were 
subsequently appointed to the current parent company, DFS Furniture plc on 2 February 2015 as part of the IPO process). 
Director Date of appointment
Richard Baker 27 July 2010
Luke Mayhew 1 October 2014
Gwyn Burr 1 December 2014
Julie Southern 2 February 2015
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Company's registered office and at the AGM.
8 Bill Barnes retirement remuneration
Bill Barnes stepped down from the Board on 30 July 2016 and continued to serve as employee until 31 August 2016 (the “Leaving 
Date”) in order to maintain a smooth transition following Nicola Bancroft’s appointment as the new Chief Financial Officer. 
Bill Barnes has not and will not receive any loss of office payments. Bill Barnes continued to receive his salary, benefits and pension 
package during the period between ceasing to be a Board member and his Leaving Date. 
In line with the Policy and plan rules, the Committee decided that Bill should be treated as a good leaver for the 2016 Annual Bonus 
Plan and his outstanding LTIP awards, details of which are described below.
Annual bonus: Bill received a bonus for FY16 as disclosed on page 54 of this report. However, he will not be entitled to a bonus for 
the proportion of FY17 which he served as an employee.
LTIP awards: The Committee determined that awards held by Bill Barnes that were outstanding under the LTIP (those granted on  
16 March 2015 and 23 October 2016) would be treated in accordance with the rules of the plan for good leavers as follows:
• LTIP awards will vest on the normal vesting date to the extent to which performance conditions are met at the end of the relevant 
performance period.
• His LTIP awards will be pro-rated for the time that has elapsed from the grant date to his Leaving Date.
Outstanding options held under the all-employee Sharesave may be exercised in accordance with the rules of the plan. Bill Barnes 
was also contractually entitled to a payment in lieu of holiday accrued but not taken by 1 August 2016.
9 Shareholder voting
The table below shows the binding vote approving the Policy and the advisory vote to approve the 2015 Annual Report on 
Remuneration at the AGM on 4 December 2015. 
Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 174,166,632 99.91 153,151 0.09 0
2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 174,187,560 99.92 132,223 0.08 0
By order of the Board
Gwyn Burr 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
5 October 2016
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   62 12/10/2016   18:06 63
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts and the Group and Company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
• for the Group financial statements state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU; 
• for the Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Company financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect  
of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic Report and Directors' Report include a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the Board
Ian Filby   Nicola Bancroft
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   63 12/10/2016   18:06 64
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Independent auditor’s report to the members of DFS furniture plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of DFS Furniture plc for the 52 week period ended 30 July 2016 set out on pages 66 to 94.  
In our opinion:  
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 July 2016 
and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended;  
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;  
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit were as follows:
Guarantee provision (£7.9 million (2015: £8.8 million)) and other provisions (£1.8 million (2015: other provisions and long term 
accruals £1.2 million)), Risk vs 2015 
Refer to page 45 Audit Committee report, page 74 (accounting policy) and page 84 (financial disclosures).
The risk – The guarantee provision totals £7.9 million (2015: £8.8 million) and reflects the estimated cost of fulfilling the obligations 
arising from the product guarantee provided to the retail customers. The directors apply judgement in determining the provision model 
and make assumptions in respect of its key variables: average cost per claim, volume of claims and period over which the guarantee is 
likely to be called. 
The other provisions of £1.8 million (2015: £1.2 million included in long term accruals) represent the best estimate of the value of 
refunds to customers in respect of payment protection insurance policies and other regulatory costs. We focused on these areas as 
significant judgement is required by the directors in determining the assumptions. 
Our response – Our procedures included critically assessing the assumptions applied in calculating the value of the guarantee 
provision. We compared expected volume of calls and average cost per claim included in the provision model against historical data. 
We inspected the guarantee record to evaluate the period over which the guarantee is likely to be called. 
For the provision for refunds in respect of payment protection policies, we challenged the assumptions used to determine the 
expected volume and value of claims through a comparison with historical trends and our assessment of the volume of claims yet to 
be filed. We tested the assumptions over the volume and settlement value of claims by agreeing it to supporting documentation. 
For the provision for other regulatory costs we inspected correspondence between the Group and other parties, such as legal 
advisers, and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions made by the directors taking into consideration our own 
expectations based on our experience of similar risks.
We continue to perform procedures over property related provisions and long term accruals (2015:£4.7m). However, following a 
reassessment of the level of judgment applied to the key assumptions used in determining those amounts they have not been assessed as 
one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, are not separately identified in our report this year.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £3.2 million (2015: £3.0 million) determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before tax of £64.5 million. Materiality represents 5.0% of the Group profit before tax (2015: Group profit 
before tax excluding non-underlying items, 5.0%).
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding £160,000 (2015: £150,000), in addition to 
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s nine (2015: eight) reporting components, the Group audit team subjected all nine (2015: eight) to audits for group reporting 
purposes. The audits undertaken at the reporting components was performed to a materiality level which ranged from £0.1 million to  
£2.4 million (2015: £0.1 million and £3.0 million), having regard to the size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   64 12/10/2016   18:06 65
Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Governance Financial statements
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.  
5. We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the directors’ statement of viability on page 19, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors’ 
assessment and expectations of the Group’s continuing in operation over the four years to 2020; or 
• the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements on page 71 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting. 
6. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception  
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that 
they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit and risk committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or  
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or  
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
• the directors’ statements, set out on pages 19 and 71, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.  
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  A description of the scope of an audit 
of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is 
made solely to the company’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if 
set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the 
basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham 
B4 6GH  
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 66
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 (52 weeks ended 1 August 2015)
Note
2016 2015
Underlying
£m
Non-underlying
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
£m
Non-underlying
£m
Total
£m
Gross sales 1,2 980.4 – 980.4 913.1 – 913.1
Revenue 2 756.0 – 756.0 706.1 – 706.1
Cost of sales (621.7) – (621.7) (583.8) – (583.8)
Gross profit 134.3 – 134.3 122.3 – 122.3
Administrative expenses (39.9) – (39.9) (33.1) (11.6) (44.7)
Operating profit before 
depreciation and amortisation 94.4 – 94.4 89.2 (11.6) 77.6
Depreciation (16.4) – (16.4) (14.3) – (14.3)
Amortisation (2.2) – (2.2) (2.7) – (2.7)
Operating profit 2,3 75.8 – 75.8 72.2 (11.6) 60.6
Finance income 5 0.3 – 0.3 0.1 – 0.1
Finance expenses 5 (11.6) – (11.6) (39.0) (11.0) (50.0)
Profit before tax 64.5 – 64.5 33.3 (22.6) 10.7
Taxation 6 (14.1) 9.9 (4.2) (10.4) 2.9 (7.5)
Profit/(loss) for the year 50.4 9.9 60.3 22.9 (19.7) 3.2
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 50.4 9.9 60.3 24.4 (19.7) 4.7
Non-controlling interests – – – (1.5) – (1.5)
50.4 9.9 60.3 22.9 (19.7) 3.2
Statutory earnings per share
Basic 7 23.7p 4.6p 28.3p 22.4p (18.1)p 4.3p
Diluted 7 23.5p 4.6p 28.1p 22.3p (18.0)p 4.3p
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   66 12/10/2016   18:06 67
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 (52 weeks ended 1 August 2015)
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the year 60.3 3.2
Other comprehensive income
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.6) 7.0
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified to profit or loss (4.1) (2.3)
Income tax on items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0.9 (0.9)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of income tax (3.8) 3.8
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 56.5 7.0
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 56.5 8.5
Non-controlling interests – (1.5)
56.5 7.0
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   67 12/10/2016   18:06 68
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 30 July 2016 (1 August 2015)
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current assets
 Property, plant and equipment 8 65.1 57.6
 Intangible assets 9 491.2 489.3
 Other financial assets 11 – 1.3
 Deferred tax assets 12 9.1 12.1
565.4 560.3
Current assets
 Inventories 13 34.9 28.3
 Other financial assets 11 3.1 1.1
 Trade and other receivables 14 26.4 25.3
 Cash and cash equivalents 66.7 40.7
131.1 95.4
Total assets 696.5 655.7
Current liabilities
 Trade payables and other liabilities 15 (159.3) (145.2)
 Provisions 19 (6.6) (6.1)
 Other financial liabilities 16 (0.1) (0.8)
 Current tax liabilities (3.0) (8.2)
(169.0) (160.3)
Non-current liabilities
 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 17 (198.3) (197.9)
 Provisions 19 (5.1) (4.4)
 Other financial liabilities 16 (6.1) –
 Other liabilities 15 (67.4) (69.2)
(276.9) (271.5)
Total liabilities (445.9) (431.8)
Net assets 250.6 223.9
  
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
 Share capital 21 319.5 319.5
 Share premium 21 40.4 40.4
 Merger reserve 21 18.6 18.6
 Treasury shares 21 (3.7) –
 Cash flow hedging reserve 21 (3.0) 1.7
 Retained earnings (121.2) (156.3)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 250.6 223.9
Non-controlling interests – –
Total equity 250.6 223.9
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 October 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian Filby      Nicola Bancroft
Chief Executive Officer    Chief Financial Officer
Company registered number: 7236769
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   68 12/10/2016   18:06 69
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Treasury 
shares
£m
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 2 August 2014 42.6 – – – (3.0) (113.5) (0.9) (74.8)
Loss for the year – – – – – 4.7 (1.5) 3.2
Other comprehensive  
income/(expense) – – – – 4.7 (0.9) – 3.8
Total comprehensive  
income/(expense) for the year – – – – 4.7 3.8 (1.5) 7.0
Reorganisation on IPO 219.3 – 18.6 – – (47.2) 3.3 194.0
Equity raised on IPO 57.6 40.4 – – – – 98.0
Dividends – – – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Share based payments – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Balance at 1 August 2015 319.5 40.4 18.6 – 1.7 (156.3) – 223.9
Profit for the year – – – – – 60.3 – 60.3
Other comprehensive  
income/(expense) – – – – (4.7) 0.9 – (3.8)
Total comprehensive  
income/(expense) for the year – – – – (4.7) 61.2 – 56.5
Dividends – – – – – (27.3) – (27.3)
Purchase of own shares – – – (3.7) – – – (3.7)
Share based payments – – – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Balance at 30 July 2016 319.5 40.4 18.6 (3.7) (3.0) (121.2) – 250.6
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   69 12/10/2016   18:06 70
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for 52 weeks ended 30 July 2016 (52 weeks ended 1 August 2015)
Note
2016
£m
2015
£m
Operating profit 75.8 60.6
 Adjustments for:
 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 18.6 17.0
 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.6) (0.8)
 Share based payment expense 1.2 0.6
 Increase in trade and other receivables (1.1) (1.6)
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (6.6) 0.5
 Increase in trade and other payables 11.6 2.4
 Increase in provisions 1.2 0.2
100.1 78.9
 Tax paid (11.4) (8.4)
 Non-underlying prior year tax credit received 5.9 –
Net cash from operating activities 94.6 70.5
Cash flows from investing activities
 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.9
 Interest received 0.3 0.1
 Acquisition of subsidiaries (1.5) –
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (21.9) (19.0)
 Acquisition of other intangible assets (2.6) (1.8)
Net cash from investing activities (24.9) (19.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
 Interest paid (8.7) (41.9)
 Exceptional finance costs – (10.4)
 Proceeds from new loan – 200.0
 Repayment of borrowings – (310.0)
 Proceeds on issue of new shares – 98.0
 Settlement of partly paid share capital – 2.3
 Payment of deferred consideration on acquisition (2.3) –
 Payment of finance lease liabilities (1.7) (0.9)
 Purchase of own shares (3.7) –
 Dividends paid (27.3) (0.9)
Net cash from financing activities (43.7) (63.8)
 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 26.0 (13.1)
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 40.7 53.8
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 26 66.7 40.7
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   70 12/10/2016   18:06 71
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
at 30 July 2016
1 Accounting policies
DFS Furniture plc (“the Company”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the Group”). 
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its group.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
consolidated financial statements. Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have 
significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed 
in note 1.16.
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRS”). The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except 
for certain financial instruments and share based payment charges which are measured at their fair value. The financial statements are 
for the 52 weeks to 30 July 2016 (last year 52 weeks to 1 August 2015).
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on 
pages 91 to 94.
Going concern
The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has sufficient medium and long term facilities in place, including £200.0 million of 
a senior loan facility maturing in 2020 and a £30.0 million revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 which is as yet unutilised. 
Further details of these facilities and the Group’s financial management objectives are detailed in the financial statements.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, forecasts and projections, the Company’s directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
1.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries). Control exists when the Group is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its investment with the investee and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently 
exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date 
that control commences until the date that control ceases. The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Gross sales and revenue
Gross sales represent the total amounts payable by external customers, without adjustment for the time value of money, for goods and 
services supplied by the Group, including aftercare services (for which the Group acts as an agent), delivery charges and value added 
and other sales taxes. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable by the Group for the provision of goods and services to external 
customers, being gross sales less: value added and other sales taxes, the costs of obtaining interest free credit on behalf of 
customers and the amounts payable to third parties relating to services for which the Group acts as an agent. For services where the 
Group acts as an agent, the amount recognised in revenue is the net fee receivable by the Group.
Both gross sales and revenue are stated net of returns and sales allowances, and are recognised when goods have been delivered to 
the customer, the revenue and costs in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably and collectability is reasonably assured.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   71 12/10/2016   18:06 72
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
1.4 Expenses
Non-underlying and exceptional items
Items that are material in size, unusual or non-recurring in nature are disclosed separately in the income statement in order to provide 
an indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. The principal items which may be included as non-underlying are:
• significant profit or loss on the disposal of non-current assets;
• impairment charges;
• significant non-recurring tax charges or credits; and 
• costs associated with significant corporate, financial or operating restructuring, including acquisitions or the establishment of 
operations in new geographical territories.
Material finance income or expenses associated with significant changes in the Group’s borrowings are disclosed separately as 
exceptional items below operating profit.
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. 
Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability.
Finance income and expenses
Finance expenses comprise interest payable, finance charges on finance leases recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest 
method and unwinding of the discount on provisions. Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, dividend 
income, and net foreign exchange gains.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend income 
is recognised in the income statement on the date the Group’s right to receive payments is established.
1.5 Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
Short-term benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. 
Share based payments
The fair value of equity settled share based payments is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the related awards, with 
a corresponding increase in equity. Fair values are calculated using option pricing models appropriate to the terms and conditions of 
the awards. The amount charged as an expense is regularly reviewed and adjusted to reflect the achievement of service and non-
market based performance conditions.
1.6 Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition 
of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of 
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
At interim reporting periods the tax charge is calculated in accordance with IAS 34, adjusted for material non-taxable items.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on deductible temporary differences only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits 
will be available against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   72 12/10/2016   18:06 73
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
1.7 Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency 
at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income 
statement except for differences arising on qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
1.8 Business combinations
Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Business 
combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the acquisition cost over the Group’s interest in the assets and liabilities 
recognised. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as 
equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the 
contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Acquisitions prior to 31 July 2011 (date of transition to IFRSs)
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The Group and Company 
elected not to restate business combinations that took place prior to 31 July 2011. In respect of acquisitions prior to transition, 
goodwill is included at 31 July 2011 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP which 
was broadly comparable save that goodwill was amortised. On transition, amortisation of goodwill ceased as required by IFRS 1. 
1.9 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the 
buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present 
value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and less accumulated impairment 
losses. Lease payments are accounted for as described in 1.4 above.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of 
property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
• buildings   50 years
• plant and equipment  4 to 10 years
• motor vehicles   4 years
• computer equipment  3 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
1.10 Intangible assets and goodwill
Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment. 
Other intangible assets
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   73 12/10/2016   18:06 74
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
1 Accounting policies continued
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless 
such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. Estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
• computer software and website costs  3 years
• acquired brand names    20 years
1.11 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of finished goods manufactured by the Group includes 
direct materials, direct labour and appropriate overhead expenditure.
1.12 Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For goodwill, and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is estimated each year at the same time.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are 
recognised in profit or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are 
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if 
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent 
that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
1.13 Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.
Details of provisions recognised are in note 19 and the related significant estimates and judgments in note 1.16.
1.14 Non-derivative financial instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash 
equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. 
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   74 12/10/2016   18:06 75
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
1.15 Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the 
nature of the item being hedged (see below).
Cash flow hedges
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast 
transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. 
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated 
cumulative gain or loss remains in the hedging reserve and is reclassified into profit or loss in the same period or periods during which 
the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
For other cash flow hedges the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in 
the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the Group revokes designation of the hedge relationship but 
the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised 
in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
1.16 Significant areas of estimation and judgment
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the value of reported assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on 
historical experience and other relevant factors, but may differ from actual results. Significant areas of estimation for the Group 
include the costs of meeting customer guarantees and property related provisions (note 19), the selling prices applied in determining 
net realisable values of inventories (note 13) and the assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the impairment of 
goodwill (note 9).
1.17 New accounting standards
A number of new or revised standards and interpretations have been issued which are not yet effective or endorsed by the EU, 
including IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Leases, and which have not 
therefore been applied by the Group in these financial statements. 
Of these, only IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on the future financial statements of the Group since it would require the 
substantial majority of the Group’s operating lease commitments (c£67.0m on an undiscounted basis as shown in note 25 of the 
financial statements) to be brought on to the balance sheet, resulting in the recognition of significant lease assets and liabilities which 
would be depreciated and amortised separately. IFRS 16 would first apply to the Group for the financial year ending July 2020.
2 Segmental analysis
The Group’s operating segments under IFRS 8 have been determined based on management accounts reports reviewed by the 
Board. Segment performance is assessed based upon earnings before interest and tax excluding depreciation charges and non-
underlying items (“underlying EBITDA”).
The Group has only one reportable segment, which derives its revenues from the retailing of upholstered furniture and related 
products. Activities included in other segments comprise the manufacture and distribution of upholstered furniture.
External sales Internal sales Total gross sales
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
Retail 980.4 913.1 1.2 0.6 981.6 913.7
Other segments – – 91.0 92.7 91.0 92.7
Eliminations – – (92.2) (93.3) (92.2) (93.3)
Gross sales 980.4 913.1 – – 980.4 913.1
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   75 12/10/2016   18:06 76
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
2 Segmental Analysis continued
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Total segments gross sales 980.4 913.1
Less: value added and other sales taxes (152.0) (141.4)
Less: costs of interest free credit and aftercare services (72.4) (65.6)
Revenue 756.0 706.1
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Retail underlying EBITDA 87.4 82.4
Other segments underlying EBITDA 7.0 6.8
94.4 89.2
Depreciation & amortisation (18.6) (17.0)
Non-underlying items (note 3) – (11.6)
Operating profit 75.8 60.6
Finance income 0.3 0.1
Finance expenses (11.6) (39.0)
Exceptional refinancing costs – (11.0)
Profit before tax 64.5 10.7
A geographical analysis of revenue is presented below:
2016 
£m
2015
£m
United Kingdom 734.2 689.7
Europe 21.8 16.4
Total revenue 756.0 706.1
3 Operating profit
Group operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2016
£m
2015
£m
Depreciation on tangible assets 16.4 14.3
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.6) (0.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.2 2.7
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 315.2 295.8
Write down of inventories to net realisable value 0.4 0.8
Non-underlying items
2016
£m
2015
£m
Costs in respect of IPO – 8.5
International and acquired business set-up costs – 2.8
Other legal and professional costs – 0.3
– 11.6
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   76 12/10/2016   18:06 77
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
3 Operating profit continued
Auditor’s remuneration:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Audit of the financial statements of Group subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
Amounts receivable by the company’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.1
Other corporate finance services – 0.8
0.3 1.1
4 Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees
2016 2015
Production 1,100 1,059
Warehouse and transport 796 727
Sales and administration 2,027 1,914
3,923 3,700
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 117.7 111.0
Social security costs 11.6 11.2
Other pension costs 2.4 2.2
131.7 124.4
Share based payment expense (equity settled) 1.2 0.6
132.9 125.0
5 Finance income and expense
2016
£m
2015
£m
Finance income
Interest income on bank deposits 0.3 0.1
Total finance income 0.3 0.1
Finance expense
Interest payable on senior secured notes – (14.2)
Interest payable on senior loan facility (7.9) (2.8)
Bank fees (0.3) (0.5)
Fair value lease adjustment unwind (3.0) (3.0)
Interest payable on parent company loan – (17.0)
Interest payable on 17% cumulative redeemable preference shares – (0.1)
Interest payable on 8% vendor loan notes – (0.2)
Unwind of discount on provisions (0.1) (0.1)
Finance lease interest (0.3) (0.3)
Other interest – (0.8)
Total finance expense (11.6) (39.0)
Exceptional finance costs of £11.0m were incurred during the previous year as a consequence of the refinancing undertaken in 
connection with the Company’s admission to the London Stock Exchange (note 16). These costs primarily related to the redemption 
premium and write off of remaining unamortised issue costs on the Group’s £310.0m senior secured notes.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   77 12/10/2016   18:06 78
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
6 Taxation
Recognised in the income statement
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current tax 
Current year 10.6 9.3
Non-underlying prior year tax credits (9.9) –
Adjustments for prior years (0.4) –
Current tax expense 0.3 9.3
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.8 (1.6)
Deferred tax rate change 1.0 –
Adjustments for prior years 0.1 (0.2)
Deferred tax expense 3.9 (1.8)
Total tax expense in income statement 4.2 7.5
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2016
£m
2015
£m
Profit before tax for the year 64.5 10.7
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.67%) 12.9 2.2
Non-deductible expenses 0.5 5.5
Deferred tax not recognised 1.0 –
Non-underlying prior year tax credits (9.9) –
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.3) (0.2)
Total tax expense 4.2 7.5
During the year a tax credit of £9.9m resulted from a settlement in the Group’s favour of certain outstanding items relating to prior 
years with HM Revenue and Customs for which no benefit had previously been recognised.
Reductions in the UK Corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) were 
substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. Further reductions to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective from 1 April 2020) 
were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. The deferred tax asset at 30 July 2016 has been calculated based on these rates.
An additional reduction to 17% (effective from 1 April 2020) was announced in the Budget on 16 March 2016. this will reduce the 
Group’s future tax charge accordingly and reduce the deferred tax asset at 30 July 2016 by £0.5m.
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (0.1) 1.4
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified to profit or loss (0.8) (0.5)
(0.9) 0.9
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   78 12/10/2016   18:06 79
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
7 Earnings per share
Statutory earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the financial period attributable to ordinary equity holders of 
the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The weighted average number 
of shares reflects the movements in share capital detailed in note 21 and the impact of movements in treasury shares held by the 
Company. Changes in the Company’s capital structure with no corresponding change in resources are reflected as if they had 
occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the same net profit or loss for the financial period attributable to ordinary equity 
holders of the parent company, but increasing the weighted average number of ordinary shares by the dilutive effect of potential 
ordinary shares.
2016
pence
2015
pence
Basic total earnings per share 28.3 4.3
Diluted total earnings per share 28.1 4.3
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 60.3 4.7
2016 
No.
2015
No.
Weighted average number of shares in issue for basic earnings per share 212,896,904 108,753,074
Dilutive effect of employee share based payment awards 1,222,417 380,479
Weighted average number of shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 214,119,321 109,133,553
Underlying earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the period 
attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent company, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non-underlying items, by the same 
weighted average numbers of ordinary shares above used for basic and diluted earnings per share respectively.
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 60.3 4.7
Non-underlying items – 22.6
Tax effect of non-underlying items (9.9) (2.9)
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 50.4 24.4
2016 
pence
2015 
pence
Underlying basic earnings per share 23.7 22.4
Underlying diluted earnings per share 23.5 22.3
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   79 12/10/2016   18:06 80
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
8 Property, plant and equipment 
Land and
 buildings
£m
Plant and
 equipment
£m
Motor  
vehicles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 2 August 2014 3.8 63.8 15.0 82.6
Additions 1.7 13.7 5.7 21.1
Disposals – – (3.8) (3.8)
Balance at 1 August 2015 5.5 77.5 16.9 99.9
Additions 1.0 17.7 5.4 24.1
Disposals – – (2.5) (2.5)
Balance at 30 July 2016 6.5 95.2 19.8 121.5
    
Depreciation and impairment 
Balance at 2 August 2014 0.5 26.3 4.9 31.7
Depreciation charge for the year 0.3 9.1 4.9 14.3
Disposals – – (3.7) (3.7)
Balance at 1 August 2015 0.8 35.4 6.1 42.3
Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 11.3 5.0 16.4
Disposals – – (2.3) (2.3)
Balance at 30 July 2016 0.9 46.7 8.8 56.4
    
Net book value
At 2 August 2014 3.3 37.5 10.1 50.9
At 1 August 2015 4.7 42.1 10.8 57.6
At 30 July 2016 5.6 48.5 11.0 65.1
Leased plant and machinery
Included in the total net book value of motor vehicles is £4.3m (2015: £4.1m) in respect of assets held under finance leases. 
Depreciation for the year on these assets was £1.9m (2015: £1.5m). 
Capital commitments
At 1 August 2015 the Group had contracted capital commitments of £3.4m (2015: £2.1m) for which no provision has been made in the 
financial statements.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   80 12/10/2016   18:06 81
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
9 Intangible assets 
Computer
software
£m
Brand
names
£m
Goodwill
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 2 August 2014 7.6 2.5 484.0 494.1
Additions 1.8 – – 1.8
Balance at 1 August 2015 9.4 2.5 484.0 495.9
Additions 2.6 – – 2.6
Acquisition – 0.5 1.0 1.5
Balance at 30 July 2016 12.0 3.0 485.0 500.0
    
Amortisation and impairment 
Balance at 2 August 2014 3.8 0.1 – 3.9
Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 0.1 – 2.7
Balance at 1 August 2015 6.4 0.2 – 6.6
Amortisation charge for the year 2.1 0.1 – 2.2
Balance at 30 July 2016 8.5 0.3 – 8.8
  
Net book value
At 2 August 2014 3.8 2.4 484.0 490.2
At 1 August 2015 3.0 2.3 484.0 489.3
At 30 July 2016 3.5 2.7 485.0 491.2
Acquisition
On 1 October 2015, the Group acquired the trade and assets of DFS Spain for cash consideration of £1.5m. This acquisition was 
made to facilitate the expansion of the Group’s operations in Europe and to secure the rights to the use of the DFS brand name in 
Spain. The goodwill of £1.0m arising from the acquisition is attributable to the workforce and operations of the acquired business.
The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed comprised the intangible asset of the DFS Spain brand name which had a fair 
value of £0.5m at acquisition. 
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to the following cash generating units:
Goodwill
2016 
£m
2015
£m
DFS Trading Limited 479.6 479.6
The Sofa Workshop Limited 4.4 4.4
DFS Spain 1.0 –
485.0 484.0
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment on the basis of value in use. The key assumptions underlying the calculations are those 
regarding expected future sales volumes, changes in selling prices and direct costs and the discount rate applied.
Cash flow forecasts are prepared from the latest financial results and internal budgets for the next four years, which take into account 
external macroeconomic indicators as well as internal growth expectations. Selling prices and related costs are based on past 
practice and expected future changes in the market. These forecasts were extrapolated for six more years with no further growth 
assumed and discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 10.2% (2015: 9.0%). The discount rates are estimated based on the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital, risk adjusted for an individual unit’s circumstances. 
The Group has applied sensitivities to assess whether any reasonably possible changes in assumptions could cause an impairment 
that would be material to these consolidated financial statements. Even with an assumption of no further growth beyond the four year 
budgeted period, a discount rate in excess of 18% would need to be applied in order for there to be any indication of an impairment. 
The directors have therefore concluded that no reasonably possible change in assumptions would result in an impairment of the 
assets and accordingly none has been recognised.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   81 12/10/2016   18:06 82
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
10 Investments in subsidiaries
The following companies are incorporated in England & Wales, are wholly owned by the Group and have been consolidated:
Principal activity
Diamond Holdco 2 Limited Intermediate holding company
Diamond Holdco 7 Limited Intermediate holding company
DFS Furniture Holdings plc Intermediate holding company
DFS Furniture Company Limited Intermediate holding company
DFS Trading Limited Furniture retailer
Coin Retail Limited (Jersey) Intermediate holding company
Coin Furniture Limited Furniture retailer
The Sofa Workshop Limited Furniture retailer
DFS Spain Limited Furniture retailer
11 Other financial assets
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current 
Interest rate derivatives – 1.3
Current
Foreign exchange contracts 3.1 1.1
Foreign exchange contracts comprise forward contracts which are used to hedge exchange risk arising from the Group’s overseas 
purchases (note 23).
Interest rate derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk on the Group’s floating rate debt (note 23).
12 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 2.7 1.9
Fair value lease creditor 4.3 4.9
Revaluation of derivatives to fair value 0.6 (0.3)
Tax losses carried forward 0.7 0.4
Other temporary differences 0.8 5.2
Net tax assets 9.1 12.1
The deferred tax movement in the year is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At start of period 12.1 11.2
Charged to the income statement:
 Accelerated capital allowances 0.8 1.2
 Fair value lease creditor (0.6) (0.1)
 Tax losses carried forward 0.4 0.4
 Other temporary differences (4.5) 0.3
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 0.9 (0.9)
At end of period 9.1 12.1
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   82 12/10/2016   18:06 83
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
13 Inventories
2016
£m
2015
£m
Raw materials and consumables 4.2 4.7
Finished goods and goods for resale 30.7 23.6
34.9 28.3
14 Trade and other receivables
2016
£m
2015
£m
Trade receivables 12.5 11.3
Prepayments and accrued income 13.1 13.3
Other receivables 0.8 0.7
26.4 25.3
No interest is charged on trade receivables; the Group bears no credit risk in respect of amounts due from retail customers under 
interest free credit arrangements. Prepayments and accrued income do not include impaired assets. 
15 Trade payables and other liabilities
2016
£m
2015
£m
Current
Payments received on account 24.9 23.6
Trade payables 76.3 64.8
Other creditors including other tax and social security 25.1 22.8
Accruals and deferred income 31.2 30.4
Other loans & borrowings – 2.2
Finance lease liabilities 1.8 1.4
159.3 145.2
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current
Fair value lease creditor 20.6 21.2
Accruals and deferred income 43.1 44.4
Finance lease liabilities 3.7 3.6
67.4 69.2
Trade payables do not bear interest and are paid within agreed credit terms. Property lease incentives are classified as non-current to 
the extent that they will be credited to the income statement more than one year from the reporting date.
16 Other financial liabilities
2016
£m
2015
£m
Non-current 
Interest rate derivatives 6.1 –
Current 
Foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.8
Foreign exchange contracts comprise forward contracts which are used to hedge exchange risk arising from the Group’s overseas 
purchases (note 23). Interest rate derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk on the Group’s floating rate debt (note 23).
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   83 12/10/2016   18:06 84
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
17 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured 
at amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 23.
2016
£m
2015
£m
Senior loan facility 200.0 200.0
Unamortised issue costs (1.7) (2.1)
198.3 197.9
The senior loan facility bears interest at a rate of 3 month LIBOR plus 2.5% and is repayable in full on 12 March 2020. The senior loan 
facility is secured on a first priority basis with fixed and floating charges over substantially all of the assets of the Company and DFS 
Furniture Holdings plc.
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
2016 2015
Minimum lease 
payments
£m
Interest
£m
Principal
£m
Minimum lease 
payments
£m
Interest
£m
Principal
£m
Less than one year 2.0 (0.2) 1.8 1.6 (0.2) 1.4
Between one and five years 3.9 (0.2) 3.7 3.7 (0.1) 3.6
More than five years – – – – –
5.9 (0.4) 5.5 5.3 (0.3) 5.0
18 Employee benefits
Defined contribution pension plans 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans under which contributions by the employees and the Group are 
administered by trustees in funds separate from the Group’s assets. The costs of these schemes are charged to the income statement 
as they become payable under the rules of the scheme. The total pension cost of the Group for the year was £2.4m (2015: £2.2m).
19 Provisions
Guarantee 
provision
£m
Property
provisions
£m
Other
provisions
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 August 2015 8.8 1.7 - 10.5
Provisions made during the year 5.0 0.4 0.8 6.2
Reclassification from accruals – – 1.0 1.0
Provisions used during the year (5.4) (0.2) – (5.6)
Provisions released during the year (0.5) – – (0.5)
Unwind of discount – 0.1 – 0.1
Balance at 30 July 2016 7.9 2.0 1.8 11.7
   
Current 5.3 0.2 1.1 6.6
Non-current 2.6 1.8 0.7 5.1
7.9 2.0 1.8 11.7
The guarantee provision reflects the estimated cost of the guarantee provided to retail customers. Property provisions relate to 
onerous contracts and other obligations in respect of the Group’s property leases including an estimate of dilapidation costs based on 
anticipated lease expiries and renewals. Other provisions relate to payment of refunds to customers for payment protection insurance 
policies and other regulatory costs.
20 Dividends
The following dividends were recognised and paid during the year:
Pence per
ordinary share
2016
£m
2015
£m
Interim ordinary dividend for the period ended 1 August 2015 3.1p 6.6 –
Final ordinary dividend for the period ended 1 August 2015 6.2p 13.2 –
Interim ordinary dividend for the period ended 30 July 2016 3.5p 7.5 –
27.3 –
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   84 12/10/2016   18:06 85
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
20 Dividends (continued)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in the year were £nil (2015: £0.9m).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.5p in respect of the financial period ended 30 July 2016, resulting in a total proposed 
dividend of £15.9m. Subject to shareholder approval it is intended that this dividend will be paid on 28 December 2016. DFS Furniture 
plc shares will trade ex-dividend from 8 December 2016 and the record date will be 9 December 2016. This dividend has not therefore 
been recognised as a liability in these financial statements. 
21 Capital and reserves
Share capital
Ordinary shares of £1 each
Number of shares Ordinary shares
2016
‘000
2015
‘000
2016
£m
2015
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At the start of the financial period – 42,615 – 42.6
Issued during the year – 192,708 – 192.7
Consolidation to ordinary shares of £1.50 each – (235,323) – (235.3)
At the end of the financial period – – – –
Ordinary shares of £1.50 each
Number of shares Ordinary shares
2016
‘000
2015
‘000
2016
£m
2015
£m
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At the start of the financial period 213,030 – 319.5 –
Consolidation of ordinary shares of £1 each – 156,882 – 235.3
Issued during the period – 56,148 – 84.2
At the end of the financial period 213,030 213,030 319.5 319.5
At 3 August 2014 the Company had in issue 42,615,218 ordinary shares of £1 each. On 17 February 2015 a further 192,708,003 
£1 ordinary shares were issued to capitalise principal and accrued interest on outstanding loans from parent companies. No gain or 
loss arose from this transaction as the carrying value of the shareholder debt reflected its fair value. One further £1 ordinary share was 
issued on 22 February 2015 and the resulting total of 235,323,222 ordinary shares of £1 each were then consolidated to 156,882,148 
ordinary shares of £1.50 each.
On 10 March 2015 a total of 17,717,081 ordinary shares of £1.50 each were issued to senior management and certain other employees 
of the Group in exchange for their minority interests in the issued share capital of DFS Investments Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of 
the Company which has subsequently been placed into Members Voluntary Liquidation.
On 11 March 2015 a further 38,431,372 ordinary shares of £1.50 each were issued for cash consideration of £98.0m, conditional to 
the Admission of the Company’s shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange. This brought the total shares in issue at 2 August 
2015 to 213,030,601 ordinary shares of £1.50 each.
Share premium
The share premium account represents the surplus of consideration received for issued ordinary share capital over its nominal value. 
The balance of £59.0m arose during the year on the issue ordinary shares on 11 March 2015 as noted above.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the issue of shares in the Company in exchange for minority interests in the issued share capital of a 
subsidiary company on 10 March 2015 as noted above.
Treasury shares
Where the Company purchases the Company’s equity share capital into treasury (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled, reissued or disposed of. 
During the period ending 30 July 2016 the Company purchased 1,500,000 of its own ordinary shares at a total cost of £3.7m for the 
purpose of satisfying employee share based payment awards.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred. 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 86
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
22 Financial instruments: categories and fair value
2016
£m
2015
£m
Financial assets
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships 3.1 2.4
Loans and receivables 13.3 12.0
Cash 66.7 40.7
Financial liabilities
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships (6.2) (0.8)
Senior loan facility (198.3) (197.9)
Amortised cost (162.3) (150.0)
Finance lease obligations (5.5) (5.0)
All derivatives are categorised as Level 2 under the requirements of IFRS 7 as they are valued using techniques based significantly on 
observed market data.
The directors consider that the fair values of each category of the Group’s financial instruments are the same as their carrying values in 
the Group’s balance sheet.
23 Financial instruments: risk management
The objectives, policies and processes governing the treasury activities of the Group are reviewed and approved by the Board. The 
Group’s documented treasury policy includes details of authorised counterparties, instrument types and transaction limits and 
principles for the management of liquidity, interest and foreign exchange risks. As part of its strategy for the management of these 
risks the Group uses derivative financial instruments. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative 
financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements to ensure that it has sufficient liquid resources to meet its obligations as 
they fall due while making efficient use of the Group’s financial resources.
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash flows (including interest) of the Group’s 
financial liabilities:
2016
 Less than 1 year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 152.4 – – – 152.4
Finance lease liabilities 2.0 1.7 2.2 – 5.9
Senior loan facility 5.6 5.6 209.9 – 221.1
Other liabilities 5.4 2.8 0.6 2.1 10.9
165.4 10.1 212.7 2.1 390.3
Derivatives: net settled 1.4 1.3 2.2 – 4.9
Derivatives: gross settled
Cash inflows (37.4) – – – (37.4)
Cash out flows 34.0 – – – 34.0
Total cash flows 163.4 11.4 214.9 2.1 391.8
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   86 12/10/2016   18:06 87
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
23 Financial instruments: risk management (continued)
2015
Less than 1 year
£m
1 to 2 years
£m
2 to 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other payables 139.5 – – – 139.5
Finance lease liabilities 1.6 1.6 2.1 – 5.3
Senior loan facility 6.1 6.1 216.9 – 229.1
Other liabilities 6.0 3.1 0.6 1.9 11.6
153.2 10.8 219.6 1.9 385.5
Derivatives: net settled 2.8 2.8 7.6 – 13.2
Derivatives: gross settled
Cash inflows (72.4) – – – (72.4)
Cash out flows 72.0 – – – 72.0
Total cash flows 155.6 13.6 227.2 1.9 398.3
The Group has a £30.0m revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 which is as yet unutilised.
Interest rate risk management
The Group’s operating profit is affected by the cost of providing interest free credit to its customers. A fall in LIBOR rates would have a 
positive impact on operating profit and a rise in LIBOR rates would impact operating profit negatively. An increase by one percentage 
point would reduce the Group’s revenue by 0.4 percentage points. However, any fall in LIBOR rates at present would largely be offset 
by LIBOR ‘floor’ mechanisms used by the external providers of credit to the Group’s customers.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its senior loan facility, which bears interest at a floating rate of 3 month GBP LIBOR plus 
2.50%. In order to provide some certainty over the future cash flows associated with this debt, the Group has entered into four 
participating interest rate swaps. The effect of these instruments is to fix the interest rate payable on the senior loan facility to a 
maximum level while allowing the Group to retain some benefit on a proportion of the facility where 3 month LIBOR remains below 
1.39%. The swaps cover the full £200.0m of the senior loan facility for its duration until March 2020. The fair values of the Group’s 
interest rate derivatives are as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Interest rate swaps
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships (6.1) 1.3
Foreign exchange risk management
The Group is exposed to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations on the purchase of products denominated in foreign currencies. 
Currency requirements are assessed by analysis of historic purchasing patterns by month, adjusted as appropriate to take into 
account current trading expectations. The Group’s treasury policy allows for the use of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge 
the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated future purchases between 9 and 18 months in advance. These contracts are 
designated as cash flow hedges.
The table below summarises the forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the period end:
2016 2015
Notional amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Notional amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Derivatives in designated hedging relationships
US Dollar 34.0 3.0 72.0 0.3
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows:
 Assets Liabilities
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
US Dollar – 0.1 (1.7) (0.8)
Euro 2.7 8.0 (0.3) (0.3)
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 88
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
23 Financial instruments: risk management (continued)
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group’s primary foreign currency exposures are to US Dollars and the Euro. The table below illustrates the hypothetical sensitivity 
of the Group’s reported profit and closing equity to a 10% weakening of these currencies against Sterling, assuming all other variables 
were unchanged. The sensitivity rate of 10% represents the directors’ assessment of a reasonably possible change, based on 
historic volatility. 
The analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end 
for a 10% change in foreign currency rates. The analysis assumes that exchange rate fluctuations on currency derivatives that form 
part of an effective cash flow hedge relationship affect the cash flow hedging reserve in equity.
Positive figures represent an increase in profit or equity.
 Income statement Equity
2016
£m
2015
£m
2016
£m
2015
£m
US Dollar 0.2 0.1 (3.9) (7.2)
Euro (0.2) (0.8) – –
A 10% strengthening of the above currencies against the Sterling at the period end would have had the equal but opposite effect on 
the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Financial risk management 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s investment securities.
Investments of cash, borrowings and derivative instruments are transacted only through counterparties meeting the credit rating and 
investment criteria specified in the Group’s treasury policy. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are 
regularly reviewed. Concentrations of risk are mitigated through the use of multiple counterparties and by counterparty limits which are 
reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having 
similar characteristics.
Capital management
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, as analysed in note 26, and equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent 
company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. The 
Group manages its capital with the objective that all entities within the Group continue as going concerns while maintaining an efficient 
structure to minimise the cost of capital. The Group is not restricted by any externally imposed capital requirements.
24 Share based payments
The Group has three share based payment schemes in operation:
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The LTIP is a discretionary executive reward plan that allows the Group to grant conditional share awards or nil-cost options to 
selected executives at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The scheme is focused on the senior leadership roles in the 
Group, including Executive Directors. The maximum value of LTIP awards granted to an individual is 150% of base salary, although the 
Remuneration Committee may in exceptional circumstances increase this to 300%.
LTIP awards vest after a three year performance period (other than those granted shortly after Admission which will vest in July 2017) 
subject to the achievement of performance measures based on earnings per share and total shareholder return targets. Further 
information on LTIP performance targets and awards made to Directors is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
50 to 62.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
The RSP is also a discretionary reward plan under which conditional share awards or nil-cost options may be granted to individuals in 
key executive roles in the Group, excluding Executive Directors and other recipients of LTIP awards. Awards may not exceed 50% of 
an individual’s salary for a particular financial year. 
RSP awards vest after a three year performance period (other than those granted shortly after Admission which will vest in July 2017) 
and are not subject to other performance conditions.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   88 12/10/2016   18:06 89
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
24 Share based payments (continued)
Save as Your Earn (SAYE)
SAYE schemes are currently available to all employees in the UK and Republic of Ireland, with invitations to participate generally issued 
on an annual basis and subject to HMRC rules. The current maximum monthly savings limit for the schemes is £250. Options are 
granted at the prevailing market rate less a discount of 20% and vest three years from the date of grant.
The movements in outstanding awards under each of the schemes are summarised below; no awards vested or were exercised 
during the year and at 30 July 2016 no outstanding awards were exercisable. 
LTIP
No.
RSP
No.
SAYE
No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 625,603 131,414 –
Granted 569,322 633,210 1,670,678
Forfeited (223,868) (57,855) (29,620)
Outstanding at the end of the year 971,057 706,769 1,641,058
Weighted average remaining contractual life (months) 17.9 21.7 30.2
Fair value calculations
The LTIP, RSP and SAYE awards are all accounted for as equity-settled under IFRS 2. The fair value of LTIP awards which are subject 
to a market based performance condition (total shareholder return) is calculated using a stochastic (Monte Carlo) option pricing model. 
RSP awards, SAYE awards and LTIP awards subject to a non-market based performance condition (earnings per share) are valued 
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs to these models for awards granted during the financial period are 
detailed below:
LTIP RSP SAYE
Grant date 23 October 2015 18 November 2016 10 December 2015
Share price at date of grant £3.14 £3.31 £3.35
Exercise price Nil Nil £2.62
Volatility 23.8% –
2
24.0%
Expected life 3 years 2.7 years 3 years
Risk free rate 0.75% –
2
0.75%
Dividend yield –
1
2.8% 3.0%
Fair value per share
Market based performance condition £1.82 – –
Non-market based performance condition/no performance condition £3.14 £3.07 £0.75
1.  LTIP participants are entitled to receive dividend equivalents on unvested awards therefore dividend yield does not impact the fair value calculation
2.   Volatility and risk free rates do not impact the fair value calculation for awards with no exercise price or market based performance condition
As the Company had only limited share price history at the date of grant, expected volatility was based on a proxy volatility determined 
from the median volatility of a group of appropriate comparator companies within the FTSE All Share index. For the same reason, a 
similar approach was followed to derive the dividend yield. Expected life has been assumed to equate to the vesting period of 
the awards.
The total share based payment expense included in administration costs in respect of the above schemes was £1.2m (2015: £0.6m). In 
the previous year there was an additional £0.4m of accelerated charges in connection with the Company’s IPO which were presented 
as non-underlying costs.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions 90
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
25 Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Less than one year 62.6 58.1
Between one and five years 237.9 222.5
More than five years 366.4 382.4
666.9 663.0
The Group has entered into operating leases in respect of stores, warehouses and equipment. These non-cancellable leases have 
remaining terms of between three months and 20 years. The majority of the Group’s operating leases provide for their renewal by 
mutual agreement at the expiry of the lease term.
During the year £58.9m was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases (2015: £56.7m). At 
1 August 2015, future rentals receivable under non-cancellable leases where the Group is the lessor were £12.7m (2015: £13.6m).
26 Net debt
 2015
£m
 Cash flow
£m
 Other non-cash 
changes
£m
 2016
£m
Cash in hand, at bank 40.7 26.0 – 66.7
Cash and cash equivalents 40.7 26.0 – 66.7
Senior loan facility (197.9) – (0.4) (198.3)
Finance lease liabilities (5.0) 1.7 (2.2) (5.5)
Total net debt (162.2) 27.7 (2.6) (137.1)
27 Related parties
Key management personnel
At 30 July 2016, Directors of the Company held 3.2% of it issued ordinary share capital (2015: 3.2%), and a further 0.4% (2015: 1.6%) 
was held by other key management personnel.
The compensation of key management personnel (including the Directors) is as follows:
2016
£m
2015
£m
Emoluments 2.7 2.7
Company contributions to money purchase schemes 0.2 0.2
2.9 2.9
Majority shareholder
During the financial period the Group paid £nil (2015: £66,667) in management fees to its majority shareholder, Advent Diamond 
(Luxembourg) Sarl.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   90 12/10/2016   18:06 91
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 30 July 2016
Note
2016 
£m
2015
£m
Fixed assets
 Investments 29 236.7 235.5
Current assets
 Amounts due from group companies 30 198.0 98.0
Current liabilities
 Amounts due to group companies 31 (3.7) –
Net assets 431.0 333.5
Capital and reserves 
 Called up share capital 319.5 319.5
 Share premium 40.4 40.4
 Merger reserve 18.6 18.6
 Treasury shares 32 (3.7) –
 Retained earnings 56.2 (45.0)
Equity shareholders’ funds 431.0 333.5
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 5 October 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ian Filby    Nicola Bancroft
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   91 12/10/2016   18:06 92
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
at 30 July 2016
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Treasury
 shares
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 2 August 2014 42.6 – – – – 42.6
Loss for the year – – – – (45.2) (45.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – – – –
Total comprehensive expense for the year – – – – (45.2) (45.2)
Reorganisation on IPO 219.3 – 18.6 – – 237.9
Equity raised on IPO 57.6 40.4 – – – 98.0
Dividends – – – – – –
Share based payments – – – – 0.2 0.2
Balance at 1 August 2015 319.5 40.4 18.6 – (45.0) 333.5
Profit for the year – – – – 127.3 127.3
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for 
the year – – – – 127.3 127.3
Dividends – – – – (27.3) (27.3)
Purchase of own shares – – – (3.7) – (3.7)
Share based payments – – – – 1.2 1.2
Balance at 30 July 2016 319.5 40.4 18.6 (3.7) 56.2 431.0
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   92 12/10/2016   18:06 93
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
at 30 July 2016
28 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are the first for the Company to have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”). In the transition to FRS101 the Company has made no measurement and 
recognition adjustments.
In these financial statements the Company has applied the exemption available under FRS101 in respect of the following disclosures:
• a cash flow statement and related notes;
• comparative period reconciliations;
• disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries;
• disclosures in respect of capital management; and
• the impact of new but not yet effective IFRSs.
As the consolidated accounts of the Company include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemption 
available under FRS 1010 in respect of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments disclosures of group settled share based payments. Under 
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is not required to present its own profit and loss account. The Company’s 
profit for the period was £127.3m (2015: loss of £45.2m).
The Company proposes to continue to adopt he reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these 
financial statements and in preparing an opening FRS 101 IFRS balance sheet at 3 August 2014 for the purposes of the transition  
to FRS 101.
Going concern
The Company heads a group which is highly cash generative, with sufficient medium and long term facilities in place to enable it to meet 
its obligations as they fall due. The directors are therefore satisfied that the Company will be able to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to prepare the Company’s financial statements on the going concern basis.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost, less provision for any impairment.
Amounts due from and to group companies
Amounts receivable from or payable to other companies within the Company’s group are recognised initially and fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income. Deferred tax is 
provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts if assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes.
Share based payments
Awards (options or conditional shares) granted by the Company over its own shares to the employees of subsidiary companies are 
recognised in the Company’s own financial statements as an increase in the cost of investment in subsidiaries. The amount 
recognised is equivalent to the equity-settled share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated financial statements. The 
corresponding credit is recognised directly in equity.
Treasury shares
Where the Company purchases the Company’s equity share capital into treasury (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled, reissued or disposed of. 
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   93 12/10/2016   18:06 94
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
29 Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
2016
£m
2015
£m
Cost and net book value
At the start of the financial period 235.5 42.6
Additions 1.2 192.9
At the end of the financial period 236.7 235.5
Details of the Company’s investments are given in note 10. The increase in shares in subsidiary undertakings in the prior year arose on 
the group reorganisation that took place in connection with the Admission of the Company’s ordinary shares to trading on the London 
Stock Exchange. Additions in the current year relate to capital contributions made in respect of share based payments schemes for 
the Group’s employees.
30 Debtors
2016
£m
2015
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 198.0 98.0
31 Creditors: amounts due in less than one year
2016
£m
2015
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 3.7 –
32 Treasury shares
During the period ended 30 July 2016 the Company purchased 1,500,000 of its own ordinary shares at a total cost of £3.7m for the 
purpose of satisfying employee share based payment awards. 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
at 30 July 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   94 12/10/2016   18:06 FINANCIAL CALENDAR
95
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Chief Executive Officer
Ian Filby
Chief Financial Officer
Nicola Bancroft
Group Company Secretary
Paul Walker
Investor Relations
Mike Schmidt
Corporate website
www.dfscorporate.co.uk
Registered office
DFS Furniture plc
1 Rockingham Way
Redhouse Interchange
Adwick-le-Street
Doncaster
DN6 7NA
Corporate advisers:
Auditor
KPMG LLP
Remuneration adviser
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Brokers
UBS Limited & Jefferies International Limited
Solicitor
Weil, Gotshal & Manges
Registrar
Equiniti
The Company’s registrar is Equiniti. They will be pleased to deal 
with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividends. 
Please notify them of your change of address  
or other personal information. Their address details are:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti is a trading name of Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti helpline: 0371 384 2030. Overseas holders should 
contact +44 (0)121 415 7047.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding 
public holidays).
Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and 
facilities include electronic communications, account enquiries, 
amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions.
For institutional investor enquiries, please contact:
FTI Consulting
200 Aldersgate
Aldersgate Street
London
EC1A 4HD
+44 (0)20 3727 1000
2016 full year results 6 October 2016
Record date for 2016 final dividend 9 December 2016
Annual General Meeting 2 December 2016
Payment date for 2016 final dividend 28 December 2016
2017 half year results March 2017
Payment date for 2016 interim dividend June 2017
CONTACTS SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   95 12/10/2016   18:06 96
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
NOTES
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   96 12/10/2016   18:06  Annual 
report and 
accounts 
2016
G R E A T B R I T I S H
D E S I G N
G R E A T B R I T I S H
M A N U F A C T U R E
G R E A T B R I T I S H
R E T A I L
G R E A T B R I T I S H
S E R V I C E
DFS Furniture plc
1 Rockingham Way 
Redhouse Interchange
Adwick-le-Street
Doncaster
DN6 7NA
www.dfscorporate.co.uk www.dfs.co.uk
DFS Furniture plc Annual report and accounts 2016
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   1-3 12/10/2016   18:04
