 Dialight plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016  Revenue (£’m)
£182.2M
2014 159.8
2015 161.4
2016 182.2
 Underlying gross proﬁt (£’m)
£69.5M
2014 60.6
2015 56.2
2016 69.5
 Underlying operating proﬁt (£’m)
£13.1M
2014 18.1
2015 6.1
2016 13.1
 Underlying basic EPS (p)
26.9p
2014 36.8
2015 13.3
2016 26.9
2016 highlights
Contents
Strategic report 
1 Our purpose
2 A visible difference
8  Our business at a glance
10  Chairman’s letter
11 Investment case
12 Chief Executive’s strategic review
16 Our markets
18 Our business model and strategy 
20 Strategy at a glance
22 Our strategy in action
28 Resources, relationships and responsibilities
32 Key performance indicators
34 Risk management and internal controls
36 Principal risks and uncertainties
38 Financial review
Governance 
42 Board of Directors 
44 Chairman’s introduction
45 Corporate governance report 
51 Viability statement
52 Audit Committee report
56 Nominations Committee report
58 Remuneration Committee report
61 Directors’ remuneration policy
67 Annual report on remuneration
75 Directors’ report
78 Directors’ responsibility statement
Financial statements
79 Independent auditor’s report
83 Consolidated income statement
84 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
85 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
86 Consolidated statement of total financial position 
87 Consolidated statement of cash flows
88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
118 Company balance sheet
119 Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
128 Five-year summary
129 Directory and shareholder information
Find more online:
www.dialight.com
Financial highlights
 — Revenue up 13% (2% at constant currency).
 — Lighting division order intake
1
 up 8% at constant currency.
 — Underlying profit growth reflecting management action 
to reduce cost base and improve operating model.
 – Profit in Lighting and Signals & Components grew by £6.7m 
and £2.2m respectively.
 — Operating model changes reflected in non-underlying items 
charge of £16.4m; additional £2 – £3m final costs in 2017.
 — Strong balance sheet supported by good working capital 
management and new five-year credit facility.
Strategic and operational highlights
 — Rebuild phase largely complete.
 — Growth initiatives underway.
 – Higher quality sales teams with broader 
international presence.
 – Three automation partnerships in progress, broadening 
our channels to market and value proposition.
 — Investment in product roadmap: 37 new products launched. 
 — Revenues diversified, by sector and geography.
1
 Order intake is the value of orders received in a given period.
Statutory measures
2016 2015 2014 
(Loss)/profit from operating activities (£’m) (3.3) (3.4) 15.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (£’m) (2.8) (2.0) 9.5
Earnings per share (p) (8.4) (6.4) 29.4 Strategic report
Our purpose
WHERE DOES THE NEXT 
SOLUTION COME FROM? 
HOW ARE PRODUCTS CONCEIVED?
Dialight defines the current state of LED lighting technology with our  
high-specification range of products. We are uniquely positioned for  
a number of long-term global growth trends.
Our people are the key to our success, understanding customers’ needs and  
anticipating how they are changing. In today’s global business environment, challenges  
are greater than ever. To continue to deliver market-leading, innovative products,  
we must think big and maintain an open mind, systematically researching and analysing  
each of our key markets and fostering an environment of enquiry and a pursuit of  
knowledge within the business.
Our employees are always looking ahead to answer the question “What’s next?”  
This allows us to lead the energy efficient LED lighting revolution  
for industrial and hazardous applications. We are continuing to develop LED 
lighting solutions that enable our customers to lower their energy usage and 
carbon dioxide emissions, reduce maintenance requirements and improve 
safety while integrating key information within their operations.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
1 Strategic report
A visible difference
2 Leader in a changing world
Since the invention of incandescent bulbs 
there have been very few real innovations in 
the lighting industry. For Dialight customers 
lighting remains one of the most efficient ways 
to drive down energy usage. We are delivering 
the next generation of lighting solutions that not 
only reduce energy consumption but create 
a safer working environment. Our products 
are specifically designed to provide superior 
operational performance, reliability and 
durability, reducing energy consumption 
and ongoing maintenance and achieving 
a rapid return on investment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
3 Strategic report
A visible difference continued
Making a  
visible difference
Innovation in the lighting industry  
is leading to the development of  
products that combine lighting systems  
with network sources into a single platform.  
Dialight has taken advantage of this trend  
by adding building automation systems and  
enabling the “Internet of Things” into its product 
portfolio. The concept allows building owners to 
control individual systems within their buildings 
via a single platform. The “Internet of Things” 
allows the lighting fixture to collect data 
throughout the building, paving the  
path for the development  
of smart buildings.
4 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
5 Strategic report
A visible difference continued
6 The importance of sustainability 
Sustainability will play a particularly  
important role in how businesses respond  
to this new world. Corporate responsibility  
used to be a “luxury” that businesses liked  
to look enthusiastic about. But perspective  
has changed. Sustainability is becoming  
the lens through which a business is  
judged by its consumers, workforce,  
society and its investors. 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
7 Strategic report
Our business at a glance
LIGHTING SIGNALS AND COMPONENTS
Overview of the business
Dialight is an innovative lighting solutions company that 
manufactures and sells lighting products in the industrial 
market. They are designed to work in harsh environments 
and enhance productivity while providing sustainable 
energy management solutions. 
Growth drivers 
The total addressable industrial market is estimated to be 
£50bn with only 3% cumulative conversion to LED. We believe 
the LED market will grow at a rapid pace with the overall 
market tailwinds and LED conversions becoming common 
as traditional lighting is phased out.
Operational key points 
Restructuring of our manufacturing processes through a 
manufacturing partnership will support our growth initiatives. 
We develop our own power supply units, which allows us to 
provide an industry leading ten-year warranty.  
Overview of the business
The Signals and Components division sells electronic 
components, traffic lights and niche vehicle lights. In 
Traffic and Transportation, Dialight provides LED lighting for 
signals, while the Components businesses include sales to 
electronic original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) for 
status indication and components for automotive and niche 
industrial applications.
Growth drivers 
This is a mature and stable market characterised by significant 
competition. We have been able to maintain our sales volumes 
while the Group manages this business for value.
Operational key points 
We have a stable portfolio of products that continue to 
be managed for value. Operational improvements ensure 
stability of margin in a market where sales prices are 
under threat.
Revenue (£’m)
2015 120.6
2016 136.6
75% of Group revenue
Underlying gross proﬁt (£’m)
83%
of Group underlying 
gross proﬁt
2015 48.3
2016 57.4
Revenue (£’m)
25% of Group revenue
2015 40.8
2016 45.6
Underlying gross proﬁt (£’m)
17%
of Group underlying
gross proﬁt
2015 7.9
2016 12.1
Underlying operating proﬁt (£’m)
73% 
of Group underlying
segmental operating proﬁt
2015 6.8
2016 13.5
Underlying operating proﬁt (£’m)
27% 
of Group underlying 
segmental operating proﬁt
2015 2.7
2016 4.9
STRONG MARKET POSITIONING OUR DIVISIONS 
Dialight’s ability to rapidly develop and commercialise 
innovative and technological advancements has positioned 
us with significantly differentiated products resulting 
in the lowest total cost of ownership for our customers. 
As a result, we have taken a leading market position 
ahead of competition in our core vertical markets.
Embedded 
resonant  
power  
supply
Integrated 
mechanical  
and thermal  
design
Easy to  
install
Leading  
optical  
design
Advanced  
lighting  
controls
Integrated  
with factory 
automation
MARKET-LEADING 
POSITION THROUGH 
INNOVATION
8
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2016 
 International Die Casting Competition 
 
Presented to: 
 
Michael Mirabella 
 
Dialight Corp 
60K LED Housing 
 
For excellence in 
Aluminum Die Casting Over 10 lbs 
 
 
Daniel L. Twarog, NADCA President 
 
NORTH AMERICAN DIE CASTING ASSOCIATION 
 
 
LIGHTING SIGNALS AND COMPONENTS
Overview of the business
Dialight is an innovative lighting solutions company that 
manufactures and sells lighting products in the industrial 
market. They are designed to work in harsh environments 
and enhance productivity while providing sustainable 
energy management solutions. 
Growth drivers 
The total addressable industrial market is estimated to be 
£50bn with only 3% cumulative conversion to LED. We believe 
the LED market will grow at a rapid pace with the overall 
market tailwinds and LED conversions becoming common 
as traditional lighting is phased out.
Operational key points 
Restructuring of our manufacturing processes through a 
manufacturing partnership will support our growth initiatives. 
We develop our own power supply units, which allows us to 
provide an industry leading ten-year warranty.  
Overview of the business
The Signals and Components division sells electronic 
components, traffic lights and niche vehicle lights. In 
Traffic and Transportation, Dialight provides LED lighting for 
signals, while the Components businesses include sales to 
electronic original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) for 
status indication and components for automotive and niche 
industrial applications.
Growth drivers 
This is a mature and stable market characterised by significant 
competition. We have been able to maintain our sales volumes 
while the Group manages this business for value.
Operational key points 
We have a stable portfolio of products that continue to 
be managed for value. Operational improvements ensure 
stability of margin in a market where sales prices are 
under threat.
Revenue (£’m)
2015 120.6
2016 136.6
75% of Group revenue
Underlying gross proﬁt (£’m)
83%
of Group underlying 
gross proﬁt
2015 48.3
2016 57.4
Revenue (£’m)
25% of Group revenue
2015 40.8
2016 45.6
Underlying gross proﬁt (£’m)
17%
of Group underlying
gross proﬁt
2015 7.9
2016 12.1
Underlying operating proﬁt (£’m)
73% 
of Group underlying
segmental operating proﬁt
2015 6.8
2016 13.5
Underlying operating proﬁt (£’m)
27% 
of Group underlying 
segmental operating proﬁt
2015 2.7
2016 4.9
International Die Casting  
Competition 2016
Dialight Corp 60K LED Housing
For Excellence in Aluminum  
Die Casting Over 10lbs
AN AWARD WINNING PORTFOLIO 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
9
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Chairman’s letter
INITIATIVES UNDER WAY  
TO DRIVE LONG- TERM 
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
The Governance report on pages 42 to 78 provides details 
of the Group’s approach to governance and how it supports 
the delivery of our strategy. Highlights for the year included:
Nominations Committee
 — Appointed three new Non-Executive Directors.
 — Monitored the inductions of those Directors.
 — Reviewed the pipeline of potential future Board members.
 — Read more in the Nominations Committee report on pages 56 and 57.
Audit Committee
 — Reviewed significant judgements made by management 
in preparing the 2016 financial statements.
 — Monitored the Group’s systems of risk management 
and internal controls.
 — Supported the Board in providing the viability statement.
 — Read more in the Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 55.
Remuneration Committee
 — Reviewed the framework for executive remuneration.
 — Consulted with shareholders with respect to the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration for 2017.
 — Approved the Executive Directors’ 2016 bonus payments, 
assessed the Executive Directors’ performance against 
2016 targets and set their 2017 bonus targets.
 — Read more in the Remuneration Committee report  
on pages 58 to 74.
Dialight has made excellent financial and operating progress in 
2016. The Group delivered sales and underlying profit growth 
and took steps operationally which will ensure the business can 
deliver durable long-term profit growth. The core markets for 
our products remain robust despite near-term volatility, and 
intelligent lighting solutions continue to grow.
Our management team has responded by improving sales, 
product management and operating capabilities which will be 
leveraged further in coming years. We continue to believe the 
pace of LED conversion will continue to grow in the near term as 
traditional lighting solutions are phased out. As a result, the Board 
is confident in the Group’s compelling opportunities in the future. 
Results
Dialight delivered 2016 revenues of £182m and underlying 
operating profit of £13m. The Lighting segment generated an 
underlying operating profit of £14m reflecting a return to more 
normal levels as it continued rebuilding its organisation. The 
Signals and Components business generated an underlying 
operating profit of £5m. Restructuring costs in support of our 
three-year strategic plan were £16m resulting in a loss for the 
year of £3m. The Group ended the year with a strong cash 
balance of £8m and a new banking facility.
Our people
Changes were made to the senior management team in 
2015 and 2016, including the hire of Michael Sutsko as Chief 
Executive. These changes were aimed at attracting people 
with the specific skills and experiences to support the Group’s 
strategy and growth plans. Overall, under Michael’s leadership, 
the team has made strong progress in improving sales and 
operational capabilities, controls and investment discipline 
as evidenced by our 2016 financial performance. The Board 
believes the management team is capable of achieving 
10
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com growth and being a leader in the emerging LED market. We are 
committed to the safety and wellbeing of our people and reduced 
our accident incidence rate by 50% during the year.
Dividend
The Board ensures there is a strong capital base. Therefore 
no final dividend was declared for 2015 and the 2016 interim 
dividend. Given the Group’s continued focus on the delivery 
of profitable growth, the Board has therefore not proposed 
a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Board and corporate governance
The Board is committed to good governance, which we believe 
will support the delivery of the Group’s strategy. In light of the 
Group’s plan for future growth, we reviewed the composition 
of the Board to ensure that it has the correct balance of skills, 
experience and knowledge. As a result we are pleased to 
appoint David Thomas, Martin L. Rapp and Gaelle Hotelier.
Outlook
The Group’s order book provides a resilient backdrop for the year 
ahead. The Group continues to perform well in growing market 
sector diversity. We are continuing with our productivity and 
efficiency initiatives to mitigate the impact of the challenging 
macroeconomic environment and will focus even more intently on 
optimising our future revenue growth opportunities. We remain 
focused on growing the business through improving operational 
efficiencies and investing in new technology to underpin that growth.
Finally, I would like to thank all our people and the Board 
for their hard work and commitment to Dialight, and to thank 
our shareholders for their support over the past 12 months.
Wayne Edmunds
Chairman
27 February 2017
INVESTMENT CASE
Dialight offers a sound and attractive investment 
proposition, based on the following investment attributes 
that combine to deliver significant shareholder value:
Market leader in an 
attractive underlying market 
 — Significant growth 
opportunity with the 
market only 3% 
converted to LED.
 — Leading market position 
in the US, with a 50% 
share and 21% in the 
rest of the world.
Leading technology
 — High barriers to entry 
supported by continuous 
innovation and long-term 
customer relationships.
 — Strong intellectual 
property underpinned by 
sustained investment in 
R&D of 3–4% of revenue 
each year.
 — Application expertise: 
our people have in-depth 
know-how and expertise 
in their chosen fields.
 — We are increasingly 
focused not just on the 
supply of lighting fixtures 
but on the provision of 
innovative solutions to 
our customers, where 
lighting becomes more 
than just a light.
Diversified end markets
 — Focused on customer 
solutions in niche 
markets with strong 
growth potential.
 — Enhancing customers’ 
productivity is an 
ever-present growth 
driver for our business.
 — Broad spread of customers, 
end markets and 
geographies mitigates 
the risk to the Group from 
adverse changes to any 
single geography or 
end market.
Multiple channels to market
 — The Group has multiple 
channels to market through 
established distribution 
networks and sales direct 
to end customers.
 — Extending sales approach 
to target corporate 
decision makers, 
highlighting sustainability 
and total cost of ownership.
Strong cash conversion 
resulting from asset-light 
manufacturing model
 — Low capital requirements 
as result of forming 
manufacturing 
partnerships.
 — High gross margins and 
low capital requirements 
result in strong operating 
cash conversion.
Balance sheet strength 
and discipline
 — Strong balance sheet 
ensures considerable 
financial firepower 
and flexibility.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
11 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s strategic review
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS WITH 
STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
A clear strategic vision
 “ We have a clear growth strategy, a simple financial model 
and a customer-focused organisation which enables the 
business to adapt to changing market opportunities.”
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
Q&A WITH MICHAEL SUTSKO
Q: How would you summarise the past year?
A: We have executed phase one of our plan to rebuild, lead and 
grow Dialight to capture the industrial LED market opportunity. 
This strategy is progressing well and has fundamentally 
improved the Group’s operating model, positioning it for long 
term sustainable growth. This progress is reflected in our 
financial results. We have made tremendous progress on the 
strategic vision I set out in last year’s report. With a focus on 
maintaining our technology lead in Lighting, we have improved 
the quality of our earnings by building enhanced capabilities 
across multiple industrial segments and geographies. We have 
invested in building a scalable manufacturing operation and 
improving our business processes. As we successfully execute 
the early phase of our three year strategy, we are looking to 
use the additional scope and capability to deliver growth.
Q: Can you explain the results and the 
divisional performance?
A: In the year, we delivered an increase in underlying profit and 
cash flow on revenue growth of 13% (2% at constant currency). 
This was a particularly encouraging result in the context of 
uncertain market conditions. Group revenue was £182.2m 
(2015: £161.4m), including a favourable currency exchange 
impact of £17.9m. The US and Europe, which generate the 
majority of our revenues, were broadly flat on a constant 
currency basis. Underlying operating profit increased to 
£13.1m (2015: £6.1m), including a favourable exchange impact 
of £1.5m. Our lighting order intake for 2016 was up 8% to 
£139.8m (at constant currency) over 2015, reflecting early signs 
£13.1M
Underlying EBIT
£182.2M
Group revenue
of progress in our strategic initiatives. Strong performance 
at a segment level saw a £6.7m increase in the operating profit 
of the Lighting division and a £2.2m increase in Signals 
and Components.
Dialight has a strong balance sheet supported by good 
working capital management and a new five-year credit facility. 
The Group’s continued focus on working capital management 
delivered net cash from operations of £16.3m (2015: £8.7m). 
We continued to invest in long-term growth with net investment 
in capital expenditure of £3.9m (2015: £3.3m). The critical part 
of our strategy to rebuild for long-term growth resulted in 
non-underlying costs of £16.4m. These costs were predominately 
non cash with £5.1m relating to intangible assets. Further details 
are in the Financial Review. We finished the year with net cash of 
£8.0m and the Group refinanced its existing revolving credit 
facility of £25.0m with HSBC for a further 5 years ensuring 
significant financial flexibility.
Q: How has the Company maintained the advantage 
of differentiated technology and a strong brand?
A: The need for enhanced light and energy management – 
via controls and sensors – drives demand for our products. 
This plays to Dialight’s strengths and differentiators: proven 
technology and a market leading position in industrial markets 
built over a decade as a group purely focused on LED lighting. 
12
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Q: How is the strategy for sustainable, profitable 
growth progressing?
A: The first phase of our plan – to rebuild Dialight – is almost 
complete. Our operating model supports scalable and cost 
efficient production. By switching to ’platform engineering’ 
(standardising the design of our product parts to be used as the 
foundation for all of our finished products), we have fundamentally 
improved supply chain management and streamlined our 
operations. Platform engineering our products reduces the 
number of discrete product lines, which in turn has improved 
forecast accuracy for manufacturing planning and reduced 
inventory. During 2016, 10 out of 12 product groups moved to 
platform engineering. The remaining two will follow in mid-2017. 
The shift to platform engineering has enabled us to secure 
a manufacturing partnership with Sanmina (a Fortune 500 
company with 44,000 employees worldwide based in 25 
countries), giving us greater focus on our design capability. 
This first phase of the switch to a manufacturing partnership 
is progressing well, and supports our drive for scalable 
operations. Three product lines were transferred during 2016, 
with the balance to be completed by during 2017.
We have closed our factory in Newmarket, UK and are in 
the process of scaling back the facilities in Mexico. 
Further growth initiatives are underway. With continued 
expansion of our distributor coverage, 47 new distributors were 
added in 2016. We have also continued to invest in our product 
roadmap to maintain our technological lead; 37 new products 
were launched. We have refocused our commercial teams to 
diversify our sector and geographic exposure and increase 
the sales to strategic accounts. This has seen a reduction in 
the reliance on the oil and gas sector from 24% of revenue 
in 2015 to 16% in 2016. We have a higher quality sales team 
with broader international experience which has increased our 
revenue per sales head from £1.2m in 2014 to £1.5m in 2016 at 
constant currency.
Q: What feedback do you get from customers?
A: Our customers are true Dialight enthusiasts. Our durable 
products live up to our guarantees and work even when other 
lights don’t. Beyond the compelling financial reason to convert to 
Dialight lighting, it is the quality and safety of the work environment 
that we create for our customers that keep them coming back to 
us for more. This is further strengthened by our warranty.
Q: How does the multi-channel distribution model support 
the business objectives?
A: Our customers have many options and influences in 
choosing their lighting solutions. It is vital for Dialight to engage 
each of these channels and clearly communicate the value we 
bring, as our products are often purchased through industrial 
distributors; the benefits of choosing Dialight are also driven 
through our end use customers and their engineering and 
automation partners.
The Dialight Difference is a complex mix of technology and 
channel experience. We are unencumbered by the traditional 
lighting legacy of our competitors, which enables us to deliver 
an energy efficient solution that virtually eliminates maintenance 
costs. Through a robust technology roadmap we are able to 
quickly bring new products to market. Improvements in quality 
and delivery have also reinforced the value Dialight brings to 
its customers.
Innovation in the LED industrial market is increasingly 
combining lighting systems with network sources, into a single 
platform. This moves beyond energy and cost savings to 
providing meaningful improvements in safety and productivity. 
Dialight is capturing this trend by adding industrial automation 
systems and enabling the “Internet of Things” into its product 
portfolio. This allows factory owners to control individual 
systems within their plants via a single platform, and to collect 
data as part of the evolution towards smart buildings. 
Three automation partnerships are now underway with 
Rockwell Automation, Honeywell Tridium and INEM (controls 
and maintenance system for Obstruction Lighting allowing 
connectivity with network operations centres). 
Q: What are the market challenges and opportunities 
you see for the business?
A: Macroeconomic factors have been challenging, such as 
limited industrial spending due to low oil and commodity prices. 
However, there is a large market that is now familiar with LED 
technology though still unconverted. Dialight is in a leading 
position to capitalise on this growth opportunity. Our technologies 
will continue to deliver increasing returns and we expect 
continued favourable trends in energy and safety regulations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
13
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s strategic review continued
Q: How do you see the Group’s international 
ambitions developing?
A: In 2016, Dialight was able to grow its business outside of 
North America at a greater pace. We have strengthened our 
European sales team and distribution relationships, and have 
implemented our technology centre in Copenhagen. In addition, 
we have seen strong growth in Australia and Brazil.
Q: How do you maintain a technological lead in products?
A: Dialight has deep relationships with its customers across our 
industrial segments and a strong connection to bring their voice 
back into our product development teams. This insight, combined 
with our engineering team’s pulse on new technology, create a 
robust roadmap that will maintain Dialight’s competitive advantage 
for many years. Continued innovation in power management, 
optics technology, ease of use and safety maintain our difference 
and lower our customers’ cost of ownership.
Q: How is sustainability embedded in the Company 
strategy, management systems and operating processes?
A: The Group has the world’s largest installed base in heavy 
industrial LED lighting, with over 750,000 LED fixtures worldwide. 
Dialight fixtures have contributed to a reduction of 1.1 billion kwh 
of energy consumption.
As we are delivering energy savings and workplace safety to 
our customers, we believe that we must live by the same values we 
sell. Dialight is committed to reducing its own carbon footprint, 
treating our employees and business partners with unwavering 
respect, and ensuring that we are doing everything possible 
throughout our supply chain to make the world better each day.
Q: What are the risks and opportunities you see over the 
next 24 months?
A: The US and global industrial markets continued to be 
challenging, led by the oil and gas sector. To counter this, 
Dialight’s efforts to develop new opportunities have been 
successful and we have seen an 8% increase at constant 
currency in the lighting order book compared to 2016. 
There was continued growth in non-US markets with 
Australia up 15% and Brazil up 129%. 
Our biggest risk centres on market uncertainty. If industrial 
capital and operational spending remains at current levels, we 
will see projects continuing to be delayed. Dialight has prepared 
for growth by rebuilding the organisation so that we are able to 
scale our operations. However, a rebound in spending, our own 
improvements of customers’ cost of ownership, and increasing 
trends in energy and safety regulations provide a significant 
opportunity to accelerate the large industrial lighting conversion 
to our technology.
Q: How has the new executive team helped you shape the 
direction of the business?
A: As part of our rebuild strategy, we have simplified our 
organisation and built upon the talented team here, with 
some existing and some new people. Our strongest leaders 
have brought our entire organisation together to be more 
collaborative and focused. This executive team has fostered 
collaboration globally, giving Dialight tremendous capacity 
to drive growth, sustainability and profitability.
Q: How do your culture and values shape the business and 
drive performance?
A: Our values centre on unity, a company with a focused 
strategy globally. Our culture is now one of accountability, 
performance, collaboration, innovation, trust and respect. 
These values give us the framework to drive change and 
accelerate our path to achieving our goals.
Q: So are people generally responding well to the change 
within Dialight?
A: We have very engaged and energised people in Dialight. 
The sentiments are those of hard work but fun. The key has 
been sharing a common vision and strategy while empowering 
and enabling teams and individuals to share in our direction and 
leadership. This was my early focus at Dialight and has laid the 
foundation for our ability to execute changes. The teams can 
all see where we are headed and how exciting it is becoming.
Q: What is the outlook for the business?
A: 2016 was a year of change for Dialight. We are making good 
progress with our three-year plan to return to sustainable profit 
growth. Phase one of the plan, to rebuild our operating model, 
is largely complete. The sustainability benefits of reduced 
energy usage, lower carbon emissions, reduced maintenance 
and improved safety offer real value to our customers. This 
progress underpinned our encouraging financial performance 
in challenging market conditions.
Phase two of the plan – growth initiatives to capture the 
long-term opportunity in LED lighting – is underway, and on 
track to deliver against our strategic plan. We remain confident 
of the Group’s prospects for 2017 and over the medium to 
long-term, based on current FX rates.
As set out in the coming pages, we have considered in 
detail what we need to do to amplify and evolve – strategically 
and operationally – to secure the next phase of our growth, and 
to be the company we want to be in a changing world. Through 
a programme of new initiatives to enhance productivity and 
efficiency across product and processes, we are confident that 
Dialight will outperform the sector in the coming years. We will 
become a more effective organisation in the process, because 
we will have to think differently and work differently to capture 
the significant revenue opportunities we have identified. This 
will bring change and challenge, but it will also energise our 
whole organisation.
Michael Sutsko
Group Chief Executive
27 February 2017
14
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com A STRONG AND ENGAGED 
MANAGEMENT TEAM
Pictured above are the members of the Dialight Executive 
Management Committee, which comprises functional heads 
from all areas of the business including Operations, 
Engineering, Sales, Finance, Legal and Human Resources.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
15
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 LED technology is driving market share gains
32%
5%
11%
13%
35%
4%
Leading
Market Share 
Dialight
Competitor 4 Others
Competitor 1 Competitor 2 Competitor 3
Strategic report
Our markets
A CLEAR PLAN TO 
CAPTURE THE LARGE 
GROWTH MARKET 
IN LED LIGHTING
Market size
The total industrial lighting market is estimated to be worth 
£50bn (source: IHS). The industrial LED lighting market, where 
Dialight is focused, has a 20-year retro-fit cycle. It is difficult to 
predict the rate of adoption over the 20-year cycle but it is not 
expected to be linear. (This excludes markets that Dialight does 
not currently serve such as China, Russia, India and Africa.)
Market penetration
The industrial lighting market is undergoing rapid transformation 
driven by growing adoption of LED technology and the increasing 
popularity of connected lighting systems. Cumulative penetration 
of LED lighting is 3%, thus enabling strong growth potential for 
some years to come.
Market share
Within the industrial market, Dialight holds the largest share 
with 32%. This is the same size as the next four competitors 
combined (source: IHS). 
£50BN
Estimated size of industrial 
lighting market over 20 years
3%
Cumulative adoption rate
32%
Market-leading share
16
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com capabilities will contribute to a significant portion of the 
forecast energy savings. Of the forecast annual energy savings 
by 2035, one-third is expected to be made possible by the 
penetration of connected LEDs.
Opportunities
These are some of the future opportunities that we anticipate:
 — Increased adoption rates as customers embrace the benefits 
of ownership.
 — Increased use of lighting controls to accelerate the 
adoption curve.
 — Increased customer appetite for more sustainable products.
 — Regulation which forces adoption and/or provides incentives 
for adoption.
Risks
These are some of the potential risks faced by the business:
 — The Group needs to develop contingency plans to 
counteract the financial impact of potential tariffs 
on imports worldwide.
 — The Group needs to maintain its market share through 
the continued development of market-leading products.
 — The Group needs to ensure that it anticipates customer 
demand in order to ensure that it produces the products 
that the market wants.
 — The Group needs to ensure the robustness of its supply 
chain in order to fulfil demand.
Regulation
The push for energy efficiency has led to regulations aimed 
at phasing out older, less efficient lighting technologies. 
Incandescent lights have been banned in most countries, with 
Brazil to come, and the EU has recently passed regulations to 
phase out halogen by 2018 with the US expected to follow suit. 
The global lighting market is undergoing rapid transformation 
driven by growing adoption of LED technology and the increasing 
popularity of connected lighting systems. US regulation 
stipulates that lighting in most buildings must be controlled 
automatically to adjust light usage according to the time of day 
and occupancy.
In response to regulation and market trends, lighting 
controls have gathered momentum as a potential method of 
more intelligently operating lighting systems to save energy. 
Lighting controls, which include various dimming and sensor 
technologies used separately or in conjunction with other 
systems such as timers and daylighting, can, if used properly, 
yield significant energy savings, as they use feedback from the 
target environment to provide adequate lighting levels only 
when needed.
Market sectors
The major market sectors in which the Group operates are:
LED industrial markets
Energy, utilities  
and mining
Metal, chemical, petrochemical, 
oil and gas, steel
Industrial processing  
and manufacturing
Automotive, food and 
beverage, pulp and paper, 
pharmaceutical
Public and infrastructure Water and sewage, rail  
and tunnels
Structural Telecom and broadcast 
towers, wind turbines
The Group’s range of regulatory compliant products that require 
low maintenance are ideally suited to these environments.
The LED advantage
The clear advantages of LED technology are driving its market 
share gains, especially with an increasing focus on total cost 
of ownership:
 — Low energy consumption: LED lighting is four to five times 
more energy efficient than conventional technologies.
 — Long lifetime: LED lighting lasts up to 15 years, which is 
4 times the lifespan of compact fluorescent lighting and 
10 times the lifespan of incandescent lighting.
 — Enhanced versatility: LED lighting is smaller and more durable 
and comes in more colours than traditional lighting.
LEDs are revolutionising the lighting market due to their energy 
efficiency, lifetime, versatility, superior colour quality and 
ever-improving cost competitiveness. Due to the progression 
in the LED technology, LEDs have become a broader part of 
the lighting market, entering markets once held by traditional 
fixture products. Going forward, LED technology is expected 
to continue to improve, with increasing efficiency and 
decreasing prices as well as enabling opportunities for lighting 
design and energy savings.
This energy savings opportunity is driven largely by the 
linear fixture, outdoor, and low and high bay products. These 
products, characterised by high light output and long operating 
hours, are where increased controllability and networked 
capabilities will have the greatest value to customers. LEDs 
installed with traditional control strategies as well as connected 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
17
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Design 
and design 
realisation  
 
Research and
analysis 
Prototyping
LEADING
THE WAY
Multi-channel
distribution
model
A ﬂexible
supply chain 
Strategic report
Our business model and strategy
WHAT WE DO
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT 
Our range of high-specification products mean we are uniquely positioned to benefit from a number of long-term 
global growth trends, many of which are driven by government regulations and environmental initiatives.
OUR INPUTS 
Financial
Strong financial performance through 
innovation, cost control and high 
returns on capital.
Sustainability 
Developing products to reduce 
maintenance and improve safety 
and environmental efficiency.
Product innovation 
Developing market-leading products 
at the forefront of technology within 
the industrial markets. 
Intellectual assets
Protecting our product innovation by 
patents, trademarks and intellectual 
property licences, and processes.
Human capital
Dedicated and experienced senior 
management team with a focus 
on performance.
Relationships 
Dialight has multiple routes to market 
through established distribution 
networks and selling directly to the 
end customer. Our sales approach 
targets plant managers as well as 
the corporate decision makers.
 — Read more in the Resources, relationships and responsibilities section on pages 28 to 31.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
18 WHO WE CREATE VALUE FOR
Shareholders
We aim to deliver value to shareholders 
through the development of sustainability 
enhancing products which create market 
demand and generate better returns 
for shareholders.
Employees
We understand that intelligent innovation 
requires a way of working that supports 
the development of new ideas. Our 
entrepreneurial culture offers a creative 
working environment with scope 
for individual responsibility and 
personal achievement.
Customers
Many of our staff work directly with 
customers, which enables them to gain a 
deep understanding of their business and 
the solutions they need for the challenges 
they face.
Communities
We provide employment and opportunities 
for development for staff in 15 countries 
around the world.
Governments
We support the local economies by 
creating employment and paying local 
taxes while helping to reduce carbon 
footprint through the provision of more 
energy efficient products.
How our business model  
and strategy work together
Our business model is based on value 
creation and value capture. Our strategy 
creates our unique and valuable position 
with our target markets.
 — Read more in the Strategy at a glance 
section on pages 20 to 21.
HOW WE CREATE VALUE 
Research and analysis — Investment in technology and product development 
updating and expanding its product range
 — Close integration of power supply, optics and 
lighting designs
Design and  
design realisation
 — Market-leading products to reduce maintenance, 
improve safety and reduce energy consumption
 — Proof of concept and product return on investment 
to ensure that key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
are met
Prototyping — Pilot plant is being established in the US, and the 
Group has significant in-house testing capabilities
A flexible  
supply chain 
 — We partner on the assembly part of our 
supply chain to gain flexibility and speed
 — We establish distribution networks and sell 
directly to end customers
Multi-channel 
distribution model 
 — Established distribution networks through 
electrical wholesalers
 — Sales directly to end customers
 — Automation partnerships continue the expansion 
of the distribution channels
Competitive strengths
The Group addresses the needs of customers in heavy industrial locations where lighting 
is seen as mission critical. Dialight focuses on niche markets where its products are 
designed to meet the certifications and specific requirements of our customers. These 
are markets with significant barriers to entry as their environments demand continuous, 
reliable and efficient lighting solutions. Dialight is engaging in a focused plan of 
geographical growth in established and developing markets to ensure its long-term 
business sustainability.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
19 Strategic report
Strategy at a glance
STRATEGY ACHIEVEMENTS KPIs PRIORITIES RISK 2018 OBJECTIVES
Our goal
Our goal is to deliver the most energy efficient, reliable LED 
lighting solutions available – leading the way in the energy 
efficient LED lighting revolution for industrial and hazardous 
applications. We improve safety while integrating as a key 
information node within our customers’ operations.
Our values
Our values are at the core of our business. Our culture 
is one of openness, honesty and accountability. We believe 
that businesses thrive by sharing knowledge and experiences. 
In order to capitalise on the cross fertilisation of ideas, 
we employ people from a diverse range of backgrounds 
and industries.
 
REBUILD
Develop common 
production platforms
 — Platform engineering 
complete for ten out 
of twelve product lines 83%
product platforms completed
 — Continue progress at 
sufficient pace in order 
to hit target
 — The transfer of production 
to our manufacturing 
partner is key to achieving 
scalability. Developing 
common platforms is a key 
enabler to achieving this
Our focus is on the Lighting 
segment delivering growth 
ahead of the market 
and margin expansion, 
together with strong 
cash flow conversion
25% 
Annual runrate revenue growth
15% 
EBIT margins
40% 
Gross margins
80% 
Cash conversion
Rebuild scalable and 
efficient operations
 — Read more in the Strategy in 
action section on pages 22 to 27.
 — Closure of UK 
manufacturing facility
 — Transfer of Lighting 
production to 
manufacturing partner 
on track for completion 
by mid 2017
25%
products transferred to 
manufacturing partnership
 — Ensure that transfer 
is completed by  
mid 2017
 — The transfer of production 
to our manufacturing 
partner is key 
to achieving scalability
 
LEAD
Lead the markets in products 
and technology
 — New product development 
continues to push the 
technological boundaries, 
launching 37 new products 
in 2016
37
new products launched
 — Implement agile new 
product roadmap to ensure 
that we continue to lead 
the market
 — The Group must be able to 
identify market trends and 
ensure it has the products 
to match
Advance our sales approach
 — Read more in the Strategy in 
action section on pages 22 to 27.
 — The proportion of global 
account sales achieved 
in 2016 30%
strategic accounts
 — Continued focus on 
engaging with our 
customers at a  
corporate level
 — Part of the execution 
of sales strategy is the 
growth of global accounts
 
GROW
Grow in new sectors 
and geographies
 — Geographical expansion 
achieved in Australia 
and Brazil 15%
revenue growth – Australia
129%
revenue growth – Brazil
 — Continue to focus 
expansion on sectors and 
geographies where we 
feel there are significant 
growth opportunities
 — The loss of market share to 
competition is evidenced 
by a lack of growth in new 
sectors and territories
Intelligent lighting for safety 
and productivity
 — Read more in the Strategy in 
action section on pages 22 to 27.
 — Three automation 
partnerships 
3
automation partnerships
 — Read more in the 
Key performance indicators 
section on pages 32 and 33.
 — Secure further 
automation partnerships
 — Read more in the Principal  
risks and uncertainties 
section on pages 36 to 37.
Commitments
Respect
Communication
Excitement
Accountability
Collaboration
Innovation
All our actions are based on commitments 
made to each other and our business
We empower and are held 
accountable to deliver results
We are proud of what we do and how we treat 
each other. We have high ethical standards
No one person or team can do  
it alone. The Company is larger 
than any one individual
We communicate with our teams; listening 
and partnering for faster and wiser  
business decisions
We lead the market through our 
ground breaking technology
We thrive on talent and passion. We are a great 
place for smart people with a passion to work
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com
20 STRATEGY ACHIEVEMENTS KPIs PRIORITIES RISK 2018 OBJECTIVES
Our goal
Our goal is to deliver the most energy efficient, reliable LED 
lighting solutions available – leading the way in the energy 
efficient LED lighting revolution for industrial and hazardous 
applications. We improve safety while integrating as a key 
information node within our customers’ operations.
Our values
Our values are at the core of our business. Our culture 
is one of openness, honesty and accountability. We believe 
that businesses thrive by sharing knowledge and experiences. 
In order to capitalise on the cross fertilisation of ideas, 
we employ people from a diverse range of backgrounds 
and industries.
 
REBUILD
Develop common 
production platforms
 — Platform engineering 
complete for ten out 
of twelve product lines 83%
product platforms completed
 — Continue progress at 
sufficient pace in order 
to hit target
 — The transfer of production 
to our manufacturing 
partner is key to achieving 
scalability. Developing 
common platforms is a key 
enabler to achieving this
Our focus is on the Lighting 
segment delivering growth 
ahead of the market 
and margin expansion, 
together with strong 
cash flow conversion
25% 
Annual runrate revenue growth
15% 
EBIT margins
40% 
Gross margins
80% 
Cash conversion
Rebuild scalable and 
efficient operations
 — Read more in the Strategy in 
action section on pages 22 to 27.
 — Closure of UK 
manufacturing facility
 — Transfer of Lighting 
production to 
manufacturing partner 
on track for completion 
by mid 2017
25%
products transferred to 
manufacturing partnership
 — Ensure that transfer 
is completed by  
mid 2017
 — The transfer of production 
to our manufacturing 
partner is key 
to achieving scalability
 
LEAD
Lead the markets in products 
and technology
 — New product development 
continues to push the 
technological boundaries, 
launching 37 new products 
in 2016
37
new products launched
 — Implement agile new 
product roadmap to ensure 
that we continue to lead 
the market
 — The Group must be able to 
identify market trends and 
ensure it has the products 
to match
Advance our sales approach
 — Read more in the Strategy in 
action section on pages 22 to 27.
 — The proportion of global 
account sales achieved 
in 2016 30%
strategic accounts
 — Continued focus on 
engaging with our 
customers at a  
corporate level
 — Part of the execution 
of sales strategy is the 
growth of global accounts
 
GROW
Grow in new sectors 
and geographies
 — Geographical expansion 
achieved in Australia 
and Brazil 15%
revenue growth – Australia
129%
revenue growth – Brazil
 — Continue to focus 
expansion on sectors and 
geographies where we 
feel there are significant 
growth opportunities
 — The loss of market share to 
competition is evidenced 
by a lack of growth in new 
sectors and territories
Intelligent lighting for safety 
and productivity
 — Read more in the Strategy in 
action section on pages 22 to 27.
 — Three automation 
partnerships 
3
automation partnerships
 — Read more in the 
Key performance indicators 
section on pages 32 and 33.
 — Secure further 
automation partnerships
 — Read more in the Principal  
risks and uncertainties 
section on pages 36 to 37.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
21 Strategic report
Our strategy in action
REBUILD
COMMON PLATFORM
Improving delivery and quality
We are standardising the design of all of our products 
(“platform engineering”). This enables effective mass 
customisation. Ten out of twelve lines platform 
engineered to date.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com
22 SCALABLE OPERATIONS
Rebuilding scalable and efficient operations
We have formed a manufacturing partnership for all our 
lighting products. This enables the Group to respond 
more efficiently to changes in demand. There is increased 
focus on supply chain planning, quality of supplies and 
material costs.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
23
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 LEAD
INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS
Lead the market in products and technology
Dialight employs the most efficient power supplies in the 
industry for its lighting products and this underpins the 
industry-leading warranty. Our market-leading products 
allow us to maintain our 32% share of the industrial 
LED market.
Strategic report
Our strategy in action continued
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com
24 INTELLIGENT SOLUTIONS
Continuing to differentiate ourselves
Connected lighting systems are at the forefront of the 
industry and, in line with our strategy, we have partnered 
with three of the largest automation companies.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
25
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 NEW SECTORS
Establishing our market position in new territories
The Group has reduced its exposure to a single sector by 
diversifying its end markets. Reliance on oil and gas has 
reduced from 24% to 16%. Growth is targeted in niche 
markets where Dialight can continue to differentiate itself.
GROW
Strategic report
Our strategy in action continued
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com
26 NEW TERRITORIES
Grow partnerships in new sectors
Dialight’s core strength lies in developing 
strong relationships with its customers. We are 
targeting senior decision makers to highlight 
sustainability through increased energy 
efficiency and lower total cost of ownership.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
27 Strategic report
Resources, relationships and responsibilities
MANAGING OUR RESOURCES AND 
RELATIONSHIPS IS FUNDAMENTAL  
TO OUR LONG- TERM SUCCESS 
Human capital
Developing talent and supporting diversity across our business 
help to ensure that we have teams motivated to deliver our 
goals. Having the right capabilities and best talent to match our 
growth ambitions will enable us to fulfil our strategic objectives. 
Our sustained, high-level performance stems from 
the commitment, innovation and excellence of our people. 
Dialight believes in empowerment, and we support personal 
and professional development through our competency models 
and range of training programmes. The benefits are shown in 
our financial performance and in our succession planning. 
We are committed to innovation and customer 
satisfaction. We develop people who have the initiative, 
knowledge and leadership qualities to make a positive impact, 
and our research and development give us a competitive 
edge. Through collaboration, the sharing of best practice and 
implementing new ways of working, we continue to deliver 
market-leading products that do more for our customers.
The Dialight way
We offer our people: 
 — the opportunity to make a difference – our products make  
the world a safer and healthier place; 
 — an entrepreneurial business environment, underpinned  
by a culture of innovation;
 — in-house training for personal and professional development; 
 — international career development opportunities; 
 — an environment in which success breeds success; and 
 — performance-linked rewards.
00%
Our core values 
Our values drive our culture; and our culture drives our values. 
This produces teams that are highly aligned and productive, 
made up of individuals who take pride in their work and help 
us to retain a loyal customer base.
Safety 
We make products that improve safety for our customers 
within industrial environments where safety is mission critical. 
So safety is deeply embedded in everything we do within 
the Group.
We provide a safe and comfortable place to work for our 
employees and manage our activities so as to avoid risks to 
health and safety and the environment. Dialight has an excellent 
health and safety record and a culture of safety. 
Diversity
Diversity is the cornerstone of a culture that promotes respect  
for, and understanding of, different perspectives. By increasing 
the diversity of our workforce and leveraging their insights, 
we enhance our ability to compete in the world’s increasingly 
diverse marketplace. We want to increase the proportion of 
staff with experience in the business and geographical markets  
in which we see our operations growing, and will develop 
policies and actions which support these long-term aims.
28
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Focusing on gender pay differentials 
Dialight welcomes the 2016 requirement for UK companies  
to publish gender pay statistics and will meet this requirement  
during 2017. 
Ethics 
Dialight’s culture is one of openness, integrity and 
accountability. The Company requires employees to act fairly in 
their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and 
business partners. We require suppliers to be of high quality 
and to operate to accepted international standards. Dialight 
operates a confidential whistleblowing policy through an 
external provider who deals with any issues in confidence and, 
if wished, anonymously. We a have zero-tolerance policy on 
bribery and corruption across all areas of the business. Our 
policy and internal guidance in this area are routinely reviewed 
and compliance with the policy is checked as part of the half 
year and year-end processes. The Company does not make 
political donations and charitable donations are made only 
where legal and ethical according to local laws and practices.
Anti-slavery and human trafficking
The Company is committed to conducting business with 
integrity and fairness, which is reinforced through our Code  
of Business Conduct. We are committed to preventing acts of 
modern slavery and human trafficking from occurring within 
both our business and our supply chain, and we impose these 
same high standards on our suppliers.
Human rights
The Group does not have a formal human rights policy but it is 
committed to conducting business with integrity and fairness. 
Everyone working for Dialight is responsible for having due 
regard for human rights. Managers and supervisors must 
provide leadership that promotes human rights as an equal 
priority to other business issues. This is reinforced through 
our Code of Business Conduct.
Geographical diversity
As our businesses continue to expand globally, it is imperative 
that the insights and perspectives of local markets be 
represented on our leadership teams. We continue to seek 
ways to ensure that local leadership is contributing to our 
global business strategies. 
Disability rights 
Applications for employment from those with a disability are 
always fully considered. In the event of a member of staff 
becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their 
employment with the Group continues with appropriate 
modifications made to their workplace, if required, and any 
re-training arranged. It is the policy of the Group that equality  
of opportunity with regard to training, career development 
and promotion is the same for all employees.
Financial 
Our strategy is for our businesses to deliver strong financial 
performance through innovation, cost control and high return 
on capital. The Group enables its businesses to capitalise on 
opportunities in their local market, while operating within the 
financial and operational control framework of the Group. 
Our operations are inherently cash generative and the Group 
has access to competitively priced financing, providing good 
liquidity and support for our growth ambitions.
Product innovation
New products and solutions serve to protect our market-
leading position and enhance organic growth. Our products 
are becoming increasingly sophisticated, many with artificial 
intelligence features that facilitate their direct linkage  
to our customers’ IT infrastructure, increasing customer  
control while reducing the total cost of ownership. 
Employee, senior management and Director numbers  
by gender at year end
Board diversity 
2 – 25%
6 – 75%
Male
Female
Senior management diversity 
2 – 20%
8 – 80%
Male
Female
Total workforce diversity 
1,084 – 50%
1,088 – 50%
Male
Female
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
29
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 00%
Strategic report
Resources, relationships and responsibilities continued
Our products
We lead the market in low-environmental impact LED products 
and have the most efficient power supply units in the industry. 
All our products benefit from temperature compensation 
technology, maximising their lifespan, and enhanced optics  
that direct light precisely where needed. All products have  
an industry-leading ten-year warranty.
Intellectual assets
Our R&D work generates a growing portfolio of patents, 
trademarks and other intellectual property which adds 
value to our Company while creating high barriers to entry 
for competitors. 
Relationships
Working well with our customers and suppliers is key to 
developing market-leading positions in our territories. We strive 
to understand the needs of our customers and to meet them in 
the most cost effective way. 
We aim to work actively with our suppliers who commit to 
our values, especially with regard to fair employment and good 
environmental practice. We recognise the importance of the 
supply chain and we are committed to developing secure 
relationships based on mutual trust for mutual benefit.
We work with our manufacturing partner to ensure that they 
are complying with relevant environmental legislation, 
regulations and industry standards so that they are producing 
high-quality products.
Sustainability
Dialight is committed to promoting sustainable business 
practices and works to improve the Group’s environmental 
performance.
Sustainability is a central tenet of our business strategy 
and is integral to our decision making. As a global business, 
we consider both “Are we doing the right things?”, and 
“Are we doing things right?”
Sustainability is not just part of our business strategy; it 
is also what we do for our customers. We make products that 
protect and improve the quality of life for people worldwide 
while bringing reduced maintenance requirements, improved 
safety benefits, easier disposal and lower environmental impact.
Our strategy is to operate close to our end markets so 
that the environmental impact of our operations is relatively 
low compared with other sectors. Our environmental policy is 
approved by the Board. We have an environmental management 
system (“EMS”) certified to ISO 14001 across our European, 
Asian and North American businesses. Certified sites are 
located in Denmark, the UK, the US, Mexico and Malaysia. 
1.1bn kWh
energy reduction
30
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com The EMS includes procedures for the management of waste, 
trade effluent, hazardous substances, environmental processes 
and procedures, enforcement actions, and compliance with 
regulatory frameworks and legislation. 
We are committed to raising employee awareness on 
environmental issues and the effects of their activities through 
Company-wide promotion and communication. We recognise 
that simple, small measures taken in the workplace can have 
a large impact on reducing environmental damage.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
As well as helping our customers to reduce their impact on 
the environment, it is also a focus for our own efforts and we 
monitor our GHG emissions. We not only comply with local 
environmental laws, but also ensure that the environment is 
a consideration in major operational decisions. We report 
annually on our GHG emissions and actively look to reduce 
these and other environmental effects year on year. 
Our emissions have reduced as we continue to focus 
on our energy reduction initiatives. The table below sets out 
Dialight’s emissions for 2016 and 2015 in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013.
Type of emissions
Tonnes of CO
2
e 
2016
Tonnes of CO
2
e 
2015
Emissions from combustion of fuel 
and operation of facilities emissions 729 849
Emission from purchased electricity 6,651 6,642
Total 7,380 7,491
Energy and water use 
Energy and water conservation are important in our commitment 
to lower the environmental impact from our operations.
Operations across the Group consumed the following 
resources in 2016 and 2015:
2016
Resource Total consumption Unit
Consumption  
per £ turnover
Electricity 13,010,737 kWh 0.071
Gas 1,441,034 kWh 0.008
Water 8,366,616 litre 0.046
2015
Resource Total consumption Unit
Consumption  
per £ turnover
Electricity 13,024,772 kWh 0.081
Gas 2,166,910 kWh 0.013
Water 10,353,798 litre 0.064
Waste management
Dialight has three zero-waste-to-landfill sites, which are located 
in Australia, Denmark and the UK. The variety of waste recycled 
across the business as a whole has increased and local 
management is supported in identifying additional recycling 
opportunities to further reduce waste-to-landfill.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
31
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Key performance indicators
FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL
Revenue (£’m) 
14 159.8
15 161.4
16 182.2
13 131.2
12 115.1
£182.2M
Underlying
gross proﬁt (£’m)
 
(38%)
Gross margin
 
14 60.6
15 56.2
16 69.5
13 49.6
12 47.7
£69.5M
Underlying 
operating 
proﬁt (£’m)
 
14 18.1
15 6.1
16 13.1
13 14.5
12 19.6
£13.1M
(7%) EBIT margin
 
Cash conversion
(%)
 
14 55
15 131
16 104
13 55
12 62
104%
Health and safety 
10
 
recordable 
incidents
Retention 
93%
Link to strategy 
Growth in territories and segments can 
be measured by the increase in revenue
Link to strategy 
The success of rebuilding the operational 
footprint can be measured by improvements 
in gross margin
Link to strategy 
The combination of rebuilding, leading 
and growing combines as growth in the 
underlying EBIT
Link to strategy 
The foundation for rebuilding comes from the 
ability to turn underlying EBIT into cash
Link to strategy 
Ensuring a safe working environment for 
employees is fundamental to attracting 
and retaining good calibre staff
Link to strategy 
Retaining high-calibre staff is part of enabling 
the business to lead
Description
Revenue from sales
Description
The gross profit related to the performance 
of the underlying business
Description
The EBIT related to the performance of the 
underlying business
Description
The ability to turn profits into cash
Description
A measure of how many serious accidents have 
occurred within the Group
Description
A measure of how well the Group can retain 
its staff
Definition
Revenue of the business excluding items that 
are considered as non-recurring or not reflective 
of the underlying performance of the business
Definition
Gross profit of the business excluding items 
that are considered as non-recurring or not 
reflective of the underlying performance of 
the business
Definition
Operating profit of the business excluding 
items that are considered as non-recurring 
or not reflective of the underlying performance 
of the business
Definition
Adjusted operating cash flow (see page 41) 
divided by adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA 
is underlying operating profit, excluding 
depreciation and amortisation
Definition
A recordable incident is one that results in a 
member of staff being incapacitated for more 
than three days
Definition
The number of staff at the end of the year 
divided by the total of the number of staff at 
the start of the year and joiners. This calculation 
excludes direct manufacturing staff
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 25% 
growth in Lighting
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 40% 
gross margin in Lighting
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 15% 
EBIT margin in Lighting
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 80% 
cash conversion
Target
Zero recordable incidents
Target
At least 90% retention
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
 — Read more in the Remuneration 
Committee report from pages 58 to 74.
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration 
OPERATIONAL
14 13
15 32
16 37
New product
introduction
 
37
Description
New products that are launched in the year
Comment
Delays against target due to platform engineering 
Target
46 launched in 2016
Link to remuneration
As an enabler for growth, this is linked 
to remuneration
Platform 
conversion (%)
85%
15 83
16 85
Description
This is the number of product families that have 
been re-engineered to facilitate transfer to our 
manufacturing partner
Comment
The re-engineering programme is on target
Target
100% by July 2017
Link to remuneration
As an enabler for rebuilding, this is linked 
to remuneration
Link to strategy 
In order to continue leading the market, we must 
continually innovate
Link to strategy 
As part of rebuilding, all product platforms must be 
re-engineered 
32
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Rebuild Lead Grow
Link to strategy
FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL
Revenue (£’m) 
14 159.8
15 161.4
16 182.2
13 131.2
12 115.1
£182.2M
Underlying
gross proﬁt (£’m)
 
(38%)
Gross margin
 
14 60.6
15 56.2
16 69.5
13 49.6
12 47.7
£69.5M
Underlying 
operating 
proﬁt (£’m)
 
14 18.1
15 6.1
16 13.1
13 14.5
12 19.6
£13.1M
(7%) EBIT margin
 
Cash conversion
(%)
 
14 55
15 131
16 104
13 55
12 62
104%
Health and safety 
10
 
recordable 
incidents
Retention 
93%
Link to strategy 
Growth in territories and segments can 
be measured by the increase in revenue
Link to strategy 
The success of rebuilding the operational 
footprint can be measured by improvements 
in gross margin
Link to strategy 
The combination of rebuilding, leading 
and growing combines as growth in the 
underlying EBIT
Link to strategy 
The foundation for rebuilding comes from the 
ability to turn underlying EBIT into cash
Link to strategy 
Ensuring a safe working environment for 
employees is fundamental to attracting 
and retaining good calibre staff
Link to strategy 
Retaining high-calibre staff is part of enabling 
the business to lead
Description
Revenue from sales
Description
The gross profit related to the performance 
of the underlying business
Description
The EBIT related to the performance of the 
underlying business
Description
The ability to turn profits into cash
Description
A measure of how many serious accidents have 
occurred within the Group
Description
A measure of how well the Group can retain 
its staff
Definition
Revenue of the business excluding items that 
are considered as non-recurring or not reflective 
of the underlying performance of the business
Definition
Gross profit of the business excluding items 
that are considered as non-recurring or not 
reflective of the underlying performance of 
the business
Definition
Operating profit of the business excluding 
items that are considered as non-recurring 
or not reflective of the underlying performance 
of the business
Definition
Adjusted operating cash flow (see page 41) 
divided by adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA 
is underlying operating profit, excluding 
depreciation and amortisation
Definition
A recordable incident is one that results in a 
member of staff being incapacitated for more 
than three days
Definition
The number of staff at the end of the year 
divided by the total of the number of staff at 
the start of the year and joiners. This calculation 
excludes direct manufacturing staff
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 25% 
growth in Lighting
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 40% 
gross margin in Lighting
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 15% 
EBIT margin in Lighting
Target
By 2018 we aim to be delivering at least 80% 
cash conversion
Target
Zero recordable incidents
Target
At least 90% retention
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
 — Read more in the Remuneration 
Committee report from pages 58 to 74.
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration
Link to remuneration
As a target set out in the Strategic report, 
delivery is directly linked to remuneration 
OPERATIONAL
14 13
15 32
16 37
New product
introduction
 
37
Description
New products that are launched in the year
Comment
Delays against target due to platform engineering 
Target
46 launched in 2016
Link to remuneration
As an enabler for growth, this is linked 
to remuneration
Platform 
conversion (%)
85%
15 83
16 85
Description
This is the number of product families that have 
been re-engineered to facilitate transfer to our 
manufacturing partner
Comment
The re-engineering programme is on target
Target
100% by July 2017
Link to remuneration
As an enabler for rebuilding, this is linked 
to remuneration
Link to strategy 
In order to continue leading the market, we must 
continually innovate
Link to strategy 
As part of rebuilding, all product platforms must be 
re-engineered 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
33
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Risk management and internal controls
THE BOARD HAS ULTIMATE 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE 
GROUP’S MANAGEMENT  
AND INTERNAL CONTROLS 
Internal controls
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted 
a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it 
for decision. This procedure is intended to ensure that the 
Directors maintain full and effective control over all significant 
financial and organisational issues.
Group internal control system
The process of embedding internal controls and risk management 
further into the operations of the business is ongoing.
Key areas of the Group’s system of internal controls are 
as follows:
 — Weekly data on cash, sales and orders are reported directly 
to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group 
Finance team. This provides an early warning system on 
potential risks and helps to direct mitigating actions.
 — The Chief Executive submits a report to the Board each 
month which outlines the Group’s operations and an analysis 
of the significant risks and opportunities facing the Group. 
The paper also covers progress against strategic objectives 
and shareholder related issues. The Group Finance Director 
also submits a separate financial report to the Board each 
month evaluating progress against our internal targets.
 — The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director report 
to the Audit Committee on all aspects of internal control. 
A report was prepared by management detailing the internal 
controls and risk management operating in the business. The 
Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee, 
and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee are 
used as a basis for its annual review of internal controls.
 — A comprehensive financial reporting package is received 
from all operating units monthly with comparisons against 
budget and prior year performance. A thorough re-forecast 
is prepared quarterly and a budget is prepared annually. 
Each operating unit is required to submit a quarterly  
self-certification on compliance and controls.
Introduction to our approach and appetite for risk
The effective understanding, acceptance and management 
of risk is fundamental to the long-term success of the Group. 
The Group has developed specialist knowledge in products, 
services, processes and regions which allows us to understand 
the associated risks and accept them in an informed way. Our 
approach is encapsulated in the key principles of our new 
Risk Management Policy:
 — To understand the nature and extent of risks facing the Group.
 — To accept and manage within the business those risks which 
our employees have the skills and expertise to understand 
and leverage.
 — To assess and transfer or avoid those risks which are beyond 
our appetite for risk.
 — By consideration of materiality, to establish the authority 
levels within the Group at which decisions on acceptance 
and mitigation of these risks are taken.
34
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com The diagram below summarises our 
complementary approach based on utilising  
a top down plus a bottom up process:
Dialight plc Board
Top down
Group risk policy and strategy
Group risk appetite
Principal risk oversight
Group compliance oversight
Bottom up
Business risk appetite definition policy
Assessment and mitigation of specific risks
Upward reporting of key residual risks
Chief Executive 
Executive Committee
Senior managers
Senior finance staff
Audit Committee
Company Secretary
Internal audit
Compliance Operational
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee which operated in the latter part of the 
year has accountability for overseeing the risk management 
processes and procedures, and reports to the Board through 
the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the Group. 
It monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant 
operational managers to address the identified risks. 
The Board has approved the acceptance of certain risks which 
are considered appropriate to achieve the Group’s strategic 
objectives. The degree of risk to be accepted within the 
business is managed on a day-to-day basis through the Board 
Delegated Authority levels. These provide the framework for 
informed risk taking within the businesses and the route for 
escalating decision making up to the Board.
 — See Viability statement on page 51.
PRINCIPAL RISK SUMMARY
Name of risk
New 
risk
Risk 
level Name of risk
New 
risk
Risk 
level
Production capacity Compliance
Operational programme risk Reputational
IT systems Competition
Political conditions
✔
Economic conditions
Succession planning Supply chain
Intellectual property Funding
Market trends Foreign exchange
The Group’s principal risks are identified overleaf, together with:
 — the risk category;
 — a description of the risk;
 — potential impact of the risk;
 — mitigating controls and actions; and
 — a link to the Group’s strategy.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
35
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties
STRATEGIC  
OBJECTIVE
RISK  
CATEGORY
RISK  
DESCRIPTION
 
IMPACT
 
MITIGATION
 
REBUILD
Production capacity
Production capacity needs to be scalable in line with growth
Concentration of Lighting production at a single third party location reduces 
control and changes the order fulfilment process
 — Inability to fulfil demand due to lack of 
product availability
 — The Group has partnered with a world class manufacturing partner in order to ensure 
scalability of operations on a global scale
 — The Group has developed new processes to ensure that order fulfilment will be unaffected. 
Our manufacturing partner has a business continuity plan in place to deal with significant 
production disruptions
Operational  
programme risk
There is a risk that operational capability could be impacted during the period 
of transition of the products and production platforms and changes to the 
demand planning process
 — Inability to supply existing markets on a timely basis
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — The Group has robust plans and controls to ensure that changes are seamless.  
This is monitored and reviewed regularly to ensure that milestones are being met
IT systems
The Group uses IT systems to operate and control its business; any disruption 
to this would have an adverse impact on the business. The Group also needs 
to ensure the protection and integrity of its data
 — Inability to supply customers
 — Loss of revenue and significant business disruption
 — Loss of commercially sensitive information
 — The Group is continually reviewing its IT systems to ensure that they are robust and 
scalable in line with the expansion of the business
 — There are back-ups built into all Group systems and the spread of systems offers good 
protection from individual events
 — Third party suppliers are used to provide data protection software
Political conditions
The Group’s main manufacturing plants are in Mexico and its main market is 
North America. Proposed import tariffs could impact the Group’s business 
model. “Brexit” has introduced uncertainty to the level of tariffs on goods 
imported from Europe
 — Reduced financial performance
 — Loss of market share
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — The Group is preparing contingency plans for alternative production locations in the 
event that significant import tariffs to North America are introduced
 — The Group is considering production locations within the EU 
 
LEAD
Succession planning  
and staff calibre
Group performance is dependent on attracting and retaining high-quality 
staff across all functions
 — Without good calibre staff, the Group will find it difficult 
to expand and achieve its strategic goals
 — The Group’s development programmes enhance the skills of executives and middle managers
 — A comprehensive recruitment process and ongoing evaluation assist high-quality hiring 
and development
 — Considerable time is spent assessing middle and senior management in order to identify 
succession plans
Intellectual property
Theft or violation of intellectual property (“IP”) by third parties or third parties 
taking legal action for IP infringement
 — Proprietary technology used by competitors leading 
to loss of market share
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — All IP is protected by patents and potential violations are pursued through legal process
 — Patent office screening used to avoid infringing existing patents
Market trends
To continue to lead the market, the Group must be able to identify where 
customer demand is trending and ensure that we have the products to match. 
The Group’s sales strategy is based on the cumulative LED adoption rate 
being 6% in industrial lighting markets by 2019
 — Loss of market share
 — Lower margins and revenue
 — Feedback from customers is fed through a product strategy board to evaluate 
market intelligence
 — Internal and external marketing resources are used to review market trends and ensure 
that the Group’s products remain at the forefront of the market
Compliance
The Group needs to ensure that as the business expands, proper controls 
are put in place to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements relating 
to tax, trade and general code of conduct
 — Fines and penalties for non-compliance  — The Group uses third party specialists to deal with local fiscal requirements
 — Requirements on material traceability will be provided through our manufacturing 
partner’s systems
 — Training is provided for all staff on bribery/corruption legislation
Reputational
Corporate profile and products need to retain brand equity — Loss of market share — Corporate profile is protected using external advisers
 — Brand quality is central to the product development and product build quality 
is rigorously imposed
 
GROW
Competition
Failure to deliver technologically advanced products or to execute sales 
strategy could result in loss of market share
 — Loss of market share
 — Lower margins and revenue
 — The Group continually invests in research and development to push the boundaries of 
product development. The Group develops new products based on an ROI process to 
mitigate the risk of abortive expenditure
Economic conditions
The Group’s operations are located across a number of jurisdictions, which 
exposes the Group to a range of economic conditions
 — Reduced financial performance
 — Loss of market share
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — The Group’s geographical diversity limits its exposure to economic risk in any one country
 — The Group does not have significant operations, cash or assets in economically 
uncertain regions
Supply chain
The Group’s ability to supply high-quality finished goods is dependent on 
having a robust supply chain
 — Unable to meet customer demand through failure  
of a key supply chain partner
 — Delays in meeting customer demand
 — The Group has an ongoing programme to ensure that all critical components have dual 
suppliers and dual components specified
 — Critical suppliers are subject to due diligence and ongoing monitoring 
Funding
The Group needs to ensure that it has access to sufficient cash in order to 
fund working capital and expansion
 — Curtailed trading
 — Inability to execute merger and acquisition opportunities
 — The Group has an undrawn £25m revolving credit facility with an additional accordion 
feature for another £25m
Foreign exchange
Foreign currency risk is the most significant treasury related risk for the Group. 
In times of significant volatility this can have a material impact on performance
 — Volatile financial performance arising from translation 
of profit from overseas operations
 — Most of the Group’s profit earned is not in the 
reporting currency
 — The Group uses natural hedging to cover operational exposure as the majority of revenue 
and costs are in US Dollars. As the business expands geographically, the use of forward 
contracts will be reviewed to limit operational exposure on a selected currency basis
 — Translational exposure is not currently hedged but the Group reports key financial 
indicators on an actual and a constant currency basis
36
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC  
OBJECTIVE
RISK  
CATEGORY
RISK  
DESCRIPTION
 
IMPACT
 
MITIGATION
 
REBUILD
Production capacity
Production capacity needs to be scalable in line with growth
Concentration of Lighting production at a single third party location reduces 
control and changes the order fulfilment process
 — Inability to fulfil demand due to lack of 
product availability
 — The Group has partnered with a world class manufacturing partner in order to ensure 
scalability of operations on a global scale
 — The Group has developed new processes to ensure that order fulfilment will be unaffected. 
Our manufacturing partner has a business continuity plan in place to deal with significant 
production disruptions
Operational  
programme risk
There is a risk that operational capability could be impacted during the period 
of transition of the products and production platforms and changes to the 
demand planning process
 — Inability to supply existing markets on a timely basis
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — The Group has robust plans and controls to ensure that changes are seamless.  
This is monitored and reviewed regularly to ensure that milestones are being met
IT systems
The Group uses IT systems to operate and control its business; any disruption 
to this would have an adverse impact on the business. The Group also needs 
to ensure the protection and integrity of its data
 — Inability to supply customers
 — Loss of revenue and significant business disruption
 — Loss of commercially sensitive information
 — The Group is continually reviewing its IT systems to ensure that they are robust and 
scalable in line with the expansion of the business
 — There are back-ups built into all Group systems and the spread of systems offers good 
protection from individual events
 — Third party suppliers are used to provide data protection software
Political conditions
The Group’s main manufacturing plants are in Mexico and its main market is 
North America. Proposed import tariffs could impact the Group’s business 
model. “Brexit” has introduced uncertainty to the level of tariffs on goods 
imported from Europe
 — Reduced financial performance
 — Loss of market share
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — The Group is preparing contingency plans for alternative production locations in the 
event that significant import tariffs to North America are introduced
 — The Group is considering production locations within the EU 
 
LEAD
Succession planning  
and staff calibre
Group performance is dependent on attracting and retaining high-quality 
staff across all functions
 — Without good calibre staff, the Group will find it difficult 
to expand and achieve its strategic goals
 — The Group’s development programmes enhance the skills of executives and middle managers
 — A comprehensive recruitment process and ongoing evaluation assist high-quality hiring 
and development
 — Considerable time is spent assessing middle and senior management in order to identify 
succession plans
Intellectual property
Theft or violation of intellectual property (“IP”) by third parties or third parties 
taking legal action for IP infringement
 — Proprietary technology used by competitors leading 
to loss of market share
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — All IP is protected by patents and potential violations are pursued through legal process
 — Patent office screening used to avoid infringing existing patents
Market trends
To continue to lead the market, the Group must be able to identify where 
customer demand is trending and ensure that we have the products to match. 
The Group’s sales strategy is based on the cumulative LED adoption rate 
being 6% in industrial lighting markets by 2019
 — Loss of market share
 — Lower margins and revenue
 — Feedback from customers is fed through a product strategy board to evaluate 
market intelligence
 — Internal and external marketing resources are used to review market trends and ensure 
that the Group’s products remain at the forefront of the market
Compliance
The Group needs to ensure that as the business expands, proper controls 
are put in place to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements relating 
to tax, trade and general code of conduct
 — Fines and penalties for non-compliance  — The Group uses third party specialists to deal with local fiscal requirements
 — Requirements on material traceability will be provided through our manufacturing 
partner’s systems
 — Training is provided for all staff on bribery/corruption legislation
Reputational
Corporate profile and products need to retain brand equity — Loss of market share — Corporate profile is protected using external advisers
 — Brand quality is central to the product development and product build quality 
is rigorously imposed
 
GROW
Competition
Failure to deliver technologically advanced products or to execute sales 
strategy could result in loss of market share
 — Loss of market share
 — Lower margins and revenue
 — The Group continually invests in research and development to push the boundaries of 
product development. The Group develops new products based on an ROI process to 
mitigate the risk of abortive expenditure
Economic conditions
The Group’s operations are located across a number of jurisdictions, which 
exposes the Group to a range of economic conditions
 — Reduced financial performance
 — Loss of market share
 — Unforeseen liabilities
 — The Group’s geographical diversity limits its exposure to economic risk in any one country
 — The Group does not have significant operations, cash or assets in economically 
uncertain regions
Supply chain
The Group’s ability to supply high-quality finished goods is dependent on 
having a robust supply chain
 — Unable to meet customer demand through failure  
of a key supply chain partner
 — Delays in meeting customer demand
 — The Group has an ongoing programme to ensure that all critical components have dual 
suppliers and dual components specified
 — Critical suppliers are subject to due diligence and ongoing monitoring 
Funding
The Group needs to ensure that it has access to sufficient cash in order to 
fund working capital and expansion
 — Curtailed trading
 — Inability to execute merger and acquisition opportunities
 — The Group has an undrawn £25m revolving credit facility with an additional accordion 
feature for another £25m
Foreign exchange
Foreign currency risk is the most significant treasury related risk for the Group. 
In times of significant volatility this can have a material impact on performance
 — Volatile financial performance arising from translation 
of profit from overseas operations
 — Most of the Group’s profit earned is not in the 
reporting currency
 — The Group uses natural hedging to cover operational exposure as the majority of revenue 
and costs are in US Dollars. As the business expands geographically, the use of forward 
contracts will be reviewed to limit operational exposure on a selected currency basis
 — Translational exposure is not currently hedged but the Group reports key financial 
indicators on an actual and a constant currency basis
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
37 Strategic report
Financial review
Income statement
We have executed phase one of our plan to rebuild, lead and 
grow Dialight to capture the industrial LED market opportunity. 
The strategy to fundamentally improve the operating model and 
position it for long-term sustainable growth is reflected in the 
financial results for the year.
In the year, we delivered an increase in underlying profit 
and cash flow on revenue growth of 13% (2% at constant 
currency). This was in the context of challenging market 
conditions. Group revenue was £182.2m (2015: £161.4m), 
including a favourable currency exchange impact of £17.9m. 
The US and Europe, which generate the majority of our 
revenues, were broadly flat on a constant currency basis. 
Underlying operating profit increased to £13.1m (2015: £6.1m), 
including a favourable exchange impact of £1.5m. Our Lighting 
order intake for 2016 was up 8% (at constant currency) over 2015, 
reflecting early signs of progress in our strategic initiatives.
The significant increase in the Group’s underlying profit 
was a result of the fundamental shift in Dialight’s operating 
model, which has reduced costs and enabled scalable, 
efficient production:
 — Procurement programmes resulting in £2.7m improvement 
in cost of sales.
 — Production efficiencies of £1.7m from lower operating costs 
at the Mexico plant including direct labour savings of £0.5m.
 — Freight cost savings of £1.0m due to a new freight contract 
being negotiated at the start of the year.
 — Headcount savings of £1.6m due to the headcount reduction 
programme of 2015.
The bridge for underlying operating profit year on year is 
as follows:
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
2016
Full year
EBIT
Headcount
reductions
Freight
costs
Production
efﬁciences
Material
cost
savings
2015
Full year
EBIT
£’m
6.1
2.7
1.7
1.0
1.6 13.1
Currency impacts
Dialight reports its results in Sterling. Our major trading currency 
is the US Dollar, which encompasses 70% of the Group’s 
revenue. The Group has both translational and transactional 
currency exposure. Translational exposures arise on the 
consolidation of overseas Company results into Sterling and 
this is the major currency exposure. Transactional exposure 
is more limited with natural hedging on revenue and purchases 
mitigating the majority of the currency risk.
POSITIONED FOR  
THE FUTURE
£8m
net cash
38
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com The strengthening of the US Dollar in the second half of the year 
has been the main driver for the currency impact. The average 
rate for the US Dollar against Sterling has moved from 1.53 in 
2015 to 1.36 in 2016.
The performance of each business segment is reviewed 
individually below. Allocation of overheads in each segment 
was based on directly attributed costs plus an allocation based 
on segmental revenue.
Lighting
2016
£’m
2015
£’m
Increase
%
Revenue 136.6 120.6 13%
Gross profit 57.4 48.3 19%
Gross margin % 42% 40% 2%
Overheads (43.9) (41.5) (6%)
Underlying operating profit 13.5 6.8 99%
The Lighting segment represented 75% of the Group’s revenue 
and 73% of the Group’s underlying segmental operating profit. 
Revenues were 13% (2% at constant currency) higher compared 
with the prior year. Overall there has been a rise in the order 
book of 8% compared with last year. On a vertical sector basis 
the revenue profile was as follows:
12%
41%
35%
12%
Industrial processing 
and manufacturing
Energy, utilities and mining
Public and infrastructure
Structural
There was continued growth in non-US markets with Australia 
up 15% and Brazil up 129% compared with the prior year. We 
have increased market penetration within key vertical markets 
and the top three market verticals now account for 42% of 
revenue compared with 54% in the prior year.
Gross margin expanded by 2% to 42% and increased by 
£9.1 million year on year. The major elements of the increase are:
 — the elimination of production inefficiencies that gave rise 
to increased costs in 2015;
 — the impact of commodity management, which resulted 
in significant material cost savings; and
 — savings on freight charges due to a new contract being 
negotiated at the start of the year.
Operating costs were flat with incremental cost pressures 
offset by the full year impact of the headcount reduction 
programme put in place in August 2015.
Overall underlying operating profit in the Lighting segment 
doubled from the prior year as a result of our plan to rebuild our 
operating model and lay the foundations for longer-term 
profitable growth.
Signals and Components
2016
£’m
2015
£’m
Increase
%
Revenue 45.6 40.8 12%
Gross profit 12.1 7.9 53%
Gross margin % 27% 19% 8%
Overheads (7.2) (5.2) (38%)
Underlying operating profit 4.9 2.7 81%
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
39
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Financial review continued
Signals and Components are high-volume businesses operating 
within highly competitive markets. There is significant competition 
from low-cost producers but margins improved by 8% as traffic 
production was relocated from the US to Mexico. There was 
some increase in overheads due to impairment of development 
costs as product lines became obsolete. Overall there was an 
improvement in underlying operating profit of £2.2m (81%). 
Central overheads are not allocated to these segments. 
In 2016 they amounted to £5.3m, an increase of £1.9m from 
2015. The main increases related to management incentives 
and Board transition costs.
Non-underlying costs
The Group incurs costs and earns income that is non-recurring 
in nature or that is otherwise considered to not be reflective of 
the underlying performance of the business. In the assessment 
of performance of the Group, management examines underlying 
performance, which removes the impact of non-underlying 
costs and income.
The table below presents the components of non-
underlying profit or loss recorded within cost of sales and 
administrative expenses:
2016
 £’m
2015 
£’m
Employee severance and restructuring costs (5.3) (1.8)
Intangibles write-down (5.1) (1.0)
Disposal of tangible assets 0.2 –
Inventory costs (3.7) (6.0)
Executive Director replacement costs – (0.8)
Production transfer costs (2.4) –
Settlement of legal case – 0.5
Other (0.1) (0.4)
Non-underlying costs recorded in cost of sales 
and administrative expenses (16.4) (9.5) 
Total cash impact (4.9) (2.4)
The non-underlying costs in 2016 relating to our strategic 
initiatives amounted to £16.4m with cumulative cost savings 
of approximately £12m over the next two years. The strategic 
initiatives will be completed in 2017 and the final costs relating 
to these will be £3.0m.
The Group is substantially advanced on a programme 
of product platform re-engineering and transferring lighting 
product assembly to its manufacturing partner. As part of these 
programmes the UK production facility was closed in September 
2016. It has also been announced that the Mexican production 
facility will be reduced in scale by mid 2017. The £5.3m costs of 
redundancy relating to staff at both of these plants have been 
recognised in the year.
The product lines that were manufactured exclusively in the UK 
production facility were reviewed to assess the viability of 
transfer to our manufacturing partner. The review concluded 
that the European Traffic business was no longer viable and 
production would cease. This has resulted in a goodwill 
impairment of £4.0m. There has been a full review of all product 
lines and any development and patent costs associated with 
obsolete product lines have been impaired, resulting in a further 
charge of £1.1m. The total charge for intangible asset impairment 
is £5.1m which is a non-cash cost.
As part of the fundamental shift in Dialight’s operating 
model, the UK production facility and assets have been sold 
resulting in a profit of £0.2m.
The switch to platform engineering which standardises 
the design of our product parts to be used as the foundation 
of all our finished goods has resulted in some of our inventory 
becoming obsolete. This amounted to £3.7m in the year; we 
expect a further £1.0m of obsolete inventory in 2017.
The transfer of lighting assembly to our manufacturing 
partner incurred set-up costs relating to project management, 
legal costs and dedicated engineering time; this amounted to 
£2.4m. The final phase of this will be completed by mid 2017 
and the balance of the costs will be £2.0m. 
Tax
The Group operates in eight tax jurisdictions throughout the 
world and the Group’s effective tax rate is a blend of these 
national tax rates applied to locally generated profits. Profits 
of the Group are significantly weighted to the US where the tax 
rate is circa 38%. The Group’s effective tax rate is lower than 
this due to the benefit of tax credits of £2m relating to prior year 
adjustments partially offset by non-deductible expenses of 
£1.4m relating to goodwill impairment.
The underlying business had a tax charge of £3.9m (2015: 
£1.3m) and a tax rate of 31% (2015: 23%). There is a deferred 
tax asset of £3.5m generated on losses related to restructuring 
in the year and this will be recoverable against future profits. 
The rate of the tax credit on the non-underlying business was 
30%, resulting in an overall effective tax rate of 24.9%.
Earnings per share (“EPS”)
The basic EPS for the underlying business was 26.9 pence (2015: 
13.3 pence). The increase was due to the cost improvements 
discussed above. The statutory EPS was a negative 8.4 pence 
(2015: negative 6.4 pence) due to the large non-underlying 
costs recognised in the year.
40
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Pension liabilities
The Group has two defined benefit schemes which are closed 
to new entrants. At the balance sheet date, there was a deficit of 
£1.3m relating to these schemes. The deficit has increased due to 
the reduction in bond yields. The triennial valuation of the schemes 
which determines the amount of cash paid to recover the deficit 
is in progress. This will be completed by the end of June 2017. 
Strong cash generation
Cash generation is an important measure of the business 
model underpinning further investment in the business. Cash 
generation in 2016 was strong with adjusted operating cash flow 
of £21.0m (2015: £15.7m) and represented a cash conversion rate 
of 104% (2015: 131%). This is ahead of our cash conversion KPI 
target of 80% by 2018.
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Underlying operating profit (EBIT) 13.1 6.1
Depreciation 3.1 2.8
Amortisation 4.0 3.1
Adjusted underlying EBITDA 20.2 12.0
Working capital movements (excluding impact 
of non-underlying) 0.8 3.7
Adjusted operating cash flow 21.0 15.7
Cash conversion % 104% 131%
Cash flow 
The Group’s net cash position improved by £11.8m in the year 
from a net debt position of £3.8m at 31 December 2015 to a net 
cash position of £8.0m at 31 December 2016. 
The roll forward from net debt to net cash was as follows:
£’m
Net debt at 31 December 2015 (3.8)
Adjusted underlying EBITDA 20.2
Capital expenditure (6.0)
Non-underlying costs (2.9)
Other 0.5
Net cash at 31 December 2016 8.0
The major outflows of cash were £3.9m on tangible assets 
(2015: £3.3m), £2.1m on development costs (2015: £2.5m), 
interest paid of £0.5m (2015: £0.4m) and an inflow of £0.9m 
received from the sale of fixed assets.
Banking and covenant compliance
The Group has its banking relationships with HSBC Bank plc 
and Wells Fargo. The Group re-negotiated its revolving credit 
facility with HSBC Bank plc during the year. The new facility 
is for £25m with a further £25m “accordion” feature and has 
a five-year term. The Group has no borrowings against the 
facility at the balance sheet date and is fully compliant 
with its covenant requirements. This ensures significant 
financial flexibility.
Capital management and dividend
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order 
to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to 
sustain future development of the business. The Board considers 
consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2016 
this totalled £77.1m (2015: £70.1m).
The Board is not proposing any final dividend payment 
for 2016 (2015: nil). The Group has a clear capital allocation 
discipline and is committed to returning any excess funds to our 
shareholders via either a future dividend or a share repurchase.
Going concern
As disclosed in the Viability statement, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. The Directors believe that it continues to be 
appropriate to apply the going concern concept in preparing 
the Annual Report and Accounts.
Outlook
In 2017 we expect to see modest growth in Lighting, which 
should offset any decline in Signals and Components revenue. 
However, the Group continues to have limited visibility over 
revenue growth and is still subject to challenging macroeconomic 
conditions. The final costs relating to the restructuring will be 
recognised in 2017 and are estimated to be in the region of 
£2–£3m. The Group remains cash generative which will support 
further investment for growth in the business to 2018 and beyond.
This Strategic report was approved and signed on behalf 
of the Board by the Group Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director.
Michael Sutsko
Group Chief Executive
Fariyal Khanbabi
Group Finance Director
27 February 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
41
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8
4
1
3
5
7
2
6
Corporate governance statement
Board of Directors
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
42 1. Michael Sutsko 
Group Chief Executive
Term of office: Appointed as Group Chief Executive on 
1 June 2015.
Experience: Michael joined Dialight plc from Laird plc, where 
he was President of the Performance Materials division. Prior 
to Laird, Michael held positions at General Electric Advanced 
Materials, Halma plc, Porex Corporation and W.L. Gore & 
Associates. He holds an MBA and a Master’s in Chemical 
Engineering from Widener University and a BSc in Chemical 
Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania.
Current external appointments: None.
2. Wayne Edmunds 
N
Chairman
Term of office: Appointed as Chairman on 25 January 2016 and 
is Chair of the Nominations Committee.
Experience: Wayne was Chief Executive Officer of Invensys plc 
from 2011 until 2014, having worked at the business since 2008 in 
various roles, including Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2011. 
He joined Invensys from Reuters America Inc., where he was Chief 
Financial Officer, and has held several other senior finance roles in 
the technology sector, including 17 years at Lucent Technologies.
Current external appointments: Wayne is a Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Ashstead Group plc, 
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of BBA 
Aviation plc and Non-Executive Director of MSCI Inc.
3. Fariyal Khanbabi 
Group Finance Director
Term of office: Joined Dialight on 8 September 2014 as Group 
Finance Director.
Experience: From 2009 until joining Dialight in September 2014 
Fariyal was Chief Financial Officer at Blue Ocean Group, an 
independent privately owned £4bn revenue fuel trading and 
distribution business. She has over ten years’ experience 
in senior financial positions, including roles at NYSE and 
Nasdaq-listed companies. 
External appointments: None.
4. Stephen Bird 
A
 
N
 
R
Senior Independent Director
Term of office: Senior Independent Director since February 2013. 
Joined Dialight as Non-Executive Director on 10 January 2013. 
Experience: Stephen is currently Group Chief Executive 
of The Vitec Group plc and has previous Board experience as 
a Non-Executive Director of Umeco plc. Prior to joining Vitec, 
Stephen was Divisional Managing Director of Weir Oil & Gas, 
part of Weir Group plc, and has held senior roles at Danaher 
Corporation, Black & Decker, Unipart Group, Hepworth plc 
and Technicolor Group.
Current external appointments: Group Chief Executive of 
The Vitec Group plc.
5. David Blood 
N
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Joined Dialight on 1 July 2015 as a  
Non-Executive Director.
Experience: David is co-founder and Senior Partner of 
Generation Investment Management LLP. Previously, David 
spent 18 years at Goldman Sachs, including serving as co-
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman 
Sachs Asset Management from 1999 to 2003. David received 
a BA from Hamilton College and an MBA from the Harvard 
Graduate School of Business.
Current external appointments: David is on the Board of 
Directors of New Forests, On the Edge Productions, Ashden, 
SHINE, Social Finance UK and World Resources Institute, as 
well as being a Life Trustee of Hamilton College.
6. Martin L. Rapp 
A
 
N
 
R
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Joined Dialight on 26 April 2016 as a Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 
Experience: Martin was Chief Executive Officer of Laird 
Technologies, Inc. from 2001 until his retirement in 2011, having 
held various management roles at Laird plc since joining in 
1996. Previously, Martin held engineering, marketing and 
management positions with Monsanto, a chemical company, 
from 1981 to 1996.
Current external appointments: None.
7. David Thomas 
A
 
N
 
R
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Joined Dialight on 26 April 2016 as a Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee. 
Experience: David was Chief Financial Officer at Invensys plc 
from 2011 until his retirement in 2014, having held senior roles 
across the business since 2002. Prior to joining Invensys, he 
was a Senior Partner in Ernst & Young LLP, specialising in 
long-term industrial contracting businesses, and is a former 
member of the Auditing Practices Board.
Current external appointments: None.
8. Gaelle Hotellier 
A
 
N
Non-Executive Director
Appointed: 3 October 2016. 
Board Committees: Audit and Nominations Committees. 
Experience: Gaelle has worked for the Siemens Group since 
2002 during which time she has held various senior management 
roles. Between 2013 and 2015, Gaelle was an Executive Board 
member of the European Union’s Fuel Cell Hydrogen Joint 
Undertaking, a public-private partnership with the European 
Commission. She is a former Chairwoman of the Supervisory 
Board of Siemens Industriegetriebe GmbH in Penig. 
Current external appointments: In transition to a Senior 
Manager role within Siemens AG Steam Turbine Unit from her 
role as Chief Operating Officer of Siemens’ Mechanical Drives 
business in Germany. Gaelle is also a Member of the Advisory 
Board of Berthold Vollers GmbH.
Board Committees key
A
 
Audit Committee
N
 
Nominations Committee
R
 
Remuneration Committee
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
43
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Dialight plc 
(“Dialight” or the “Company”) I am pleased to present you with 
our Corporate governance report. This report seeks to provide 
you with a clear and meaningful explanation of how we 
discharge our governance duties and apply the principles of 
good governance enshrined in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the “Code”), a copy of which can be obtained from the 
website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.frc.org.uk. 
Dialight reports in accordance with the revised April 2016 Code, 
the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and 
the Companies Act 2006.
The balance of this section includes reports from the 
respective chairs of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. The Board remains committed to maintaining the 
highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring that 
values and behaviours are consistent across the business and 
underpin our business model. We have sought to manage the 
affairs of the Company not by merely following regimented 
rules, but by promoting a culture of open and transparent 
discussion, constructive challenge and support in the Board 
and across the Group. I am pleased with the progress Dialight 
has made and continues to make. As the Company is below 
the FTSE 350 some of the provisions do not apply but, 
to maintain good governance and in line with best practice, 
we endeavour to comply with the Code wherever possible.
Following the significant changes to the Board during 
2015 and in order to support the Group’s strategy of Rebuild, 
Lead and Grow, we have made additional appointments in 2016 
to further strengthen the Board. I was pleased to welcome 
Martin L. Rapp and David Thomas, who both joined the Board in 
April, and Gaelle Hotellier, who joined in October. Martin brings 
valuable international experience leading global technology 
companies, with a relevant background in research and 
production engineering. David has a strong financial and audit 
background as a former Chief Financial Officer of a UK-listed 
technology company and previously as a partner at Ernst & 
Young LLP. Gaelle brings strong and current experience in the 
lighting industry and green technologies, as well as in 
digitisation and automation. All three new Directors are already 
bringing their experience to bear in Board and management 
interactions. I would like to thank both Tracey Graham and 
Robert Lambourne for their service and valuable contribution to 
the Company.
The result is an international Board of Directors with 
extensive experience of running public companies in a global 
environment which, I believe, brings the right blend of skills 
and experience to help guide the Company and executive 
management in its delivery of the Company’s strategy for 
growth. Details of the remuneration and fee arrangements 
for each of the new Board appointments are included in the 
Remuneration Committee report. 
As we move into 2017, our priorities are to improve focus 
on our customers and their needs through innovation and our 
go-to market strategies, seek opportunities in existing and new 
markets which complement our current portfolio and which can 
deliver the growth that we expect, and improve the capabilities 
and diversity of our talent.
I am proud to chair the Dialight Board and oversee the 
Group with each of my fellow Directors and would like to 
encourage all shareholders to find the time to attend our Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) on 20 April 2017. It is an excellent 
opportunity to meet the Board.
Wayne Edmunds
Chairman
27 February 2017
COMMITTED TO 
MAINTAINING THE 
HIGHEST STANDARDS
44
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board’s key areas of focus in helping to create long-term 
sustainable value for shareholders are on strategic leadership, 
performance management, risk management, governance, 
succession planning and investor relations. 
The Board has a scheduled forward programme of 
meetings to ensure that we can allocate sufficient time to 
each of these key areas. This enables us to plan Board and 
Committee meetings appropriately and use the Board’s time 
together most effectively. There is sufficient flexibility in the 
programme for specific items to be added to any particular 
agenda and this ensures that the Board can focus on the key 
matters relating to the business at the appropriate time. 
In the adjacent column is a list of items considered by the 
Board and its Committees in the annual cycle of meetings:
 — Annual budget.
 — Corporate strategic (three-year) plan.
 — Chief Executive Officer report and trading updates.
 — Financial items including monthly management reports.
 — Preliminary and Interim results. 
 — Annual Report. 
 — Dividend policy and recommendations.
 — Committee reports. 
 — Investor relations. 
 — Pensions. 
 — Project updates. 
 — Treasury and tax policy.
 — Governance.
 — Risk management. 
 — Board evaluation. 
 — Litigation.
 
STRATEGIC PRIORITY
THE BOARD’S GOVERNANCE ROLE 
IN SUPPORT OF THE STRATEGY
 
WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2016
 
REBUILD
The Board, together with its Committees, supports 
the “Rebuild” strategic priority by ensuring that 
senior management has the requisite skills and 
adequate resources to effectively deliver on the 
platform engineering and outsourcing objectives. 
The Board reviews progress against these objectives 
and provides sufficient challenge and guidance to 
the internal teams focused on these initiatives.
 — Three-year strategic plan review in 
September 2016
 — Review of executive team members and 
their respective functional plans
 — Regular review of strategic KPIs, including 
in relation to delivery against platform 
engineering and outsourcing project plans
 
LEAD
The Board recognises that part of Dialight’s 
strength lies in the innovation of its products and 
is a key growth driver for the future. The Board 
endorses a flexible operating structure which is 
best suited to deliver successful innovation.
 — Provided input into the introduction 
of a new business case review process 
to apply improved rigour, forward 
visibility and investment oversight 
to the innovation process
 — Provided guidance to facilitate 
a more focused new product 
development pipeline
 
GROW
 — Read more on page 20.
The Board provides the Group with the necessary 
investment and support to meet its growth 
targets, but subjects this to rigorous scrutiny so 
that investment can be evaluated adequately. The 
Board provides the executive team with the space 
to exercise control and authority while giving it the 
guidance and tools to operate.
 — New appointments to the Board aligned 
to support the growth agenda, including 
Gaelle Hotellier who provides relevant 
sector and channel expertise, as well as 
a detailed understanding of the European 
market as the Company targets geographical 
sales diversification
 — Provided detailed input into and oversight 
of the revised sales strategy, overhauled 
to maximise the potential for growth 
 — Review of executive team succession plan
The Board has oversight of and approves the Company’s strategy, and monitors adherence to and supports the executive team 
in the delivery of that strategy.
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance report
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
45
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Board 
BOARD COMMITTEE STRUCTURE 
Executive Committee
Risk Committee
Audit  
Committee
Nominations  
Committee
Remuneration  
Committee
Disclosure  
Committee
Share Plans  
Committee
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance report continued
The Board
The Board is accountable to the Group’s stakeholders, including 
its shareholders, for the standards of governance operated 
throughout the Group and at all operating locations. Specific 
responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees, more information on which is 
provided on pages 52 to 74. The Board has a schedule of 
formally reserved powers, which it reviews regularly and a 
copy of which is available on the Company’s website.
The Board held five scheduled meetings during the year 
as well as a strategy review meeting held in the US over a day 
and a half. Additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls 
were also convened to deal with specific matters, particularly 
in relation to key reviews and decisions. Further details 
of Directors’ attendance at all scheduled meetings of the 
Board and its Committees can be found in the table in 
the adjacent column.
We ensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions 
and decisions of each of the three principal Committees, the 
Chair of each Committee providing a detailed summary to all 
Directors at the Board meeting following the relevant Committee 
meeting. Minutes of Board and Committee meetings are circulated 
to Directors shortly after those meetings take place.
All Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge the 
Group’s objectives and strategy and scrutinise the performance 
of management against it. The Chairman holds meetings on a 
range of matters with the Non-Executive Directors without the 
Executive Directors being present, while the Senior 
Independent Director does the same with other Non-Executive 
Directors as part of the Chairman’s annual performance 
appraisal as well as on other occasions as required. 
The principal activities of the Board and its Committees 
during the financial year under review included:
 — review and update of the Remuneration Policy in anticipation 
of the 2017 AGM vote;
 — review and approval of the three-year strategic plan;
 — review and approval of the replacement Group revolving 
credit facility; and
 — review of executive management succession plans.
The following table shows the attendance in person of Directors 
at scheduled Board and Committee meetings. In addition to 
the table below, there were two scheduled Board conference 
calls, one in June and one in October, to discuss financial 
performance. The attendance of each Director (at in person 
meetings) is expressed in the table below as the number of 
meetings out of the number he or she was eligible to attend.
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Wayne Edmunds 5/5 n/a n/a 2/2
Michael Sutsko 5/5 n/a n/a n/a
Fariyal Khanbabi 5/5 n/a n/a n/a
Stephen Bird
1
4/5 2/3 3/4 1/2
David Blood
2
5/5 2/2 n/a 1/2
Tracey Graham
3
1/1 1/1 1/1 n/a
Robert Lambourne
3
1/1 1/1 1/1 n/a
Martin L. Rapp
4
3/3 2/2 3/3 2/2
David Thomas
4
3/3 2/2 3/3 2/2
Gaelle Hotellier
5
1/1 1/1 n/a 1/1
1
  Stephen Bird was unable to attend the Board and Committee meetings 
in July 2016 due to prior business commitments.
2
  David Blood was unable to attend the Nominations Committee in July 2016 
due to prior business commitments. 
3
  Tracey Graham and Robert Lambourne both stepped down as Non-
Executive Directors following the Company’s AGM on 26 April 2016.
4
  Martin L. Rapp and David Thomas were appointed as Non-Executive 
Directors with effect from 26 April 2016.
5
  Gaelle Hotellier was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect 
from 3 October 2016.
46
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com On the rare occasion that a Director is unavoidably unable to 
attend a meeting, the Chairman briefs them before the meeting 
so that their comments and input can be taken into account at 
the meeting, and provides an update to them after the meeting.
Division of responsibilities
Chairman
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Group Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has 
been approved by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for 
leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects 
of its role, and for setting its agenda. The Chairman ensures 
effective communication with shareholders and that the Board 
is aware of the views of major shareholders. He facilitates the 
contribution of the Non-Executive Directors through a culture 
of openness and debate, and ensures constructive relations 
between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Director
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act as a 
sounding board for the Chairman and as a trusted intermediary 
for the other Directors. In addition, the Senior Independent 
Director meets with the other Non-Executive Directors in the 
absence of the Chairman at least once a year in order to 
undertake a review of the Chairman’s performance. He is 
also available to shareholders as required.
Group Chief Executive
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Company and execution of the strategy, once 
agreed by the Board. He creates a framework of strategy, values, 
organisation and objectives to ensure the successful delivery 
of results, and allocates decision making and responsibilities 
accordingly. He manages the risk profile in line with the risk 
appetite and categories of risk identified and accepted by the 
Board. He is assisted in his role by the Executive Committee, 
which he chairs.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors combine broad business and 
commercial experience from relevant industry sectors. They 
bring independence, external skills and objective judgement, and 
constructively challenge the actions of senior management. This 
is critical for providing assurance that the Executive Directors are 
exercising good judgement in delivery of strategy and decision 
making. Apart from David Blood, each of the Non-Executive 
Directors is considered to be independent in accordance with 
the Code. David Blood is not considered to be independent as 
a consequence of his connection with Generation Investment 
Management LLP, which is currently the Company’s largest 
shareholder. David’s letter of appointment contains additional 
clauses covering confidentiality, insider dealing and conflicts 
of interest. The Board considers David to be independent in 
character and judgement when joining in Board debates or 
discussion in which he is not conflicted. Information on the skills 
and experience of the Non-Executive Directors can be found in 
the Board biographies on page 43.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all governance matters. In addition, 
each Director has access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. In addition, the Company Secretary 
facilitates the induction of new Directors and assists with 
the ongoing training and development of the Board.
Effectiveness
Board Committees
The Board delegates a number of responsibilities to its Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations 
Committee. The Chair of each Committee reports formally to 
the Board on its proceedings after each meeting and makes 
recommendations that he deems appropriate to the Board 
for its consideration and approval. There are formal terms of 
reference for each Committee, approved by the Board. The 
terms of reference for each of these Committees set out the 
scope of authority of the Committee, satisfy the requirements 
of the Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by 
the Board. Copies of the terms of reference of each Committee 
are available on the Company’s website. The Committees are 
provided with all necessary resources to enable them to 
undertake their duties in an effective manner. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committees and minutes 
of all Committee meetings are available to all Directors.
The current composition of the three Committees is 
as follows:
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee
David Thomas (Chair) Martin L. Rapp (Chair) Wayne Edmunds (Chair)
Gaelle Hotellier Stephen Bird Stephen Bird
Martin L. Rapp David Thomas David Blood
Stephen Bird David Thomas
Martin L. Rapp
Gaelle Hotellier
In addition to the three Board Committees, Dialight has 
other committees, including the Executive Committee, 
Disclosure Committee, the Share Plans Committee and the 
Risk Committee, each of which has specific terms of reference 
and delegated authority from the Board to carry out its 
respective functions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
47
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance report continued
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee comprises key senior managers of 
the Group who have global accountability and responsibility 
for operational and functional roles. To manage the business 
more efficiently and effectively, certain Executive Committee 
responsibilities have been sub-delegated to relevant individuals 
of that Committee.
Delegation of authority
Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group 
as part of the business management system and through an 
authority matrix which sets out, inter alia, delegated authority 
levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures. 
Evaluation
The evaluation process of the Board and its Committees 
consists of an internal exercise performed annually with an 
independent third party evaluation carried out at least every 
three years. 
The internal evaluation process involved a written 
questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary, followed 
by the opportunity for individual Directors to discuss their 
responses with the Company Secretary. The Company 
Secretary collated a summary of the key issues raised for 
a report to the Chairman.
The Company Secretary then met with the Chairman 
to discuss the report. The report, which set out the principal 
issues raised, was submitted to the Board for discussion at 
the 8 December 2016 Board meeting. 
During the 2016 evaluation process, the Non-Executive 
Directors (in the absence of the Chairman) met with Stephen 
Bird, as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, to review 
the performance of the Chairman. The Chairman then met 
with the Group Chief Executive to discuss his objectives. 
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and all Non-
Executive Directors met to discuss the performance of the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director against 
the agreed objectives.
Based on the feedback received, the Board concluded 
that the Board and its Committees continue to operate 
effectively. In order to address the comments made by 
Directors, a list of specific actions and focus areas were 
agreed, including the following:
 — Non-Executive Directors will continue to actively engage with 
senior management, both formally and informally, building 
on the mentoring process implemented early in 2016.
 — Having agreed the Company’s three-year strategy during 
2016, the Board will hold detailed reviews during 2017 
to focus on progress against specific milestones in the 
execution of that strategy.
 — In order to enhance the dialogue with shareholders, the 
Board, principally through the Chairman, will seek to engage 
more actively with major shareholders and improve the 
dissemination of shareholder views to the Board.
Time commitment
The Board, supported by the Nominations Committee, carefully 
considered the external commitments of the Chairman and 
each of the Non-Executive Directors. The Board is satisfied 
that each such Director committed sufficient time during the 
year to enable them to fulfil their duties as a Director of the 
Company and has capacity to continue to do so. None of 
the Non-Executive Directors have any conflict of interest that 
has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association.
Induction, information and support
The Directors may consult with the Company Secretary at any 
time on matters related to their role on the Board. On joining 
the Company, Non-Executive Directors receive an induction 
to the Company consisting of a comprehensive briefing pack, 
which includes Group structure details, the constitution of the 
Company, the Group governance map, a guide to Directors’ 
duties, terms of reference of each Committee, Group policies 
and the Company’s delegation of authority. In addition to this, 
each Director is given the opportunity to meet Executive 
Directors and members of the Executive Committee as well as 
external advisers. All Non-Executive Directors have access to 
the Company’s senior management between Board meetings 
and are, from time to time, given the opportunity to attend and 
speak at Executive Committee meetings and meetings of the 
Group’s leadership team. In 2016, a programme was put in 
place whereby each Non-Executive Director was assigned to 
a member of the Executive Committee in a mentor capacity 
in order to provide one-to-one guidance and coaching. 
The Chairman monitors the breadth of knowledge, skills 
and experience of the Board and its Committees to ensure 
that they can fulfil their obligations.
48
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Accountability
Conflicts of interest
The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, 
manage conflicts or potential conflicts of interest with the 
Company’s interests. In accordance with the Directors’ interests 
provisions in the Companies Act 2006, all the Directors are 
required to submit details to the Company Secretary of any 
situations which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, 
of interest. The Board monitors and reviews potential conflicts of 
interest on a regular basis and is satisfied that formal procedures 
are in place to ensure that authorisation for potential and actual 
conflicts of interest are operated efficiently. 
Anti-bribery and corruption
The Company has a detailed Code of Business Conduct and 
supporting policies, including an anti-bribery and corruption 
policy which is reviewed annually by the Board. Externally 
moderated online compliance training is required to be carried 
out by all new personnel to familiarise themselves with the 
Company’s Code of Business Conduct, the supporting policies 
and relevant legislation. In addition, the Company operates a 
confidential, externally provided “speak up” line, available to 
all employees. During 2016 there were no incidents recorded 
through this facility. Any relevant instances would be 
investigated by the Company Secretary and reported to the 
Board as appropriate.
Risk management
The Board reviewed the Company’s principal risks, and received 
regular updates on risk management and internal controls from 
the Chair of the Audit Committee. See pages 36 and 37 
for more information on the Company’s principal risks 
and uncertainties. 
The Board receives a report on health and safety from the 
Group Chief Executive at every Board meeting. Specific issues 
on health and safety and any other matters which could have 
affected the Company’s reputation were reported to the Board 
as they occurred.
Relations with shareholders
Shareholder engagement
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications 
with investors. Although overall responsibility for ensuring that 
there is an effective communication with shareholders lies with 
the Chairman, on a day-to-day basis the Board’s primary contact 
with shareholders is through the Executive Directors. The 
Chairman is generally available to shareholders and meets with 
institutional and other large investors; the Senior Independent 
Director is also available as required.
The Company regularly meets with its large investors 
and institutional shareholders who, along with sell-side 
research analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company 
immediately after the announcement of the Company’s interim 
and full year results. The contents of these presentations and 
conference calls are available on the website and shareholders 
can register on the website to receive email alerts. 
The Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM presents an additional opportunity to 
communicate with private and institutional investors. The AGM 
is attended by the Board and is open to all Dialight shareholders 
to attend. 
The Group Chief Executive gives a presentation on 
operational matters before the Chairman deals with the formal 
business of the meeting. Each substantially separate issue is 
proposed as a separate resolution. Details of resolutions to 
be proposed, and shareholders’ options for voting, at the 
forthcoming AGM can be found in the separate circular to 
shareholders. All shareholders present can question the 
Board during the meeting as well as informally afterwards.
The Company’s forthcoming AGM will take place at 
11.30am on Thursday, 20 April 2017 at the offices of Investec 
Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
49
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Internal control statement 
The Board’s responsibilities 
The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for 
the Group’s system of internal controls and risk management, 
and the review of the system’s effectiveness is carried out with 
the assistance of the Audit Committee. While not providing 
absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, 
this system is designed to identify and manage those risks 
that could adversely impact the achievement of the Group’s 
objectives. The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are 
detailed on pages 36 and 37. 
The Board confirms that a process has been established 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the Group and for determining the nature and extent of 
the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. The Board, advised by the Audit Committee, has 
reviewed the process up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts. The Board has continued to improve and 
embed controls throughout the Group and will continue to keep 
the systems under review to ensure that the internal control and 
risk management framework remains fit for purpose.
Review of internal control effectiveness
The Board has engaged Ernst & Young LLP (“EY”) as an 
outsource resource to aid the Group in its internal audit and risk 
management framework. The Group’s external auditor, KPMG 
LLP, has audited the financial statements and has reviewed the 
financial control systems to the extent considered necessary 
to support the audit report. 
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 
(the “Code“)
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company 
has fully complied with the provisions as set out in the Code. 
The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position and 
performance. The Group’s business model is set out on pages 
18 and 19, and an explanation of the strategy and longer-term 
objectives of the Company is contained within the Strategic 
report on pages 1 to 41.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the main trends 
and factors likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out 
in the Strategic report. In addition, note 22 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities, and its exposures to currency and liquidity risks. 
The Group has significant financial resources (including 
a £25m five-year revolving credit facility, of which the whole 
amount is undrawn at 31 December 2016) together with 
contracts with a diverse range of customers and suppliers 
across different geographical areas and industries. No one 
customer accounts for more than 10% of Group turnover. 
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is 
well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After conducting a formal review of the Group’s financial 
resources, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Longer-term viability
In accordance with the Code, the Board has considered 
the Company’s longer-term viability and sets out its Viability 
statement on the opposite page.
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance report continued
50
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Viability statement
During the year, the Board carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks affecting the Group, including those that 
would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity. The principal risks and uncertainties, 
including an analysis of the potential impact and mitigating 
actions, are set out on pages 36 and 37 of the Strategic report. 
The Board has assessed the viability of the Group over 
a three-year period, taking into account the Group’s current 
position and the potential impact of the principal risks and 
uncertainties. While the Board has no reason to believe 
that the Group will not be viable over a longer period, it 
has determined that three years is an appropriate period to 
present users of the Annual Report with a reasonable degree 
of confidence while still providing a longer-term perspective. 
In drawing its conclusion, the Board has aligned the period 
of viability assessment with the Group’s strategic planning 
process (a three-year period). The Board believes that this 
approach provides greater alignment with the share-based 
incentive plan.
In assessing the viability of the Group, sensitivity analyses 
have been performed on the following key assumptions:
 — Revenue growth.
 — Delays in transferring to our manufacturing partnership.
 — Fluctuations in foreign exchange. 
 — Changes in import tariffs to the US and EU.
In reviewing the Company’s viability, the Board has 
identified the following factors which they believe support 
their assessment: 
 — The Group operates in diverse end markets with no strong 
customer concentration.
 — There is considerable financial capacity under current 
facilities and the Group has the ability to raise further funds.
 — There is a strong culture of accountability within a robust 
governance and control framework. 
 — There is an ethical approach to business throughout 
the Group.
The Board carried out a comprehensive exercise of financial 
modelling and stress-tested the model with various scenarios. 
In each scenario, the effect on the Group’s borrowing 
covenants was considered. Based on this assessment, the 
Board confirms that it has a reasonable expectation that the 
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to 
31 December 2019.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
51
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement
Audit Committee report
David Thomas
Chair of the Audit Committee
Introduction
I took over as Chair of the Audit Committee in April 2016 and 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to explain its work. I am 
a qualified chartered accountant and Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and have worked 
in financial roles for over 30 years. My full biography is set out 
on page 43 together with those of the other members of the 
Audit Committee.
Membership
All current members of the Audit Committee are independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
Committee member Member from/until
David Thomas (Committee Chair) from 26 April 2016
Stephen Bird from 10 January 2013
Martin L. Rapp from 26 April 2016
Robert Lambourne until 26 April 2016
Tracey Graham until 26 April 2016
Gaelle Hotellier from 3 October 2016
David Blood until 3 October 2016
I invite executives from the Group’s finance team as well as 
representatives of the external auditor and internal audit to join 
our meetings. 
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the 
Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience 
as required for corporate governance purposes.
Meetings
The Audit Committee held 3 scheduled meetings during the 
year and details of members’ attendance are set out on page 
46. The chart below shows how we spent our time and our 
activities are described in detail on page 53.
Feb Jul Dec
Financial reporting
Full year results and announcements
Half year results and 
announcements
Going concern
External audit
External audit plan
Management representation letter
Evaluation of external auditor 
effectiveness
Non-audit fees
Recommendation of appointment
Internal audit
Review of reports and control 
environment
Evaluation of internal auditor 
effectiveness
Approval of internal audit plan
Other
Risk management (including  
whistleblowing)
Compliance with  
corporate governance
Review of terms of reference
52
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Responsibilities
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
Non-Executive Directors of the Group. The Audit Committee’s 
terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure 
and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code. The terms of reference 
are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then 
referred to the Board for approval. The full terms of reference 
were updated on 8 December 2016.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:
 — monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance and review significant 
financial reporting judgements contained therein;
 — have oversight of risk management, including the review 
of the Group’s financial, operational and compliance 
internal controls, as well as whistleblowing and fraud 
prevention procedures;
 — monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function;
 — review the tenure of the external auditor in the context of 
retendering requirements and make recommendations to 
the Board on the timing of any process;
 — make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to 
be put to the shareholders for their approval at the next 
general meeting, on the appointment of the external 
auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the external auditor;
 — review and monitor the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration the periodic rotation of audit 
personnel and relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements; and
 — develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Key issues and activities
The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the 
Company, but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control process. 
Combined with the Committee’s review of the internal and 
external audit functions, it is able to obtain sufficient information 
to discharge its responsibilities.
During 2016 the activities of the Audit Committee 
were as follows:
Financial statements and reports
 — Reviewed the December 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 
and the June 2016 Half Year Report. As part of these 
reviews the Committee received a report from the 
external auditor.
 — Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls and disclosures made 
in the Annual Report and financial statements.
 — Reviewed treasury policy.
 — Reviewed currency exposure and hedging policies.
 — Reviewed taxation provisions.
Risk management
 — Considered the output from the Group-wide risk review 
process to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, the 
Group’s changing risk profile and future risk reports.
 — Devoted additional time to adequately address risk 
management and internal control processes in the Group.
Internal audit
 — Evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be 
undertaken by the internal audit function.
 — Reviewed management responses to audit reports issued 
during the year.
 — Reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing policy which allows 
internal audit, via the Company Secretary, to receive, in 
confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal 
controls, auditing issues and related matters.
 — Reviewed the resourcing of internal audit.
External auditor and non-audit work
 — Considered the timing and process for external 
auditor tender.
 — Reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and 
methodology of the audit and non-audit work to 
be undertaken by the external auditor.
 — Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor.
 — Agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid 
to the external auditor for the audit of the 31 December 
2016 financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
53
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement
Audit Committee report continued
Appointment and tenure
KPMG was first appointed as external auditor in 2001. KPMG 
is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group 
every five years and the current audit partner’s term will end 
after the 2018 audit. The Audit Committee recommends that 
KPMG be re-appointed as the Company’s auditor at the 
next AGM.
During 2016 the Committee continued to monitor legislative 
and best practice changes in this area. Under EU Directive 
provisions the Company is required to retender its external 
auditor by 31 December 2023. At that point KPMG would not 
be able to be re-appointed. The Company currently plans to 
retender the external audit at the end of 2018.
External audit effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external audit process is assessed 
by the Committee, which meets regularly throughout the year 
with the audit partner and senior audit managers. Key to the 
overall effectiveness of the process is a “no surprises” approach 
adopted by both the Group and the external auditor under 
which each party makes the other aware of accounting and 
financial reporting issues as and when they arise, rather than 
limiting this exchange to the period in which formal audit and 
review engagements take place.
This general approach is supported by a formal annual 
survey process involving subsidiary and Group management 
as well as Audit Committee members and attendees.
Surveys are tailored and issued to three distinct groups 
of respondents:
 — Subsidiary financial controllers.
 — Group finance team.
 — Audit Committee members and attendees.
The survey completed by the first group is divided between 
questions focusing on audit quality and client service. As this 
group is involved primarily in the execution phase of the audit, 
the responses cover practical audit management issues as well 
as observations made of the integrity and quality of audit field 
teams. The second and particularly the third group interact 
mainly with senior audit management and the audit partner and 
so the survey covers more general audit planning and wider 
issues around the audit relationship.
In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the external 
auditor, the Committee recognises that Group management 
has an important role to play in the overall effectiveness of the 
external audit process and the external auditor is therefore 
asked to conduct its own survey of both subsidiary and head 
office companies with which KPMG interacts. This survey 
addresses items such as the timeliness, quality and reliability 
of data provided to the external auditor.
Taken together, the Committee believes that sufficient and 
appropriate information is obtained to form an overall judgement 
on the effectiveness of the external audit process. The external 
audit effectiveness process findings from last year’s review 
were also incorporated into our audit processes this year.
Risk management and internal controls
Further details of risk management and internal controls 
are set out on pages 36 and 37. Through monitoring of the 
effectiveness of its internal controls and risk management, 
the Committee is able to maintain a good understanding of 
business performance, key areas of judgement and decision 
making processes within the Group.
Fair, balanced and understandable
One of the key governance requirements is for the report and 
accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable. Ensuring that 
this standard is met requires continuous assessment of the 
financial reporting issues affecting the Group on a year-round 
basis in addition to a number of focused exercises that take place 
during the Annual Report and Accounts production process.
These focused exercises can be summarised as follows:
 — A qualitative review of disclosures and a review of internal 
consistency throughout the Annual Report and Accounts. 
This review assesses the Annual Report and Accounts 
against objective criteria drawn up for each component of 
the requirement (individual criteria that indicate “fairness”, 
“balance” and “understandability” as well as criteria that 
overlap two or more components).
 — A risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency 
of the presentation of risks and significant judgements 
throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in the Annual 
Report and Accounts.
 — A formal review of all Board and Committee meeting minutes 
by the Company Secretary to ensure that all significant 
issues are appropriately reflected and given due prominence 
in narrative reporting.
 — Preparation and issue to the Audit Committee of the key 
working papers and results for each of the significant issues 
and judgements considered by the Audit Committee in 
the period.
54
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com The Directors’ statement on a fair, balanced and understandable 
Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 78.
Conflicts of interest
The Company has arrangements in place to consider and deal 
with Directors’ conflicts of interest. An annual review is undertaken, 
facilitated by the Company Secretary, with all identified 
conflicts recorded on a register that is adopted by the Board. 
Conflicted Directors are not able to attend meetings where 
the conflicted contract is discussed and decisions are made. 
Due to the potential conflict of interest existing as a 
consequence of David Blood’s relationship with Generation 
Investment Partners LLP, terms regarding dealing with conflicts 
of interest were incorporated into his letter of appointment. 
To remove any potential conflict, Mr Blood resigned from the 
Audit Committee on 3 October 2016.
None of the other Directors had or have an interest in any 
material contract relating to the business of the Company 
or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Significant issues
Significant issues and accounting judgements are identified by 
the finance team and through the external audit process, and 
are reviewed by the Audit Committee. The significant issues 
considered by the Committee in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2016 are set out in the following table:
Risk area Significant issues and judgements How the issues were addressed
Revenue recognition Revenue is a key performance indicator for the 
Group. Whilst the Group’s revenue recognition 
policies are not complex, the Group’s customers 
can have different contractual terms for transfer of 
ownership. The maintenance of an effective control 
environment within the production sites 
is fundamental to ensuring appropriate 
revenue recognition.
Controls relevant to the production sites are 
formally documented within the production sites. 
The accounting policies for revenue recognition 
are set out in note 3 to the financial statements and 
are unchanged from previous periods. The Audit 
Committee considered existing controls over 
revenue recognition and noted no significant issues 
with respect to the operation of the controls. The 
Audit Committee also considered a report from 
the external auditor, which commented, inter alia, 
on revenue recognition.
Identification and disclosure  
of non-underlying items
The Group is undergoing a significant 
transformation programme in connection with 
which it has incurred a significant degree of costs 
that are considered to be exceptional in nature 
as they are not representative of the underlying 
performance of the Group. Further details 
of these costs are provided in note 6 to the 
financial statements.
The Audit Committee has discussed the nature 
of these costs with management and the external 
auditor. The Audit Committee is of the view that 
these costs warrant separate disclosure on the 
face of the consolidated income statement by 
virtue of the fact they are not representative of the 
underlying performance of the Group. The Audit 
Committee considers that separate disclosure of 
exceptional costs will aid investors in evaluating 
the performance of the business in the year.
Use of judgements
 — Development costs
 — Inventory
The use of judgement and estimates is required 
in a number of areas, primarily in assessing 
the amount of development costs capitalised 
and the value of inventory.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and challenged 
key assumptions used in these areas. 
The Audit Committee requested that management 
prepare an in-depth analysis of capitalised 
development costs and inventory. Following 
review, the Audit Committee concluded that the 
judgements applied were appropriate in preparing 
the financial statements for the year.
When considering the financial statements, the Committee 
also considered the issues included in the Group’s critical 
accounting policies, which are set out in note 2 to the financial 
statements. Having discussed these matters with management 
and the external auditor the Committee has satisfied itself 
that such risks are being appropriately managed, that the 
judgements made are reasonable and that they are being 
accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting 
standards and principles.
David Thomas
Chair of the Audit Committee
27 February 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
55
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance statement
Nominations Committee report
I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 
2016 which provides a summary of the Nominations Committee’s 
activities during the year.
In 2016, the Nominations Committee membership was 
altered due to the change in the Board’s composition. The 
current composition of the Nominations Committee is set 
out below:
Committee member Member from/until
Wayne Edmunds (Committee Chair) from 25 January 2016
Stephen Bird from 10 January 2013
Martin L. Rapp from 26 April 2016
David Thomas from 26 April 2016
David Blood from 23 July 2015
Gaelle Hotellier from 3 October 2016
Bill Ronald until 25 January 2016
The Nominations Committee is appointed by the Board from 
the Non-Executive Directors. The Nominations Committee’s 
terms of reference include all matters required by the Code. The 
terms of reference are considered annually by the Nominations 
Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval. 
The full terms of reference were reviewed during the year and 
updated in December 2016. The terms of reference can be 
found on the Company’s website or can be obtained from 
the Company Secretary.
Only members of the Nominations Committee have a right to 
attend meetings. Other individuals may be invited to attend for 
all or any part of a meeting, where appropriate. 
Role and responsibilities of the Nominations Committee
The role of the Nominations Committee is to:
 — lead the process for all Board appointments, making 
recommendations to the Board where required;
 — review the balance and composition of the Board and its 
Committees, ensuring that they remain appropriate;
 — assume responsibility and oversee the Board’s succession 
planning requirements, including the identification and 
assessment of potential Board candidates, and making 
recommendations to the Board for its approval; and
 — keep under review the leadership needs of, and succession 
planning for, the Group in relation to both its Executive 
Directors and members of the Executive Committee. This 
includes the consideration of recommendations made by 
the Group Chief Executive for changes to the executive 
membership of the Board.
Activities during the year
During 2016 the Nominations Committee has focused heavily 
on Board succession and composition with the key outcomes 
described below.
In early 2016, the Nominations Committee met to consider 
potential Non-Executive Directors to replace Tracey Graham 
and Robert Lambourne, who were considering stepping down 
from the Board. Following a series of discussions, the 
Wayne Edmunds
Chair of the Nominations Committee
56
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Nominations Committee, agreed to begin the search for two 
replacement Non-Executive Directors. Martin L. Rapp was 
known to the Board as he was previously identified by JCA 
Group, an executive search firm, during the search process 
for a replacement Chairman of the Company in 2015. On this 
occasion, and following a further interview process, the Board 
decided that Martin had the requisite skills to fill the role of 
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, given his prior executive and non-executive 
experience, including as a member of the remuneration 
committees at Cascade Microtech, Inc. and Kionix, Inc. David 
Thomas was a direct recommendation from the Chairman of the 
Company. Following a rigorous interview process with the 
Board, David was considered to have the requisite experience, 
having previously acted as Chief Financial Officer at Invensys 
plc as well as having been a former member of the Auditing 
Practices Board, and was therefore appointed as a Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee. Both 
Martin and David were appointed with effect from 26 April 2016. 
As no external search firm was engaged and no open 
advertising was used in the search process for Martin and David, 
the Company was not in strict adherence to the provisions of 
provision B.2 of the Code. However, as previously noted, the 
Board undertook a rigorous and formal review of both their 
skills and experience. Martin and David were interviewed for 
their respective positions and the Board was satisfied that both 
Directors would bring strong and relevant industry expertise to 
complement the existing experience of the Board.
Following a recommendation by the Nominations 
Committee, the Board approved the renewal of Stephen Bird’s 
appointment as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent 
Director for a further three-year period until the conclusion of 
the Company’s AGM in 2019.
In July 2016, following a review by the Nominations 
Committee of the relevant skills and experience of the Board, 
it was agreed that a further search process would be conducted 
to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director with experience 
in, amongst other things, technology and international business 
development, in order to support the Group’s focus on sales 
growth across geographies and into new technology offerings. 
JCA Group was again engaged to facilitate the process. 
The members of the Nominations Committee were briefed 
on candidates who had been put forward for the roles. After 
a thorough interview and review process by the Nominations 
Committee, the Committee recommended and the Board 
approved the appointment of Gaelle Hotellier given the breadth 
and relevance of her experience (as described on page 43). 
Gaelle was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect 
from 3 October 2016. The Nominations Committee was 
satisfied that, when providing its advice, JCA Group did not 
have any other connections with the Company.
Priorities for the coming year 
The Nominations Committee will continue to keep the 
composition of, and succession plans for, the Board and Board 
Committees under review. In addition, in 2017 the Nominations 
Committee will focus on succession planning at executive 
management level, to ensure that nominated successors are 
identified (or recruited where there are no internal candidates 
identified) and rigorous and formal development plans are in 
place for those nominated successors, where required.
Diversity 
The Board continues to take into consideration the 
recommendations of the 2011 Lord Davies report “Women on 
Boards” (and subsequent updates) and confirms its commitment 
to the recruitment and promotion of all individuals throughout 
the Group, including those at Board and executive level, on the 
grounds of ability and merit only. No discrimination of any kind 
is tolerated. 
Currently the Board consists of two Executive Directors 
and six Non-Executive Directors. Six of the Directors are male 
and two are female. It is not the Board’s policy to have specific 
voluntary targets, but it will continue to recruit Board members 
based on skills and experience.
Further details of Dialight’s total workforce diversity can 
be found on page 29.
Re-election to the Board 
Following a formal review of the effectiveness of the Board, 
the Nominations Committee confirms that it is satisfied with 
the performance and the time commitment of each Non-
Executive Director throughout the year. We remain confident 
that each of them is in a position to discharge their duties to 
the Company in the coming year and to continue to bring the 
necessary skills required to the Board. Detailed biographies for 
each Director, including their skills and external appointments, 
can be found on page 43. 
The Board has decided to adopt provision B.7.1 of the 
Code so that all Directors will stand for re-election on an annual 
basis. Gaelle Hotellier, who was appointed to the Board during 
2016, will seek election at the forthcoming AGM.
Wayne Edmunds
Chair of the Nominations Committee
27 February 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
57
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report
Membership
Committee member Member from/until
Martin L. Rapp (Committee Chairman) from 26 April 2016
Stephen Bird from 10 January 2013
David Thomas from 26 April 2016
Tracey Graham until 26 April 2016
Robert Lambourne until 26 April 2016
Bill Ronald until 25 January 2016
Annual statement by Martin L. Rapp,  
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration 
Committee’s (the “Committee”) report on remuneration for 
2016 (the “Report”). 
As in previous years, this Report is split into three sections: 
the Annual statement, the Directors’ remuneration policy and 
the Annual report on remuneration. This year we will be asking 
you, our shareholders, to approve a new remuneration policy for 
Executive Directors (the “Policy”) at our 2017 AGM. We expect 
this Policy to apply for three years from the AGM, subject to 
shareholder approval. The background to the proposed 
changes is set out later in this Annual statement. 
Martin L. Rapp
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Over the course of the last few years, Dialight has undergone 
significant change with both our Group Chief Executive, 
Michael Sutsko, and Group Finance Director, Fariyal Khanbabi, 
having been appointed to the Board, along with the introduction 
of a new Group strategy – Rebuild, Lead, Grow – focused on 
rebuilding the Group’s operations, product development, sales 
strategy and delivering sustainable profitable growth. In addition, 
the Board and this Committee have seen changes in personnel, 
with myself and David Thomas being appointed to the Board 
and this Committee with effect from 26 April 2016, to join 
existing Committee member Stephen Bird. Tracey Graham, 
Robert Lambourne and Bill Ronald stepped down from the 
Committee during 2016 and I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank them for their contribution over the years. With these 
changes as the backdrop, the Committee’s key decisions during 
the year related to the areas set out below.
Review of base salaries
The Committee undertook a review of Executive Directors’ base 
salaries, taking into account a range of factors including 
individual experience, responsibilities and performance, as well 
as pay and conditions for employees more broadly across the 
Group. Following this review, the Committee agreed and 
recommended to the Board salary increases of 3% for each of 
the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, to take 
effect from 1 January 2017. These increases are in line with 
planned increases across the organisation.
58
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Change to the Group Finance Director’s maximum 
bonus potential
A review of the Annual Performance Bonus Plan (the “APBP”), 
was carried out to ensure that it continues to provide 
appropriate levels of motivation and reward in order to 
incentivise performance not only to the expected level but also 
to achieve exceptional results. As a result of this review, the 
maximum potential financial reward for the Group Finance 
Director on achievement of exceptional results was felt to be 
insufficient, especially in comparison to that of the Group Chief 
Executive and the senior management team. The annual bonus 
for the Group Finance Director as a percentage of base salary 
will stay the same for targeted results, at 75% of base salary, 
but will be increased from 100% of base salary to 125% of base 
salary for exceptional results, the change being in line with the 
existing policy. Any bonus above target will be self-funded from 
additional EBIT above target, as it has been in the past.
Annual bonus outcomes for the financial year
Following a review of performance against targets set at the 
start of the financial year, the Committee determined that 
bonuses of US$740,898 and £219,262 – equivalent to 129% 
and 85% of salary respectively – would be payable to the Group 
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. Outcomes 
reflect strong financial performance during the year, achievement 
of specific individual goals, and significant progress in positioning 
the Company via the Rebuild, Lead, Grow programme. Bonuses 
will be paid in March 2017, with 22% of bonus for the Group 
Chief Executive and 11% of bonus for Group Finance Director 
payable in deferred shares. Further details are included in the 
relevant section on page 67. 
Long-term incentives
Executive Directors were each granted an award under the 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) during the year based on 
performance over the three financial years to 31 December 
2018. These awards will vest to the extent that challenging 
earnings per share (“EPS”) and relative total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) targets are achieved over the three-year period. Further 
details of awards made to each Executive Director, including 
details of the performance targets applying, are included on 
page 70. 
In respect of long-term incentive plan awards made in 
2014, both the EPS and TSR performance of Dialight over the 
three-year performance period have been below the performance 
objectives set by the Committee at the date of grant. As a 
result, all 2014 PSP awards, including Fariyal Khanbabi’s award, 
will lapse in full in 2017.
Proposed weighting of PSP Awards
For the PSP awards to be made to Executive Directors in 2017, 
the Committee has determined that these will again be subject 
to EPS and relative TSR performance measured over three 
years. In order to focus participants on the importance of 
Dialight’s financial performance over the next performance 
cycle, the Committee will be increasing the weighting on 
EPS from 50% to 75% of the awards, with a commensurate 
reduction in the weighting on relative TSR from 50% to 25%, 
in each case as permitted under our Remuneration Policy. 
Targets applying to these awards will be finalised over the 
coming weeks and disclosed both at the time of award and 
in next year’s report. All PSP awards will also be subject to 
a two-year post-vesting holding period.
Review of fee arrangements for Non-Executive Directors 
resident outside the UK
In accordance with the Policy, the Committee reviewed the 
Chairman’s fee and the Board reviewed the Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees, such fees having last been increased at the 
start of 2015. Given the number of recent changes to the Board, 
it was decided that there should be no wholesale increases to 
the base fees. However, given the appointment for the first time 
of a non-UK domiciled Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, 
the Committee (in respect of the Chairman) and the Board (in 
respect of the Non-Executive Directors) decided to implement 
“local” currency fees (based on exchange rates at start of 
2016) as set out below, with effect from 1 January 2017:
 — In respect of Wayne Edmunds as Chairman, a fee of 
US$192,400.
 — In respect of Martin L. Rapp, a base Non-Executive Director 
fee of US$60,400, with an enhancement of US$7,400 as 
Chair of the Committee.
 — In respect of Gaelle Hotellier, a base Non-Executive Director 
fee of €55,500.
Subject to any future change following review by the Committee 
in accordance with the Policy, such fees will apply to any future 
appointments in the relevant currency zones. 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
59
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee report continued
Proposed changes to the Policy
During 2016, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review 
of the Policy to ensure that it promoted the new strategy and 
continued to both motivate and retain our executive team. 
As part of this review, in June 2016, on behalf of the 
Committee, I wrote to Dialight’s top ten shareholders (by 
shareholding) and the key shareholder bodies to seek their 
thoughts on the Company’s existing Policy in the context of the 
latest developments in executive remuneration. The feedback 
received was then considered by the Committee as part of its 
Policy review process, as a result of which a revised draft Policy 
was produced. I wrote again to the same shareholders and 
shareholder bodies in November 2016 to inform them of the 
proposed changes and invite any feedback. I thank all those who 
responded and engaged with us on this process.
Feedback was positive and, although the Committee 
considers that the existing Policy remains fit for purpose and 
promotes the Group’s strategy, some changes are proposed. In 
general, these are evolutionary and focus on ensuring continued 
alignment with market practice and providing the Committee 
with sufficient flexibility over the life of the next Policy to modify 
incentive measures, weightings and targets. In addition, we will 
also be making some changes to the operation of long-term 
incentives below Board level to ensure that Dialight can 
continue to motivate and retain key individuals in a competitive 
talent market. I summarise below some of the key changes:
 — The introduction of a mandatory two-year post-vesting 
holding period on all PSP awards granted to Executive 
Directors from 2017 onwards, bringing the total time horizon 
for holding long-term incentives to five years.
 — Certain changes to the Policy wording which focus on 
improving the clarity and brevity of the Report and ensuring 
that the Committee has sufficient flexibility over the life of 
the next Policy in areas such as incentive measures, targets 
and weightings to respond to business circumstances over 
the next three years.
 — A greater flexibility for below Board participants to receive 
some or all of future long-term incentive awards in the form 
of restricted share units with vesting conditional only on 
continued employment over a number of years. This change 
in approach is driven by the need to be able to incentivise 
and retain key personnel in different jurisdictions, particularly 
in the US where this practice is prevalent. This change does 
not impact Executive Directors and will therefore not form 
part of the Policy. 
The Committee believes that the 2017 Policy and Dialight’s 
approach to remuneration are appropriate and a fair balance 
of shareholder and management interests.
Other decisions
In addition to the above, the Committee’s other principal activities 
and key decisions during the year included the following:
 — Setting the 2016 salary increases for Executive Directors.
 — Review of cash bonuses in respect of the 2015 financial year.
 — Approving the 2016 PSP awards and setting the associated 
PSP performance targets.
 — Review of the performance targets outcome in relation to the 
2013 PSP award.
 — Setting APBP objectives for 2016.
 — Reviewing and approving the Committee’s terms of reference. 
 — Reviewing the Committee’s performance as part of the 2016 
internal Board performance evaluation.
A summary of the Committee meeting attendance by members 
is set out in the table on page 46.
Compliance statement
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). It also 
meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s Listing 
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections 
of the Report are subject to audit: the single total figure of 
remuneration for Directors and accompanying notes (page 67), 
scheme interests awarded during the financial year and 
payments to past directors (pages 70 and 72), payments 
for loss of office and the statement of directors’ shareholdings 
and share interests (page 73). The remaining sections of the 
Report are not subject to audit.
I hope that you find our Report helpful. The changes proposed 
to the Policy noted above were the subject of extensive 
shareholder engagement during the year under review. The Board 
values the opinions of its shareholders and other stakeholders 
and has proactively taken their views into account when 
finalising the proposed Policy and its application for 2017.
The Committee remains committed to aligning Dialight’s 
remuneration framework with the strategy of the business to 
promote the long-term success of the Company. The Committee 
is keen to maintain an ongoing dialogue with shareholders on 
the issue of executive remuneration and I will be available to 
answer any questions at the AGM on 20 April 2017, at which 
I look forward to your support on the resolutions relating 
to remuneration. 
Martin L. Rapp
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2017
60
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration policy
Directors’ remuneration policy
Dialight’s current remuneration policy was published in the Dialight Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2013 and approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 16 April 2014. As discussed in the Annual statement, the Committee 
undertook a review of the Policy during the course of 2016 to ensure that it remains appropriate in terms of driving strategy, 
motivating and retaining executives, and that it reflects changes in best practice over the last three years.
As required, the Committee is seeking shareholder approval for a new Policy at the 2017 AGM. The proposed changes are 
minor and reflect developments in best practice since the previous policy was put to shareholders. The principal change is the 
introduction of a mandatory two-year holding period on vested PSP shares. There are also amendments to wording in places to 
provide the Committee with sufficient flexibility to make minor changes over the life of the Policy. 
Further detail is set out below.
Background and overview of the Policy 
The Committee continues to have a clear policy on remuneration; namely that base salary and benefits for Executive Directors 
should represent a fair return for employment but that the majority of remuneration should be variable, dependent on the continued 
success of the Company, and aligned with the creation of shareholder value and delivery of Dialight’s strategic plan. The Policy has 
been designed and reviewed so that it continues to reinforce these principles, while also taking account of prevailing best practice, 
investor expectations, and the level of remuneration and pay awards made generally to employees of the Group.
A breakdown of all elements of executive remuneration and their place in the Company’s Policy can be found below:
Remuneration Policy table 
Element/link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary  
To ensure that 
fixed pay 
represents a 
fair return for 
employment.
The Committee sets base salary with reference to 
relevant market data and an individual’s experience, 
responsibilities and performance.
Base salary is considered by the Committee on 
an individual’s appointment and then reviewed 
once a year or when an individual changes position 
or responsibilities. 
When making a determination as to the appropriate 
level of remuneration, the Committee firstly 
considers pay and conditions for employees across 
the Group, the general performance of the Company 
and the wider economic environment and, where 
considered relevant, the Committee benchmarks 
remuneration against a bespoke group of  
comparator companies incorporated in both 
the US and the UK (size adjusted on the basis 
of market cap and revenue).
Benchmarking is not the only driver in salary reviews.
Any base salary increases are applied in line with the 
outcome of the review.
In respect of existing Executive Directors it is 
anticipated that salary increases will generally be 
in line with the broader employee population. In 
exceptional circumstances (including, but not limited 
to, a material increase in role size or complexity) 
the Committee has discretion to make appropriate 
adjustments to salary levels to ensure that they 
remain market competitive. It is not envisaged 
that this will be a frequent occurrence.
Detail of current salaries for the Executive Directors 
can be found on page 67.
None.
Benefits 
The approach of the 
Committee is that 
other benefits 
payable remain in 
line with market 
practice to ensure 
that Dialight retains 
its ability to be 
competitive and 
remain attractive 
to prospective 
candidates.
Executive Directors receive benefits which consist 
primarily of the provision of a car allowance, life 
insurance and medical insurance, although they may 
include any such benefits as that the Committee 
deems appropriate.
Benefits vary by role and individual circumstances; 
eligibility and cost are reviewed periodically.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a 
higher total benefit cost in exceptional circumstances 
(e.g. relocation) or in circumstances where factors 
outside the Company’s control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases in insurance premiums).
The value of benefits awarded to the Executive 
Directors can be found in the table on page 67.
None.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
61
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Element/link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Pension 
The Company 
provides this 
benefits package 
in order to be 
competitive in the 
relevant market 
and to ensure its 
ability to recruit and 
retain executives.
The Company operates the Roxboro UK Pension 
Scheme in the UK and a 401(k) and Supplemental 
Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) in the US, with 
both employee and employer contributions made 
to the relevant schemes.
Executive Directors in the UK are entitled to join 
the existing defined contribution scheme offering 
employer contributions of up to 15% or to receive 
an equivalent cash payment in lieu.
Executive Directors in the US are entitled to 
participate in the 401(k) and the SERP. In relation 
to the SERP a participant is entitled to receive a cash 
equivalent payment in lieu of employer contribution.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that 
is pensionable.
The Group Chief Executive does not currently 
participate in the SERP and in 2016 received a cash 
payment in lieu of employer contribution of $86,400. 
The Group Chief Executive does participate in the 
401(k) scheme and in 2016 received an employer 
contribution of $10,600 in accordance with the 
plan rules.
It is not anticipated that pension contributions 
(as a percentage of salary) will exceed the levels 
currently provided.
Further details of what has been paid during 2016 
can be found on page 67.
None.
Sharesave Plan 
To provide a 
mechanism by which 
employees can save 
up to purchase 
shares at a discount 
to the prevailing 
market price on 
an annual basis, 
encouraging 
employee retention 
and engagement 
with the Company.
The Sharesave Plan currently operates in the UK, 
the US and Mexico but may be introduced to other 
parts of the world at a future date.
The Sharesave Plan has typically been operated on 
an annual basis and is open to all eligible employees, 
including Executive Directors.
Employees will be able to save up to the maximum 
of the limits approved by HM Revenue & Customs 
from time to time (or local currency equivalent) for 
a total period of three years.
At the beginning of each savings period employees 
will be granted options over shares in Dialight plc 
up to a maximum discount of 20% to the prevailing 
market price. The employees’ savings are then used 
to purchase and exercise these options at the end 
of three years.
None.
Annual Performance 
Bonus Plan 
The APBP rewards 
performance against 
our annual goals, 
and directly 
supports the 
achievement of  
EBIT, one of the 
key financial KPIs 
of the Company.
APBP measures, weightings and targets are set 
by the Committee at the beginning of each financial 
year following the finalisation of the budget for 
that year.
Bonuses up to target are paid in cash, with payouts 
above target delivered in Dialight shares. Where the 
executive receives Dialight shares, half of these vest 
after two years with the balance vesting after three 
years, subject to continued employment with 
the Group.
Dividends are accrued on these deferred shares 
and are paid to the participant on release of shares 
that are subject to the award.
The rules of the APBP allow for the clawback of 
deferred share awards prior to their vesting should 
the Committee take the decision that to allow such 
awards to vest would be contrary to the best interests 
of the Company’s shareholders.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 175% of salary.
Threshold performance will deliver payouts of 
up to 20% of maximum, while payouts for target 
performance will be up to 60% of maximum.
Performance is 
assessed on an annual 
basis, as measured 
against specific 
objectives set at the 
start of each year.
The primary measure 
is Company EBIT, 
although other financial 
measures may be 
rewarded, as may 
additional specific 
objectives, that can 
be triggered following 
satisfactory 
achievement of the 
primary EBIT targets.
Further details of the 
measures, weightings 
and targets applicable 
for 2017 can be found  
on page 71.
62
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Element/link 
to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Performance  
Share Plan 
The PSP provides 
direct alignment 
between the 
interests of 
shareholders and 
those of the 
Executive Directors 
by linking vesting 
of awards to the 
Company’s 
long-term financial 
and share price 
performance.
PSP awards may be structured as conditional shares 
or nil-cost options with a two-year exercise window 
from the date of vesting.
The release of awards may, at the discretion of the 
Committee, be deferred in whole or in part following 
the end of a three-year vesting period. All vested 
awards will be subject to a two-year post-vesting 
holding period.
The Committee has the power to authorise the 
payment of dividends or dividend equivalents 
under the rules of the PSP.
The PSP rules contain provisions that allow for 
clawback and malus in respect of both vested and 
unvested awards in exceptional circumstances.
The maximum PSP award is 150% of salary per 
annum, although the Committee has historically 
made awards of between 25% and 125% of salary.
Threshold vesting delivers up to 25% of maximum.
Vesting of PSP awards  
is subject to continued 
employment and 
performance measures. 
The performance 
measures relating to 
grants are weighted 
as follows:
 — Between 25% and 
75% on three-year 
earnings per share 
(“EPS”) growth.
 — Between 25% and 
75% on TSR relative 
to a relevant peer 
group or index.
The Committee will 
review the performance 
measures, weightings 
and targets prior to each 
grant to ensure that they 
continue to be well 
aligned with the delivery 
of Company strategy.
Further details of the 
measures, weightings 
and targets applicable 
for 2017 can be found  
on page 71.
Non-Executive 
Director fees 
The Company 
sets fee levels 
to attract and 
retain experienced 
and skilled 
Non-Executive 
Directors with 
the necessary 
experience and 
expertise to advise 
and assist with 
establishing and 
monitoring the 
strategic objectives 
of the Company.
Fee levels are typically considered every year, 
taking into account fees paid for equivalent roles 
at companies of similar size, time commitment 
and complexity.
The fees paid to the Chairman are determined 
by the Committee, while fees for Non-Executive 
Directors are determined by the Board.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior 
Independent Director and as Chair of any of 
the Board’s Committees.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any bonus, 
do not participate in awards under the Company’s 
share plans and are not eligible to join the  
Company’s pension scheme.
The Company’s policy in relation to fees is to 
reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of 
the roles, normally by paying up to median level fees, 
compared to market, depending on the experience 
and background of the Non-Executive Directors. 
The Company also reimburses the Non-Executive 
Directors for expenses reasonably and properly 
incurred in the performance of their duties.
In normal circumstances, increases to fees will be 
broadly in line with price inflation, subject to cases 
of material misalignment with the market or a change 
in the complexity, responsibility or time commitment 
required to fulfil a Non-Executive Director role.
It remains important for the Board to have the 
necessary flexibility to step outside this general 
policy should the requirement be clear that a certain 
type of individual is required to conform with new 
governance requirements or legislation.
Aggregate fees for all Non-Executive Directors will 
be within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Details of current Non-Executive Director fees can 
be found on page 67.
None.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
63
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Notes to the remuneration policy table 
Explanatory detail for future remuneration policy table
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any 
award made prior to the approval and implementation of the 
Policy detailed in this Report. 
Performance measures and targets
For the APBP, EBIT has been selected as the primary measure 
to provide a direct link to one of our KPIs and ensure that the 
bonus is self-financing. Any other measures will be agreed 
on an annual basis to ensure alignment with the Company’s 
strategy for the coming year. Targets are set on an annual basis 
taking into account the Company’s budget as well as external 
expectations for Dialight and the sector.
For the PSP, the Committee considers that TSR provides 
clear alignment between Executive Directors’ interests and 
those of shareholders and provides an objective measure of the 
Company’s success over time, while EPS provides good line of 
sight and helps to focus participants on the Company’s financial 
performance. EPS targets will be reviewed and confirmed prior 
to each grant, taking account of the Company’s strategic plan, 
analyst estimates, historical performance and EPS performance 
ranges used at other FTSE companies. Other performance 
measures may be adopted for future awards, should the 
Committee consider that these would be beneficial in aligning 
remuneration with Company strategy.
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to 
consider that an outstanding PSP award or bonus would not 
achieve its original purpose without alteration, the Committee 
has discretion to amend the targets, provided the new 
conditions are materially no less challenging than was intended 
when originally imposed. Such discretion could be used to 
appropriately adjust for the impact of material acquisitions 
or disposals, or for exceptional and unforeseen events outside 
the control of the management team.
Difference between Director remuneration policy and that 
for other employees
All employees receive salaries and benefits which are consistent 
with local market practice, with any review of fixed pay taking 
into account experience, responsibility, individual performance 
and salary levels at comparable companies.
Senior management is typically eligible to participate in 
the APBP, with opportunities and performance measures reflecting 
organisational level and business area, as appropriate. PSP 
awards at senior management level and to other key employees 
have historically been operated on a similar basis as for 
Executive Directors, with the same performance measures 
applying. It is the Committee’s intention that, going forward, 
there will be greater flexibility (for participants below Executive 
Director level) for some or all of such awards to take the form 
of restricted share units with vesting subject only to continued 
employment over a number of years. It is intended that this 
change will help Dialight to remain competitive in the main talent 
markets in which it operates, while also continuing to align plan 
participants with the interests of shareholders in growing the 
value of the Company over the longer term. Share awards 
(whether subject to performance conditions or not) to 
participants below Executive Director level will not be subject 
to a holding period.
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are required to accumulate and maintain 
a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in value to their last 
annual PSP award. Executives will have five years from their 
date of joining to build their shareholdings to the required level. 
Current shareholding levels are included on page 73.
Remuneration scenarios
Group Chief Executive – Michael Sutsko
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
$725k
$1,504k
$2,505k
100%
48%
29%
39% 13%
41% 30%
Group Finance Director – Fariyal Khanbabi
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£311k
£578k
£912k
100%
53%
34%
34% 13%
37% 29%
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only.
On-target performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
 — 100% of salary paid in bonus (57% of maximum opportunity); and
 — 31% of PSP award (25% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full payout of both short- and 
long-term incentives.
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only.
On-target performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
 — 75% of salary paid in bonus (60% of maximum opportunity); and
 — 25% of PSP award (25% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full payout of both short- and 
long-term incentives.
 Fixed  Short-term incentive  Long-term incentive
64
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com The composition and value of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages at “minimum”, “on-target” and 
“maximum” scenarios are set out above. The policy of the 
Committee is to align Executive Directors’ interests with those 
of shareholders and to give the Executive Directors an incentive 
to perform at the highest levels. To achieve this, it seeks to 
ensure that a significant proportion of the remuneration package 
varies with the financial performance of the Group and that 
targets are aligned with the Group’s stated business objectives.
Recruitment policy
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director from outside 
the Company, the Committee may make use of all the existing 
components of remuneration. Executive Directors will receive a 
base salary, pension contributions and other benefits, and will 
be eligible to participate in the APBP and PSP in line with the 
normal policy. The maximum level of variable pay (excluding any 
buy-outs) offered to any new Executive Director on appointment 
would be 325% of salary (comprising 175% of salary in the 
APBP and 150% in the PSP).
Base salaries of new appointees will be determined by 
reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the 
individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary. 
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below 
market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases 
over a period of two to three years subject to the individual’s 
development in the role.
The Committee may elect to make an award in respect 
of a new appointment to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements 
forfeited on leaving a previous employer on a like-for-like basis, 
which may be awarded in addition to the remuneration structure 
outlined above. If the Committee determines that it is appropriate 
to do so it will apply the following approach:
The fair value of these incentives will be calculated taking 
into account:
 — the proportion of the performance period completed on the 
date of the Executive’s cessation of employment;
 — the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these 
incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied; and
 — any other terms and conditions having a material effect on 
their value (“lapsed fair value”).
The Committee may then grant up to the same fair value as the 
lapsed fair value where possible under the Company’s incentive 
plans (subject to the annual limits under these plans). The 
Committee, however, retains the discretion to provide the 
lapsed fair value under specific arrangements in relation to the 
recruitment of the particular individual. Listing Rule 9.4.2 may be 
utilised in order to provide the flexibility to the Committee to 
offer a remuneration structure outside of the Group’s existing 
plans, as appropriate. 
The approach to the recruitment of internal candidates would 
be similar but the Committee would continue to honour existing 
contractual commitments prior to any promotion.
For Non-Executive Directors, the Committee and the 
Company would seek to pay fees in line with the Company’s 
existing Policy. A base fee in line with the prevailing fee 
schedule would be payable for Board membership, with 
additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent 
Director and/or as Chair of the Board Committees.
Service contracts
Executive Directors’ service contracts, including arrangements 
for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee. 
Executive service contracts contain provisions that require up to 
12 months’ notice of termination on either side. Such contracts 
do not contain any provisions for payments outside the 
scope of those contained in the contract. Executive Director 
service contracts are available to view at the Company’s 
Registered Office.
Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement 
provided in formal letters of appointment, which contain 
three-month notice periods that are mutual. The Non-Executive 
Directors are appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual 
re-election by the shareholders at the Company’s AGM.
Notice periods
Executive Directors’ service contracts require up to 12 months’ 
notice to be given by Dialight in the event of termination. Both 
can be terminated with and without cause and require up to 
12 months’ notice from either party.
Subject to his compliance with those restrictive covenants 
in the contract, the Group Chief Executive is entitled to a 
severance payment equivalent to a full year’s salary, continuing 
healthcare under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act 1985 benefits for the same period and an 
amount equal to the current annual cost of life insurance to 
Dialight if his employment is terminated without cause. This 
does not apply should he resign or be terminated with cause.
The Group Finance Director’s contract provides for pay in 
lieu of notice but does not contain any additional compensation 
provisions. None of the current Executive Directors’ contracts 
contain liquidated damages clauses.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
65
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine 
such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case. 
In determining any compensation, it will take into account the 
best practice provisions of the Code and published guidance 
from recognised institutional investor bodies, and will take legal 
advice on the Company’s liability to pay compensation and the 
appropriate amount. The Committee periodically considers 
what compensation commitments the Executive Directors’ 
contracts would entail in the event of early termination. There are 
no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension 
with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
The Committee will exercise discretion in making 
appropriate payments in the context of outplacement, settling 
legal claims or potential legal claims by a departing Executive 
Director, including any other amounts reasonably due to the 
Executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred 
in connection with the termination of employment, where the 
Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the 
individual must seek independent legal advice.
Treatment of outstanding variable incentives will be 
as follows: 
APBP
In the event of an Executive Director leaving Dialight before 
the end of a bonus year or prior to the payment of a bonus the 
Committee has discretion to allow them to be paid a portion 
of bonus relative to their point of leaving. This will be highly 
contingent on the manner of the Executive Director’s departure 
and whether they are classified as a “good leaver” pursuant 
to the rules of the APBP.
PSP
The PSP would operate in a similar way to the APBP. Assuming 
the Executive Director is classed as a “good leaver”, outstanding 
PSP shares would typically be pro-rated for the proportion 
of the performance period served and released, subject to 
applicable performance conditions, at the normal vesting date. 
The Committee has flexibility to allow awards to vest earlier 
than above when an individual leaves; however, the default 
position will be for awards not to be released early. 
The treatment of shares subject to deferral or holding 
periods will be subject to the Committee’s discretion and will 
take into account the circumstances at the time.
For the purpose of the above, “good leaver” is defined 
as a participant ceasing to be employed by the Group by 
reason of death, disability, ill health, redundancy, retirement 
with agreement of the Company or any other reason that the 
Committee determines in its absolute discretion. Should the 
Executive Director leave the Company in any other circumstances, 
outstanding awards would typically lapse.
The Committee also retains discretion in the event of a change 
of control to release awards under the PSP. It is usual in this 
situation that awards would be pro-rated for time and 
performance subject to the discretion of the Committee. 
In relation to the APBP, the scheme rules allow the Committee 
to determine that all deferred share elements of the bonus 
awards will vest on a change of control and may be exercised 
within such period as the Committee shall specify.
External appointments
It is the Company’s policy that, except in extraordinary 
circumstances, Executive Directors should only accept one 
appointment with a third party as a Non-Executive Director. 
Any such appointment is subject to prior Board approval and 
consideration will be given to potential conflicts of interest 
with Dialight and the time demands of the external appointment. 
The Executive Director concerned is entitled to retain any fees 
from such a non-executive directorship.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Committee takes into account what the general rise in 
employee salaries was across the Company at the review date 
when considering changes to the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors. The Company has not expressly sought the views 
of employees when drawing up the Policy but has conducted 
a review of current job roles and salaries across the Group.
Shareholder views
The Committee maintains a regular dialogue with its major 
shareholders, and most recently consulted with its top 
shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies, 
the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder 
Services, Inc., regarding proposed changes to the Policy. The 
Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments 
in corporate governance and market practice to ensure that the 
structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
66
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration
Annual report on remuneration
2016 outcomes
Single figure of total remuneration
The following tables provide details of the Directors’ remuneration for the 2016 financial year, together with their remuneration for 
the 2015 financial year, in each case before deductions for income tax and national insurance contributions (where relevant):
2016 (all figures in 000s)
Salary/Fee
2016
Benefits
2016
Pension
2016
Sub-total
fixed
2016
Bonus
2016
PSP
2016
Sub-total 
variable
2016
Total 
remuneration
2016
Executive Directors
Michael Sutsko $576 $52
1
$97 $725 $741 $0 $741 $1,466
Fariyal Khanbabi £259 £13 £39 £311 £219 £0 £219 £530
Non-Executive Directors
Wayne Edmunds
2
£121 – – £121 – – – £121
Stephen Bird £46 – – £46 – – – £46
David Blood £41 – – £41 – – – £41
Gaelle Hotellier
3
£10 – – £10 – – – £10
Martin Rapp
4
£31 – – £31 – – – £31
David Thomas
5
£31 – – £31 – – – £31
Past Directors
Bill Ronald
6
£9 – – £9 – – – £9
Tracey Graham
7
£20 – – £20 – – – $20
Robert Lambourne
8
£20 – – £20 – – – £20
1
 Michael Sutsko’s benefits figure is made up primarily of a car allowance, life insurance and medical insurance cover.
2
  Wayne Edmunds was appointed as Chairman on 25 January 2016.
3
  Gaelle Hotellier was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 3 October 2016.
4
 Martin L. Rapp was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2016.
5
 David Thomas was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2016.
6
 Bill Ronald stepped down as Chairman on 25 January 2016.
7
 Tracey Graham stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2016.
8
 Robert Lambourne stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2016.
2015 (all figures in 000s)
Salary/Fee
2015
Benefits
2015
Pension
2015
Sub-total
fixed
2015
Bonus
2015
PSP
2015
Sub-total 
variable
2015
Total 
remuneration 
2015
Executive Directors
Michael Sutsko $334 $131 $58 $523 $0 $0 $0 $523
Fariyal Khanbabi £247 £13 £37 £297 £0 £0 £0 £297
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald £128 – – £128 – – – £128
Stephen Bird £46 – – £46 – – – £46
David Blood £20 – – £20 – – – £20
Tracey Graham £46 – – £46 – – – £46
Robert Lambourne £46 – – £46 – – – £46
Past Directors
Roy Burton $108 $3 $1 $112 £0 £0 £0 $112
Richard Stuckes £192 £7 £0 £199 £0 £0 £0 £199
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
67
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Additional disclosures 
Executive Directors’ benefits
Executive Directors receive benefits comprising life insurance, healthcare and car allowances.
Pensions
The figure includes the amount of Company contributions to Fariyal Khanbabi’s and Michael Sutsko’s pensions during the year. 
Fariyal Khanbabi received Company contributions of 15% of base salary/cash payment in lieu. Michael Sutsko received employer 
contributions under a US 401(k) plan. Michael Sutsko does not currently participate in the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 
(“SERP”) and instead received cash payment in lieu of employer contribution. 
APBP 
The APBP operates on the basis that is set out in the Policy report on page 62. Maximum bonus potential, paid in a mixture of cash 
and, in respect of performance above target, deferred shares, is 175% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% for the 
Group Finance Director.
2015 APBP 
As discussed in the 2015 Remuneration Committee report, in light of the EBIT outturn for 2015 being below the objective target set, 
no bonuses became payable under the APBP 2015.
2016 APBP
The APBP 2016 was based primarily on EBIT performance. Up to 15% of the Executives’ target bonus was subject to the achievement 
of individual goals. The annual bonus payable to the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director in respect of 2016 performance 
was capped at 175% and 100% of salary respectively, with any bonus in excess of Target (100% of salary and 75% of salary 
respectively), deferred in Dialight shares for up to three years.
The performance range in respect of the 2016 EBIT element was as follows:
Threshold Target Maximum Actual
EBIT (after provision for bonuses) £9m £12m £15m £13.1m
No bonuses are payable for below Threshold EBIT. For EBIT performance between Threshold and Target or between Target and 
Maximum, outcomes are based on a straight-line interpolation between the two points. EBIT is based on the total of the underlying 
EBIT shown the in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016.
Actual EBIT performance for 2016 was £13.1m. In addition, having considered performance against individual targets linked to 
Dialight’s strategy of ‘Rebuild, Lead, Grow’ and financial imperatives including the refinancing, the Committee determined that both 
Michael and Fariyal had fully met their executive goals. As a result, total bonuses of 128.6% of salary and 84.5% of salary became 
payable to Michael and Fariyal respectively, of which 28.6% and 9.5% of salary will be deferred in shares.
PSP 
Awards made in 2013
Awards granted under the 2013 PSP lapsed on 9 April 2016 due to fact that the related performance conditions were not achieved.
Awards made in 2014
Awards made under the PSP in 2014 will lapse in April 2017 as the related performance conditions were not achieved during the 
three-year performance period to 31 December 2016.
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration continued
68
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Percentage change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive 
The following table sets out the change in remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2015 to 2016 compared with the 
average percentage change for employees as a whole:
% change 2015–2016
Group
Chief Executive
Group
employees
Salary 3% 3%
Bonus n/a n/a
Benefits 0% 0%
The main benefits provided include medical coverage and life insurance. There has been no change in the level of benefits 
provided to Group employees.
In relation to the Group Chief Executive, the value of the benefits received during 2015 included an amount relating to 
relocation expenses. No such relocation expenses were payable in 2016 and the level of benefits provided in 2016 remained 
broadly in line with those provided in 2015 on an annualised basis.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below shows the total amount paid by the Company to its employees (excluding severance costs) for 2016 and 2015. 
Details of the total amount of distributions for the same two years can also be seen.
Spend on pay Distributions
2016 £36.6m 2016 £0m
2015 £32.6m 2015 £3.2m
Performance graph and table 
The below graph demonstrates the Company’s TSR performance over the past eight years relative to the FTSE 250 Mid Index 
(excluding investment trusts), the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Electronic and 
Electrical Equipment Index. 
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2008
Source: Datastream
Dialight FTSE250 Mid Index 
(excluding investment trusts) 
FTSE250 SmallCap Index 
(excluding investment trusts) 
FTSE All-Share Electronic 
and Electrical Equipment Index 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
69
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The table below sets out the “single figure” of total remuneration of the Group Chief Executive over the same eight-year period:
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
R Burton R Burton R Burton R Burton R Burton R Burton 
R Burton  
(to Feb)
R Stuckes 
(Mar to Jun)
M Sutsko 
(from Jul) M Sutsko
Total remuneration ($’000) $745 $2,845 $4,170 $3,843 $1,564 $1,153 $112
£185
$523
$1,466
Bonus outcome (% of max) 70 100 100 66.6 0 29 0
n/a
0
74
PSP vesting outcome (% of max) 58 100 100 100 100 0 0
n/a
n/a
n/a
PSP awards made in 2016
Awards granted in 2016 are measured against EPS and TSR on the following basis:
EPS 
EPS is used in respect of 50% of awards. For awards made in 2016, this element will vest in full if Dialight’s 2018 EPS exceeds 
50 pence, with threshold vesting (25%) if Dialight’s 2018 EPS is 40 pence. Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between 
these two points, with none of this element vesting if Dialight’s 2018 EPS is less than 40 pence. The Committee will review the 
performance targets prior to the grant of any future awards to ensure that they are appropriately stretching but achievable.
TSR
TSR is used in respect of the remaining 50% of awards in order to maintain strong shareholder alignment. For awards made in 
2016, the TSR vesting condition is based upon Dialight’s three-year TSR percentage outperformance of the FTSE SmallCap Index 
(excluding investment trusts). This element will vest in full if Dialight’s three-year TSR exceeds Index TSR by 10% per annum, with 
threshold vesting (25%) if Dialight’s three-year TSR is in line with Index TSR. Straight-line vesting applies for outperformance of 
the Index between these two points. The TSR outperformance requirement is broadly in line with practice at other FTSE-listed 
companies, taking into account Dialight’s relative size.
The 2016 awards made to the Executive Directors are set out below:
Director Plan
% of salary 
awarded
Nature of 
interest
Exercise 
price per 
share
Number of 
shares 
subject to an 
award
Face
value of
an award
Performance 
conditions
Date
of grant
of award
Date of
end of 
performance 
period
Fariyal Khanbabi PSP 100% Nil-cost
option
N/A 49,240 £259,347 TSR/EPS 16.03.16 31.12.18
Michael Sutsko PSP 125% Conditional
share
award
N/A 96,485 £508,186 TSR/EPS 16.03.16 31.12.18
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration continued
70
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Payments to past Directors 
Exit payments
There were no exit payments paid to past Directors. 
Roy Burton
As a result of the underlying performance criteria not having been achieved, Roy Burton’s 38,491 outstanding 2014 PSP awards will 
lapse in full in April 2017.
Implementation of the 2017 remuneration policy
Executive salaries and Non-Executive Director fees
The Committee agreed a 3% pay increase in salary for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director with effect from 
1 January 2017, bringing their salaries to $593,280 and £267,131 respectively. 
As stated in the Annual statement, the Chairman’s and the Non-Executive Directors’ fees were reviewed by the Committee 
and a decision was made that, with effect from 1 January 2017 “local” currency fees would be implemented for the Chairman and 
two Non-Executive Directors as follows:
 — Wayne Edmunds’ fee as Chairman was changed to US$192,400.
 — Martin L. Rapp’s base fee as a Non-Executive Director was changed to US$60,400, with an enhancement of US$7,400 as Chair 
of the Committee.
 — Gaelle Hotellier’s fee as Non-Executive Director was changed to €55,500.
Pensions
The Group Chief Executive does not currently participate in the SERP and will receive a cash payment in lieu of employer contribution 
of 15% of base salary. The Group Chief Executive does, however, participate in the 401(k) scheme and will receive an employer 
contribution of 3% of base salary in accordance with the plan rules.
The Group Finance Director will receive a contribution of 15% of base salary into a defined contribution pension scheme.
APBP
The 2017 APBP will be based on targets linked primarily to EBIT performance with a small element based on personal objectives, as 
in 2016. The maximum annual bonus achievable will remain as 175% of salary in respect of Michael Sutsko and, as mentioned in the 
Committee Chairman's statement, will increase to 125% of salary in respect of Fariyal Khanbabi for 2017. Target bonuses will remain 
100% of salary and 75% of salary respectively.
It is the Committee’s view that detailed disclosure of the performance targets in advance for the future financial year is 
commercially sensitive. The targets are based on profit projections for the year ahead which would provide the Company’s competitors 
with a potential commercial advantage and would also be price sensitive. The Committee will, however, provide full retrospective 
disclosure of the performance conditions and targets at the end of the relevant financial year.
PSP 
PSP awards to Executive Directors for 2017 will be made in March or April subject to EPS and TSR performance targets. As mentioned 
in the Chairman’s Statement, and consistent with our Remuneration Policy, it is the Committee’s intention to increase the weighting 
on EPS from 50% to 75%, with a commensurate reduction in the weighting on relative TSR from 50% to 25% for these awards. The 
Committee considers that this rebalancing will serve to focus participants on Dialight’s financial performance over the next 3 years, 
whilst continuing to recognise the strong shareholder alignment and objectivity offered by TSR. Awards will also be subject to a 
two-year post-vesting holding period. At the time of the production of this Report, the targets applying to the 2017 awards had not 
formally been approved by the Committee. We will be finalising targets over the coming weeks taking into account a range of internal 
and external reference points, and will provide full disclosure both at the time of award, and in next year’s Annual Report and Accounts.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
71
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration continued
Outstanding awards under the PSP and APBP
Type of 
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January 
2016
Awarded
in year
Vested
in year
Exercised
in year
Lapsed
in year
Number at
31 December
2016
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
vesting/
exercise 
date
Expiry
date
Fariyal Khanbabi
PSP NCO 16.09.14 27,674 – – – – 27,674 – 16.09.17 16.09.24
PSP NCO 07.04.15 32,325 – – – – 32,325 – 07.04.18 07.04.20
APBP NCO 13.03.15 10,445 – (5,223) – – 5,222 – 31.01.17 13.03.20
PSP NCO 16.03.16 – 49,240 – – – 49,240 – 16.03.17 16.03.21
Total 70,444 49,240 (5,223) – – 114,461 – – –
Type of 
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January 
2016
Awarded
in year
Vested
in year
Exercised
in year
Lapsed
in year
Number at
31 December
2016
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
vesting/
exercise 
date
Expiry
date
Michael Sutsko
PSP CSA 03.08.15 71,644 – – – – 71,644 – 03.08.18 –
PSP CSA 16.03.16 – 96,485 – – – 96,485 – 16.03.19 –
Total 71,644 96,485 – – – 168,129 – – –
Notes:
CSA denotes conditional share awards. These are subject to performance conditions set out on page 70.
NCO denotes nil-cost options. These are subject to performance conditions set out on page 70.
The average closing market price of a share over the five trading days of 9–15 March 2016, which was used for the purpose of calculating award values 
on 16 March 2016, the date of the awards recorded in the tables above made during the year, was 569.5 pence.
Options under the PSP granted prior to and during 2014 are exercisable for seven years from the date of vesting. From 2015 the exercise period reduced 
to two years from the date of vesting.
Options under the APBP are exercisable for five years from the date of grant. 
During the year, the range of share prices was 380 pence to 823 pence, with the price on 31 December 2016 being 790 pence.
Awards under the PSP made in 2014 (including that made to Roy Burton) will lapse in April 2017 as a consequence of the 
related performance target not being achieved during the three-year financial period ended 31 December 2016.
Executive Directors’ shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are currently required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in value to their 
last annual PSP award (i.e. currently 125% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% for the Group Finance Director). 
In accordance with the guidelines, Executive Directors have five years from joining Dialight to acquire the requisite holding. All 
Dialight shares, whether purchased on the open market or received through vestings and/or exercises under the various Dialight 
share plans, shall be included to satisfy the requirements. The Dialight share price used to value a holding for the purposes of 
the guidelines will be the higher of: (i) the prevailing price on the date that the holding is valued; and (ii) the acquisition price  
(i.e. the price on the date on which the awards were acquired).
72
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com The table below shows the holdings of ordinary shares in the Company as at 31 December 2016 by Executive Directors and their 
compliance with the guidelines:
Executive Director
Shares held at
1 January 2016
Shares held at
31 December 2016
Fariyal Khanbabi – –
Michael Sutsko – 4,669
Fariyal Khanbabi and Michael Sutsko, who were appointed Executive Directors on 8 September 2014 and 1 June 2015 respectively, 
have until 8 September 2019 and 1 June 2020 to build their respective shareholding up to the required levels.
Total shareholding of Directors
Beneficially held shares
1
Shares under incentives plans
Ordinary shares
at 1 January
2016 
Ordinary shares 
at 31 December 
2016
2,3
Subject to
deferral
4
Unvested and/or 
subject to 
performance
conditions
5
Shareholding 
guidelines met 
Michael Sutsko – 4,669 – 168,129 No
Fariyal Khanbabi – – 10,445 109,239 No
Wayne Edmunds – – – – –
Stephen Bird 28,000 28,000 – – –
David Blood – – – – –
David Thomas – 1,294 – – –
Martin L. Rapp 300 13,500 – – –
Gaelle Hotellier – 882 – – –
1
 Some of these shares are held through nominees.
2
 Each of Michael Sutsko, David Thomas, Martin L. Rapp and Gaelle Hotellier purchased ordinary shares during the year.
3
 There has been no change in Directors’ holdings since 31 December 2016.
4
 Relates to deferred shares held under the APBP scheme.
5
  Relates to outstanding awards under the PSP.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
73
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment
The dates on which Directors’ initial service agreements/letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows:
Commencement date Expiry date of current employment/service agreement or letter of appointment
Chairman and Executive Directors
Wayne Edmunds 25 January 2016 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years.
Michael Sutsko 1 June 2015 The agreement is terminable by the Company or by the Director on 12 months’ notice.
Fariyal Khanbabi 8 September 2014 The agreement is terminable by the Company or by the Director on six months’ notice.
Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Bird 10 January 2013 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. During 2016 this 
was extended for a further three-year period.
David Blood 1 July 2015 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years.
Martin L. Rapp 26 April 2016 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. 
David Thomas 26 April 2016 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. 
Gaelle Hotellier 3 October 2016 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years.
The Committee and advisers
The Committee
While the Board remains responsible for the Group’s remuneration policy, the Committee has delegated authority in respect of 
the determination and review of remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives (including 
contract terms, remuneration and other benefits such as performance related bonus schemes, long-term incentives, pension rights 
and compensation payments) as well as a responsibility to recommend and monitor the structure of the remuneration of the senior 
management group as defined by the Board.
Committee members
The name of those individuals who served on the Committee during the year can be found on page 58. A copy of the terms of 
reference for the Committee can be found on the Company’s website or on request from the Company Secretary at the Registered 
Office. The Committee has access to the advice of the Group Chief Executive (Michael Sutsko) and the Company Secretary 
(neither of whom participates in any discussion concerning their own remuneration) and external advisers as required. 
External advice
During the year ended 31 December 2016 the Committee consulted:
 — Kepler Associates, a brand of Mercer, which provided independent advice on long-term incentive measures and targets; updates 
on the external remuneration environment; performance testing for long-term incentive plans; Directors remuneration report 
drafting support; and assistance during shareholder consultation process for a fee of £36,000; and
 — Clifford Chance, which advised on the operation of the Company’s share and other incentive plans during the year and gave 
ad hoc advice on other remuneration issues, for a fee of £9,404.
The Committee retains the responsibility for the appointment of remuneration advisers and their associated fees and undertakes 
due diligence periodically to ensure that its advisers remain independent and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
Statement of shareholder voting
At the AGM held on 26 April 2016, the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Votes* % of votes for % of votes against Votes withheld
Remuneration report 92.07 7.87 11,416
* 23,152,477 ordinary shares were voted, representing 71.23% of the issued share capital.
The remuneration policy was last submitted to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM, receiving 79.5% support.
The Remuneration Committee report has been approved by the Board.
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration continued
74
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Directors’ report
Introduction
This Directors’ report and the Strategic report collectively 
comprise the “management report” for the purposes of 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.5R.
Information incorporated by reference
As permitted by legislation, the following information is 
incorporated by reference in this report:
Information Reported in Page number(s)
Corporate 
governance
Corporate governance 
statement
Directors’ responsibility 
statement
44 to 57 inclusive 
78
Directors Board of Directors
Remuneration report – 
Directors’ shareholdings 
and share interests
43
58 to 74 inclusive
Financial 
instruments
Financial statements 79 to 127 inclusive
Going concern Internal control statement 50
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
Resources, relationships 
and responsibilities
31
Results and 
dividends
Directors’ report 75
Dividend
The position of the Board is to ensure that there is a strong 
capital base. Therefore no final dividend was declared for the 
year ended 31 December 2015, and we announced in our 2016 
half year results that there would be no 2016 interim dividend 
payment. Given the Group’s continued strategic focus on the 
delivery of profitable growth, the Board has therefore not 
proposed a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
The Board will re-evaluate its dividend policy in due course.
Directors and re-election
The Directors’ biographical details are set out on page 43. All 
the Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at 
the Company’s AGM on 20 April 2017, in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code provision for annual re-election 
of all the directors of FTSE 350 companies. 
Directors’ indemnity provisions
The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company 
to the extent permitted by law and the Company’s Articles 
of Association (the “Articles”) in respect of all losses arising out 
of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties 
and responsibilities. The Company purchased and maintained 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance throughout  
2015–2016, which has been renewed for 2016–2017.
Directors’ interests 
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company 
can be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee 
on pages 73 and 74, together with details of the Directors’ 
service contracts. 
Employee involvement
Dialight operates a framework for employee information and 
consultation with the aim of ensuring a clarity of purpose which 
in turn allows our employees to understand their role in improving 
the Group’s business performance and awareness of factors 
affecting the Company’s performance. Employees are informed 
about significant business issues and other matters of concern 
via regular meetings held by management teams to discuss the 
Company’s performance and strategy. A quarterly newsletter is 
published, and twice a year a leadership meeting is held, which 
was this year attended by David Thomas and Martin L. Rapp. 
Further details of Dialight’s employment policies and its 
approach to diversity and disability can be found in the 
Strategic report on pages 28 and 29 and in the report of the 
Nominations Committee on page 57.
Share capital and structure 
As at 31 December 2016 the Company had 32,504,335 fully 
paid ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each in issue which are 
listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange. The 
Company has a single class of shares. There are no specific 
restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares, although 
the Articles contain provisions whereby Directors may refuse to 
register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid. 
No shares have been issued that carry any special rights 
with regard to the control of the Company. Each ordinary share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
75
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s shares 
are contained in the Company’s Articles, a copy of which can 
be obtained from the Registered Office. The Articles may only 
be amended by a special resolution of the Company at a general 
meeting. No one person has any special rights of control over 
the Company’s share capital and all shares are fully paid. Subject 
to statutory provisions, the rights attached to a class of shares 
may be varied whether or not the Company is being wound up 
in accordance with the Articles. 
At the 2016 AGM shareholders granted the Directors 
the authority to purchase up to 3,250,325 shares representing 
approximately 10% of the Company’s ordinary share capital, 
which will expire on 30 June 2017. A similar authority will be 
sought from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. The Directors 
have the power to issue and buy back shares in the Company, 
as well as to grant options over or otherwise dispose of unissued 
shares in the Company, to such persons, at such times and on 
such terms as they think proper. Full details of the Company’s 
share capital are given in note 16 to the financial statements.
Substantial interests in shares
As at 7 February 2017 the Company had received the following 
notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority:
%
Parent/Shareholder Holding Voting rights
Generation Investment  
Management LLP 6,532,248 20.10
Schroders plc & Schroder Investment 
Management Limited 4,143,572 12.75
Impax Asset Management 2,538,327 7.81
FIL Limited 1,746,758 5.37
River & Mercantile Asset 
Management LLP 1,237,000 3.81
Baillie Gifford & Co 1,085,416 3.34
Global presence, investments and acquisitions
The Group’s head office is based in London, UK, which is also 
its European headquarters. However, the Group operates in 
various geographical areas, including Australia, Brazil, Denmark, 
Germany, Malaysia, Mexico, North America, Singapore and 
the UAE. 
There were no acquisitions or disposals during the year 
under review.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest resources in technology and 
product development in Denmark, the UK and the US with the 
aim of consistently updating and expanding its product range. 
Following closure of the Company’s Newmarket manufacturing 
site, no product development or manufacturing is now carried 
out in the UK. The Company strongly believes that investment 
in this area is essential for the Group to retain and increase its 
market share in competitive markets.
Human rights 
The Company does not have a specific human rights policy but 
is committed to conducting business with integrity and fairness 
as reinforced through our Code of Business Conduct. We do 
not tolerate any form of illegal or immoral activity and believe 
that everyone is entitled to work in an environment which is 
equal, fair, respects human rights and is free from all forms 
of discrimination, bullying, victimisation, harassment and 
forced labour.
Political donations
It is Group policy that no donations are made nor expenditure 
incurred for political purposes, and as a result there were no 
such political donations, or expenditure, made or incurred 
during the year (2015: £nil).
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The following table is included to meet the requirements of 
Listing Rule 9.8.4R. The information required to be disclosed by 
that section, where applicable to the Company, can be located 
in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts at the references set 
out below: 
Information required
Location in the Annual Report
Note Pages
Long-term incentive schemes:
Significant agreements/ 
change of control – 77
Remuneration Committee report  
and policy – 58 to 74 inclusive
Employee benefits –  
Share-based payments 
(Consolidated) 18 108
Called up share capital (Company) 41 124
Share-based payments (Company) 35 122
Directors’ report continued 76
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Annual General Meeting 
The Company’s AGM will be held at the offices of Investec 
Investment Bank, 2 Gresham St, London EC2V 7QP on 20 April 
2017. Formal notice of the AGM, including details of special 
business, is set out in the Notice of AGM which accompanies 
this Annual Report and Accounts and is also available on the 
Company’s website at www.dialight.com. 
Registrars 
In connection with the ordinary shares traded on the London 
Stock Exchange, the Company’s share registrar is Equiniti 
Registrars. Full details of the registrar can be found in the 
Directory and Shareholder information section on page 129.
Financial risk management
Risk management objectives and policies, including hedging 
policies and exposure (including price, credit, liquidity or cash 
flow risk) of the Company in relation to the use of financial 
instruments, are contained in note 22 to the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements on pages 110 to 113.
Independent auditor
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the 
auditor, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board 
that the existing auditor, KPMG, be re-appointed. KPMG has 
expressed its willingness to continue as auditor. An ordinary 
resolution to re-appoint KPMG as auditor of the Company 
and authorising the Directors to set its remuneration will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Significant agreements/change of control
The Directors are not aware of there being any significant 
agreements that contain any material change of control 
provisions to which the Company is a party, other than in respect 
of the five-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving credit 
facility with HSBC Bank plc (“HSBC”) which was originally entered 
into in 2014 and which was extended in December 2016 on 
substantially the same terms for a duration of five years expiring 
on December 2021, approved for renewal at the December 
2016 Board meeting. Under the terms of that facility, and in the 
event of a change of control of the Company, HSBC can withdraw 
funding and all outstanding loans, accrued interests and other 
amounts due and owing can become payable within 30 days 
of the change.
The Company currently operates three share plans: a PSP, 
the APBP and an all-employee Sharesave Plan. Further details 
of these share plans are provided in the report of the Remuneration 
Committee on pages 58 to 74.
The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change 
of control through a general offer or scheme of arrangement, 
shares subject to awards under the PSP could be released within 
one month of the date of notification of the likely change of 
control. The rules of the Sharesave Plan have special provisions 
which also allow for early exercise in the event of a change of 
control, reconstruction or winding up of the Company. Internal 
reorganisations do not automatically trigger the early exercise 
of options.
The Company has established the Dialight Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) in which all employees 
of the Group, including Executive Directors, are potential 
beneficiaries. The ESOT held no shares as at 31 December 2016 
(2015: 9,606). The Trustees of the ESOT retain the voting rights 
over the shares held in the ESOT and may exercise these rights 
independent of the interests of the Company. 
By order of the Board.
Chris Fussell
General Counsel and Company Secretary
27 February 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
77
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with the International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European 
Union (“EU”) and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with 
UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent 
company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and parent company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 — select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 — make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 — for the Group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted 
by the EU;
 — for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent company financial statements; and
 — prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are 
also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ 
report, Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on 
the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the 
annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 — the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 — the Directors’ and Corporate governance reports include 
a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. 
Each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken 
as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
For and on the behalf of the Board of Dialight plc.
Michael Sutsko Fariyal Khanbabi
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
27 February 2017 27 February 2017
78
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Dialight plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 83 to 127.  
In our opinion:
 — the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2016 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
 — the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;
 — the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland; and
 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview
Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole £0.9m (2015: £0.9m) 
0.5% (2015: 0.6%) of revenue
Coverage 96% (2015: 98%) of revenue
Risks of material misstatement vs 2015
Recurring risks Inventory valuation
Revenue recognition
Valuation of capitalised patents 
and development costs
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement, in decreasing order of audit 
significance that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
The risk Our response
Inventory
(£31.4m;  
2015: £26.9m)
Refer to page 55 
(Audit Committee report), 
page 91 (accounting policy) 
and page 103 (financial 
disclosures).
Valuation of inventory
The Group operates in an industry 
whereby developments in product 
technology may result in inventory 
becoming slow moving or obsolete. The 
Group is also undergoing a programme 
of product platform re-engineering which 
will result in changes to stock lines. 
These factors, in turn, may mean that 
inventory cannot be sold or sales prices 
are discounted to less than the inventory 
carrying value. Certain of these provisions 
may be classified as non-underlying.
Our procedures included: 
 — Provision: Recalculating the provision in line with 
Group’s policy and challenging the additional 
provision as a result of Platform re-engineering; 
 — Net realisable value: Testing the carrying value of 
inventory by comparing the carrying value to 
average sales margin for each product to assess 
whether those items were held at the lower of 
cost or net realisable value; 
 — Classification of non-underlying costs: Agreeing 
the quantum of costs disclosed as non-underlying 
to source documentation and challenging 
their classification as non-underlying with 
group directors;
 — Disclosures: We also assessed the adequacy 
of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the 
judgements used in determining the carrying 
value of inventory.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
79 Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialight plc only The risk Our response
Revenue
(£182.2m;  
2015: £161.4m)
Refer to page 55 (Audit 
Committee report), page 92 
(accounting policy) and page 
94 (financial disclosures).
Revenue recognition
There is a risk that transactions 
completed just before the year end could 
be incorrectly recorded due to the high 
volume of transactions close to the 
year-end reporting deadline. The Group 
also has a number of customers who 
have non-standard contractual terms 
meaning that the risks and rewards 
transfer at different timings (such 
as on dispatch, on receipt at port of 
destination and on receipt by customer) 
with the result that there is an increased 
risk that revenue may not be recognised 
in the correct period for such sales 
occurring near to year end.
Our procedures included: 
 — Sales cut-off: Challenging the recognition of 
revenue for a sample of items from either side 
of the financial year end by reference to the 
identified trigger event for revenue, when 
contractually the customer takes on the risks 
and rewards of ownership, and tracing back 
to third party carrier documentation and 
customer agreements. 
Patent and 
development costs
(£6.4m; 2015: £8m)
Refer to page 55 (Audit 
Committee report), page 90 
(accounting policy) and page 
101 (financial disclosures).
Valuation of capitalised patents 
and development costs
Judgement is required in the initial 
capitalisation of development projects 
and there is a risk of misstatement if the 
criteria for capitalisation is incorrectly 
applied. There is further judgement 
required around the ongoing viability of 
the capitalised projects and a resulting 
risk of impairment. Certain of these costs 
may be classified as non-underlying.
Our procedures included: 
 — Capitalisation: For a sample of projects where 
costs have been capitalised during the year, and 
projects held as at year end, evaluating whether 
the project costs were capitalised in line with 
accounting standards, including challenge of the 
feasibility of the project through discussion with 
engineering staff, and agreement of the existence 
of a budget and forecast sales information; 
 — Forecasts: Performing an impairment review for 
a sample of completed projects by challenging 
forecast sales data with reference to actual 
sales achieved during the year, and challenging 
the assessment of the viability of projects 
through discussion with finance and 
engineering management; 
 — Classification of Non-underlying costs: Agreeing 
the quantum of costs disclosed as non-underlying 
to source documentation and challenging their 
classification as non-underlying with group directors.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 
set at £0.9m (2015: £0.9m), determined with reference to 
a benchmark of Group revenue (of which it represents 0.5% 
(2015: 0.6%). We consider that revenue is appropriate to use 
as a benchmark for materiality as revenue is a more stable 
measure year on year than Group profit before tax. We report 
to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £45,000 (2015: £45,000), in addition 
to other audit misstatements that warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. 
Of the Group’s nine reporting components, we subject four 
to audits for Group reporting purposes and two to specified 
risk-focused audit procedures. The latter were not individually 
financially significant enough to require an audit for Group 
reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks, 
principally around inventory valuation, that needed to be 
addressed. These Group procedures covered 96% (2015: 98%) 
of total Group revenue; 95% (2015: 93%) of total Group profits 
and losses that make up Group profit before taxation; and 97% 
(2015:100%) of total Group assets.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
80 Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialight plc only continued The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to 
the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks 
detailed above and the information to be reported back.  
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, 
which ranged from £0.5m to £0.7m (2015: £0.5m to £0.6m), 
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group 
across the components. The work on one full scope audit 
component was performed by a component auditor, the work 
on the two components subject to specified risk-focused 
procedures was performed by component auditors and the 
work on all remaining components was performed by the 
Group audit team. The Group audit team visited three 
component locations in UK and the US to perform the audit 
work. Telephone conference meetings were held with 
component auditors. At these meetings, the findings reported 
to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and 
any further work required by the Group audit team was then 
performed by the component auditor.
Revenue
£182.2m (2015: £161.4m)
Materiality
£0.9m (2015: £0.9m)
£0.9m
Whole ﬁnancial statements materiality (2015: £0.9m)
£0.7m
Range of materiality at 6 components (£0.5m to £0.7m) 
(2015: £0.5m to £0.6m)
£0.045m
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 
(2015: £0.045m)
 Revenue  Group materiality
Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets
85%
88%
10%
11%
96%
(2015: 98%)
86%
74%
19%
9%
95%
(2015: 93%)
87%
91%
9%
10%
97%
(2015: 100%)
 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016
 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016
 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015 
 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2015  
 Residual components
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
81 4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
 — the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
 — the information given in the Strategic report and the 
Directors’ report for the financial year is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the 
course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading 
the Strategic report and the Directors’ report:
 — we have not identified material misstatements in those 
reports; and
 — in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
5. We have nothing to report on the disclosures of 
principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 — the Directors’ statement of viability on page 51, concerning 
the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, 
the Directors’ assessment and expectations of the Group’s 
continuing in operation over the three years to 31 December 
2019; or
 — the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning 
the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you 
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 
have identified other information in the Annual Report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge 
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, 
or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 — we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy; or
 — the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 — the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 — certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
 — we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 — the Directors’ statements, set out on pages 50 and 51, 
in relation to going concern and longer-term viability; and
 — the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 50 
relating to the company’s compliance with the 11 provisions 
of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for 
our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibly statement 
set out on page 78, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope 
of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the 
Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this 
report as if set out in full and should be read to provide 
an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work 
we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Graham Neale (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham B4 6GH 
27 February 2017
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
82 Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialight plc only continued Twelve months ended  
31 December 2016
Twelve months ended  
31 December 2015
Note
Underlying 
£’m
Non-
underlying 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Underlying 
£’m
Non-
underlying 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Revenue 4 182.2 – 182.2 161.4 – 161.4
Cost of sales (112.7) (3.7) (116.4) (105.2) (6.0) (111.2)
Gross profit 69.5 (3.7) 65.8 56.2 (6.0) 50.2
Distribution costs (32.7) – (32.7) (30.7) – (30.7)
Administrative expenses (23.7) (12.7) (36.4) (19.4) (3.5) (22.9)
Profit/(loss) from operating activities 4 13.1 (16.4) (3.3) 6.1 (9.5) (3.4)
Financial income – – – – – –
Financial expense (0.5) – (0.5) (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
Net financing expense 7 (0.5) – (0.5) (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 4 12.6 (16.4) (3.8) 5.7 (9.6) (3.9)
Income tax (expense)/credit 8 (3.9) 4.9 1.0 (1.3) 3.2 1.9
Profit/(loss) for the year 9 8.7 (11.5) (2.8) 4.4 (6.4) (2.0)
Loss for the year attributable to:
Equity owners of the Company (2.8) (2.0)
Non-controlling interests – –
Loss for the year (2.8) (2.0)
Earnings per share
Basic 17 (8.4p) (6.4p)
Diluted 17 (8.4p) (6.3p)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
83
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 Note
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 11.3 2.2
Income tax on exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (0.9) (0.4)
10.4 1.8
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability 18 (1.5) 0.7
Income tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability 18 0.3 (0.1)
(1.2) 0.6
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 9.2 2.4
Loss for the year (2.8) (2.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year 6.4 0.4
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 6.4 0.4
Non-controlling interests – –
Total comprehensive income for the year 6.4 0.4
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
84 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
For the year ended 31 December 2016 Note
Share 
capital 
£’m
Merger 
reserve 
£’m
Translation 
reserve 
£’m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’m
Retained 
earnings 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Non- 
controlling
interests
£’m
Total 
equity 
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2016 0.6 1.4 5.0 2.2 61.0 70.2 (0.1) 70.1
Loss – – – – (2.8) (2.8) – (2.8)
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation 
differences, net of tax – – 10.4 – – 10.4 – 10.4
Remeasurement of defined benefit 
pension liability, net of tax 18 – – – – (1.2) (1.2) – (1.2)
Total other comprehensive income – – 10.4 – (1.2) 9.2 – 9.2
Total comprehensive  
income for the year – – 10.4 – (4.0) 6.4 – 6.4
Transactions with owners,  
recorded directly in equity
Share-based payments, net of tax 6, 8 – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Dividends – – – – – – – –
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Balance at 31 December 2016 0.6 1.4 15.4 2.2 57.6 77.2 (0.1) 77.1
Balance at 1 January 2015 0.6 1.4 3.2 2.2 65.5 72.9 (0.1) 72.8
Loss – – – – (2.0) (2.0) – (2.0)
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation 
differences, net of tax – – 1.8 – – 1.8 – 1.8
Remeasurement of defined benefit 
pension liability, net of tax 18 – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Total other comprehensive income – – 1.8 – 0.6 2.4 – 2.4
Total comprehensive  
income for the year – – 1.8 – (1.4) 0.4 – 0.4
Transactions with owners,  
recorded directly in equity
Share-based payments, net of tax 6, 8 – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Dividends 16 – – – – (3.2) (3.2) – (3.2)
Total contributions by and  
distributions to owners – – – – (3.1) (3.1) – (3.1)
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.6 1.4 5.0 2.2 61.0 70.2 (0.1) 70.1
At 31 December 2016 the number of shares held by the Group through the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust 
(“ESOT”) was nil (2015: 9,606). The market value of these shares at 31 December 2016 was £nil (2015: £43,227).
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance
85
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 Note
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 15.9 16.1
Intangible assets 11 15.4 20.0
Deferred tax assets 13 3.5 0.1
Total non-current assets 34.8 36.2
Inventories 14 31.4 26.9
Trade and other receivables 15 40.0 35.5
Asset held for sale 10 2.0 –
Cash and cash equivalents 21 8.0 5.5
Total current assets 81.4 67.9
Total assets 116.2 104.1
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 (31.3) (22.9)
Provisions 19 (3.8) (0.8)
Tax liabilities (1.9) (0.3)
Borrowings 12 – (9.3)
Total current liabilities (37.0) (33.3)
Employee benefits 18 (1.3) (0.1)
Provisions 19 (0.8) (0.6)
Total non-current liabilities (2.1) (0.7)
Total liabilities (39.1) (34.0)
Net assets 77.1 70.1
Equity
Issued share capital 16 0.6 0.6
Merger reserve 16 1.4 1.4
Other reserves 17.6 7.2
Retained earnings 57.6 61.0
77.2 70.2
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Total equity 77.1 70.1
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
Michael Sutsko Fariyal Khanbabi
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Company number: 2486024
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
86 Financial statements
Consolidated statement of total financial position
At 31 December 2016 Note
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Operating activities
Loss for the year (2.8) (2.0) 
Adjustments for:
Financial income 7 – –
Financial expense 7 0.5 0.5 
Income tax credit 8 (1.0) (1.9) 
Share-based payments 0.6 0.1 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 3.1 2.8 
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 4.0 3.1 
Impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill 11 5.1 1.0 
Gain on disposal of tangible assets 5 (0.2) –
Legal settlement 1.3 –
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 10.6 3.6 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.2) 6.4 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (1.5) 3.1 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 5.0 (4.1) 
Increase in provisions 19 2.9 0.2 
Pension contributions in excess of the income statement 18 (0.5) (0.5) 
Cash generated from operations 16.3 8.7 
Income taxes received/(paid) 0.3 (3.9) 
Interest paid 7 (0.5) (0.4) 
Net cash generated from operating activities 16.1 4.4 
Investing activities
Contingent consideration 28 – (0.3) 
Capital expenditure 10 (3.9) (3.3)
Sale of fixed assets 10 0.9 –
Capitalised expenditure on development 11 (2.1) (2.5) 
Net cash used in investing activities (5.1) (6.1) 
Financing activities
Dividends paid 16 – (3.2) 
(Repayment)/drawdown of bank facility (9.5) 2.4 
Payment of upfront loan facility costs – –
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (9.5) (0.8) 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.5 (2.5) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 5.5 7.9 
Effect of exchange rates on cash held 1.0 0.1 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 21 8.0 5.5 
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
87
Governance
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2016 1. Reporting entity
Dialight plc is a company domiciled in England. The address of the Company’s Registered Office is Leaf C, Level 36, Tower 42, 
25 Old Broad Street, London EC2N 1HQ. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 
comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”).
2. Basis of preparation
(a)  Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“IFRSs”). The Company has elected to present its parent company  
financial statements in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”.
(b) Consolidated basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are carried  
at fair value.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in existence for a period  
no shorter than 12 months from the date of this report. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting  
in preparing the annual financial statements.
(c)  Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements. The process of 
preparing the Group’s financial statements inevitably requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future 
and the resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and judgements 
that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in these consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Significant
Goodwill (see note 11)
Each year the Group reviews the carrying values of its goodwill balances by carrying out impairment tests. These tests require 
estimates and judgements to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units (“CGUs”) which are dependent on key 
assumptions such as future cash flows and future growth rates of the CGUs, and discount rates.
Uncertainties associated with the current economic environment or the Group’s ability to carry out its strategic plans could impact 
key assumptions made as part of this review. Where these uncertainties present a material risk to the carrying value of goodwill, 
sensitivity analysis is carried out on the relevant CGUs.
Development and patent costs (see note 11)
The Group capitalises development costs and patents provided they meet all criteria set out in the respective accounting policy. 
Costs are only capitalised where management is satisfied as to the ultimate commercial viability of the projects concerned based 
on available information. The capitalised costs are amortised over the useful economic life, which is determined based on the 
reasonable commercial prospects for the resultant product.
Inventory provision (see note 14)
The Group operates in an environment of technological change, presenting the risk of obsolete inventory. Inventory is reviewed by 
operational and financial management on a regular basis, product by product, and the level of provision required is assessed against 
historical and forecast use for that product.
Other
Warranty (see note 19)
The Group offers performance warranties on many of its products. A provision is made for the expected costs of future  
warranty claims relating to past product sales. This provision is estimated based on historical trends for returns, internal  
knowledge of product performance characteristics and the expected costs of remedying warranty-returned products.  
This information is reviewed by management regularly. Actual returns may be materially higher or lower than these estimates,  
which may have a material impact on the adequacy of the provision for warranty claims.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
88 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2016 2. Basis of preparation continued
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions continued
Other continued
Tax (see note 13)
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised  
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
3.  Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial 
statements and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 — the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
 — the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; less
 — the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs  
in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition  
over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection 
with business combinations were capitalised as part of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
As part of its transition to IFRSs, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 
1 January 2003. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the  
Group’s previous accounting framework, UK GAAP.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated  
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated  
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
(b) Foreign currency translation
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, 
including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
89 3.  Significant accounting policies continued
(b) Foreign currency translation continued
Since the transition date, resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Group’s 
translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation 
is disposed of. Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
(c)  Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. 
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
(e)  Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
(f) Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item  
of property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings  16–50 years
Plant, equipment and vehicles  3–10 years
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets,  
other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents and trademarks  4 years
Development costs  3–5 years
Order book  1–2 years
Customer relationships  7 years
Technology  7 years
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial 
recognition, see note 3(a).
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses until disposal or termination of the 
previously acquired business when the profit or loss on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the gross amount 
at current exchange rates of any such goodwill through the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and is tested  
at least annually for impairment. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(h) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and 
understanding is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product and process is technically 
and commercially viable, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends and has sufficient resources to complete 
the development and to use or sell the asset. The expenditure capitalised includes direct cost of material, direct labour and an 
appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as 
incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
90 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 3.  Significant accounting policies continued
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each 
reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable 
amount is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. A CGU is the 
smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other assets and groups. Impairment 
losses are recognised in profit and loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) 
on a pro-rata basis.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior 
periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment 
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 
reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
A financial asset, in particular the carrying value of trade receivables, is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates 
that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. Any impairment losses are 
recognised through the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, 
costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. 
Items are valued using the first in, first out method. When inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised 
as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recognised. Provision for write-down to net realisable value and losses 
of inventories is recognised as an expense in the period in which the write-down or loss occurs.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form  
an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of borrowings.
(l) Share capital
(i) Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by members.
(ii)  When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased by the ESOT, the amount of the consideration paid is recognised  
as a deduction from equity.
(iii)  Under the terms of the PSP and deferred bonus scheme, dividends accrue on shares not yet vested; however, in the event 
that the shares lapse or are forfeited then the dividends will not be paid and the accrual is reversed.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement  
when they are due.
(ii) Defined benefit pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned for their service in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount  
and deducting the fair value of any plan assets.
The calculation is performed by an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation 
results in a potential asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in  
the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of 
economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
91 3. Significant accounting policies continued
(m) Employee benefits continued
(ii) Defined benefit pension plans continued
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding 
interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest) are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.  
The Group determines the net interest expense/(income) on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) for the period by applying the 
discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit 
liability/(asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability/(asset) during the period as a result of contributions 
and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or 
the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement 
of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
(iii) Share-based payments and deferred bonus transactions
The PSP allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the award granted is recognised as  
an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over  
the performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
The fair value of the grants is measured using the Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the grants were made. The amount recognised as an expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures resulting from 
failures to meet non-market conditions. The share-based payments are equity-settled.
Key Group employees are awarded shares in the Company under the Annual Performance Bonus Plan. The fair value of the award 
granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant 
date and spread over the performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
(n)  Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of  
a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
(o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at their amortised cost less any 
impairment losses. The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated, being the greater of their net selling price and value in use. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessment of the time value of the money and risks specific to the asset. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
An impairment loss in respect of trade and other receivables is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used  
to determine the recoverable amount.
(p) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at amortised cost.
(q) Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and 
allowances, trade discounts, volume rebates and product returns. Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods supplied and  
is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the external 
customers in line with contractual arrangements and agreed shipping terms and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably 
and it is probable that the economic benefit associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
(r) Expenses
(i)  Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(ii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest receivable, interest payable, borrowings, interest on pension assets and liabilities, foreign 
exchange gains and losses, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement and unwinding 
of discount.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
92 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 3. Significant accounting policies continued
(s) Income tax expense
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised  
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited to profit and loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend is recognised.
(t) Changes in accounting policies
Except for the changes below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies set out in this note to all periods 
presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has adopted a number of standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other 
standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2016. There was no material impact on the financial performance of the Group.
Adoption of new and revised standards
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations, including IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers (effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2018) and IFRS 16 Leases (effective for 
annual periods beginning after 1 January 2019), have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 but believes that none of these will have a material 
impact on the financial statements, but may require some further disclosure. Beyond the information above, it is not practicable 
to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
(u) Measurement of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial  
and non-financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has an established control framework, appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group, with respect to the 
measurement of fair values. When measuring the fair value of an asset or liability, the Group uses market observable data as  
far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation 
techniques as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
If the inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, 
then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input 
that is significant to the entire measurement.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
93 4. Operating segments
The Group has two reportable operating segments. These segments have been identified based on the internal information that is 
supplied regularly to the Group’s chief operating decision maker for the purposes of assessing performance and allocating resources. 
The chief operating decision maker is considered to be the Group Chief Executive.
The two reportable operating segments are:
 — Lighting, which develops, manufactures and supplies highly efficient LED lighting solutions for hazardous and industrial 
applications in which lighting performance is critical and includes anti-collision obstruction lighting; and
 — Signals and Components, which develops, manufactures and supplies status indication components for electronics OEMs, 
together with niche industrial and automotive electronic components and highly efficient LED signalling solutions for the 
traffic and signals markets.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods. Segment gross profit is revenue less the costs of materials, labour, production and freight 
that are directly attributable to a segment. Overheads comprise operations management, selling costs plus corporate costs, 
which include share-based payments.
There are no individual customers representing more than 10% of revenue.
Reportable segments
2016
Lighting 
£’m
Signals and 
Components 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Revenue 136.6 45.6 182.2
Underlying gross profit 57.4 12.1 69.5
Overheads (43.9) (7.2) (51.1)
Segment results 13.5 4.9 18.4
Unallocated expenses (5.3)
Underlying operating profit 13.1
Non-underlying expense (16.4)
Operating loss (3.3)
Net financing expense (0.5)
Loss before tax (3.8)
Income tax expense 1.0
Loss after tax (2.8)
 
2015
Lighting 
£’m
Signals and 
Components 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Revenue 120.6 40.8 161.4
Underlying gross profit 48.3 7.9 56.2
Overheads (41.5) (5.2) (46.7)
Segment results 6.8 2.7 9.5
Unallocated expenses (3.4)
Underlying operating profit 6.1
Non-underlying expense (9.5)
Operating loss (3.4)
Net financing expense (0.5)
Loss before tax (3.9)
Income tax expense 1.9
Loss after tax (2.0)
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
94 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 4. Operating segments continued
Other segmental data
2016 2015
Lighting 
£’m
Signals and 
Components 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Lighting 
£’m
Signals and 
Components 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Depreciation 2.3 0.8 3.1 2.2 0.6 2.8
Amortisation 3.3 0.7 4.0 2.5 0.6 3.1
Gain on disposal of tangible assets (0.2) – (0.2) – – –
Impairment losses on intangible asset write-down 1.1 4.0 5.1 0.7 0.3 1.0
Geographical segments
The Lighting and Signals and Components segments are managed on a worldwide basis but operate in four principal 
geographical areas: North America, the UK, Europe and Rest of World. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s 
sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods.
Sales revenue by geographical market
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
North America 129.7 107.6
UK 11.3 11.8
Rest of Europe 17.4 15.6
Rest of World 23.8 26.4
182.2 161.4
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit or loss
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Total profit for reportable segments 18.4 9.5
Unallocated amounts:
Overheads (5.3) (3.4)
Non-underlying expense (16.4) (9.5)
Net financing expense (0.5) (0.5)
Loss before tax (3.8) (3.9)
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
95 5. Non-underlying income/(expense)
The Group incurs costs and earns income that is non-recurring in nature or that is otherwise considered to not be reflective of the 
underlying performance of the business. In the assessment of performance of the business units of the Group, management 
examines underlying performance, which removes the impact of non-underlying costs and income.
The table below presents the elements of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within cost of sales:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Inventory costs (3.7) (6.0)
Non-underlying costs recorded in cost of sales (3.7) (6.0)
The table below presents the elements of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within administrative expenses:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Employee severance and restructuring costs (5.3) (1.8)
Intangible asset impairment (5.1) (1.0)
Disposal of tangible assets 0.2 –
Production transfer costs (2.4) –
Executive Director replacement costs – (0.8)
Settlement of legal case – 0.5
Other (0.1) (0.4)
Non-underlying costs recorded in administrative expenses (12.7) (3.5)
The non-underlying costs in 2016 relating to our strategic initiatives amounted to £16.4m with cumulative cost savings of 
approximately £12m over the next two years. The strategic initiatives will be completed in 2017 and the final costs relating 
to this will be £3.0m.
The Group is substantially advanced on a programme of product platform re-engineering and transferring lighting product assembly 
to its manufacturing partner. As part of these programmes the UK production facility was closed in September 2016. It has also 
been announced that the Mexican production facility will be reduced in scale by mid 2017. The £5.3m costs of redundancy relating 
to staff at both of these plants have been recognised in the year.
The product lines that were manufactured exclusively in the UK production facility were reviewed to assess the viability of transfer 
to our manufacturing partner. The review concluded that the European Traffic business was no longer viable and production would 
cease. This has resulted in a goodwill impairment of £4.0m. There has been a full review of all product lines and any development 
and patent costs associated with obsolete product lines have been impaired, resulting in a further charge of £1.1m. The total 
charge for intangible asset impairment is £5.1m, which is a non-cash cost.
As part of the fundamental shift in Dialight’s operating model, the UK production facility and assets have been sold resulting 
in a profit of £0.2m.
The switch to platform engineering which standardises the design of our product parts to be used as the foundation of all our 
finished goods has resulted in some of our inventory being obsolete. This amounted to £3.7m in the year; we expect a further 
£1.0m of obsolete inventory in 2017.
The transfer of lighting assembly to our manufacturing partner incurred set-up costs relating to project management, legal costs, 
and dedicated engineering time; this amounted to £2.4m. The final phase of this will be completed by mid 2017 and the balance 
of the costs will be £2.0m. 
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
96 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 5. Non-underlying income/(expense) continued
The table below presents the components of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within finance income/(expense):
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Net interest on defined benefit liability – (0.1)
Non-underlying costs recorded in finance expense – (0.1)
6. Personnel expenses
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Wages and salaries 34.2 32.6
Social security contributions 4.1 3.6
Management incentives 2.4 –
Employee severance costs 1.7 1.8
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.6 0.1
Contributions to defined contribution plans 1.2 1.2
Total charge for defined benefit plans 0.2 0.1
44.4 39.4
Wages and salary costs are £3.1m higher in 2016 compared to 2015 due to the impact of currency movements.
The average number of employees by geographical location was:
2016 
Number
2015 
Number
UK 172 208
US and Mexico 1,808 1,699
Rest of World 193 205
2,173 2,112
In 2016 the Group employed an average of 1,408 direct staff (2015: 1,311) and 765 indirect staff (2015: 801). The 2015 redundancy 
programme related exclusively to indirect staff. The average annual staff numbers include a part year element relating to staff at 
the UK production facility that closed on 30 September 2016.
7. Net financing (expense)/income
Recognised in profit and loss
Year ending 31 December 2016 Year ending 31 December 2015
Underlying 
£’m
Non-
underlying 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Underlying 
£’m
Non-
underlying 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Net interest on defined benefit liability (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.1) (0.1)
Interest expense on financial liabilities (0.3) – (0.3) (0.4) – (0.4)
Net financing expense recognised in  
the consolidated income statement (0.5) – (0.5) (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
97 8. Income tax (income)/expense
Current tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Current tax (income)/expense
Current year 3.3 (0.7)
Adjustment for prior years (0.3) (0.9)
3.0 (1.6)
Deferred tax (income)/expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.1) (0.4)
Adjustment for prior years (1.7) –
Reduction in tax rate (0.2) 0.1
Recognition of previously unrecognised losses – –
Change in recognised deductible timing differences – –
Income tax income (1.0) (1.9)
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2016 
%
2016 
£’m
2015 
%
2015 
£’m
Loss for the year (2.8) (2.0)
Total income tax income (1.0) (1.9)
Loss excluding income tax (3.8) (3.9)
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate (20.0) (0.8) (19.6) (0.8)
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 23.7 0.9 12.8 0.5
Increase/(reduction) in tax rate (5.3) (0.2) (7.9) (0.3)
Non-deductible expenses 36.8 1.4 17.1 0.7
Current year losses for which no deferred tax is recognised – – (1.8) (0.1)
Recognition of tax effect of previously unrecognised losses (7.9) (0.3) (7.7) (0.3)
Adjustment for prior years (52.6) (2.0) (24.3) (1.0)
Non-taxable income 5.6 0.2 – –
Research and development credits (2.6) (0.1) (3.4) (0.1)
Other (2.6) (0.1) (12.7) (0.5)
(24.9) (1.0) (47.5) (1.9)
The effective tax rate credit for the Group is 24.9%, a reduction on the prior year tax credit of 47.5%. The prior year tax credit was 
positively impacted by losses allowed in the year giving rise to the inflated tax credit. The tax credit for 2016 was in line with the 
Group distribution of profit/(loss) and the tax charge/(credit) associated to the jurisdiction it operates in. The rate in the year has 
been reduced by non-tax deductible items relating to the impairment of goodwill offset by previously unrecognised losses and 
accelerated capital allowances.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
98 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 8. Income tax (income)/expense continued
Current tax expense continued
Tax recognised directly in equity
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Employee benefits (0.3) (0.1)
Other 0.9 (0.4)
The UK tax authorities have reduced the UK rate of corporation tax from 1 April 2017 to 19% and by a further 2% to 17% from 
1 April 2020. No further UK corporation tax rate reductions have been announced. As such, the UK timing differences have been 
recognised at the rate at which the timing differences are expected to unwind. The Group’s effective tax rate will continue to be 
impacted by the tax rates enacted in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. The deferred tax assets/(liabilities) have now 
all been recognised with previously unrecognised losses being utilised in the year. The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2016 
have been calculated based on a rate of 17%. There are no deferred tax assets/(liabilities) that have not been recognised.
9. Loss for the year
Loss for the year has been arrived at after charging:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Research and development costs
Expensed as incurred 4.5 4.0
Amortisation charge 2.2 2.1
Total research and development costs 6.7 6.1
Depreciation of fixed assets 3.1 2.8
Amortisation of customer relationships 0.3 0.3
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 5.1 1.0
Operating leases – property 2.0 1.4
Operating leases – other 0.1 0.1
Auditor’s remuneration
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Amounts receivable by auditor in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
Other services – 0.1
Pension advisory services in respect of Group pension – –
0.2 0.3
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
99 10. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£’m
Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 5.8 40.3 46.1
Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.6 1.7
Additions 0.1 3.2 3.3
Disposals – – –
At 31 December 2015 6.0 45.1 51.1
At 1 January 2016 6.0 45.1 51.1
Exchange adjustments 0.6 8.1 8.7
Additions 0.1 3.8 3.9
Reclassified as current asset (1.0) – (1.0)
Disposals (1.6) (6.5) (8.1)
At 31 December 2016 4.1 50.5 54.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 (3.3) (27.6) (30.9)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.2) (1.3)
Charge for year (0.2) (2.6) (2.8)
Disposals – – –
At 31 December 2015 (3.6) (31.4) (35.0)
At 1 January 2016 (3.6) (31.4) (35.0)
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (5.5) (6.0)
Charge for year (0.2) (2.9) (3.1)
Disposals 0.7 4.7 5.4
At 31 December 2016 (3.6) (35.1) (38.7)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 0.5 15.4 15.9
At 31 December 2015 2.4 13.7 16.1
Assets held for sale at 31 December 2016 comprise the former UK manufacturing site which was closed at the end of September 
2016 and was sold in January 2017. 
The profit on disposal of tangible assets in non-underlying costs (see note 5) comprises the cash received on sale of assets of 
£0.9m (see consolidated statement of cash flows) plus the expected proceeds from asset held for sale of £2.0m less the net book 
value of disposals of £2.7m. 
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
100 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 11. Intangible assets
Concessions, 
patents, 
licences and 
trademarks 
£’m
Goodwill 
£’m
Order 
book and 
customer 
relationships 
£’m
Technology 
£’m
Development 
costs 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2015 4.1 11.9 2.1 0.6 13.6 32.3
Additions arising from internal developments 1.0 – – – 1.5 2.5
Effects of foreign exchange movement 0.1 – – – 0.4 0.5
Balance at 31 December 2015 5.2 11.9 2.1 0.6 15.5 35.3
Balance at 1 January 2016 5.2 11.9 2.1 0.6 15.5 35.3
Additions arising from internal developments 0.6 – – – 1.5 2.1
Effects of foreign exchange movement 1.3 1.3 – – 2.8 5.4
Balance at 31 December 2016 7.1 13.2 2.1 0.6 19.8 42.8
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2015 (2.2) (0.2) (1.5) (0.6) (6.8) (11.3)
Amortisation for the period (0.7) – (0.3) – (2.1) (3.1)
Impairment (0.3) – – – (0.7) (1.0)
Effects of foreign exchange movement – – – – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2015 (3.2) (0.2) (1.8) (0.6) (9.5) (15.3)
Balance at 1 January 2016 (3.2) (0.2) (1.8) (0.6) (9.5) (15.3)
Amortisation for the period (1.5) – (0.3) – (2.2) (4.0)
Impairment – (4.0) – – (1.1) (5.1)
Effects of foreign exchange movement (0.8) – – – (2.2) (3.0)
Balance at 31 December 2016 (5.5) (4.2) (2.1) (0.6) (15.0) (27.4)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 1.6 9.0 – – 4.8 15.4
At 31 December 2015 2.0 11.7 0.3 – 6.0 20.0
At 1 January 2015 1.9 11.7 0.6 – 6.8 21.0
The amortisation charge for the development costs, concessions, patents, licences and trademarks, and order book and customer 
relationships is shown within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Lighting and Signals and Components segments
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from the 
business combination.
CGUs are identified geographically and at a product segment level. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
UK Lighting 2.3 2.3
European Traffic – 3.5
European Obstruction 1.3 1.3
Australian Lighting 0.1 0.1
US Lighting 5.3 4.5
9.0 11.7
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
101 11. Intangible assets continued
Lighting and Signals and Components segments continued
The Group tests goodwill (at the CGU level) annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might 
be impaired. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the 
value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of a number of factors that impact 
on the time value of money and any risk specific to the CGU. The rate includes management’s assessment of a normal level of 
debt to equity ratio within similar companies in its sector.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent strategic forecasts approved by management covering  
a three-year period. Management has arrived at the three-year plan based upon certain assumptions derived from a combination 
of internal assessment and research carried out by external consultants who specialise in areas of the Group’s business and their 
knowledge of the business. The key assumptions within the three-year forecasts are revenue growth (which varies depending  
on the CGU’s product groups and the markets addressed) and gross profit, which is based on management’s best estimate of 
material, labour and production cost trends and manufacturing efficiencies. Cash flows in years four and five are extrapolated 
using similar growth rates to the first three years. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using estimated  
growth rates of between 0% and 1%.
The change in business model from in-house production to using a manufacturing partner has been considered in the impairment 
calculations. The goodwill related to the UK Lighting business continues to have a value as the business is unchanged and only the 
source of production has changed.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of 
future cash flows, the discount rates selected and expected long-term growth rates.
The rates used to discount the forecast cash flow for the CGUs were 10.5% (2015: 11.0%) for Lighting and 13.5% (2015: 13.0%)  
for Signals and Components.
The growth rates management has applied in the value in use calculations for each of the CGUs over the five-year period vary  
due to the nature of the products, industries and countries in which the CGU operates.
Changes in these assumptions could reduce the recoverable amount below the carrying amount. No such risks were identified 
in the current year. 
12. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Unsecured borrowings falling due within one year – 9.5
Upfront loan facility costs – (0.2)
– 9.3
On 12 December 2016, the Company signed a five-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank 
plc. Under the terms of the facility, the Group also has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further facilities may be made 
available by HSBC under the current terms to support significant investment opportunities that may arise. At 31 December 2016 
there were no drawings on the facility.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
102 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 13.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Property, plant and equipment – 0.3 (0.1) – (0.1) 0.3
Intangible assets 0.3 – – (2.8) 0.3 (2.8)
Employee benefits 0.5 0.6 – – 0.5 0.6
Provisions 0.2 – – – 0.2 –
Other items 2.6 2.5 – (0.5) 2.6 2.0
Tax assets/(liabilities) 3.6 3.4 (0.1) (3.3) 3.5 0.1
Set-off of tax (0.1) (3.3) 0.1 3.3 – –
Net tax assets 3.5 0.1 – – 3.5 0.1
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses in entities expected to generate future taxable profits. There 
are no unrecognised deferred tax assets (2015: £0.3m).
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred taxation liabilities 
have not been recognised is £nil (2015: £nil).
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Property, 
plant and 
equipment 
£’m
Intangible 
assets 
£’m
Employee 
benefits 
£’m
Provisions 
£’m
Other 
short-term 
timing 
differences 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2015 (0.6) (2.8) 0.6 3.0 – 0.2
Recognised in income 0.9 – – (3.0) 2.5 0.4
Recognised in equity – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.3 (2.8) 0.6 – 2.0 0.1
Balance at 1 January 2016 0.3 (2.8) 0.6 – 2.0 0.1
Recognised in income (0.4) 3.1 (0.4) 0.2 1.5 4.0
Recognised in equity – – 0.3 – (0.9) (0.6)
Balance at 31 December 2016 (0.1) 0.3 0.5 0.2 2.6 3.5
14. Inventories
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Raw materials and consumables 16.9 17.1
Work in progress 3.8 2.5
Finished goods 10.7 7.3
31.4 26.9
Inventories to the value of £78.0m (2015: £70.0m) were recognised as expenses in the year. During the year, inventory write-downs 
totalled £7.3m. The write-downs are included in the income statement.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
103 15. Trade and other receivables
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Trade receivables 37.2 30.7
Other non-trade receivables 1.7 2.1
Income tax recoverable – 1.4
Prepayments and accrued income 1.1 1.3
40.0 35.5
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in 
note 22.
16.  Capital and reserves
Share capital
2016 
Number
2016 
£’m
2015 
Number
2015 
£’m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,504,335 0.6 32,503,258 0.6
During the year, 1,077 shares were issued (2015: nil). The ordinary shares issued in the year have the same rights as the other 
shares in issue.
Issued share capital
Ordinary shares
2016 
Number
2015 
Number
In issue at 1 January 32,503,258 32,503,258
Shares issued 1,077 –
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 32,504,335 32,503,258
Merger reserve
On acquiring Lumidrives Limited in 2006 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken 
in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and hence £546,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
On acquiring Dialight A/S in 2010 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in 
accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and hence £903,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences from 1 January 2004 arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of foreign operations for the Company.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of “B” preference shares redeemed since the capital reorganisation 
in 2005.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
104 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 16.  Capital and reserves continued
Dividends
After the balance sheet date no dividends were proposed by the Directors and there are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Nil pence per ordinary share (2015: nil pence) – –
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Final – nil pence (2014: 9.8 pence) per ordinary share – 3.2
Interim – nil pence (2015: nil pence) per ordinary share – –
– 3.2
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred share scheme but not yet vested – –
Total (amount shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity) – 3.2
17. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share (“EPS”) at 31 December 2016 was based on a loss for the year of £2.8m (2015: loss 
of £2.0m) and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year of 32,503,348 (2015: 32,503,258).
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted EPS at 31 December 2016 was based on a loss for the year of £2.8m (2015: loss of £2.0m) and the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year of 32,777,907 (2015: 32,731,992) calculated as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2016 
’000
2015 
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 32,503 32,503
Effect of share options in issue 275 229
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 32,778 32,732
Underlying EPS is highlighted below as the Directors consider that this measurement of earnings gives valuable information on the 
performance of the Group.
2016 
Per share
2015 
Per share
Basic earnings (8.4p) (6.4p)
Underlying basic earnings* 26.9p 13.3p
Diluted earnings (8.4p) (6.3p)
Underlying diluted earnings* 26.7p 13.2p
* Underlying earnings excludes non-underlying items as explained in note 29 and allocates tax at the appropriate rate (see note 8).
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
105 18. Employee benefits
Defined benefit pension obligations
The Group makes contributions to two defined benefit plans (referred to below as Plan A and Plan B) to provide benefits for 
employees upon retirement. Both plans are closed to new members and future accrual. The plans expose the Group to actuarial 
risks, such as longevity risk, interest rate risk and investment risk. Both plans are final salary defined benefit schemes and are 
administered by discrete funds (the “Funds”) that are legally separate from the Group. Trustees include independent and 
Company-appointed individuals. The Trustees of the plans are required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants 
and are responsible for setting certain policies (e.g. investment) of the Funds.
The Company is required to agree a Schedule of Contributions with the Trustees of the Funds following a valuation which must be 
carried out at least once every three years. The last valuation was completed in 2014. The Company expects to pay contributions 
of £0.5m in respect of the Funds in the year to 31 December 2017. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation 
is 16 years. There is no effect on recognition of the net defined benefit surplus as a result of the asset ceiling.
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net defined benefit  
liability/(asset) and its components.
Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets
Net defined benefit  
liability/(asset)
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Balance at 1 January 23.7 25.2 (23.6) (24.0) 0.1 1.2
Included in profit or loss
Administration costs – – 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1
Interest cost/(income) 0.9 0.8 (0.9) (0.8) – –
0.9 0.8 (0.7) (0.7) 0.2 0.1
Included in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements (gain)/loss:
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from:
– demographic assumptions (0.1) (0.3) – – (0.1) (0.3)
– financial assumptions 4.7 (1.0) – – 4.7 (1.0)
– experience adjustment – – – – – –
– return on plan assets excluding interest income (0.5) – (2.6) 0.6 (3.1) 0.6
4.1 (1.3) (2.6) 0.6 1.5 (0.7)
Other
Contributions paid by the employer – – (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.5)
Benefits paid (1.4) (1.0) 1.4 1.0 – –
(1.4) (1.0) 0.9 0.5 (0.5) (0.5)
Balance at 31 December 27.3 23.7 (26.0) (23.6) 1.3 0.1
 
Represented by:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Net defined benefit asset (Plan A) (0.1) (0.1)
Net defined benefit liability (Plan B) 1.4 0.2
1.3 0.1
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
106 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 18. Employee benefits continued
Plan assets consist of the following:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Total Total
Equities 13.7 10.7
Bonds and gilts 12.2 12.4
Cash 0.1 0.5
26.0 23.6
All equity securities and government bonds have quoted prices in active markets.
Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
% per annum
2016 2015
Discount rate at 31 December 2.70 3.70
Future salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.50 3.20
Inflation – RPI 3.60 3.20
Inflation – CPI 2.70 2.30
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables. The current longevities 
underlying the values of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date were as follows:
2016 2015
Plan A Plan B Plan A Plan B
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
Males 22.1 22.1 22.1 22.1
Females 24.6 24.6 24.5 24.5
Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 45
Males 23.9 23.9 23.8 23.8
Females 26.5 26.5 26.4 26.4
Sensitivity analysis
Potential changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would 
have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below:
Defined benefit obligation
Increase 
£’m
Decrease 
£’m
Discount rate (0.5% movement) (1.8) 2.0
Inflation (0.5% movement) 1.3 (1.3)
Life expectancy (+/–1 year) 1.0 (0.9)
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plans, it does provide an 
approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
107 18. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP.
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out 
below. The award was split into two components, one of which was based on the EPS performance of the Group, and the other 
on the Group’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance.
Date of award
Number 
of awards 
at the 
beginning 
of the year
Number 
of awards 
granted 
during 
the year
Number 
of awards 
vested 
during 
the year
Number 
of awards 
forfeited 
during 
the year
Number 
of awards 
at the 
year end
Fair value 
pence per 
share
Vesting 
period
Maturity 
date
April 2012 37,987 – – (37,987) – 684 3 years Apr 2015
April 2013 (EPS) 17,187 – – (17,187) – 1,291 3 years Apr 2016
April 2013 (TSR) 17,187 – – (17,187) – 707 3 years Apr 2016
April 2014 (EPS) 22,422 – – – 22,422 886 3 years Apr 2017
April 2014 (TSR) 22,422 – – – 22,422 377 3 years Apr 2017
September 2014 (EPS) 13,837 – – – 13,837 904 3 years Sep 2017
September 2014 (TSR) 13,837 – – – 13,837 395 3 years Sep 2017
April 2015 (EPS) 34,935 – – – 34,935 802 3 years Apr 2018
April 2015 (TSR) 34,935 – – – 34,935 349 3 years Apr 2018
August 2015 (EPS) 35,822 – – – 35,822 545 3 years Aug 2018
August 2015 (TSR) 35,822 – – – 35,822 147 3 years Aug 2018
March 2016 (EPS) – 101,752 – – 101,752 570 3 years Mar 2019
March 2016 (TSR) – 101,752 – – 101,752 356 3 years Mar 2019
August 2016 (EPS) – 2,159 – – 2,159 710 3 years Aug 2019
August 2016 (TSR) – 2,159 – – 2,159 493 3 years Aug 2019
286,393 207,822 – (72,361) 421,854
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 58 to 73.
The 2016 awards linked to EPS have been valued using the Black-Scholes model and those linked to TSR have been valued using 
the Monte Carlo model.
The following key assumptions and inputs have been used in the calculation of the fair values:
April 
2016 
EPS and 
TSR award
August 
2016 
EPS and 
TSR award
Share price £5.70 £7.10
Exercise price £nil £nil
Expected volatility 48% 49%
Award life 3 years 3 years
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) 21% 35%
The employee expense in 2016 was £0.6m (2015: £0.1m) (see note 6).
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
108 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 18. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Save As You Earn (“SAYE”)
In 2014, the Group initiated an all-employee UK Sharesave Plan and established equivalent arrangements in the UK, the US and 
Mexico. Under the terms of the SAYE scheme employees can save up to a limit of £250 per month or local currency equivalent. 
Awards under the scheme were made at a 20% discount to the closing mid market price on the date of invitation, vesting over 
a three-year period. There are no performance conditions attached to the SAYE scheme.
2015 
scheme 
Number
2014 
scheme 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 2016 73,183 30,297
Granted during the year – –
Vested in the year (1,077) –
Forfeited during the year (12,432) (6,195)
Outstanding at 31 December 2016 59,674 24,102
The options outstanding at the period end have a weighted average remaining contractual life of three years.
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used  
in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 22 September 2015
Share price at grant date 6.02p
Exercise price 4.82p
Expected volatility 37%
Number of employees 79
Shares under option 73,183
Vesting period 3 years
Option life 3 years
Expected life 3 years
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2%
Fair value per option 2.12p
19. Provisions
Warranty 
£’m
Restructuring 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2016 1.4 – 1.4
Effects of foreign exchange movement 0.2 0.1 0.3
Provisions made during the year 1.4 5.0 6.4
Provisions used during the year (1.2) (2.3) (3.5)
Balance at 31 December 2016 1.8 2.8 4.6
The warranty provision relates to sales made over the past five years. The provision has been estimated based on historical warranty 
data with similar products. The Group expects to settle the majority of the liability over the next two to three years. The restructuring 
provision relates to redundancy costs and production transfer costs (see note 5) and will all be utilised within one year.
Total
2016 
£’m
Total 
2015 
£’m
Due within one year 3.8 0.8
Due between one and five years 0.8 0.6
4.6 1.4
The warranty provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
109 20. Trade and other payables
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Trade payables 15.3 12.9
Other taxes and social security 1.0 0.6
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 15.0 9.4
31.3 22.9
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 22.
21. Cash and cash equivalents
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of total financial position 8.0 5.5
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 8.0 5.5
22. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies  
and processes for measuring and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated 
financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Group’s risk policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures 
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations by not paying the receivables due.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
Operationally the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Each new customer is 
analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered.
The Group’s review includes external ratings when available and, in some cases, bank references. Purchase limits are set for 
customers. Customers who do not meet the benchmark creditworthiness may transact, with the Group, only on a prepayment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other 
receivables. Impairment losses are determined having taken into account special customer circumstances and financial position, 
together with Group information about general payment trends.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
110 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 22. Financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Exposure to credit risk
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross 
2016 
£’m
Impairment 
2016 
£’m
Gross 
2015 
£’m
Impairment 
2015 
£’m
Not past due 28.6 – 23.0 –
Past due 0–30 days 6.6 – 5.4 –
Past due 31–120 days 2.0 – 1.0 –
Past due 121–365 days 0.1 (0.1) 0.1 –
More than one year 0.1 (0.1) 1.3 (0.1)
Total 37.4 (0.2) 30.8 (0.1)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2016 0.1
Effects of foreign exchange –
Utilisation of provision (0.2)
Provision created 0.3
Balance at 31 December 2016 0.2
The allowance in respect of trade receivables is used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of 
the amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the financial asset directly. 
Other non-trade receivables of £1.7m (2015: £2.1m) are not past due and have no impairment.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s 
income. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, 
while optimising the return.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage exposure to interest rate risk by utilising short-term fixed rate borrowings. At 31 December 2016 
the Group has no drawings against its revolving credit facility.
Foreign currency risk
Exposure to currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than each 
subsidiary’s functional currency. The currencies giving rise to risk are primarily the Euro and the US Dollar.
Where possible the Group uses natural hedging within the Group to hedge the majority of its foreign currency risk. Natural 
hedging is the mechanism whereby the cash inflows in a particular currency are matched to the cash outflows in that currency  
at the same business or a different Group company. The Group has borrowing facilities in US Dollars in order to match the 
currency of the Group’s major market. Foreign exchange contracts may be taken out to manage exposures that are not mitigated 
through natural hedging.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than UK Sterling, the Group ensures that the  
net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address 
short-term imbalances.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
111 22. Financial risk management continued
Market risk continued
Foreign currency risk continued
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
2016 
$’m
2016 
€’m
2015 
$’m
2015 
€’m
Trade receivables 0.3 2.5 0.7 3.7
Currency cash 0.5 – 0.6 0.3
Trade payables (0.1) (0.1) (1.1) (0.3)
Gross balance sheet exposure 0.7 2.4 0.2 3.7
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
2016 
Average 
rate
2016 
At balance 
sheet 
date
2015 
Average 
rate
2015 
At balance 
sheet 
date
US Dollar 1.36 1.23 1.53 1.48
Euro 1.22 1.17 1.38 1.36
Mexican Peso 25.25 25.56 24.28 25.66
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities  
that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as 
possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, 
without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk
For non-derivative financial liabilities the Group’s exposure relates principally to trade and other payables and borrowings.
Trade and other payables arise in the normal course of business and there are no unusual or onerous terms and conditions.
The following are contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the impact  
of netting agreements:
31 December 2016
Carrying 
amount 
£’m
Contractual 
cash flow 
£’m
2 months 
or less 
£’m
2–12 
months 
£’m
1–2 
years 
£’m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 31.3 (31.3) (31.3) – –
Borrowings – – – – –
31.3 (31.3) (31.3) – –
 
31 December 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£’m
Contractual 
cash flow 
£’m
2 months 
or less 
£’m
2–12 
months 
£’m
1–2 
years 
£’m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 22.9 (22.9) (22.9) – –
Borrowings 9.3 (9.3) (9.3) – –
32.2 (32.2) (32.2) – –
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
112 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 22. Financial risk management continued
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2016 this 
totalled £77.1m (2015: £70.1m).
The Board is not proposing any final dividend payment for 2016 (2015: nil). The Group has a clear capital allocation discipline and 
is committed to returning any excess funds to our shareholders via either a future dividend or a share repurchase.
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s 
earnings. Over the longer term, however, permanent changes, in particular in foreign exchange rates, would have an impact  
on equity value and consolidation earnings.
At 31 December 2016 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and the US Dollar against UK Sterling  
would have reduced the Group’s loss before tax by approximately £0.1m for the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: reduced 
the loss before tax by £0.1m), and would have had no impact on the Group’s equity for the year ended 31 December 2016  
(2015: no impact).
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying 
amount 
2016 
£’m
Fair value 
2016 
£’m
Carrying 
amount 
2015 
£’m
Fair value 
2015 
£’m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 8.0 8.0 5.5 5.5
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables 40.0 40.0 35.5 35.5
Total financial assets 48.0 48.0 41.0 41.0
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (31.3) (31.3) (22.9) (22.9)
Borrowings – – (9.3) (9.3)
Total financial liabilities (31.3) (31.3) (32.2) (32.2)
Net financial assets 16.7 16.7 8.8 8.8
Details of the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table are 
set out in note 3(u).
23. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Less than one year 2.0 1.3
Between one and five years 3.2 2.8
More than five years – 0.3
5.2 4.4
Of the £5.2m (2015: £4.4m), £4.9m (2015: £4.3m) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment.
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
113 24. Capital commitments
Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in the accounts were:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Contracted 0.8 0.1
25. Contingencies
During 2011 the Roxboro UK Pension Fund (the “Scheme”) was closed to future accrual. This Scheme is included within the 
pension liability detailed in note 18. As part of the negotiations regarding closure, the Company agreed to grant a parent company 
guarantee in respect of all present and future obligations and liabilities (whether actual or contingent and whether owed jointly or 
severally and in any capacity whatsoever) of Dialight Europe Limited, the principal employer, to make payments in the Scheme up 
to a maximum amount equal to the entire aggregate liability, on the date on which any liability under the guarantee arises, of every 
employer (within the meaning set out in Section 318 of the Pensions Act 2004 and regulations made thereunder) in relation to the 
Scheme, were a debt under Section 75(2) of the Pensions Act 1995 to have become due on that date. No provision has been made 
in relation to this contingency.
26. Related parties
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dialight plc. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been 
eliminated on consolidation. Intra-group transactions are priced on an arm’s length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control less than 1% of the Company.
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel.
Key management personnel compensation comprised the following:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Short-term employee benefits 1.1 1.2
Post-retirement benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.2 –
1.4 1.3
The aggregate of remuneration and amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes of the highest paid Director was  
£0.5m (2015: £0.3m), and pension contributions of £0.1m (2015: £0.1m) were made to a money purchase scheme on his behalf. 
During the year, the highest paid Director received 96,485 shares under a long-term incentive scheme.
2016 2015
Number of Directors accruing benefits under:
– money purchase schemes 2 2
– defined benefit schemes – –
Number of Directors who exercised share options – –
Number of Directors in respect of whose qualifying services shares  
were received or receivable under long-term incentive schemes 2 2
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
114 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 27. Subsidiaries
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries as at 31 December 2016 is disclosed below. 
Those companies stated in table (a) below are those, in the opinion of Directors, which principally affect the revenue, profit or 
assets of the Dialight Group. The remaining companies that comprise the Dialight Group are set out in table (b) below. The investment 
is held directly by the Company except for those companies indicated by an *.
(a) Trading companies
Name Percentage owned Registered office Principal activity
Dialight Corporation* 100% 1501 Route, 34 South
Farmingdale, NJ 07727
Design, assembly and sale of Lighting  
and Signals and Components products
Dialight Europe Limited 100% Leaf C
Level 36, Tower 42,  
25 Old Broad Street, 
London EC2N 1HQ
Sale of Lighting products
Dialight GmbH* 100% Maximilianstrabe 54
80538 Munchen
Germany
Sale of Lighting products
Dialight A/S 100% Ejby Industrivej 91 B
2600 Glostrup
Copenhagen
Assembly and sale of Lighting products
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* 75% Level 2 Spectrum
100 Railway Road
Subiaco WA 6008
Australia
Sale of Lighting products
Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd* 75% 33 Ubi Avenue 3
07-72 Vertex (Tower A)
Singapore, 408868 
Sale of Lighting products
Dialight Penang Sdn. Bhd.* 100% Room B, 3rd Floor
309-K Perak Road
10150, Penang
Malaysia
Assembly and sale of Signals and Components products
Dialight Do Brasil Tecnologia Led Ltda* 75% American Park 
Empresarial NR
Indaiatuba
Sao Paulo/SP
13347-662, Brazil
Assembly and sale of Lighting products
Dialight de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.* 100% Calle Lirios S/N
Colona Pacheco
Ensenda
Baja California
Mexico
Assembly of Lighting, Signals and Components products
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited, Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd and Dialight Do Brasil Tecnologia Led Ltda are all owned 75% by the 
Group and there are non-controlling interests of 25%. The total loss for the period attributable to non-controlling interests  
is less than £0.1m (2015: less than £0.1m) and their share of equity is £0.1m (2015: £0.1m).
(b) Other companies
Unless otherwise stated, the registered office for the subsidiaries listed below is 1 More London Place, London SE1 2AF.
Name Percentage owned Registered office Principal activity
Belling Lee Limited 100% Leaf C
Level 36, Tower 42
25 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 1HQ
Intermediary holding company
Dialight Disconnect Limited* 100% Non-trading
Dialight Lumidrives Limited 100% Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Optino Limited* 100% Dormant
PED Limited* 100% Dormant
Roxboro Analytical Limited 100% Non-trading
Roxboro Limited 100% Non-trading
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
115 27. Subsidiaries
(b) Other companies continued
Name Percentage owned Registered office Principal activity
Roxboro Overseas Limited 100% Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Roxboro Technology 100% Dormant
Shildon Controls Limited* 100% Non-trading
Shildon Investments Limited 100% Non-trading/intermediary holding company
The Roxboro Trust Company Limited 100% Leaf C
Level 36, Tower 42
25 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 1HQ
Dormant
The Roxboro UK Pension  
Trustee Limited*
50% Leaf C
Level 36, Tower 42
25 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 1HQ
Corporate pension fund trustee
WGL (2003) Limited 100% Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Zoomclose Limited* 100% Dormant
Dialight Latin America, S. de R.L. de C.V.* 100% Calle Lirios S/N
Colona Pacheco
Ensenda
Baja California
Mexico
Non-trading
CRL Components, Inc.* 100% The Corporation  
Trust Co., Corporation 
Trust Centre
1209 Orange Street
City of Wilmington, 
County of New Castle 
DE, United States
Dormant
Roxboro Analytical Inc.* 100% 1501 Route 34 South
Farmingdale
NJ 07727
Non-trading
Roxboro Holdings Inc.* 100% The Corporation  
Trust Co., Corporation 
Trust Centre
1209 Orange Street
City of Wilmington, 
County of New Castle 
DE, United States
Non-trading/intermediary holding company
Roxboro Metrology Inc.* 100% 1501 Route 34 South
Farmingdale
NJ 07727
Non-trading
28. Contingent consideration
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Balance at 1 January – 0.3
Payment in the year – (0.3)
Balance at 31 December – –
The contingent consideration related to the purchase of Airinet, Inc. in 2012.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
116 Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 29. Reconciliation to non-Gaap performance measures
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Gross profit 65.8 50.2
Non-underlying items (see note 5) 3.7 6.0
Underlying gross profit 69.5 56.2
Loss from operating activities (3.3) (3.4)
Non-underlying items (see note 5) 16.4 9.5
Underlying operating profit/Underlying EBIT 13.1 6.1
Loss from operating activities (3.3) (3.4)
Non-underlying items (see note 5) 16.4 9.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 10) 3.1 2.8
Amortisation of intangible assets (see note 11) 4.0 3.1
Adjusted underlying EBITDA 20.2 12.0
Loss from operating activities (3.3) (3.4)
Non-underlying items 16.4 9.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (see note 10) 3.1 2.8
Amortisation of intangible assets (see note 11) 4.0 3.1
Net movement on working capital (Inventories, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables) per 
Consolidated statement of cash flows 3.3 5.4
Movements in working capital related to non underlying (2.5) (1.7)
Adjusted operating cashflow 21.0 15.7
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
117 Note
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 32 – –
Investments 33 18.0 17.4
Debtors 37 30.7 25.6
48.7 43.0
Current assets
Debtors 37 16.4 16.8
Cash 0.3 0.5
16.7 17.3
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 38 (16.8) (8.0)
Borrowings 39 – (9.3)
Current liabilities (16.8) (17.3)
Net current assets (0.1) –
Total assets less current liabilities 48.6 43.0
Net assets excluding pension fund asset 48.6 43.0
Pension fund asset 43 0.1 0.2
Net assets including pension fund asset 48.7 43.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 41, 42 0.6 0.6
Capital redemption reserve 42 2.2 2.2
Other reserve 42 2.6 2.0
Profit and loss account 42 43.3 38.4
Equity shareholder funds 48.7 43.2
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate profit and loss account of the parent company has not been 
presented. The parent company’s profit for the year was £5.1m (2015: £0.5m).
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
Michael Sutsko Fariyal Khanbabi
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
118 Financial statements
Company balance sheet (prepared under FRS 102)
At 31 December 2016 30. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and to the 
preceding year.
(a) General information and basis of accounting
Dialight plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the Registered Office is 
given on the back cover of this Annual Report and Accounts. The Company is a holding company that manages the other trading 
subsidiaries of the Dialight Group.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include certain items at fair value, 
and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (“FRS 102”) issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The functional currency of Dialight plc is considered to be UK Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Company operates.
(b) Going concern
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence  
for a period no shorter than 12 months from the date of this report. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis  
of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
(c) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided on all 
tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis 
over its expected useful life, which is between three and ten years.
(d) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions  
of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
(i) Financial assets and liabilities
All financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at transaction price (including transaction costs), except for those financial 
assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value (which is normally the transaction 
price excluding transaction costs), unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction. If an arrangement constitutes a 
financing transaction, the financial asset or financial liability is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted  
at a market rate of interest for a similar debt instrument.
The Company’s debt instruments are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Debt instruments that are classified as payable or receivable within one year on initial recognition and which meet the above 
conditions are measured at the undiscounted amount of the cash or other consideration expected to be paid or received,  
net of impairment.
(ii) Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are measured at cost less impairment. For investments in subsidiaries acquired  
for consideration, including the issue of shares qualifying for merger relief, cost is measured by reference to the nominal value  
of the shares issued plus fair value of other consideration. Any premium is ignored.
(iii) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of cash or other resources received or receivable,  
net of direct issue costs.
(e) Impairment of assets
Assets, other than those measured at fair value, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.  
If there is objective evidence of impairment, an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
119
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2016 30. Accounting policies continued
(f) Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using  
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results  
as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from 
those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence,  
it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying 
timing differences can be deducted.
(g) Employee benefits
The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. The assets of all arrangements are held separately 
from the assets of the Company in independently administered funds. The amount charged against profits in respect of defined 
contribution arrangements is the contributions payable to those arrangements in the accounting period.
For the defined benefit arrangements the assets are measured at market values. The liabilities are measured using the projected 
unit credit method, discounting at the current rate of return of a high-quality corporate bond of the appropriate term and currency 
to the liability.
The defined benefit scheme surplus or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Other long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of the benefit obligation at the reporting date.
(h) Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
(i) Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on  
such a basis. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
(j) Share-based payment
The Company grants to its employees rights to its equity instruments of Dialight plc. The fair value of awards granted is recognised 
as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period 
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to receive the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured 
using a pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as 
an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual of share awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving 
the threshold for vesting. Where the Company grants awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises 
an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in  
its subsidiaries’ financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
31. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 30, the Directors are required to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent  
from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that  
are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future 
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Directors consider that there are no critical accounting judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty within the 
Company’s individual financial statements.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
120 Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 32. Fixed assets
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2016 0.2
Additions –
At 31 December 2016 0.2
Depreciation
At 1 January 2016 (0.2)
Charge for the year –
At 31 December 2016 (0.2)
Net book value at 31 December 2016 –
Net book value at 31 December 2015 –
No assets of the Company are held under finance leases.
33. Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2016 22.2
Share-based payment 0.6
At 31 December 2016 22.8
Provisions
At 1 January 2016 (4.8)
Profit and loss account –
At 31 December 2016 (4.8)
Net book value at 31 December 2016 18.0
Net book value at 31 December 2015 17.4
In accordance with Section 26 of FRS 102, the cost of investment is increased to reflect the cost of share options awarded to 
employees of the Company’s subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries of the Company is provided in note 27 on pages 115 and 116.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
121 34. Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments. The overall framework for 
managing risk and the interest rate risk that affects the Company is discussed in note 22.
All carrying values are considered to be fair values.
A sensitivity analysis has been carried out in note 22 and is considered to not be materially different from the results for the 
Company only.
Foreign currency risk
The Company holds monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than UK Sterling. The majority of these relate to intercompany 
balances which provide a natural hedge elsewhere in the Group.
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk to third parties was as follows based on notional amounts:
2016 
$’m
2016 
€’m
2015 
$’m
2015 
€’m
Currency cash 0.2 – 0.1 –
Other creditors – – – –
Gross balance sheet exposure 0.2 – 0.1 –
The exchange rates applied during the year are disclosed in note 22.
Liquidity risk
The Company’s exposure to liquidity risk relates to its borrowings. This is discussed in note 22.
35. Share-based payments
Share-based payments are described in full in note 18.
PSP
The PSP relating to employees of the Company is disclosed on page 63 in the Directors’ remuneration report.
Save As You Earn (“SAYE”)
The options under the SAYE relating to employees of the Company are as follows:
2015 
Scheme 
Number
2014 
Scheme 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 7,472 466
Granted during the year – –
Forfeited during the year (3,736) (466)
Outstanding at 31 December 3,736 –
Details on assumptions and inputs used in the calculation of share-based payment amounts are disclosed in note 18.
36. Key management personnel
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Company’s key management personnel. Details of their compensation are 
disclosed in note 26.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
122 Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 37. Debtors
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 46.6 42.1
Other debtors 0.5 0.2
Deferred tax asset (note 40) – 0.1
47.1 42.4
Less non-current portion: amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (30.7) (25.6)
Current portion 16.4 16.8
38. Creditors
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Deferred tax liability (note 40) 0.9 –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 14.0 6.6
Accruals and deferred income 1.9 1.4
16.8 8.0
39. Borrowings
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Unsecured borrowings falling due within one year – 9.5
Upfront loan facility costs – (0.2)
– 9.3
On 12 December 2016, the Company signed a five-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank 
plc. Under the terms of the facility, the Group also has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further facilities may be made 
available by HSBC under the current terms to support significant investment opportunities that may arise. Amongst the covenants 
attached to the facility are requirements related to the net debt to EBITDA ratio of the Group and interest cover. During the year 
and subsequently, the Group has operated well within those covenants.
At 31 December 2016 there were no drawings on the facility (2015: £9.5m).
40. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
At 1 January 0.1 0.1
Prior year adjustment (0.1) –
Profit and loss account (0.9) –
Recognised in equity – –
At 31 December (0.9) 0.1
An analysis of deferred tax is as follows:
Capital allowances – –
Short-term timing differences (0.9) 0.1
Debtors (see note 37) – 0.1
Creditors (see note 38) (0.9) –
Pension liability (see note 43) – –
– 0.1
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
123 41. Called up share capital
2016 
Number
2016 
£’m
2015 
Number
2015 
£’m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,504,335 0.6 32,503,258 0.6
Shares classified as liabilities – –
Shares classified in shareholder funds 0.6 0.6
0.6 0.6 
During the year, 1,077 shares were issued. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights as the other shares in issue.
42. Capital and reserves
a) Statement of changes in equity
Share 
capital 
£’m
Other 
reserve capital 
contribution 
£’m
Capital 
redemption 
£’m
Retained 
earning 
£’m
Total 
equity 
£’m
Balance at 01 January 2016 0.6 2.0 2.2 38.4 43.2
Profit 5.1 5.1
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability, net of tax (0.2) (0.2)
Total other comprehensive income – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Total comprehensive income for year – – – 4.9 4.9
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Share based payments, net of tax 0.6 0.6
Total contribution by and distribution to owners – 0.6 – – 0.6
Balance at 31 December 2016 0.6 2.6 2.2 43.3 48.7
Share 
capital 
£’m
Other 
reserve capital 
contribution 
£’m
Capital 
redemption 
£’m
Retained 
earning 
£’m
Total 
equity 
£’m
Balance at 01 January 2015 0.6 1.9 2.2 41.2 45.9
Profit 0.5 0.5
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability, net of tax (0.1) (0.1)
Total other comprehensive income – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for year – – – 0.4 0.4
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Share based payments, net of tax 0.1 0.1
Dividends (3.2) (3.2)
Total contribution by and distribution to owners – 0.1 – (3.2) (3.1)
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.6 2.0 2.2 38.4 43.2
At 31 December 2016 the number of shares held by the Group through the ESOT was nil ordinary shares (2015: 9,606).  
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2016 was £nil (2015: £43,227)
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
124 Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 42. Capital and reserves continued
b) Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for 
and there are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Nil pence per ordinary share (2015: nil pence) – –
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Final – nil pence (2014: 9.8 pence) per ordinary share – 3.2
Interim – nil pence (2015: nil pence) per ordinary share – –
– 3.2
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP but not yet vested – –
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) – 3.2
43. Pensions
The Company operates a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit pension arrangement called the Roxboro UK Executive 
Pension Fund (the “Executive Fund”). The Executive Fund provides benefits based on final salary and length of service on leaving. 
The Executive Fund is closed to new members. The following disclosures exclude any allowance for defined contribution funds 
operated by the Company.
The Executive Fund is subject to the “Statutory Funding Objective” under the Pensions Act 2004. An actuarial valuation of  
the Executive Fund is carried out at least once every three years to determine whether the Statutory Funding Objective is met.  
As part of the process the Company must agree with the Trustees of the Executive Fund the contributions to be paid to address 
any shortfall against the Statutory Funding Objective.
The most recent actuarial valuation was carried out on 5 April 2014. The results of that valuation were projected by an independent 
qualified actuary to 31 December 2014 allowing for Executive Fund cash flows and changes in the assumptions for FRS 102 purposes.
Recognised assets for defined benefit obligations
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Present value of funded obligations (2.3) (2.0)
Fair value of plan assets 2.4 2.2
Recognised asset for defined benefit obligations 0.1 0.2
Plan assets consist of the following:
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Bonds 2.4 2.0
Cash – 0.2
2.4 2.2
The assets do not include any investments in shares of the Company.
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
125 43. Pensions continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Liabilities at 1 January 2.0 2.1 
Interest cost 0.1 0.1 
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1) 
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation – –
Changes to financial assumptions 0.3 (0.1)
Liabilities at 31 December 2.3 2.0
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Assets at 1 January 2.2 2.1
Interest on assets 0.1 0.1
Employer contributions 0.1 0.2
Benefit paid (0.1) (0.1)
Return on plan assets less interest 0.1 (0.1)
Assets at 31 December 2.4 2.2
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
Interest on obligation 0.1 0.1
Interest on plan assets (0.1) (0.1)
– –
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK scheme  
(% per annum)
2016 2015
Discount rate at 31 December 2.70 3.70
Future pension increases 3.60 3.20
Inflation – RPI 3.60 3.20
Inflation – CPI 2.70 2.30
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2016, used SAPS 
mortality tables based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based  
on the latest mortality investigations and reflect an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average  
life expectancy of an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring at age 65 years is 24.0 years for males and 26.6 years for  
females. For individuals currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 22.3 years for males and 24.9 years for females.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
126 Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016 44. Related party transactions
During the period, the Company received management fees from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned totalling £nil (2015: £nil) 
and received interest totalling £nil (2015: £nil) on intercompany loans to those subsidiaries. At 31 December 2016 a total of £2.3m 
was owed to the Company by those subsidiaries (2015: £1.9m).
45. Statement of cash flows
31 
December 
2016 
£’m
31 
December 
2015 
£’m
Operating activities
Profit for the year 5.1 0.5
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – –
Share-based payments 0.6 0.1
Intercompany debt forgiveness 2.5 –
Finance income (4.4) (2.7)
Financial expense 0.3 0.5
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 4.1 (1.6)
Increase in debtors (4.7) (0.3)
Increase in other creditors 8.8 1.7
Cash generated from operations 8.2 (0.2)
Interest received 1.4 1.4
Interest paid (0.3) (0.5)
Net cash generated from operating activities 1.1 0.9
Financing activities
Dividends paid – (3.2)
(Repayment)/drawdown of bank facility (9.5) 2.4
Payment of upfront loan facility costs – –
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (9.5) (0.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (0.2) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 0.5 0.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 0.3 0.5
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
127 Prepared under IFRSs
2016 
£’m
2015 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2012*
£’m
Revenue 182.2 161.4 159.8 131.2 115.1
Research and development cash expenditure 6.0 5.5 6.2 5.9 5.0
Underlying operating profit 13.1 6.1 18.1 14.5 19.6
Non-underlying operating loss (16.4) (9.5) (2.3) (2.9) –
Finance (charges)/income (0.5) (0.5) (0.3) (0.4) 0.2
(Loss)/profit before gain on disposal  
of discontinued operations and taxation (3.8) (3.9) 15.5 11.2 19.8
Cash generated from operating activities 16.3 8.7 8.6 6.9 13.8
Net cash/(debt) 8.0 (3.8) 0.6 7.1 15.0
Shareholders’ funds 77.1 70.1 72.8 66.7 63.0
Statistical information Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (8.4) (6.4) 29.4 23.9 41.4
Dividends per share n/a 9.8 15.0 14.4 13.5
Dividend cover (times) n/a n/a 2.0 1.7 3.2
Underlying operating margin 7.2% 3.7% 11.2% 11.1% 17.0%
* Results for 2012 exclude the results of operations classified as discontinued.
dialight.com Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
128 Financial statements
Five-year summary 129
Company Secretary  
and Registered Office
Chris Fussell 
Leaf C 
Level 36 
Tower 42 
25 Old Broad Street 
London EC2N 1HQ 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3058 3541 
Registered in England and Wales 
Company number: 2486024 
Email: info@dialight.com 
www.dialight.com
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit  
our website, www.dialight.com, which 
contains information about Dialight.  
Any information on or linked from the 
website is not incorporated by reference 
into the Annual Report and Accounts.
There is a section designed specifically 
for investors at www.dialight.com/
PLCHome/Index, which includes detailed 
coverage of Dialight’s share price and  
our financial results. You can also review 
this year’s Annual Report and Accounts. 
Our share price is also available on the 
London Stock Exchange’s website,  
www.londonstockexchange.com.
Dialight plc shareholders can  
elect to receive their shareholder 
communications such as the Annual 
Report and Accounts and other 
shareholder documents electronically  
by registering at www.dialight.com/
SiteServices/AlertServices.
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Investec Bank PLC
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Rothschild & Co
New Court
St. Swithin’s Lane
London EC4N 8AL
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti’s Shareholder Contact Centre 
can be contacted by telephone on  
0371 384 2495 (international callers:  
+44 121 415 7047) between 8.30am  
and 5.30pm Monday to Friday,  
excluding bank holidays. 
You can also access details of your  
shareholding and a range of other 
shareholder services by registering  
at www.shareview.co.uk.
Dealing service
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing,  
a service which allows you to sell  
your Dialight plc shares or add to your 
holding if you are a UK resident. You can 
deal in your shares on the internet or by 
telephone. For more information about 
this service and for details of their rates, 
log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
or telephone 0345 603 7037 between 
8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
If you wish to deal, you will need your 
account/shareholder reference number 
which appears on your share certificate.
Alternatively, if you hold a share 
certificate, you can also use any bank, 
building society or stockbroker offering 
share dealing facilities to buy or sell 
shares. If you are in any doubt about 
buying or selling shares, you should  
seek professional financial advice.
Forward-looking statements
Certain sections of this Annual Report 
contain forward-looking statements that 
are subject to risk factors associated 
with, amongst other things, the economic 
and business circumstances occurring 
from time to time in the countries and 
sectors in which the Company and its 
subsidiaries and associates operate. It is 
believed that the expectations reflected 
in the Annual Report are reasonable but 
they may be affected by a wide range  
of variables which could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those 
currently anticipated.
Trademarks
The following trademarks appear in  
this document: Dialight and Vigilant,  
and they are registered trademarks  
of the Dialight Group.
Auditors
KPMG LLP
One Snowhill  
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham B4 6GH
Legal advisers
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row 
London EC1Y 8YY
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank PLC
Level 6 Metropolitan House 
321 Avebury Boulevard 
Milton Keynes MK9 2GA
Financial PR
MHP Communications
6 Agar Street
London WC2N 4HN
Financial calendar 2016–2017
Annual General Meeting
20 April 2017
Half Yearly Financial Report
25 July 2017
Both the paper manufacturer  
and printer are registered to  
the Environmental Management  
System ISO 14001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC)  
chain-of-custody certified.
Consultancy, design and production 
by Luminous 
www.luminous.co.uk
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Other information
Directory and shareholder information Dialight plc
Leaf C
Level 36
Tower 42
25 Old Broad Street
London, EC2N 1HQ
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
